SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Norvir.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  October  2004.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Norvir is presented as an  oral  solution  (80  mg/ml)  to  be  administered  by  means  of  a  dosing  device. 
Initially Norvir was also available as a hard capsule, however,  due to the difficulties encountered in 
the manufacture of this formulation, the marketing authorisation for this pharmaceutical form has been 
later withdrawn, as indicated in the section 3 of Background information on the procedure. However a 
new formulation of ritonavir, Norvir 100 mg soft capsules has been further developed. 
Active substance 
Ritonavir  is  a  chiral  molecule.  The  enantiomeric  purity  of  the  active  substance  is  ensured  by  the 
stereoselectivity  of  the  synthetic  route  and  by  an  adequate  control  of  the  starting  materials.  Two 
polymorphs  of  ritonavir  referred  to  as  Forms  I  and  II  are  known.  Form  II  is  the  most 
thermodynamically stable and is much less soluble than Form I.  However, during synthesis Form I is 
normally formed and used to prepare the finished product. The specifications and the routine tests are 
adequate  to  control  the  quality  of  the  active  substance.  The  impurities  arising  from  synthesis  and 
degradation have been well specified. Since the levels of the related impurities found in the batches 
used for the toxicological qualification are below the specified limits, some lower impurity limits have 
been set as requested. 
Polyoxyl  35  castor  oil  is  an  important  ingredient  with  regard  to  bioavailability  and  is  suitably 
controlled prior to use. 
Other ingredients 
Excipients  used  in  oral  solution  and  soft  capsules  are  in  compliance  with  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia,  where  relevant.  For  the  other  ingredients,  the  applicant  provided  adequate 
monographs. 
Product development and finished medicinal product 
The  active  substance  ritonavir  is  characterised  by  low  aqueous  solubility,  a  lack  of  bioavailability 
when given in the solid state, instability once in solution under ambient conditions and a metallic taste. 
The  development  of  the  formulations  intended  for  marketing  and  the  choice  of  the  excipients  are 
adequate to deal with these characteristics. In the oral solution, an acceptable creamy caramel flavour 
is added to hide the metallic taste. The clinical development programme was based mainly on studies 
using the hard capsule formulation. The soft capsule formulation has been optimised with respect to 
the  vehicle  (co-solvent  of  ethanol,  oleic  acid  and  water)  in  order  to  accommodate  the  complete 
solubility  in  terms  of  100  %  Form  II  ritonavir  and  to  allow  storage  at  5°C.  As  in  the  oral  solution 
polyoxyl 35 castor oil has been added to improve the bioavailability. 
Key  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  and  in-process  control  for  the  oral  solution  and  the  soft 
capsules  are  adequately  described,  including  test  designed  to  confirm  the  absence  of  undissolved 
ritonavir  crystals  due  to  the  low  solubility  of  polymorphic  Form  II  of  ritonavir.  Results  of  batch 
analysis demonstrate the consistency of the manufacturing process for the two strengths. 
For the oral solution and soft capsule, the proposed analytical procedures are adequate to control the 
quality of the finished product and are validated. The limits applied to the physical and chemical tests 
at  the  time  of  release  and  at  the  end  of  shelf  life  ensure  that  the  product  exhibits  adequate  quality 
throughout its life.  
                                                                                        EMEA 2005 
1/19 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Results  of  stability  tests  of  the  oral  solution  are  consistent  to  support  the  proposed  shelf  life. 
Degradation impurities specifications at the end of the shelf life have been tightened as requested.  
Due  to  light  sensitivity,  the  protecting  amber  polyethylene  terephthalate  bottle  therefore  offsets  any 
potential  degradation  of  the  oral  solution  due  to  light  exposure.  In  order  to  prevent  a  precipitation 
separation of the low-solubility polymorph II during storage, it is recommended that the oral solution 
is to be stored at a temperature of 20 – 25°C (in contrast to the soft capsule which may be stored at 5 
°C) the unopened shelf life of the oral solution at this temperature is 6 months. In addition, appropriate 
warnings are given in the package leaflet and label, directing the patient to shake the bottle before use 
and to check for the presence of precipitate.  
For the soft capsules, results from the stability studies support a shelf life of 12 months when stored at 
5  °C.  The  formulation,  which  is  different  to  the  oral  solution  one,  allows  storage  in  a  refrigerator 
without  crystallisation  until  they  are  dispensed  to  the  patient.  Refrigeration  by  the  patient  is  not 
required if used within 30 days and stored below 25°C.  
Bioequivalence/bioavailability 
Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  the  original  hard  capsule  formulation  and  the  oral 
solution  containing  80  mg/ml  of  ritonavir  dissolved  in  a  mixed  system  of  water,  ethanol,  propylene 
glycol and polyoxyl 35 castor oil. Bioequivalence between the soft capsule and the oral solution has 
also been demonstrated. 
The bioavailability of ritonavir in soft capsules and in soft capsules containing 12 % Form II crystals 
was  not  significantly  different.  In  addition,  when  the  soft  capsule  formulation  has  reduced  ethanol 
level (12 mg/g) and contains up to 30 % of the nominal amount of ritonavir as Form II crystals, the 
bioavailability, of ritonavir is not significantly reduced compared to the oral solution. It was therefore 
demonstrated  that  the  presence  of  crystals  in  the  soft  capsules,  in  the  worst-case  scenario  has  no 
clinical relevance. 
2. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Whereas nucleoside analogues inhibit reverse transcriptase, a viral enzyme acting at early stages of the 
HIV  replication,  ritonavir  is  a  potent  orally  active  peptidomimetic  inhibitor  of  HIV-1  and  HIV-2 
aspartyl proteases. 
The genome of HIV contains the retroviral genes gag and pol. These genes encode structural proteins 
and enzymes which are essential for the production of mature, progeny virions. The protein products 
of  the  gag  and  pol  genes  are  produced  initially  as  precursor  polyproteins,  which  must  subsequently 
undergo  post-translational  cleavage  to  generate  the  respective  structural  proteins  and  enzymes.  The 
enzyme responsible for this cleavage is HIV protease, it encoded by the pol gene and initially released 
from the precursor polyprotein by autoproteolysis. 
Inactivation of the HIV protease by competitive inhibition results in the production of immature, non-
infectious HIV particles, thus blocking completion of the viral replication cycle. 
In  contrast  to  inhibition  of  reverse  transcriptase,  the  inhibition  of  the  activity  of  HIV  protease 
interferes  with  the  production  of  viral  particles  in  chronically  infected,  non-activated  cells  (i.e. 
following  integration  of  proviral  DNA  into  host  cell  DNA).  Ritonavir  is  selective  in  its  affinity  for 
HIV protease and has little inhibitory activity against human aspartyl proteases. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Studies  on  pharmacodynamic  effects  with  respect  to  the  proposed  indication  showed  that 
Ritonavir  has  been  demonstrated  to  be  approximately  500  fold  more  specific  for  HIV  protease 
(inhibition constant equivalent to 15 pM) than for any human aspartyl protease. 
The  in  vitro  antiviral  activity  of  ritonavir  was  investigated  against  laboratory  strains  of  HIV-1  and 
HIV-2  (tested  in  a  variety  of  transformed  and  primary  human  cell  lines)  according  to  standard 
methods.  The  average  concentration  of  ritonavir  that  inhibits  50  %  and  90  %  of  viral  replication  in 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
2/19 
 
 
 
 
vitro was found to be approximately equivalent to 0.02 µM and 0.11 µM respectively. The antiviral 
activity against HIV-1 was approximately 6-to-40-fold higher than against HIV-2 and equal potency 
was  observed  against  pre-ZDV  (zidovudine)  sensitive  and  post-ZDV  resistant  HIV-1  in  MT2  cells. 
Considering  the  high  percentage  of  protein  binding  for  ritonavir,  EC50  value  was  found  to  increase 
more  than  tenfold  in  presence  of  plasma  protein,  which  suggested  that  the  antiviral  activity  in  vivo 
might be attenuated by binding to plasma proteins. 
Ritonavir’s cytotoxicity was found to be minimal in relation to its antiviral properties. A therapeutic 
index superior than 1000 was established in vitro. 
In  order  to  evaluate  the  potential  for  combination  therapy  with  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors,  a 
number of experiments were conducted to define synergy, antagonism or additivity between ritonavir 
and ZDV or didanosine (ddI). An additive effect on in vitro efficacy was observed when ritonavir was 
combined  with  either  ZDV  or  ddI.  This  conclusion  is  only  based  on  the  results  obtained  with  one 
laboratory  HIV  strain.  The  role  of  the  biological  phenotype  (Syncytium-Inducing  versus  Non-
Syncytium-Inducing phenotype) of HIV cultured from patients on monotherapy has not been defined. 
In  conclusion,  the  antiviral  effect  of  ritonavir  has  been  adequately  demonstrated  in  vitro. 
Bibliographical references were, however, used to complete the assessment of ritonavir virology since 
the amount of virology data submitted was low. 
Studies  intended  to  investigate  potential  secondary  pharmacological  effects  revealed  limited 
effects of ritonavir on the central nervous system in mice and rats at doses between 5 and 50 mg/kg. 
Minimal effects were observed on the cardiovascular system of conscious rats and anaesthetised dogs. 
In the isolated guinea pig ileum, no antagonist or agonist effect of ritonavir was found. However the 
low exposure to ritonavir in these tests in comparison to human patients only allows a very low extent 
of  extrapolation.  No  other  tests  were  performed  to  investigate  further  pharmacodynamic  actions  of 
ritonavir. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ritonavir was determined in mouse, rat, dog and cynomolgus monkey 
using  the  well-characterised  radiolabelled  ritonavir  and  with  a  sufficiently  sensitive  and  adequately 
validated HPLC preparative method. The bioavailability appeared to be dependent on species ranging 
form 71% in the male rat to 30 % in monkey, on gender in the case of rodents (the difference observed 
between male and female rats is unexplained), on the solvent used for the oral gavage dose, and to be 
dose-dependent. In all species, plasma protein binding is very high (98 % - 99.5 %). 
Tissue  distribution  was  investigated  in  female  rats  after  a  single  oral  dose  of  radiolabelled  ritonavir 
equivalent to 50 mg/kg. Distribution into various tissues was time-dependent and except for the liver 
and the gastrointestinal tract for which levels were 12-15 fold those in plasma, tissue levels were  
1-5 times as high as in plasma. Ritonavir may however be less active against viruses localised in the 
central  nervous  system  (concentrations  in  the  brain  around  0.03-0.08  times  total  concentration  in 
plasma).  The  potential  passage  of  the  placenta  barrier  and  excretion  in  milk  for  ritonavir  were  not 
investigated. 
After  both iv. (5  mg/kg)  and oral (20  mg/kg) administration in  rats  and  dogs, it was  shown that the 
main elimination pathway was via the bile and faeces and more than 92 % of the overall administered 
substance was recovered from faeces after 3-5 days. In the plasma, ritonavir was mostly found in its 
unchanged form. The renal elimination of ritonavir was negligible. 
The metabolic profile of ritonavir from the bile of rat and dog and those from in vitro incubations with 
the respective microsomes showed no qualitative differences, as far as the major metabolites formed 
are  concerned.  Ritonavir  is  metabolised  via  various  oxidative  pathways,  some  of  which  are  species-
specific. According to the results of one study conducted in rats, ritonavir at doses 15-50 mg/kg/day 
during 14 days did not induce cytochrome P450 activity, but increased UDP-glucuronosyl transferase 
activity and liver microsomal protein content of the liver.  
No formal results on pharmacokinetic interactions with other protease inhibitors were submitted. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  after  repeated  administration  was  established  based  on  extensive 
toxicokinetic  data  obtained  from  the  major  toxicology  studies.  Ritonavir  exposure  was  not  linearly 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
3/19 
 
related  to  the  dose.  Deviations  from  dose-proportionality  were  observed  in  both  rats  (initially  lower 
exposure  followed  by  an  increase  in  exposure)  and  dogs  (increase  in  exposure  after  prolonged 
repeated dosing). It was suggested that these phenomena might be related to saturation of absorption 
or  saturation  of  metabolism.  In  rodents,  a  gender  difference  in  exposure  was  observed.  A  gender 
difference  in  enzyme  activities  responsible  for  ritonavir  metabolism  was  suggested  to  explain  this 
phenomenon.  
The  potential  interconversion  of  ritonavir  into  other  isomers  in  vivo  was  investigated  neither 
preclinically nor clinically. Based on chromatographic analytical results, it was concluded that chiral 
inversion did not occur to any clinically relevant degree with ritonavir.  
In general the preclinical pharmacokinetic profile was considered well defined. However, it should be 
remembered  that  exposure  in  toxicology  studies  was  low  when  compared  to  the  recommended 
therapeutic dose.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The  no observable effect  level (NOEL) in  mice was 320 and 200  mg/kg after  oral administration  in 
tests in with up to 2500 mg/kg p.o. Deaths occurred at 800 mg/kg. 
NOEL in rats was 250 mg/kg p.o. and the approximate lethal dose by 2500 mg/kg p.o.  
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated dose oral toxicity was studied in mice (with doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day), rats and dogs with 
treatment  duration  up  to  6  months  in  rats  and  dogs.  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  determined  in  all 
studies.  The  safety  margin  for  ritonavir  cannot  be  calculated  because  systemic  exposure  in  different 
species,  even  at  the  highest  dose  was  equal  to  or  below  human  therapeutic  exposure.  In  all  three 
species the main target organs of toxicity were the liver and the eyes. The assumption that rodent liver 
and  eye  lesions  (retina  degeneration,  retinal  pigment  epithelium  hypertrophy)  due  to  treatment  were 
related  to  phospholipidosis  (common  phenomenon  after  administration  of  amphiphilic  cationic 
compounds)  was  made  even  if  several  non-phospholipidosis  associated  lesions,  in  particular 
hepatocellular necrosis, pericholangitis and bile duct hyperplasia were observed in rodents.  
The  electron  micrographs  of  both  liver  parenchyma  and  retina  demonstrated  mainly  the  presence  of 
amorphous granula inclusion bodies, characteristic of phospholipidosis and this phenomenon appeared 
more predominant in the retina than in the liver.  
Other  lesions  were  reported  throughout  these  studies  such  as  the  thyroid  follicular  epithelium 
hypertrophy in rats, gastrointestinal disorders in dogs, nephrotoxicity in rats with long-term treatment. 
Microgranulomas  and  histiocytosis  occurred  in  several  rat  and  dog  tissues,  especially  in  lymphoid 
organs  as  well  as  thymic  atrophy.  Moreover  the  potential  immunotoxicity  of  ritonavir  has  not  been 
adequately studied but there were no indications of such side effects in clinical studies. However, no 
further investigation in animals was requested in view of the clinical data. 
Reproduction studies were conducted in both rats and rabbits. These studies did not reveal significant 
effects  on  fertility.  In  rabbits  and  rats,  embryotoxicity  occurred  with  maternally  toxic  high  dose 
(75 mg/kg/day  administered  orally).  In  rat,  cases  of  cryptorchidism  were  reported  even  with  doses 
lower than the maternally toxic high dose (incidence equivalent to 4.23 % of foetuses in 13.04 % of 
the litters  with 15 mg/kg/day). This finding, which may be regarded as a developmental retardation, 
did  not  lead  to  a  contraindication  of  ritonavir  in  pregnant  women.  Peri/post  natal  toxicity  study 
revealed no treatment-related effects. 
The mutagenic potential of ritonavir has been investigated throughout a conventional battery of tests. 
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in any of these tests. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  performed  in  rodents  are  ongoing.  Provision  of  the  results  is  part  of  the 
obligations of the applicant to be fulfilled. 
Environmental risk 
Although no data are available, no toxicological risk for the environment is suspected. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
4/19 
 
The toxicity of the impurities and degradation products identified has been studied throughout acute 
toxicity  studies  in  rats  or  mice  in  doses  of  up  to  5000  mg/kg.  Only  one  impurity  showed  a 
toxicological profile similar to ritonavir. 
As the impurity and the degradation profile of the soft capsules differed from the original hard capsule 
formulation,  toxicity  studies  were  conducted.  There  was  no  evidence  of  a  toxic  and  mutagenic 
potential of the degradants, and toxicology studies confirmed the safety of the revised specifications. 
In  experimental  animals,  ritonavir  appeared  to  be  fairly  toxic  particularly  in  rodents,  even  if  the 
systemic exposure was low in the repeated dose toxicity studies. No safety margins were defined. A 
correction  for  the  species-dependent  differences  in  plasma  protein  binding  may  result  in  acceptable 
safety margins. The review of the interspecies comparison of exposure and the submission of Cmax and 
AUC  values  after  correction  for  protein  binding,  are  therefore  part  of  the  specific  obligations  to  be 
fulfilled. 
3. 
Clinical aspects 
In vitro EC90 values for different HIV 1 and 2 strains were approximately 0.1 µM. However, in the 
presence  of  foetal  calf  and  human  serum  these  values  increase  considerably,  up  to  approximately 
3 µM. This is considered more relevant since ritonavir exhibits high protein binding in plasma. Until 
now, ritonavir has been shown to be one of the most potent antiretroviral drugs in terms of reduction 
of viral load. To confirm the effects of ritonavir observed during the preclinical development and to 
support the claimed indication, the submitted clinical dossier consisted of nine clinical trials. Two of 
them were pivotal phase III trials. In addition to these studies, results from a large number of studies 
on the pharmacokinetics, bioequivalence and interactions with other medicinal products are presented. 
Further  data  were  submitted  on  the  pharmacokinetics,  efficacy  and  safety  in  children  to  support  the 
extension of the indication of Norvir to paediatric population. 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ritonavir  was  investigated  in  nearly  all  phase  I  and  II  trials  of  the 
development  using  different  liquid  formulations  and  an  encapsulated  liquid  formulation.  The  
semi-solid  formulation,  developed  to  attenuate  the  disagreeable  taste  is  currently  being  used  in 
ongoing clinical trials. All the formulations were bioequivalent. Because of the poor water solubility 
of  ritonavir,  no  satisfactory  intravenous  form  for  human  use  is  available.  Some  pharmacokinetic 
parameters have therefore not been defined (absolute bioavailability, volume of distribution, absolute 
clearance).  Other  parameters  were  determined  by  application  of  non-compartmental  models.  The 
analytical method used for the determination of ritonavir concentration in plasma is the same HPLC-
UV assay as that used in animals. 
Pharmacokinetics was studied in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV positive adults from both sexes. 
No  apparent  differences  between  populations  were  noticed  and  the  diurnal  variation  of  ritonavir 
pharmacokinetics observed in AUC, Cmax and Cmin is not expected to influence the efficacy/safety of 
ritonavir. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
5/19 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic characteristics of ritonavir are summarised in the following table.  
Units 
µg/ml 
µg/ml 
h 
µg/ml 
µg/ml 
l/kg 
Values (Mean ± SD) 
14.7 ± 3.3 
11.2 ± 3.6 
4.2 ± 0.9 
6.8 ± 5.1 
3.7 ± 2.6 
0.41 ± 0.25 
Parameters 
Cmax (600 mg single dose) 
Cmax (SS 1, 600 mg q 12 h) 
Tmax (600 mg single dose) 
Ctrough (day 7, 600 mg q 12 h) 
Ctrough (SS 2, 600 mg q 12 h) 
Vβ/F estimated 
 (600 mg single dose) 
t ½ 
CL/F (600 mg single dose) 
CL/F (SS 1, 600 mg q 12 h) 
CLr 
1 SS = Steady state, data from day 21 
2 SS = Steady state, mean of data from days 21 and 28 
Ritonavir was highly bound to plasma proteins, mainly albumin and α1-glycoproteins (approximately 
98  %  -  99  %)  and  there  was  no  sign  of  potential  saturation.  Limited  data  in  patients  confirmed  that 
ritonavir  is  present  in  extremely  low  concentration  in  the  cerebrospinal  fluid,  reflecting  free 
concentration in the plasma. 
3 – 5 
4.6 ± 1.6 
8.8 ± 3.2 
<0.1 
h 
l/h 
l/h 
l/h 
The  exploration  of  the  metabolism  using  radioactive  ritonavir  revealed  that  the  pathway  was 
comparable  with  those  observed  in  preclinical  studies,  as  far  as  the  major  metabolites,  formed  via 
cytochrome P450 system (isozyme CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent CYP2D6), were concerned. From 
the  four  metabolites  identified  in  humans,  the  isopropylthiazole  oxidation  metabolite,  which  is  the 
only one found in systemic circulation, seemed to be as active as the parent compound. 
The  route  of  elimination  is  essentially  hepatobiliary.  After  oral  administration,  20  %  to  40  %  of 
unchanged ritonavir is recovered in human faeces. This observation is consistent with results obtained 
from  preclinical  studies.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  ritonavir  is  dose-dependent  and  more  than 
proportional increases in the AUC and Cmax were reported with increasing oral dose. 
The  influence  of  food  on  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  was  investigated  mostly  during 
bioequivalence  studies  using  different  formulations.  Ingestion  of  ritonavir  after  a  meal  was  used  in 
clinical trials. The influence of diluents used to hide the bad taste of the oral solution was also studied. 
Since  no  influence  on pharmacokinetic  parameters was observed  with chocolate  milk, a  guidance  to 
use this diluent was introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ritonavir  was  not  evaluated  in  the  following  special  populations: 
patients  with  impaired  renal  function,  the  elderly.  Given  the  limited  role  of  the  kidney  in  the 
elimination of ritonavir, no significant effects are expected in patients with impaired renal function. In 
contrast since the liver, which is the main organ of elimination of ritonavir, hepatic impairment might 
affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ritonavir.  To  reflect  this  lack  of  information,  appropriate  information 
was included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
New data on the pharmacokinetics of ritonavir in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment 
after  single  and  multiple  doses  were  provided.  After  single  dose,  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with 
mild  to  moderate  hepatic  disorders  only  slightly  differed  from  that  in  patients  with  normal  hepatic 
function. Steady state ritonavir levels were not statistically significantly different in subjects with mild 
impairment compared to normal patients, without dose normalisation. There are currently too limited 
data  to  confirm  that  ritonavir  pharmacokinetics  is  not  substantially  affected  by  mild  to  moderate 
hepatic impairment, as reflected in the relevant section of the Summary of Product Characteristics. In 
severe hepatic impaired patients, the use of ritonavir is contra-indicated. 
Subgroup  analyses  revealed  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  AUC  (about  18  %)  in  smokers 
versus non-smokers. This phenomenon for which the mechanism involved has not been elucidated, is 
considered  to  be  slightly  clinically  relevant.  Another  subgroup  analysis  of  patients  with  high  body 
weight versus low body weight revealed that AUC values did not correlate with body weight. It was 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
6/19 
 
also reported that there was no relation between CYP2D6 genotype, known as “poor metaboliser” and 
ritonavir clearance. 
In  children,  the  pharmacokinetics  has  been  determined  on  the  basis  of  data  obtained  in  49  children 
aged more than 2 years old from two studies, studies M95-310 and ACTG 338: 
In  study  M95-310,  where  patients  were  assigned  in  a  non-randomised  way  to  one  of  the  four  doses 
treatment groups, and received ritonavir monotherapy at doses ranging from 250 to 400  mg/m2 BID 
for  12  weeks.  After  12  weeks  patients  could  receive  ritonavir  in  combination  with  zidovudine  
(90 mg/m2 QID) and/or didanosine (90 mg/m2 BID). Results obtained from an interim analysis were 
presented.  Since  at  the  cut-off  time  only  4  patients  were  less  than  2  years  old,  it  was  decided  to 
exclude  them  from  the  analysis  and,  as  a  consequence,  to  exclude  this  age  group  from  the  claimed 
indication. A total of 37 HIV-infected children entered therefore in the analysis.  
In  study  ACTG  338,  of  a  total  of  298  patients  who  entered  in  the  study,  162  were  included  in  the 
interim  analysis  of  the  viral  response  at  12  weeks  and  24  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetics 
analysis. Patients were antiretroviral experienced but protease inhibitors naive. Patients were assigned 
to one of the following treatment regimens: 
Treatment A: zidovudine (160 mg/m2 TID) in combination with lamivudine (4 mg/kg BID)  
Treatment  B:  ritonavir  (350  mg/m2  BID)  in  combination  with  zidovudine  (160  mg/m2  TID)  and 
lamivudine (4 mg/kg BID)  
Treatment C: ritonavir (350 mg/m2 BID) in combination with stavudine (1 mg/kg BID) 
Results obtained from both studies are summarised in the table below: 
Dose 
(mg/m2) 
BID 
N 
Age 
(years) 
Body 
weight 
(kg) 
Cmax SS 
(µg/ml) 
Ctrough SS 
(µg/ml) 
Cl/F 
(L/h/ m2) 
AUC 0-12h 
(µg.h/ml) 
250 
300 
350 
400 
9 
7 
8.2 
3.6 
8.8 
4.5 
11  9.0 
3.9 
10  6.2 
4.0 
STUDY M95-310 
± 
21.3 ± 6.0 
9.7 ± 4.9 
3.3 ± 3.4 
6.0 ± 3.9 
58.3 ± 32.7 
± 
26.9 ± 10.3 
10.9 ± 3.7 
2.2 ± 1.4 
5.7 ± 2.7 
62.9 ± 26.6 
± 
30.4 ± 22.1 
11.4 ± 4.2 
2.1 ± 1.9 
7.4 ± 4.0 
59.5 ± 26.7 
± 
20.1 ± 11.5 
15.9 ± 9.9 
5.5 ± 4.0 
6.4 ± 5.2 
100.0 ± 63.6 
350  B  + 
C 
BB 
CC 
12 
6 
6 
24.6 ± 10.9 
27.8 ± 14.8 
21.5 ± 3.4 
ACTG 338 
13.3 ± 8.8 
2.9 ± 3.4 
5.8 ± 3 
76.6 ± 56.3 
9.2 ± 5.1 
18.1 ± 10.1 
ADULTS 
1.7 ± 1.2 
4.3 ± 4.8 
54.0 ± 35.1 
102.9 ± 67.7 
600 mg BID 
11.2 ± 3.6 
B: 350 mg/m2 BID ritonavir in combination with ZDV 160 mg/m2 TID and lamivudine 4 mg/kg BID. 
C: 350 mg/m2 BID ritonavir in combination with stavudine 1 mg/kg BID alone 
3.7 ± 2.6 
4.8 ± 1.8 
With  respect  to  M95-310  study,  at  steady  state  (day  28),  the  plasma  concentrations  after  ritonavir 
monotherapy administered at the doses 300 to 350 mg/m2 were similar to those observed in adults but 
the trough levels  were lower.  On the other hand, the  higher  dose level (400  mg/m2 BID) showed  a 
higher steady state Cmax and Ctrough values than in adults. Although the submitted data are limited, no 
statistically effect of gender, age and body weight on the pharmacokinetics parameters was observed. 
In ACTG 338, the dose 350 mg/m2 BID was chosen based on the former study. Plasma concentration 
was  lower  in  the  group  receiving  ritonavir  in  combination  with  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  than  the 
group  receiving  the  combination  with  stavudine  alone.  Since  no  explanation  can  derive  from  adult 
data,  the  small  groups  and  intersubject  varialibility  could  have  been  the  reasons.  This  issue  will  be 
further investigated based on data obtained from population pharmacokinetics.  
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  did  not  suggest  any  pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  ritonavir  and  stavudine  and 
lamivudine, but the potential interactions will be further investigated. As already observed in adults, 
ritonavir  decreased  the  plasma  concentrations  of  zidovudine,  however  the  level  of  the  decrease 
appeared higher in paediatric than in adults. It was considered acceptable that at the present time no 
warning  is  needed  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  with  respect  to  decreased  plasma 
concentration of ZDV when co-administered with ritonavir.  
Considering  the  above-mentioned  pathway  for  ritonavir  metabolism,  the  potential  pharmacokinetic 
interactions  of  ritonavir  with  either  drugs,  which  are  substrates  of  the  cytochrome  P450  family,  or 
drugs frequently co-administered with antiretroviral drugs, were investigated. The main findings were 
as follows: 
Medicinal products used in the same indication 
Zidovudine co-treatment (200 mg every 8 hours) did not influence ritonavir pharmacokinetics, when 
administered at 300 mg every 6 hours after a meal whereas ritonavir reduced ZDV Cmax and AUC0-24h, 
by an average of 27 % and 25 %, respectively. However, no influence on ZDV glucuronide exposure 
and consequently on the ZDV metabolite AMT was noted. This conclusion has been extrapolated to 
the 600 mg twice daily dose regimen based on the fact that the same total daily dose (1200 mg) was 
used in the study. 
A similar effect on ddI Cmax (-16 %) and AUC0-24h (-13 %), at a ddI dose equivalent to 200 mg every 
12 h in the fasted state was observed. This reduction in ddI exposure by ritonavir, although statistically 
significant, was considered not to require any dose adjustments.  
The  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  saquinavir  and  ritonavir  was  demonstrated  in  two  trials 
carried  out  in  healthy  volunteers,  consisting  of  one  single  (M95-409)  and  one  multiple  dose  
(M95-248)  study.  Results  from  both  studies  showed  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ritonavir  were  not 
influenced  by  concomitant  administration  of  saquinavir  whereas  the  pharmacokinetics  of  saquinavir 
were markedly affected by ritonavir as shown in the single dose study (AUC increase > 50 fold and 
Cmax  increase  >  22  fold)  and  multiple  dose  study  (AUC  increase  18-35  fold).  In  an  open-label  
(M96-462),  multi-dose,  randomised,  multicentre  trial,  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  4  different 
combination regimens of ritonavir and saquinavir was investigated. This study involved 141 protease 
inhibitors  naive  patients  of  both  sexes  who  had  CD4  cell  counts  ranging  from  100-500  cells/µl  and 
baseline  HIV  RNA  levels  of  ≥  5,000  copies/ml.  Virologic  response,  defined  as  the  percentage  of 
patients with viral load under undetectable effect (< 200 copies/ml), was obtained in the  majority of 
patients between 8-24 weeks (range 60-90 % depending on the dosing regimen). The highest response 
was found with the dosing regimen 400 mg ritonavir + 400 mg saquinavir bid. Due to safety reason, 
this combination regimen may be considered as the best regimen for further exploration of benefits of 
combinations with other anti-retroviral combination regimens such as nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors.  
Interaction data with other protease inhibitors became available during the post-marketing phase. 
In healthy subjects, 200 to 400 mg of ritonavir twice daily given with a single 400 to 600 mg indinavir 
dose increased the indinavir AUC by 185 to 475%, Cmax 21 to 110%, and C8h 11 to 33-fold, relative to 
400  to  600  mg  indinavir  given  alone.  Concomitant  administration  of  400  mg  ritonavir  and  400  mg 
indinavir twice daily with a meal yielded a similar indinavir AUC, a 4-fold increase in Cmin and a 50 
to  60%  decrease  in  Cmax  as  compared  to  those  resulting  from  administration  of  indinavir  800  mg 
three times daily under fasting conditions. 
The  efficacy  and  safety  data  of  ritonavir  in  combination  with  indinavir  are  limited.  However, 
published data on an open uncontrolled study suggested that treatment with 400 mg BID ritonavir/ 400 
mg indinavir in a combination with double nucleoside regimen did not appear to induce kidney stones.  
 Pharmacokinetic  data  showed  that  concurrent  ritonavir  400mg  bid  significantly  increases  the 
concentrations of M8 (the major active metabolite of nelfinavir), and results in a smaller increase in 
nelfinavir concentrations. In a study in 10 patients nelfinavir 750mg and ritonavir 400mg twice daily 
yielded slightly higher nelfinavir AUC (160%), Cmax (121%) and Ctrough (123%) than historical data for 
nelfinavir 750mg tid monotherapy. The AUC of M8 was increased by 347%.  
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
8/19 
 
 
 
Wide  clinical  experience  with  ritonavir  used  as  pharmacokinetic  enhancer  (at  low  doses  of  100-200 
mg  once  or  twice  daily)  to  boost  the  plasma  concentrations  of  other  protease  inhibitors  in  HIV-
infected adult patients has become available. For Fortovase and Invirase, doses at 1000 mg twice daily 
in  combination  with  ritonavir  100mg  bid,  resulted  in  systemic  exposure  over  24  hours  greater  than 
those achieved with Fortovase 1200 mg three times daily.  Likewise, for amprenavir, when given in 
combination with ritonavir, reduced doses of both medicinal products (amprenavir 600 mg twice daily 
and ritonavir 100mg twice daily) should be used, since booster doses of ritonavir given together with 
amprenavir result in clinically significant increases in amprenavir AUC and Cmin with variable effects 
on maximum concentration.   
 Data showed that in healthy volunteers receiving 500 mg ritonavir twice daily with efavirenz 600 mg 
once daily, the steady state AUC of efavirenz was increased by 21 % and an associated increase in the 
AUC  of  ritonavir  of  17  %  was  observed.    This  dose  regimen  led  to  a  higher  frequency  of  adverse 
clinical  experiences  (eg, dizziness,  nausea,  paraesthesia)  and  laboratory  abnormalities  (elevated  liver 
enzymes).  
Other medicinal products  
Pharmacokinetic  interactions  with  fluconazole  and  cotrimoxazole  were  not  considered  clinically 
relevant. 
The influence of ritonavir on the pharmacokinetics of rifabutin and its metabolite, characterised by a 
multifold  increase  of  the  exposure  probably  due  to  an  inhibition  of  hepatic  metabolism,  was 
considered  clinically  relevant.  Therefore,  the  concomitant  use  of  ritanovir  and  rifabutin  is 
contraindicated. 
Clarithromycin  exposure  was  markedly  increased  with  concomitant  ritonavir  treatment  due  to  an 
inhibition of its active metabolite formation. This finding is considered to be without clinical relevance 
since  the  inhibition  is  counterbalanced  by  an  increase  of  AUC  of  parent  drug.  Because  of  the  large 
therapeutic  window  for  clarithromycin,  no  dosage  reduction  should  be  necessary  in  patients  with 
normal renal function. 
Dosage reduction of desipramine should be considered in patients taking the combination. 
The influence of ritonavir on ethinyl estradiol exposure is marked by an important decrease, probably 
due  to  an  enzymatic  induction,  therefore  an  increased  dose  of  oral  contraceptives  containing  ethinyl 
estradiol or alternate methods of contraception should be considered. A similar observation was noted 
with theophylline after a period of time. Ritonavir, added to theophylline at steady state (at day 5 of 
theophylline  administration),  reduced  Cmax,  Cmin  and  AUC0-24h  of  theophylline  after  10  days  by  an 
average 32 %, 57 % and 43 % respectively. In concomitant use with ritanovir, an increased dosage of 
theophylline may be required. 
In  summary,  potential  interactions  with  ritonavir  were  explored  throughout  formal  interaction  trials, 
interaction  analysis  of  the  larger  clinical  trials  and  theoretical  considerations  even  if  in  most  of  the 
studies the ritonavir dose administered was lower than the recommended dose. To reflect the results of 
the  influence  of  ritonavir  on  these  medicinal  products  adequate  descriptions  and  cautions  have  been 
introduced  to  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  It  was  suggested,  however,  that  potential 
interactions based on displacement from protein binding should have been investigated. In addition, as 
ritonavir  was  shown  to  be  an  in  vitro  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A  and  CYP2D6,  many  potential 
interactions are expected as stated in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
A  number  of  new  interactions  were  highlighted  following  the  submission  of  case  reports  during  the 
post-marketing  phase.  These  new  interactions  related  to  cases  of  ergotism  associated  with  the 
combination  of  ritonavir  with  ergotamin  containing  medicinal  products.  Several  cases  of  already 
known  or  suspected  interactions  with  disopyramide,  mexiletine,  nefazodone  and  fluoxetine,  all 
metabolised  by  CYP  450  isoenzymes  were  described.  These  reports  suggested  cardiac  and 
neurological  events  as  a  result  of  the  combination  of  ritonavir  with  these  drugs.  An  update  on  the 
safety sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics was therefore recommended. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  from  new  interaction  studies  were  provided.  Ritonavir  metabolism  was  not  significantly 
influenced by co-administration of ketoconazole at the dose of 200 mg once daily. On the other hand, 
ritonavir at the dose of 500 mg bid inhibited the metabolism of ketoconazole, which led to an increase 
of  mean  Cmax  of  ketoconazole  by  1.5  fold  and  of  mean  AUC  0-24  by  3.4  fold.  This  could  have 
gastrointestinal and hepatic consequences. Ritonavir administered at 500 mg bid to steady state levels, 
decreased  AUC  and  Cmax  of  methadone  by  about  40  %  and  mean  clearance  was  statistically 
significantly  increased  from  7.8  to  12.0  l/h.  These  potential  interactions  have  been  adequately 
reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Considering the suspected fatal interaction between ritonavir and amphetamines or amphetamines-like 
substances,  the  CPMP  recommended  the  inclusion  of  this  interaction  into  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Further to the publication, during the post-marketing phase, of results from a clinical study in healthy 
volunteers showing  a significant reduction  of indinavir plasma concentrations when  co-administered 
with  St  John’s  wort  (Hypericum  perforatum),  the  CPMP  considered  that  this  interaction  was  also 
applicable to other protease inhibitors and non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors considering 
the same metabolism pathway of these substances as indinavir. The interaction seems to involve two 
different  mechanisms:  an  induction  of  the  metabolism  by  the  cytochrome  P450  isoenzyme  3A4  and 
the P-glycoprotein transporter. Since it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of 
resistance,  it  was  agreed  to  contraindicate  the  use  of  St  John’s  wort  in  patients  taking  protease 
inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
During the post-marketing phase, case reports showed that warfarin concentrations might be affected 
when  co-administrated  with  ritonavir  and  therefore  the  monitoring  of  anticoagulation  parameters  is 
now recommended as mentioned in the SPC. This interaction has been  further evaluated. 
Bioequivalence 
During the clinical programme of ritonavir, different development formulations, either oral solution or 
semi-solid  presentations  were  administered.  Therefore  six  bioequivalence  trials  to  allow  bridging  of 
the  clinical  trial  results  were  carried  out.  All  the  available  formulations  were  bioequivalent  to  the 
reference,  which  is  an  encapsulated  solution  containing  100  mg  ritonavir.  Since  the  original 
submission,  the  bioequivalence  study  comparing  the  relative  bioavailability  of  the  semi-solid  oral 
capsule with the oral solution confirmed that these marketed formulations are also bioequivalent.  
A  new  pharmaceutical  form  of  Norvir,  soft  capsules  containing  100  mg  ritonavir,  developed  to 
overcome  dissolution  problems  seen  with  hard  capsules,  received Marketing  Authorisation  in  1999. 
The  clinical  development  focused  on  the  demonstration  of  the  bioequivalence  between  the  new 
formulation and the hard capsules (later withdrawn from the market) and oral solution formulations. 
Four  bioequivalence  studies  have  been  performed.  The  soft  capsules  were  bioequivalent  to  the 
marketed  oral  solution  formulation.  Although  mean  AUC  values  under  non-fasting  conditions  were 
higher  that  under  fasting  conditions,  the  intake  of  food  did  not  statistically  significant  affect  the 
absorption of ritonavir from the soft capsule. 
With  respect  to  safety,  the  bioequivalence  studies  did  not  reveal  any  new  adverse  events.  Both  new 
and  already  authorised  formulations  seem  to  be  equally  well  tolerated  on  the  basis  of  four 
bioequivalence studies in healthy volunteers. 
 Therapeutic efficacy 
Nine therapeutic clinical trials in HIV patients were performed including two major phase III studies, 
involving a total of 1684 patients. The antiretroviral effects of ritonavir and their consequences on the 
immune system were evaluated in all nine therapeutic trials on the basis of biological markers such as 
the  amount  of  plasma  HIV  RNA  and  CD4  cell  counts.  In  addition,  both  major  Phase  III  trials  are 
investigating clinical efficacy in terms of clinical endpoints such as disease progression and mortality 
rate.  However,  at  the  time  of  the  original  opinion,  clinical  endpoints  data  were  only  available  in 
advanced patients (M94-247) results. 
In vitro the IC90 for viral replication in human-serum containing assays was approximately 2µg/ml. 
This value was selected as the desired lower limit of concentration (Ctrough) to be achieved in the dose-
ranging studies. In phase II studies total daily doses ranging from 600 to 1400 mg were tested for their 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
10/19 
 
 
effects on the biological markers, CD4 cell counts and  plasma HIV RNA  usually determined by the 
branched chain DNA technique. 
Four phase II studies with ritonavir monotherapy were conducted. However, one of these studies 
was judged to be too small (6 patients) to give relevant information. One open-label multicentre study 
(M94-229) assessed two orally administered dosing regimens. The remaining two studies (M93-112, 
M93-134  and  their  respective  open  extension  phase)  have  a  similar  design,  double  blind,  placebo 
controlled, randomised, parallel groups. Female and male HIV positive patients with CD4 cell counts 
> 50 cells/mm3 received doses of ritonavir encapsulated liquid ranging from 600 mg to 1200 mg/day 
in bid, tid or qid fashion for 28 days. The overall results of M93-112 showed that no dose effect on 
viral load and on CD4 count was observed during the first 28 days of treatment. In contrast, during the 
open label extension phase after 28 days of treatment, the 500 and 600 mg bid doses led to a higher 
suppression of viral load and increase in CD4 count compared to the lower dose up to week 20. The 
effect  with  500  mg  bid  appeared,  however,  to  deteriorate  and  approached  the  baseline  value  in  a 
similar way as the lower dose levels. These results must be treated with caution due to the design of 
these trials (open label follow-up, small number of patients) and the sensitivity of the assay used for 
the determination of the viral load (lower limit of quantification equivalent to 10,000 viral copies per 
ml i.e. 4 log 10 viral copies/ml. By comparison the lower limit of quantification with the HIV RNA 
PCR  technique  is  200  viral  copies  per  ml  i.e.  2.3  log  10  viral  copies/ml).  With  respect  to  results 
obtained from the other studies, within the first week of treatment, virologic and immunologic changes 
in ritonavir groups were observed. At day 7, patients in all ritonavir arms had approximately -0.7 log10 
reduced  viral  load  in  comparison  with  baseline.  Over  the  28  days  period,  no  dose-response  relation 
with respect to both biological markers was observed. 
From  these  studies,  based  on  the  results  on  virology,  immunology  and  safety,  ritonavir  600  mg  bid 
was selected for further investigation. 
Based  on  the  results  from  studies  M95-310  and  ACTG  338,  the  recommended  dose  of  350  mg/m2 
twice daily was considered acceptable for the safe and efficient use in children. 
One open label phase II trial (M94-208) in adult’s combination therapy was carried out in France. 
This  small  multicentre,  uncontrolled,  open,  phase  II  study  aimed  to  investigate  the  efficacy  of 
combination therapy (ritonavir-ZDV and ddC). The efficacy was evaluated based on changes in viral 
load, as measured by HIV RNA PCR technique, and in CD4 cell counts. Naive patients (32) with CD4 
cells count ranging from 50 to 250 cells/µl received 600 mg q12h of ritonavir and at day 15 200 mg 
q8h of ZDV and 0.75 mg q8h ddC were added. Although the results of this study should be interpreted 
with caution due to the design of the study, the effects of the combination therapy on plasma viral load 
were  important.  The  maximum  mean  decrease  was  1.92  log10  particles  at  week  8  and  the  mean 
decrease at week 20 was 1.76 log10 particle/ml.  
Throughout  all  phase  II  studies,  thyroid  function  was  routinely  monitored  and  some  changes  were 
observed.  While  mean  TSH  remained  well  within  the  normal  limits,  there  was  a  statistically 
significant  decrease  of  T4  (thyroxin)  levels  and  a  trend  towards  increased  T3  levels.  The  precise 
mechanism  for  these  changes  is  not  elucidated  and  a  statistical  correlation  of  changes  in  thyroid 
parameters  and  the  occurrence  of  asthenia  is  currently  under  investigation.  Up  to  now  based  on 
observations from clinical studies it is considered that these changes are without clinical relevance. 
The  first  main  study  (study  M94-247)  was  designed  to  compare  ritonavir  600  mg  BID  versus 
placebo,  in  addition  to  whatever  concurrent  antiretroviral  therapy  in  patients  with  advanced  HIV 
infection  (CD4  ≤  100  cells/µl)  who  had  previously  received  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  therapy. 
One  particular  feature  of  this  study  which  involved  1090  adults  is  that  these  patients  have  been 
extensively pre-treated for at least 9 months with no change during the last 6 weeks.  
Double-blind treatment duration of at least 16 weeks was followed by an open label ritonavir therapy. 
The  primary endpoint is clinical progression  of HIV disease defined  as death, a new AIDS defining 
illness or selected disease recurrence. Other endpoints include viral load as measured by PCR method 
and  CD4  cell  count.  The  first  planned  analysis  of  the  protocol  (interim  I)  was  conducted  after  a 
subgroup  of  150  patients  with  more  than  15,000  HIV  RNA  particles  had  completed  the  16  week 
double blind treatment period.  
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
11/19 
 
At the date of interim I report, no analysis of the primary clinical endpoint was available but results 
on the biological markers were analysed. 
Average  changes  from  baseline  in  viral  RNA  level  and  CD4  cell  counts  over  16  weeks  are 
presented in table Table 1 
Viral RNA level 
(log10 copies/ml) 
CD4 cell counts 
(cell/µl) 
Treatment 
group 
Ritonavir 
Placebo 
Ritonavir 
Placebo 
N 
80 
79 
108 
103 
Mean 
baseline 
5.29 
5.24 
31.0 
26.4 
Mean change 
SE 
-0.79 
-0.01 
33.2 
-0.8 
0.066 
0.066 
3.00 
3.07 
The  differences  of  the  means  over  16  weeks  between  placebo  and  ritonavir  for  both  viral  load  and 
CD4 cell count were statistically significant. Analyses of changes from baseline in viral RNA levels 
showed that the effect of ritonavir was reduced over time. However, this decline in the effect on viral 
load did not seem to be paralleled by a decrease of CD4 cell counts. It is possible that CD4 cell counts 
could  follow  the  pattern  of  HIV  RNA  plasma  levels  with  a  certain  lagtime,  although  this  should  be 
confirmed through a longer follow-up. 
With  regard to  virological response,  defined  as two consecutive  decreases from  baseline  of  at least 
90%  (1  log10)  in  HIV  viral  RNA  (the  duration  of  this  response  was  analysed  by  Kaplan-Meier 
methodology), 45% of patients from the ritonavir group showed virological response during the first 
16 weeks compared to none in the placebo group. The percentage of patients who responded during at 
least 8 weeks was 35% (24% for 12 weeks) and the onset of response was in most cases by week 2. 
With  regard  to  immunological  response,  defined  as  two  consecutive  measurements  indicating  an 
increase from baseline of at least 50 cells (the duration of this response was analysed by Kaplan-Meier 
methodology), 29 % of patients from the ritonavir group showed a CD4 lymphocyte response during 
the first 16 weeks compared to 2 % in the placebo group. The percentage of patients who responded 
during at least 8 weeks was 26 % (25 % for week 12) and the onset of the response was in most of 
cases by weeks 2-4. 
Given  that  of  the  virological  responders  in  the  ritonavir  treatment  group,  58  %  also  showed 
immunological  response  a  strong  relationship  between  the  virological  and  immunological  responses 
was established.  
Subgroup  efficacy  analyses  for  the  following  groups,  baseline  HIV  RNA  level  or  CD4  cell  counts, 
prior antiretroviral therapy and gender also revealed consistent results. 
Other clinical endpoints 
The  difference  of  the  means  for  increases  in  CD8  cell  count  over  16  weeks  between  placebo  and 
ritonavir was statistically significant. 
No difference was found with respect to weight, Karnofsky performance score and 3 different quality 
of life questionnaires.  
The  second  planned analysis  of the  protocol (interim II report)  was conducted after  a subgroup  of 
191 patients  has experienced documented  AIDS-defining events (CDC  class C) or death beyond the 
first 28 days after randomisation. 
Mortality rate 
At  the  cut-off  date  of  the  interim  report,  26  deaths  occurred  in  the  ritonavir  group  (543  patients) 
compared  to  46  in  the  placebo  group  (547  patients).  In  the  intent  to  treat  analysis  (including  all 
randomised patients), the difference in favour of ritonavir is therefore statistically significant. 
Death or disease progression 
The number of patients who experienced disease progression or death events was 86 in the ritonavir 
arm  and  181  in  the  placebo  arm  respectively.  A  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
12/19 
 
 
 
 
ritonavir  was  demonstrated  which  represents  a  reduction  of  56  %  in  the  risk  of  death  or  disease 
progression (p < 0.001). An analysis of patients with first event occurring at least more than 28 days 
after  start  of  treatment  also  confirmed  a  reduction  of  disease  progression  with  ritonavir.  The  rate  of 
follow-up  loss  was  11,9  %  in  the  placebo  group  and  17,5  %  in  the  ritonavir  group  respectively. 
However, the updated analyses of survival and time to disease progression or death submitted by the 
applicant  confirmed  the  favourable  impact  of  Norvir  therapy.  The  provided  subgroup  analysis 
according to treatment regimens suggests (e.g. of subgroups of > 60 patients per arm) that patients on 
combination therapy have a lower risk of disease progression than patients on ritonavir monotherapy 
(20  –  25  %  of  the  present  patient  sample).  The  latter  is  also  consistent  with  the  effects  of  these 
treatments on the viral load.  
With regard to this study, several points should be considered. An attempt to establish a relationship 
between  changes  in  HIV  RNA  level  and  CD4  cell  counts  and  the  disease  progression  in  a  patient 
subgroup  was  made.  Additional  information  submitted  demonstrated  that  large  average  decreases  in 
HIV  RNA  levels  and  increases  in  CD4  cell  counts  were  associated  with  reduced  risk  of  disease 
progression. A demonstration of superiority of viral load as a surrogate marker over CD4 cell counts 
in  predicting  the  clinical  outcome  of  ritonavir  was  also  submitted  but  results  were  interpreted  with 
caution. The limited follow-up period of 6 months does not allow predicting the clinical benefit of the 
combined  therapy  for  longer  periods.  The  most  frequently  used  nucleoside  analogues  in  this  study 
were  zidovudine,  stavudine,  didanosine  and  zalcitabine.  The  most  optimal  combination  of  ritonavir 
with  an  antiretroviral  nucleoside  analogue  is  unknown.  It  was  therefore  considered  necessary  to 
conduct  further  optimisation  studies  on  combination  therapies  with  ritonavir  and  other  approved 
antiretroviral agents in patients with advanced HIV disease. 
The  final  study  report  provided  described  the  results  of  the  double-blind  phase  of  the  study  during 
which the  median duration of exposure  to ritonavir was  182  days and  median  duration of follow-up 
was 217 days. At the end of the double-blind phase of the study, 114 (21.0 %) patients randomised to 
receive  ritonavir  and  205  (37.5  %)  patients  randomised  to  receive  placebo  had  experienced  disease 
progression  or  death.  A  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  the  ritonavir  group  was 
demonstrated  which  represents  a  reduction  of  49  %  in  the  risk  of  disease  progression  or  death  
(p <  0.001).  With  respect  to the survival analysis,  at the end  of the double-blind  phase  of the study, 
38  (7.0  %)  patients  randomised  to  receive  ritonavir  and  63  (11.5  %)  patients  randomised  to  receive 
placebo had died. The median duration of follow-up was 202 days for patients in either randomisation 
group. A statistically significant difference in favour of the ritonavir group was demonstrated which 
represents a reduction of 40.4% in mortality (p = 0.012). In a “worst case scenario” (e.g. patients lost 
to follow-up, dropouts) the reduction in the risk of disease progression or death was still statistically 
significant  (45  %)  meanwhile  the  reduction  in  mortality  of  26.3  %  was  not  statistically  significant. 
With respect to changes in biological markers measured in a subset of patients, the average changes 
from  baseline  reported  were  similar  to  the  one  provided  in  the  original  submission.  Mean  decreases 
over time showed attenuation of the  effect of ritonavir. The quality of the long-term efficacy results 
for the period beyond the first 16 weeks of double-blind treatment was compromised due to the liberal 
use  of  concurrent  antiretrovial  therapies.  However,  the  global  beneficial  clinical  results  of  ritonavir 
during  the  first  phase  of  the  pivotal  clinical  study  in  these  advanced  HIV-infected  patients  were 
sustained and confirmed.  
The  second  main  study  (study  M94-245)  was  designed  to  compare  the  antiviral  and  immunologic 
effects of ritonavir 600 mg BID monotherapy versus zidovudine 200 mg tid monotherapy versus the 
combination of these two drugs in patients who have never received prior antiretroviral treatment and 
who have CD4 cell counts more than 200 cells/µl (but < 500 cells/µl for the overwhelming majority of 
patients).  This  study  is  a  1  year  double-blind  study  including  an  open  label  extension  phase  with 
ritonavir  monotherapy.  An  interim  analysis  was  performed  after  a  16  weeks  treatment  period.  The 
primary endpoints were changes in plasma HIV RNA as measured by HIV RNA PCR technique and 
CD4 cell counts. 
The  table  below presents the average  changes from  baseline in  viral RNA level and CD4 cell count 
over 16 weeks. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
13/19 
 
Treatment 
group 
Ritonavir-ZDV 
Ritonavir 
ZDV 
Ritonavir-ZDV 
Ritonavir 
ZDV 
N 
116 
118 
121 
117 
118 
120 
Mean 
Baseline 
4.92 
4.91 
4.88 
360.1 
365.3 
366.2 
Mean change 
SE 
- 0.80 1 
- 1.03 2,3 
- 0.42 
34.9 4 
62.0 2,3 
10.7 
0.068 
0.068 
0.066 
7.28 
7.19 
7.02  
Viral RNA 
level (log10 
copies/ml) 
CD4 count 
(cell/µl) 
1  Statistically significantly superior to ZDV (p < 0.001); 2 Statistically significantly superior to ZDV (p ≤ 0.05); 
3  Statistically significantly superior to ritonavir-ZDV (p ≤ 0.05); 4 Statistically significantly superior to ZDV (p 
= 0.018) 
The  overall  results  showed  that  all  three  treatments  produced  statistical  significant  decrease  in  viral 
load  and  increase  in  CD4  cell  count,  but  ritonavir  treatments  were  significantly  better  than  ZDV 
monotherapy.  However,  unexpectedly,  given  the  synergistic  effect  observed  in  vitro,  ritonavir 
monotherapy was better than ritonavir-ZDV combination therapy. These paradoxical results were not 
clarified,  although  decreased  compliance  caused  by  increased  toxicity  of  the  combination  therapy 
might have contributed to the lower performance of the combination treatment. 
Virological  response,  as  previously  defined,  was  demonstrated  in  64  %  of  patients  in  the  ritonavir 
arm against 49 % in the combination therapy arm. Only 7 % of patients in the ZDV group showed a 
virological response. In the ritonavir group, 51 % of these patients responded during at least 8 weeks. 
The maximum reduction of viral load occurred in all arms at about week 2 and did not fully remain at 
this level during the 16 weeks treatment period. 
With  regard  to  the  evaluation  of  the  immunological  activity,  the  percentages  of  patients  who 
demonstrated a CD4 lymphocyte response were  59  % and 48 %  in the combination therapy  and the 
ritonavir  arm  respectively.  In  the  ritonavir  group,  55  %  of  these  patients  responded  during  at  least   
8 weeks. In contrast, the maximum increase of CD4 cell count occurred in all arms at about weeks 2-4 
and maintained at this level during the 16 weeks treatment period. 
A  strong  relationship  between  virological  and  immunological  responses  has  been  established  in  the 
ritonavir group. 
A subgroup analysis, according to baseline HIV RNA level and CD4 cell count seemed to confirm the 
previous  results.  It  was  interesting  to  note  that  in  patients  with  less  than  350  CD4  cell/mm3  the 
combined therapy ritonavir-ZDV enhanced CD4 cell count slightly better than ritonavir monotherapy. 
However this effect decreased with increasing baseline CD4 cell count. 
With  regard  to  other  clinical  endpoints,  ritonavir  either  monotherapy  or  in  combination  showed 
significantly  favourable  effects  on  CD8  cells  count.  In  contrast  only  in  the  ZDV  monotherapy 
treatment group was an increase in body weight observed. 
The final study report provided described the results of the double-blind phase of the study. While the 
duration  of  the  double-blind  period  varied,  all  patients  completed  at  least  48  weeks  of  treatment.  A 
total of 123 patients prematurely discontinued double-blind treatment, 42/118 (36 %) in the ritonavir 
arm, 27/121 (23 %) in the ZDV arm and 54/117 (47 %) in the combination arm, mostly due to adverse 
events.  The  average  changes  from  baseline  in  viral  load  were  –  0.88  log10  in  ritonavir  versus 
–  0.66  log10  in  ritonavir/zidovudine  group  versus  –  0.42  log10  in  zidovudine  group.  A  significantly 
larger proportion in the ritonavir group (65 %) than in the ritonavir/ZDV combination group (43 %) or 
the  ZDV  group  (13  %)  displayed  a  virological  response,  as  previously  defined.  Statistically 
significantly  larger  proportions  of  patients  in  the  ritonavir  group  (64  %)  and  combination  therapy  
(57 %) groups than in the ZDV group (44 %) experienced two consecutive measurements showing an 
increase  from  baseline  of  at  least  50  cells/ml.  The  obtained  effect  was  therefore  modest  and 
unexpectedly the combination ritonavir/ZDV appeared less effective than ritonavir alone. Nonetheless, 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the number of patients exposed to controlled exposure to ritonavir alone or in combination with ZDV 
were significantly reduced throughout 48 weeks period making the value of prolonged experience with 
ritonavir  regimens  in  this  very  small  patient  population  non  conclusive.  In  overall,  results  did  not 
allow  any  conclusion  on  the  clinical  benefit  of  combination  therapy  with  ritonavir  and  ZDV  in  less 
advanced  HIV-infected  patients  with  no  prior  antiretroviral  therapy.  The  results  obtained  from  the 
study M94-247, which revealed a clinical benefit of ritonavir in patients with advanced HIV disease, 
cannot be extrapolated to patients with less advanced HIV. Therefore to support the claimed indication 
further  evidence  of  the  beneficial  clinical  effect  of  ritonavir  in  the  recommended  dosage  as  in  HIV-
infected patients with less advanced HIV disease is requested. 
On  the  basis  of  the  limited  data  on  monotherapy  and  because  of  concern  about  the  emergence  of 
resistance, the use of monotherapy cannot be recommended. 
Studies in children 
The  efficacy  of  ritonavir  in  children  has  been  demonstrated  based  on  data  obtained  mainly  from 
ACTG  338  up  to  48  weeks.  The  primary  endpoint  is  the  proportion  of  children  reaching  an 
undetectable level of plasma HIV RNA as measured by the Nucli Sens Assay with a lower detection 
limit of 400 copies/ml and the secondary endpoint defined is virologic failure.  
The baseline characteristics were the following: median age of 7.1 years, median HIV RNA levels of  
4.34-log10 copies/ml and a median CD4 of 671 cells/mm3.  
In  an  intent-to-treat  analysis,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  undetectable  HIV  RNA  level  who  had 
detectable RNA at baseline displayed in the following table: 
Baseline median log10 copies/ml 
(N) 
Proportion  with  undetectable 
HIV-RNA  (<  400  copies/ml)  at 
Week 4 
Proportion  with  undetectable  
HIV-RNA at Week 12 
Proportion  with  undetectable 
HIV-RNA at Week 24 
Proportion  with  undetectable 
HIV-RNA at Week 48 
Treatment A 
4.40 
(100) 
25% (24/95) 
Treatment B 
4.26 
(97) 
50% (46/92) 
Treatment C 
4.41 
(99) 
54% (50/93) 
12 % (11/95) 
55% (51/92) 
56% (52/93) 
8 % (8/95) 
37% (34/92) 
49% (46/93) 
30% (28/92) 
46% (43/93) 
From  these  results,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  proportion  of  patients  at  24  weeks  reaching 
undetectable  HIV-RNA levels  was higher in  the  ritonavir  containing regimens (treatments  B  and  C) 
and  the  difference  with  the  group  receiving  treatment  A  was  significant.  At  48  weeks  there  is  a 
significant difference (p = 0.003) in the detectable RNA levels in favour of the triple regimen. 
The viral response was found to be higher in patients with lower baseline viral load.  
The proportion of patients showing virological failure for patients who had detectable RNA at baseline 
is presented in the following table: 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 48 
Treatment A 
57% (54/95) 
68% (65/95) 
Treatment B 
28% (26/92) 
45% (41/92) 
46% (42/92) 
Treatment C 
32% (30/93) 
39% (36/93) 
39% (36/93) 
The proportion of patients on the full ritonavir dose decreased from 71 % (140/197) at week 4 to 57 % 
(112/197) at week 12, to 49 % (97/197) at week 24 and to 36 % (70/197) at week 48. The percentage 
of patients who discontinued ritonavir permanently was 31 % and 34% had to reduce the protocol full-
dose at week 48. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to CD4 cell counts, the best response as measured by mean changes from baseline was 
observed  with  ritonavir  treatment  regimen.  However  there  was  no  difference  between  the  treatment 
arms at week 12 with respect to changes in CD4 percentage. 
Overall the results suggested that the viral response to ritonavir combination therapy was not durable 
up  to  week  48  in  the  NRTI  experienced  PI  naive  patients  with  less  advanced  HIV  disease.  The 
majority  of  patients  in  the  ritonavir  treatment  arms  did  not  achieve  undetectable  levels  at  week  48.  
The  96-week  data,  submitted  post  authorisation,  seemed  to  confirm  that  the  viral  response  to  triple 
regimen did not seem to sustain but the CPMP had some concerns with respect to the methodology of 
the study which prevented definitive conclusions with respect to durability of therapeutic effect. 
As  part  of  the  follow-up  measures,  the  results  of  PACTG  studies  366,  345,  and  354  were  provided. 
The results obtained for paediatric patients were in line with previous obtained results, and provided 
new data with regard to younger children (< 2 years of age). 
In trial 366, PI experienced patients responded less to treatment compared to PI naïve patients as was 
to  be  expected.  Multivariate  analyses  showed  that  treatment  of  infants  ≤  2  years  of  age  was 
statistically  significant  more  likely  to  result  in  virological  control  than  treatment  of  children  of  >  2 
years. No new safety signals were evident relative to the established tolerability profiles of the agents 
administered in this study. 
Trial 345: Efficacy observed at week 48 (viral load < 400 copies/ml) of combination treatment with 
ritonavir (350 mg/m2), lamivudine and zidovudine in children between 1 month and 2 years of age was 
in  line  with  efficacy  results  found  in  a  previous  trial  ACTG  338  which  evaluated  children  with  a 
median age of 7.1 years. The safety profile of this combination treatment was acceptable. 
Trial  354  was  prematurely  stopped  due  to  difficulties  in  patient  enrolment.  Only  7  women  were 
included,  where  at  least  14  women  were  planned.  However,  trial  354  is  too  small  to  draw  any 
meaningful conclusions. 
Viral resistance 
The  development  of  HIV  resistance  to  ritonavir  occurred  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  during  treatment.  The 
mutation mechanism was adequately investigated. In vitro it was demonstrated that single mutations 
V82F and I84V of the protease-coding domain exhibited reduced susceptibility to ritonavir.  
The  potential  development  of  viral  resistance  in  a  small  number  of  patients  treated  with  ritonavir 
monotherapy was investigated throughout 3 phase II studies. Serial genotypic and phenotypic analysis 
showed that sensitivity to ritonavir declined in a stepwise manner. Initial mutation occurred most often 
at codon 82 (replacement of valine to usually alanine or phenylalanine). 
A  correlation  seemed  to  exist  between  the  HIV  resistant  strain  development  and  a  decrease  of  viral 
suppression in patients since rebound in HIV RNA levels was observed. However this was observed 
with  doses  of  ritonavir  inferior  to  the  recommended  doses  and  data  with  600  mg  bid  are  until  now 
insufficient to conclude on this point. 
Safety 
The safety profile of ritonavir was established on the basis of the phase III study reports.  
No death related to ritonavir was reported. 
The analysis reveals that the adverse effects related to ritonavir are mostly digestive system disorders 
(diarrhoea,  nausea,  vomiting).  With  regards  to  diarrhoea  (frequency  respectively  equivalent  to  40% 
and 60 % in studies M94-247 and M94-245) retrospective subgroup analysis was submitted to assess 
this  common  adverse  event  on  the  efficacy  and  pharmacokinetics  of  Norvir  and  other  relevant  co-
medications. Results suggested that diarrhoea did not substantially alter the antiviral or immunological 
activity  of Norvir.  However, this adverse effect  is  expected to  affect  the  compliance to  the ritonavir 
medication  and  thereby  will  affect  the  ultimate  benefit  from  therapy.  It  might  affect  also  the 
absorption of other medications. Further data should be submitted to determine the clinical relevance 
and to define the clinical outcome of targeted combination therapies. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
16/19 
 
 
 
 
Nutritional  disorders,  hypertriglyceridaemia  and  hypercholesterolaemia  have  also  been  reported, 
however,  the  long-term  effect  of  these  findings  have  not  been  elucidated.  Regarding  the  nervous 
system,  circumoral  paresthesia  and  peripheral  paresthesia  have  been  reported.  The  percentage  of 
patients  who  discontinued  ritonavir  treatment  in  relation  to  adverse  event  experience  was  16.8  %  
(5.9 % in the placebo group) in study M94-247 and 26 % (39 % in ritonavir-ZDV group and 19 % in 
ZDV  group)  in  study  M94-245  respectively.  Results  revealed  that  the  most  commonly  occurring 
events tended to appear within the first days of initiating treatment and were often of limited duration.  
The  increased risk  of adverse events  attributed to  ritonavir associated with concomitant  medications 
was  investigated  in  study  M94-247.  Increased  frequency  of  adverse  effects  related  to  ritonavir 
associated with other medications was reported among those for nausea (stavudine), vomiting (ZDV) 
and circumoral paresthesia (ddC). 
Ritonavir  led  to  an  increase  in  serum  GGT  and  ALT  although  this  finding  does  not  appear  to  be 
clinically relevant. 
Since  the  retina,  renal  function  and  thyroid  function  were  toxicological  target  organs  in  animal 
experiments,  the  potential  for similar  effects to  occur  in  clinical studies was  monitored. No  relevant 
clinical effects have been reported to date. 
As there is no appropriate information of Norvir used on a long-term basis, it is requested that patients 
should be closely monitored. 
There  have  been  reports  of  increased  bleeding  including  spontaneous  skin  haematomas  and 
hemarthroses in type A and B haemophiliac patients treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients, 
additional  factor  VIII  was  given.  In  more  than  a  half  of  the  reported  cases,  treatment  with  protease 
inhibitors was continued or reintroduced if treatment was discontinued. A causal relationship has been 
suggested  although  the  mechanism  of  action  has  not  been  elucidated.  As  these  reports  involved 
ritonavir,  saquinavir  and  indinavir,  a  class-related  side  effect  has  been  suggested.  Appropriate 
information  to  inform  both  health  professionals  and  patients  has  been  introduced  in  the  warning 
section  of  the  Summaries  of  Product  Characteristics  and  in  the  Package  Leaflets  for  the  protease 
inhibitors. 
During the post-marketing phase, some adverse events were reported for which a causal relationship 
with ritonavir could not be excluded. Undesirable effects such as allergic reactions, hepatic disorders, 
renal disorders, seizure, syncope, postural hypotension and dehydration have therefore been added into 
the appropriate sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Following  reports  on  adverse  effects  related  to  diabetes  mellitus,  hyperglycaemia  or  exacerbation  of  existing 
diabetes mellitus in patients receiving protease inhibitors, the CPMP agreed to introduce an harmonised warning 
into the Summary of Product Characteristics of all the protease inhibitor products.  
With  respect  to  children,  the  safety  database  included  337  children  together  with  53  spontaneous 
reports  over  a  period  of  21  months.  The  safety  profile  was  similar  to  that  of  the  known  for  adults, 
including gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea as the most common side 
effects of ritonavir containing regimens. Post-marketing surveillance  data on 53 spontaneous reports 
from paediatric use did not reveal any safety concerns. The safety update report of study ACTG 338 
supported  the  safe  use  of  the  claimed  dose  of  ritonavir  in  paediatric  patients.  The  high  content  of 
ethanol in the oral solution used for stability and solubility reasons was not of concern in paediatric 
patients. 
Based  on  the  results  from  the  bioequivalence  studies,  the  safety  profile  observed  with  this  new 
formulation did not differ to the current existing oral solution. 
Continuous  assessment  of  Norvir  long-term  safety  profile  is  performed  throughout  PSURs  and  the 
product information updated accordingly. 
Events of special interest 
Lipodystrophy 
Further  to  recent  reports  from  the  literature  on  the  association  of  protease  inhibitors  with  adverse 
events such as fat redistribution and other metabolic disorders, additional information was presented. 
These  data  confirmed  that  combination  antiretroviral  therapy,  including  regimens  containing  a 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
17/19 
 
protease  inhibitor,  was  associated  with  redistribution  of  body  fat  in  some  patients,  including  loss  of 
peripheral  subcutaneous  fat,  increased  intra-abdominal  fat,  breast  hypertrophy  and  dorsocervical  fat 
accumulation (buffalo hump). Protease inhibitors may also be associated with metabolic abnormalities 
such  as  hypertriglyceridaemia,  hypercholesterolaemia,  insulin  resistance  and  hyperglycaemia.  The 
data  provided  did  not  permit  any  conclusion  about  the  causality.  A  class  labelling  wording  was 
however included into the SPC of all the protease inhibitors products, and further investigation will be 
performed to better define this adverse event. 
Muscle-related reactions 
Increased  CPK,  muscle-related  reactions  (myalgia,  myosis  and  rarely  rhabdomyolysis)  have  been 
reported  with  protease  inhibitors.  Although  it  was  difficult  to  determine  causality  of  these  reactions 
due to confounding factors and scanty information, it was nevertheless considered necessary to update 
the  relevant  information  on  muscle-related  adverse  reactions  of  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and to reflect this effect in the Package Leaflet. 
Liver impairment in HIV positive patients 
Further  to  the  discussions  held  by  the  Ad-hoc  Group  of  Experts  on  Anti-HIV  medicinal  products  in 
November  2001, the CPMP  agreed that liver impairment  was of  increasing concern in  HIV positive 
patients  both  in  the  form  of  adverse  hepatic  effects  in  patients  with  normal  liver  function  prior  to 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) and as regards patients with chronic liver disease treated with ART.  
In January 2002 the CPMP requested the MAH for all authorised anti-retroviral medicinal products to 
conduct  a  retrospective  review  of  clinical  trials  and  post  marketing  data  relating  to  the  use  of  their 
product(s)  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and/or  HBV/HCV  co-infection.  Following  review  of 
the  submitted  responses  and  discussions  held  during  the  CPMP  meeting  and  the  Pharmacovigilance 
Working  Party  meeting  in  October  2002,  the  CPMP  adopted  a  list  of  questions  (including  general, 
product specific and SPC wording recommendations). 
The  review  of  the  MAHs’  responses  has  essentially confirmed  that  co-infected  patients  and  patients 
with  underlying  liver  disorders  are  at  increased  risk  for  adverse  events,  essentially  confined  to  liver 
events.  Overall,  there  is  a  disturbing  lack  of  general  and  product  specific  knowledge  (e.g.  relevant 
pharmacokinetic data in patients with liver impairment), but there are ongoing activities.   
For  some  of  the  products  still  undergoing  drug  development,  the  MAHs  have  confirmed  that  co-
infected  patients  will  not  be  excluded  from  participation  in  the  studies.  The  CPMP  stressed  that 
whenever  feasible  a  minimum  number  of  co-infected  patients  should  be  included  in  forthcoming 
studies in order to provide a reasonable basis for a relevant safety (and efficacy) analysis. 
Following the review of responses submitted by all MAHs of antiretroviral medicinal products, a class 
labelling  on  “liver  disease”  has  been  agreed  and  implemented  in  the  product  information  for  all 
antiretroviral medicinal products. 
The SPC of Norvir has been reworded in accordance with the CPMP recommendations. Furthermore, 
in section 5.2, data on AUC-12h derived from HIV infected patients (together with Cmax and Cmin) 
was added.  Extent of exposure to ritonavir in comparison to healthy volunteers, after multiple dosing 
in subjects with mild and moderate liver impairment (400 mg twice daily) is also provided in section 
5.2 of SPC. 
4. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment  
Norvir was the first representative of a new class called protease inhibitors for the treatment of HIV-
infected patients authorised in the European Union  
Although  additional  information  has  been    submitted  with  regard  to  chemical  and  pharmaceutical 
aspects, the data submitted at time of Marketing Authorisation were  acceptable to ensure the quality 
and the consistency of both oral solution and capsule. 
The preclinical programme was considered satisfactory for the use of Norvir in the treatment of HIV-1 
infection. Additional toxicology information has been provided  to complete the toxicological profile. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CPMP considered during the review process that, in the light of the currently available data, the 
provisional overall benefit/risk ratio for Norvir was only favourable as combination therapy.  
Consequently, the CPMP, gave a favourable  opinion under exceptional  circumstances for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation for Norvir 100 mg* hard capsules and Norvir 80 mg/ml oral solution.  
This  opinion  was  based  on  the  beneficial  effect  of  600  mg  of  Norvir  administered  twice  daily  in 
combination therapy with nucleoside analogues in patients with advanced HIV disease,  as  measured 
by clinical endpoints including a decrease in mortality and disease progression. The applicant agreed 
to  provide  final  reports  of  both  ongoing  phase  III  studies  within  a  specific  timeframe  as  well  as  a 
clinical programme for an expanded investigation of Norvir in combination therapy.  
In view of additional data provided, Norvir was shown to be efficacious and generally well tolerated.  
With  respect  to  the  paediatric  population,  the  requirements  of  the  CPMP  Points  to  Consider  in  the 
assessment of New Antiretroviral Products (CPMP/602/95 rev.1) have been adequately addressed. It is 
considered that there are sufficient data to allow a positive risk/benefit ratio for a 350 mg/m² BID dose 
of ritonavir oral solution to be used in children aged 2-12 years old. 
ACTG 338 and M95-310 supported the virological efficacy of ritonavir in antiretroviral experienced 
paediatric  population,  although  the  durability  of  the  response  would  have  to  be  defined.  The  safety 
profile of ritonavir in children appears similar to that observed in HIV-infected adults. 
When reviewing the additional efficacy and safety data provided as part of the specific obligations to 
be fulfilled post-authorisation, the CPMP considered that the risk/benefit profile for this agent was still 
favourable and that there were no remaining grounds for maintaining the Marketing Authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances since all the specific obligations have been fulfilled.  
Considering that the soft capsule formulation of ritonavir has been shown to be bioequivalent to the 
marketed oral solution (even when the soft capsule formulation has reduced ethanol level (12 mg/g) 
and  contains  up  to  30  %  ritonavir  crystals)  that  the  clinical  benefit  of  ritonavir  at  the  recommended 
dose of 600 mg twice daily has already been established and that the new formulation is intended to be 
used  in  the  same  indication  with  the  same  dosage  recommendations,  the  CPMP  considered  the 
risk/benefit profile of Norvir 100 mg soft capsules favourable. The CPMP therefore issued a positive 
opinion for granting a marketing authorisation for Norvir 100 mg soft capsules. 
The approved indication for Norvir 80 mg/ml was initially the following:  
“Norvir  is  indicated  in  combination  with  antiretroviral  nucleoside  analogue(s)  for  the  treatment  of 
HIV-1 infected patients with advanced or progressive immunodeficiency”. 
After a number of years  of clinical use, the CPMP  agreed that the  indication  of Norvir 100  mg soft 
capsules  and  80  mg/ml  oral  solution  no  longer  reflected  current  medical  practice  as  a  new 
antiretroviral  class  were  developed  (non  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors).  In  addition,  the 
knowledge  concerning  treatment  of  HIV  infection  has  evolved  and  supporting  data  relating  to  this 
have  been  presented.    However,  it  was  considered  that  on  the  basis  of  the  state  of  the  art,  it  was 
necessary to warn  prescribing  physicians to choose ritonavir for  the  treatment  of HIV-1 infection  in 
protease  inhibitor  experienced  patients  based  on  individual  viral  resistance  testing  and  treatment 
history of patients.  Hence, the indication for treatment has been reviewed and revised. 
In addition although no specific study to support a dose regimen escalation has been performed, the 
available pharmacokinetic/tolerance data suggested that a dose of 300  mg ritonavir (7.5 ml) BID, as 
sole protease inhibitor in a combination of antiretroviral therapy, for a period of 3 days and increased 
by 100 mg (1.25 ml) BID increments up to 600 mg BID over a period of no longer than 14 days may 
increase the tolerability of ritonavir.  
Finally, sufficient clinical experience with ritonavir used as pharmacokinetic enhancer (at low doses of 
100-200  mg  once  or  twice  daily)  to  boost  the  plasma  concentrations  of  other  protease  inhibitors  in 
HIV-infected  adult  patients  has  become  available.Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality, 
safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by  consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Norvir  was 
favourable in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infected patients 
(adults and children of 2 year age and older).  In protease inhibitor experienced patients the choice of 
ritonavir should be based on individual viral resistance testing and treatment history of patients. 
                                                                                EMEA 2005 
19/19 
 
 
 
 
