European Medicines Agency 
Press office 
London, 16 June 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/306734/2008 
PRESS RELEASE 
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. withdraws its marketing 
authorisation application for the pre-pandemic vaccine Aflunov 
The European Medicines Agency (EMEA) has been formally notified by Novartis Vaccines and 
Diagnostics S.r.l. of its decision to withdraw the application for a centralised marketing authorisation 
for the pre-pandemic vaccine Aflunov (A/VietNam/1194/2004 (H5N1) virus surface inactivated 
antigen).  
Aflunov was expected to be used for active pre-pandemic immunisation against H5N1 subtype of the 
influenza A virus.  
The application for marketing authorisation for Aflunov was submitted to the EMEA on 6 November 
2006. At the time of the withdrawal, it was under review by the Agency’s Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP). 
In its official letter, the company stated that the withdrawal of Aflunov was based on the fact that the 
CHMP’s request for additional clinical data, as required by the pre-pandemic guideline, could not be 
met within the timeframe permitted by the centralised procedure. The CHMP had requested additional 
data because a good clinical practice (GCP) inspection showed that the main study had not been 
conducted in compliance with GCP, so that its results could not be considered reliable for use in the 
evaluation of the vaccine.  
More information about Aflunov and the state of the scientific assessment at the time of withdrawal 
will be made available in a question-and-answer document. This document, together with the 
withdrawal letter from the company, will be published on the EMEA website in due course following 
the CHMP meeting of 23-26 June 2008. 
-- ENDS -- 
Notes: 
1.  Withdrawal of an application does not prejudice the possibility of a company making a new 
application at a later stage.  
2.  The ‘Guideline on dossier structure and content of marketing authorisation applications for 
influenza vaccines derived from strains with a pandemic potential for use outside of the core 
dossier context’ is available at: http://www.emea.europa.eu/pdfs/human/vwp/26349906en.pdf  
3.  Good clinical practice is a set of internationally recognised ethical and scientific quality 
requirements which must be observed for designing, conducting, recording and reporting clinical 
trials that involve the participation of human subjects. Compliance with this good practice 
provides assurance that the rights, safety and well-being of trial subjects are protected, and that 
the results of the clinical trials are credible. 
4.  This press release, together with other information on the work of the EMEA, can be found on the 
EMEA website: www.emea.europa.eu 
Media enquiries only to: 
Martin Harvey Allchurch or Monika Benstetter 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 27, E-mail press@emea.europa.eu 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 09 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
