London, 5 October 2005 
Product name: NovoMix 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/308/X/19 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 
Introduction 
Insulin Aspart, (IAsp), is a fast-acting human insulin analogue with the same amino acid sequence as 
human insulin, with the exception of the substitution of proline with aspartic acid at position 28 of the 
B-chain.  This  substitution  produces  intermolecular  repulsion  and  thereby  reduces  the  tendency  of 
insulin  molecules  to  self  associate  to  dimers  and  hexamers.  Thus,  insulin  aspart  is  absorbed  more 
rapidly than regular fast-acting human insulin when given subcutaneously.  
Biphasic  insulin  aspart  30  (BIAsp  30),  consists  of  a  mixture  of  30%  rapid-acting  IAsp  and  70% 
intermediate-acting protamine co-crystallised IAsp. BIAsp 30 received marketing approval in the EU 
in August 2000. 
The present line extension application refers to two new premixed dosage forms of rapid-acting IAsp 
and protamine co-crystallised IAsp, biphasic insulin aspart 50 (BIAsp 50) and biphasic insulin aspart 
70  (BIAsp  70)  (see  figure  below).  BIAsp  50  and  BIAsp  70  have  been  developed  to  supplement  the 
already marketed BIAsp 30. This will increase flexibility in treatment options, allowing for treatments 
tailored to the individual needs of people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.  
1.2  Quality aspects 
Drug substance 
The drug substance insulin aspart has been described previously and was approved for NovoMix 30 
(EMEA/H/C/308/X/11) among other insulin products of the applicant.  
Drug Product 
Introduction 
The  drug  product  NovoMix  70  is  biphasic  insulin  in  new  mix  of  70%  soluble  insulin,  and  the 
remaining 30%, is insulin protamine. This is a line extension to the approved NovoMix 30. The insulin 
strength of the products is 100 U/ml. 
The  essential  differences  compared  to  the  NovoMix  30  are  formulation  and  manufacturing,  in  other 
aspects they are similar. 
Composition 
The  finished  product  is  a  white  suspensions    of  70%  %  soluble  insulin  aspart  and    30%  protamine 
crystallised insulin aspart.  
The  strength  of  100  U  of  insulin  aspart  per  ml  is  equimolar  to  100  IU  human  insulin  per  ml.  The 
finished  products  contains  the  following  excipients  :  Protamine  sulphate,  zinc,  glycerol,  metacresol, 
phenol,  disodium  phosphate  dihydrate,  sodium  chloride,  sodium  hydroxide,  hydrochloric  acid  and 
water for injection. 
Novomix-H-308-X-19 
2 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formulation development 
The  approved  NovoMix  30  has  served  as  basis  for  the  development  of  the  present  formulations. 
During the development phase the formulation underwent changes with respect to: the content of zinc; 
the content of sodium chloride, the isotonic agent and the manufacturing process. 
The  choice  of  excipients  is  well  described  and  all  have  been  used  in  other  formulations  of  insulin 
aspart. 
Manufacture of the formulations 
The  manufacture  of NovoMix consists of preparation of 4 bulk solutions, 3 solutions are mixed and 
sterile  filtrated  into  the  filling  tank  containing  sterile  filtered  solution  I.  The  final  bulk  solution  is 
allowed to crystallise for about 2 days and is then filled into cartridges. 
A  process  validation  at  production  scale  has  been  performed  and  an  acceptable  report  has  been 
presented. 
Drug product specification  
The  specifications  for  NovoMix  70  are  identical  except  for  content  of  insulin  aspart  in  solution  and 
limit for desamido insulin aspart at shelf life. In comparison with the approved NovoMix 30, there are 
minor  differences.  The  analytical  procedures  are  essentially  the  same  for  the  three  formulations,  in 
some cases supplementary validations was done.  
The specifications are suitable and justified. 
For Flexpen presentations a dose accuracy test is included. 
Container closure system 
The container closure systems for NovoMix 70 were used for the approved NovoMix 30 and are well 
known from the existing insulin human/insulin analogue products.  
The primary packing consists of a 3 ml cartridge (Penfill) of type 1 glass with a cap and a stopper. The 
cap  is  a  laminated  rubber  disc  with  two  layers:  synthetic  polyisoprene  and  bromobutyl  rubber.  The 
outer  layer  of  bromobutyl  rubber  is  in  contact  with  the  product.  The  rubber  plunger  is  made  of 
bromobutyl rubber. The cartridge contains a glass bead to facilitate the resuspension. 
The FlexPen is a pre-filled multiple dose disposable insulin delivery device. The device consists of the 
following:  The  dose  expelling  part,  the  parts  for  dialling  up  and  dialling  down  a  dose  and  a  3  ml 
cartridge. 
Stability 
Based on the real time stability data a shelf life for the finished product has been accepted. 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
No additional non-clinical data have been generated by the MAH to support this application 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics 
Bioequivalence  between  the  formulations  used  during  development  and  the  formulation  to-be-
marketed in terms of AUC0-16h and Cmax was sufficiently well demonstrated. 
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of BIAsp 50 and BIAsp 70 were investigated in healthy 
subjects and in subjects with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. 
Novomix-H-308-X-19 
3 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The single dose pharmacokinetics of BIAsp 50, BIAsp 70 and the marketed dosage forms (IAsp and 
BIAsp 30) was compared in healthy subjects. Serum IAsp concentrations during the early absorptive 
phase (0 to 4 hours) increased significantly with the increasing fraction of soluble IAsp (30%, 50%, 
70% and 100%). Both maximum serum IAsp concentrations (Cmax) and AUC0-4h increased by more 
than  20%  between  the  adjacent  premixed  dosage  forms.  Time  to  maximum  serum  insulin 
concentration (tmax) was estimated to be about 60 minutes with all four dosage forms.  
Single  and  multiple  dose  pharmacokinetics  were  investigated  in  subjects  with  type  1  and  type  2 
diabetes.  The  single  dose  pharmacokinetics  gave  similar  results  as  in  healthy  volunteers.  A  slight 
increase of the serum IAsp levels in terms of Cmax and AUC was noted for the BIAsp preparations 
when day 8 and day 1 of treatment was compared indicating that it will take a few days to reach steady 
state. However, the differences were small and are judged to be of minor clinical relevance. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  glucodynamic response to BIAsp  50 and  BIAsp  70  was  investigated in two  euglycaemic clamp 
trials, one in healthy subjects and one in subjects with type 1 diabetes. The rapid absorption of soluble 
IAsp was reflected by a similar early onset of action (within 10 to 20 minutes) for all three premixed 
dosage  forms.  The  maximum  glucodynamic  effect  (GIRmax)  was  exerted  after  about  2  hours;  or 
approximately  1  hour  later  than  the  corresponding  Cmax.  As  expected,  both  the  peak  effect  (GIRmax) 
and the extent of glucodynamic action over the first 4 hours (AUCGIR,  0-4h ) increased with increasing 
fraction of soluble IAsp. The duration of action was up to 14 to 24 hours 
The glucodynamic action of BIAsp 30 and BIAsp 70 could be differentiated both during the early and 
late phases of absorption after 8 days of multiple dose treatment (thrice-daily) in subjects with type 1 
diabetes. AUCGIR 0-4h (area under the glucose infusion rate-time curve) was greater with BIAsp 70 than 
with BIAsp 30, reflecting the larger fraction of soluble IAsp. The GIRmax with BIAsp 70 tended to be 
higher than with BIAsp 30, however, this difference did not reach statistical significance. AUC GIR, 6-12h 
was  greater  with  BIAsp  30  than  with  BIAsp  70,  reflecting  the  larger  fraction  of  protamine  co-
crystallised IAsp. 
Clinical efficacy 
The concept of a thrice-daily meal-related dosing regimen was explored in short-term trials in subjects 
with  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes.  The  test  regimens  were  evaluated  over  24  hours  in  a  meal-test 
procedure.  The  three  trials  were  of  exploratory  nature  and  they  were  mainly  used  to  define  a 
reasonable BIAsp 50/70 regimen in the confirmative phase III trial (study 1075). The studies provided 
some limited support for the conclusion that that a thrice-daily regimen may improve day-time glucose 
control as compared to a twice-daily BIasp 30 regimen. 
The  pivotal  clinical  trial  (1075)  was  designed  as  a  16-week  randomised,  parallel  group,  open-label, 
multi-centre trial comparing the efficacy and safety of the proposed concept of thrice-daily treatment 
with  BIAsp  50  (BMI  >30  kg/  m2)  or  BIAsp  70  (BMI  ≤30  kg/  m2),  and  BIAsp  30  at  dinner  (where 
required  if  the  achieved  morning  blood  glucose  levels  were  not  lower  than  8  mmol/L)  with  that  of 
biphasic  human  insulin  (BHI)  30  twice  daily.  The  total  daily  dose  of  BIAsp  was  increased  by  10% 
compared with the total daily BHI 30 dose at the end of the run-in period, distributed as 40:30:40% 
(breakfast: lunch: dinner).The primary objective was to confirm that thrice-daily treatment with BIAsp 
offers  superior  glycaemic  control  compared  to  twice-daily  treatment  with  BHI  30  in  subjects  with 
diabetes  who  are  inadequately  controlled  on  their  current  twice-daily  premixed  human  insulin 
regimen.  
Results 
Approximately  70%  of  the  664  subjects  included  had  type  2  diabetes  and  the  mean  baseline  HbA1c 
was  8.7%.  The  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  regarding  baseline  demographics  and  disease 
characteristics. 
Novomix-H-308-X-19 
4 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total insulin doses at the end of 16 weeks were slightly higher for subjects in the BIAsp treatment arm 
compared with the BHI 30 treatment arm. 
The thrice-daily BIAsp regimen, provided better overall glycaemic control as judged from the HbA1c 
values.  Results  of  the  8-point  blood  glucose  profiles  recorded  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period 
revealed  that  daytime  BG  values  were  generally  lower  with  BIAsp  than  with  BHI  30.  Significantly 
lower postprandial glucose levels were recorded after all meals in the BIAsp group as compared to the 
BHI 30 group. However, the mean fasting BG levels were higher in the BIAsp arm than in the BHI 30 
arm. 
Clinical safety  
In  the  pivotal  study  there  was  a  small  but  significant  increase  in  the  relative  risk  of  minor 
hypoglycaemia during the day. 
The higher rate of minor hypoglycaemic events in the BIAsp treatment group most probably reflects 
the higher doses and the additional lunch dose. There was a tendency for lower night time event rates 
in  the  BIAsp  as  could  be  expected  in  relation  to  the  different  time  action  profile  of  the  insulins 
compared.  The  number  of  patients  experiencing  major  hypoglycaemic  events  was  low  and  did  not 
differ significantly between the treatment groups.  
The incidence of other adverse events than hypoglycaemia with the BIAsp dosage forms was similar 
to that with BHI 30. Less than 5% of subjects discontinued treatment in the confirmatory trial due to 
adverse events, and there were no pronounced differences between BIAsp three times daily and BHI 
30 twice daily. Serious adverse events were uncommon and sporadic, occurring in less than 5% of all 
subjects.  There  were  no  differences  in  the  pattern  or  in  the  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events 
between treatments or type of diabetes. 
A total of three deaths were reported during the global clinical development programme. A relation to 
trial products was considered unlikely in all three cases. 
1.5  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality  
The drug product NovoMix 50 and NovoMix 70 are biphasic insulins in two new mixes of 50% and 
70%  soluble  insulin,  the  remaining  50%  and  30%,  respectively,  is  insulin  protamine.  These  are  line 
extensions to the approved NovoMix 30. The insulin strength of the products is 100 U/ml. 
The  essential  differences  compared  to  the  NovoMix  30  are  formulation  and  manufacturing,  in  other 
aspects they are similar. 
Efficacy 
The pivotal 1075 study demonstrated that a BIAsp three times daily regimen is a treatment alternative 
that can provide acceptable glycaemic  control and  that  postprandial blood  glucose  elevations can  be 
reduced  if  such  a  regimen  is  compared  with  a  BHI  30  twice-daily  regimen.  On  the  other  hand  the 
BIAsp  thrice-daily  regimen  more  often  resulted  in  elevated  fasting  morning  glucose  levels.  As  well 
recognised in clinical practice careful individual titration of doses and individual selection of insulins 
with optimal action-time profiles are necessary components of successful treatment. In such individual 
titration  procedures  the  two  new  compositions  of  BIAsp  could  serve  as  alternatives  providing 
advantages  for  some  patients.  The  efficacy  of  these  new  compositions  has  been  sufficiently  well 
demonstrated  and  the  pharmacodynamic  action/time  profiles  are  in  agreement  with  what  could  be 
expected from the amounts and properties of the two components. 
Novomix-H-308-X-19 
5 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The safety of BIAsp 50 and BIAsp 70 has been sufficiently well characterised from a clinical point of 
view  taking  into  account  also  the  experience  with  pure  soluble  IAsp  and  BIAsp  30.  The  pattern  of 
adverse events in the BIAsp treatment groups was similar to the pattern recorded in the BHI treated 
group in the pivotal study. The increased incidence of minor hypoglycaemic events among the BIAsp 
treated patients recorded in the pivotal study is most probably due to the higher total insulin doses and 
more frequent insulin administration as compared to the BHI treated patients. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The benefit/risk balance is considered favourable. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of NovoMix 70 in the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus 
was favourable. 
Novomix-H-308-X-19 
6 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
