SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Novoseven. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  February  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
NovoSeven is a novel product and contains activated recombinant DNA human coagulation factor VII 
(rFVIIa). 
The recombinant molecule is produced in baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells.  
Recombinant  FVIIa  is  almost  identical  to  human  plasma  FVIIa  except  for  a  difference  in 
glycosylation. This difference is not expected to be of relevance. 
Factor VII is a blood clotting protein that participates in the coagulation process leading to formation 
of  a  fibrin  clot.  The  apparent  mechanism  of  action  of  NovoSeven  (rFVIIa)  is  activation  of  the  final 
common pathway of the coagulation cascade independent of the presence of factor VIII and factor IX. 
rFVIIa  forms  a  complex  with  tissue  factor,  which  in  the  presence  of  calcium  and  phospholipids 
activates coagulation factor X which then initiates the conversion of prothrombin into thrombin. 
The following indications were initially claimed: “Serious bleeding events and surgery in patients with 
inhibitors  to  coagulation  Factor  VIII  or  Factor  IX.”  At  a  later  stage  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics  has  been  revised  to  include  that  in  certain  circumstances  the  product  could  be 
administered at home. However the MAH submitted data to support 2 new indications, these are: Two 
additional  indications  (Treatment  of  bleeding  episodes  and  prevention  of  bleeding  in  those 
undertaking  surgery  or  invasive  procedures  in  patients  with  congenital  FVII  defieciency  and  in 
patients with Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia with antibodies to GP IIb-IIIa and/or HLA and with past or 
present  refractoriness  to  platelet  transfusions)  which  received  positive  opinion  by  the  CPMP  in 
October 2003. 
Pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  studies  were  submitted  as  well  as  clinical 
studies. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
NovoSeven is a lyophilised preparation of recombinant DNA human coagulation factor VIIa (rFVIIa). 
It is a 50 kD glycoprotein processed by a genetically transformed mammalian cell line (BHK, Baby 
Hamster  Kidney)  and  purified  by  consecutive  chromotography  steps,  including  immunoaffinity 
chromatography using murine monoclonal antibodies. FVII is translated as a single chain protein (406 
AA), which during purification is converted into the two chains, activated form. 
To  ensure  a  rFVIIa  shelf  life  of  at  least  two  years,  it  was  necessary  to  formulate  rFVIIa  as  a  freeze 
dried product. Apart from the rFVIIa, the composition consists of five excipients all necessary in order 
to  achieve  a  stable  lyophilised  formulation,  which  is  easy  to  reconstitute  and  which  is  isotonic.  The 
excipients are: Sodium chloride, calcium chloride dihydrate, glycylglycine, polysorbate 80, mannitol. 
Glycylglycine was chosen as the buffer substance because it has the following characteristics: 
1. 
Seen  from  a  chemical  point  of  view  glycylglycine  is  the  simplest  dipeptide  and  toxicological 
studies have shown that it has no effect at the concentration used. 
2.   Glycylglycine has a suitable buffer capacity in the rFVIIa bulk and the finished product. 
3.   Glycylglycine is fully compatible with rFVIIa and calcium. 
NovoSeven is presented in glass vials containing 1.2 mg, 2.4 mg resp. 4.8 mg lyophilised rFVIIa. 
Impurities 
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  rFVIIa  purification  process  has  proven  to  be  efficient  for  removal  of  the  potential  impurities 
arrived from the cell culture or introduced during the purification process. 
For  impurities,  that  were  not  detectable  in  the  bulk  product  by  the  available  methods,  validation  of 
each  purification  step  of  the  process,  performed  either  in  full  production  scale  or  in  model  systems, 
gave evidence for the removal of the impurities. 
Fermentation and production process 
The production runs take place in a fermentor. Cells from one ampoule of the MWCB are used for the 
initiation of each production run. The cells are propagated into sufficient amounts before inoculation 
of the production fermentor. The fermenters are conventional stirred tanks. Every 24 hours part of the 
culture liquid is harvested and replaced by new medium. A serum containing medium is used for the 
production phase. 
During development and clinical trial phase changes have been made in scale of the fermentation of 
the active ingredient. Early clinical trials have been performed using bulk product from a pilot plant 
scale. Later trials were performed with the bulk product produced in full scale. 
Viral contamination 
Occasionally virus contamination occurs during the fermentation and most likely it originates from the 
bovine serum. However, all detected viruses are considered to be no pathogenic to humans. 
Contaminated  harvests  are  rejected  for  production  of  NovoSeven.  In  order  to  prevent  cross-
contamination through the fermentation and purification process adequate measures have been taken. 
The purification is validated for a wide range of model and relevant viruses (RNA and DNA viruses, 
enveloped and non-enveloped viruses). 
All studies have been performed in compliance with the CPMP Notes for Guidance. 
The  company  committed  to  reviewing  their  production  strategy  in  order  to  reduce  the  risk  of  viral 
contamination  associated  with  the  use  of  several  batches  of  New-born  Calf  Serum  in  the  same 
campaign. 
The CPMP considered that the procedures put in place by the company to ensure the viral safety of the 
finished  product  are  reassuring  and  that  it  is  very  unlikely  that  a  virus  contaminated  batch  of  the 
finished product will be released.  
The company committed to continuing their effort to identify those serum batches which are a source 
of the virus. 
INSPECTION STATUS 
The Applicant requested the following manufacturing sites to be considered: 
Manufacturer of the active substance: 
Novo-Nordisk A/S Hallas Alle 
DK-4400 Kalundborg, Denmark 
Manufacturer and storage of the finished medicinal product: 
Novo Nordisk A/S Hagedornsvej 
DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novo Nordisk A/S Hagedornsvej 
DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark 
Manufacturing authorisation was released to Novo Nordisk A/S Denmark for these three sites from the 
National Board of Health (SUNDHEDSSTYRELSEN) on 21 November 1994. 
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Recombinant  factor  VIIa  (rFVIIa)  is  a  human  coagulation  factor  of  the  family  of  the  vitamin  K 
dependent coagulation factors. It is a glycoprotein consisting of 406 amino acid residues. 
In  the  presence  of  calcium  and  phospholipids,  factor  VII/VIIa  in  a  complex  with  tissue  factor  can 
activate  factor  X  to  factor  Xa  directly,  bypassing  factor  IX  or  factor  VIII.  Activation  of  factor  X  to 
factor Xa initiates the common pathway of the coagulation cascade where prothrombin is activated to 
thrombin, which converts fibrinogen to fibrin. 
Pharmacodynamics 
rFVIIa induced haemostasis in dogs with hemophilia A and B as well as in Warfarin-treated rats.  
rFVIla showed a local pharmacological effect at the site of the induced lesion. No systemic activation 
of the coagulation cascade was demonstrated, except at high doses. 
Safety pharmacology was studied extensively. There were no clinically relevant findings. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The volume of distribution is somewhat larger than the blood volume, rFVIIa is rapidly cleared from 
the plasma in the rat (t1/2 roughly 0.5 h), whereas in larger animals (dog, monkey) and in humans t1/2 is 
about 3 h. In most animals human rFVIIa is stable in plasma, in the rabbit, however, it is not. 
Apart  from  differences  in  plasma  clearance  the  fate  of  human  rFVIIa  in  humans  and  in  laboratory 
animal species is similar. 
Toxicology 
The toxicological profile of NovoSeven was studied very extensively. 
In acute studies in mice the lungs were affected (intravascular coagulation). No coagulated blood was 
seen in rat pulmonary arteries. 
Four week and 13 week repeated dose i.v. studies were performed in rats and Cynomolgus monkeys. 
In  rats  the  main  effects  were  increased  thrombus  formation  and  irritation  at  the  injection  site  (bolus 
injection) and thromboembolism in the pulmonary circulation (1.1 mg/kg/day).  
In monkeys doses up to 3 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks were tolerated well except for minor local reactions 
at the injection site and minor thromboemboli in the lungs.  
No general activation of the coagulation system was observed in the toxicity studies as measured by 
fibrinogen, antithrombin III or α 2 antiplasmin. 
Time-dependent antibody development was seen in rats, but no hyper-sensitivity nor immunological 
tissue damage was seen. In monkeys, antibody formation was dose and time dependent (as in rats) and 
the cross-reacting antibodies measured, had a neutralising effect on rFVIIa, thus resulting in prolonged 
prothrombin times. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Dogs  developed  an  immunological  response  to  treatment  with  this  human  protein  and  this 
species is unsuitable for repeated dose studies.  
A fertility and general reproductive performance study in rats (up to 3 mg/kg/day) did not reveal 
adverse effects except for local reactions at the injection site.  
No embryotoxicity studies are performed. 
Mutagenicity  tests  are  not  relevant  in  view  of  the  proteinaceous  nature  of  the  test  compound. 
Nevertheless, a clastogenicity test (in vitro) in human lymphocytes and a micronucleus test (in 
vivo) have been conducted both with negative outcome. 
Carcinogenicity studies were not considered necessary for this product. 
In special studies on antigenicity no specific antibody formation against BHK cell protein was 
shown. 
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  number  of  studies  with  the  inactive  ingredient  glycylglycine,  the  dipeptide  of  the  non-essential 
amino acid glycine, were submitted: acute studies, repeated dose studies (up to 12 months), a segment 
1 reproduction study, and mutagenicity studies. Glycylglycine was not toxic (except for a slight effect 
on  the  intestinal  transit  rate:  see  “pharmacodynamics”)  and  not  mutagenic.  The  Observed  Adverse 
Effect  Level  of  glycylglycine  (166  mg/kg  in  rats  and>  640  mg/kg  in  dogs)  is  far  higher  than  the 
maximal therapeutic exposure of ca 2.5 mg/kg/day. 
In conclusion the pharmaco-toxicological dossier submitted was considered adequate to describe and 
assess the pharmaco-toxicological potential of eptacog alfa (activated). 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Factor VII is a blood clotting protein that participates in the coagulation process leading to formation 
of  a  fibrin  clot.  The  apparent  mechanism  of  action  of  NovoSeven  (rFVIIa)  is  activation  of  the  final 
common pathway of the coagulation cascade independent of the presence of factor VIII and factor IX. 
rFVIIa  forms  a  complex  with  tissue  factor,  which  in  the  presence  of  calcium  and  phospholipids 
activates coagulation factor X which then initiates the conversion of prothrombin into thrombin. 
Pharmacokinetic studies were submitted as well as a clinical studies. 
As the initial claimed indication was “Serious bleeding events and surgery in patients with inhibitors 
to coagulation factor VIII or factor IX” general aspects concerning the current available treatments of 
patients  with  inhibitors  were  taken  into  consideration.  Two  additional  indications  (Treatment  of 
bleeding episodes and prevention of bleeding in those undertaking surgery or invasive procedures in 
patients  with  congenital  FVII  defieciency  and  in  patients  with  Glanzmann’s  thrombasthenia  with 
antibodies to GP IIb-IIIa and/or HLA and with past or present refractoriness to platelet transfusions) 
received positive opinion by the CPMP in October 2003. 
Approximately 3.6% to 25% of individuals with haemophilia A develop inhibitors to factor VIII. The 
incidence  of  antibodies  is  higher  in  patients  with  severe  haemophilia  (factor  VIII<1-2%)  than  in 
patients  with  moderately  severe  or  mild  haemophilia  A.  In  haemophilia  B  patients,  a  much  rarer 
disease than haemophilia A, the incidence of inhibitors is much lower (around 5%). 
Treatment  of  bleeding  episodes  in  haemophilic  patients  with  factor  VIII  inhibitors  has  to  be 
individually tailored, depending on the type and the titer of the antibodies. 
Patients  with  low  level  inhibitors  (<10  BU)  often  respond  to  repeated  infusion  of  factor  VIII 
concentrate with a rise in plasma factor VIII. Treatment of all bleeding episodes with factor VIII may 
eventually lead to a decline in the antibody level during a few days. 
In order to achieve haemostasis in high responder patients and/or patients with a titer > 10 BU, other 
therapeutic approaches are mandatory, such as bypassing the FVIII coagulation pathway. 
A variation type II/31 was submitted by the MAH to change the cut-off inhibition titer from > 10 BU 
to > 5 BU. The International Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) reviewed a large number 
of treatment cases to determine the efficacy of regimens, products used and treatment outcomes. Based 
on this, the cut-off limit > 5 BU/ml was recommended. To be in compliance with these guidelines the 
limit in the NovoSeven SPC has been changed from > 10 BU/ml to the reommended > 5 BU/ml. 
Pharmacodynamics 
A total number of 27 patients were studied. 
Out of 27 patients 26 had haemophilia A, and 1 haemophilia B.  
Out of 27 patients 15 had inhibitors against factor VIII, 11 (all haemophilia A) had no inhibitors.  
In  23  occasions  rFVIIa  was  given  in  association  with  a  bleed  and  32  administrations  in  patients 
without an ongoing bleed.  
The FVII:C levels in plasma increased in a dose dependent way. Pre-treatment prothrombin time (PT) 
was  normal  (10-13  sec)  in  all  subjects  and  shortened  between  2.2  and  2.8  sec  following  the 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration of rFVIIa. No further shortening of the PT occurred with plasma FVII:C > 
4-5 U/ml. 
APTT  was  prolonged  in  all  patients  prior  to  treatment  and  shortened  after  rFVIIa  administration. 
Factor X level was increased linearly with dose in 31 non-bleeding and 18 bleeding episodes. 
Factor  IX  levels  in  plasma  at  20  minutes  after  rFVIIa  administration  increased  in  24  out  of  32 
observations. 
No dependence was observed between factor IX level and the rFVIIa dose. 
The clinical effect paralleled increasing plasma-FVII:C levels (mean 17.1 U/ml, range 13.2-21.9) at 70 
µg/kg dose level. 
Pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics 
Not all 27 patients treated with rFVIIa in these studies had inhibitors to factor VIII (15/26) or factor 
IX. Increases in FVII:C levels as well as the AUC after administration of rFVIIa were dose dependent. 
No difference was found between the two rFVIIa preparations prepared in Pilot Plan and Large Scale 
preparations. 
It is difficult to interpret the pharmacokinetic data in terms of relation with clinical effect of rFVIIa ; 
this is not of primary importance in judging efficacy of rFVIIa, as it is not known what plasma-level of 
FVIIa is necessary to achieve an initial haemostasis or to maintain a functional haemostasis in patients 
lacking the FVIII/IX dependent enforcement loop. 
Furthermore rFVIIa is supposed not to induce any systemic activation of the coagulation cascade as 
the product forms complex with tissue factor (in the presence of phospholipids and calcium) exposed 
locally at the site of injury.  rFVIIa is not proteolytically active by itself.  
There are no reliable suitable laboratory markers available for measuring the efficacy of rFVIIa. 
Clinical data should be the most important endpoint of efficacy.  
Nevertheless,  on a theoretical basis monitoring of  PT levels and recovery of FVIIa are useful in the 
situation when there is no clinical response. 
Safety profile 
For all patients treated with rFVIIa in various studies in a time period of 4 years a total of 
23  serious  adverse  events  and  115  non  serious  adverse  events  have  been  reported.  The  figures 
represent  the  treatment  of  a  total  of  722  bleeding  episodes  and  88  non  bleeding  episodes  (230 
patients).  
Twenty  four  (21%)  of  the  events  were  related  to  the  body  system  as  a  whole.  The  majority  of  the 
events  were,  apart  from  two  cases  of  allergic  reactions,  fever  and  malaise  (all  of  mild  to  moderate 
severity). 
The two allergic reaction, reported in the same patients were considered probably related to the study 
drug. In 14 (12%) of the cases the events were related to the gastrointestinal system (12/114 nausea 
and vomiting).  
Skin and appendages were involved in 13% (14 events). 
Platelet, bleeding and clotting disorders were reported in 9% of the cases (10 events). 
For  the  non  serious  adverse  events,  9  events  were  probably  related  to  the  study  drug,  42  events 
possible related, 52 events unlikely related and 2 probably not related and 10 impossible to assess.  
There was no correlation between dose of factor VIIa and occurrence of non-serious adverse events. 
Two events resulting in death as the outcome were considered possible related to rFVIIa: one patient 
went  into  circulatory  shock  caused  by  a  gastrointestinal  bleeding  3 days  after  initiation  of  rFVIIa;A 
second other patient developed acute renal failure after treatment with rFVIIa for a surgical bleed and 
was retreated 8 days later for a minor surgical procedure still experiencing acute renal failure. Thirteen 
days  later  the  patient  aspirated  stomach  contents  and  died  1  day  later  (aspiration  pneumonia,  brain 
stem infarct and haemophilia). 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In  two  studies  laboratory  parameters  for  intravascular  coagulation  were  assessed  and  found  to  be 
normal. In one patient there was laboratory evidence of consumption coagulopathia. 
A  warning  on  the  possible  thrombogenic  potential  for  all  patients  treated  with  NovoSeven  was 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Antigenicity of rFVIIa 
In  three  clinical  trials  specific  antibody  formation  has  been  followed  in  a  total  of  137  patients  (119 
haemophilia A, 7 haemophilia B and 2 FVII deficient patients and 9 non-haemophiliacs with acquired 
inhibitors.  Four  patients  had  elevated  levels  in  the  FVII:Ab  assay  before  rFVIIa  treatment  (in  one 
patient  considered  to  be  falsely  positive,  in  three  other  patients  there  was  no  increased  response  in 
relation to treatment). In only 2 “FVII deficient patients” antibody formation was tested after treatment 
with rFVIIa. One of these two patients developed antibodies to rFVIIa after mistakenly receiving an 
overdose  of  rFVIIa.  A  total  of  72  patients  who  received  rFVIIa  in  three  clinical  trials  have  been 
followed for specific antibody formation. Human antibodies to FVIIa have not been detected, neither 
before  nor  after  treatment  with  rFVIIa.  Likewise,  no  antibody  formation  against  potential 
contaminants has been demonstrated. 
Overall comments on the clinical data 
In summary, the submitted data gave sufficient evidence that rFVIIa is effective and safe with regard 
to treatment of bleeding episodes in patients with factor VIII/IX inhibitors, as demonstrated by the fact 
that  in  the  largest  submitted  study  (IV  B  1.01-01)  including  61  haemophilia (A  and B)  patients, the 
overall efficacy rate was 84% for 57 serious bleeds treated and 59% for 38 surgical bleeds treated with 
rFVIIa.  
No development of antibodies against FVIIa in 72 patients tested was detected.  
Only 3 patients with haemophilia B inhibitors were treated with rFVIIa for serious bleeds or surgical 
procedures  (in  study  IV  B.  01.01):  effect  of  rFVIIa  in  these  patients  is  likely  from  the  apparent 
mechanism  of  action  of  rFVIIa.  However,  since  these  patients  are  extremely  rare  a  request  for 
significantly more patients seems not to be realistic. 
With respect to safety, the data of rFVIIa submitted so far suggest that the thrombogenic potential is 
low. 
Nevertheless rFVIIa may have the potential to induce disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in 
clinical situations with increased tissue factor in circulating blood (one patient did develop DIC and 
died).  
In  total,  two  cases  of  disseminated  intravascular  coagulation  (DIC)  have  been  described  that  were 
related to rFVIIa administration. Other thromboembolic events have not been associated with rFVIIa 
injections. 
With regard to the occurrence of viral infections, the risk of transmissions of viral infections is likely 
to be low. 
On the basis  of the  data provided,  all references to factor VII deficiency were deleted from the first 
submitted Summary of Product Characteristics. A warning on the possible thrombogenic potential for 
all patients treated with NovoSeven was included in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
After the granting of the Authorisation of NovoSeven the MAH submitted a variation application with 
the  results  of  an  open-label  phase  III  study  “to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  rFVIIa  when 
administered  in  the  home  to  control  joint,  muscle  and  mucocutaneous  bleeds  in  haemophiliacs  with 
inhibitors”.  The  company with data supporting submitted an expert  report that rFVIIa  is  a safe and 
effective  treatment  in  the  home  setting.    In  the  submitted  study  60  patients  with  inhibitors  to  FVIII 
(92%  had  haemophilia  A)  or  FIX  (although  not  all  patients  had  high  titer  inhibitors  at  the  time  of 
inclusion) were treated for mild or moderate bleeding episodes with NovoSeven at home under careful 
instructions by the haemophilia nurse. 
The  results  of  the  study  show  that  in  a  patient  group  with  mild  to  moderate  bleeding  episodes, 
NovoSeven given at home can achieve effective haemostasis in about 90% of bleeding episodes. Side 
effects are acceptable. The CPMP concluded that the greatest benefits of home therapy to the patients 
are savings in time lost due to earlier treatment of the bleeding episode. Due to the short half-life of 
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
the  product  the  approach  of  home  treatment  at  3  hour  intervals  offers  logistic  advantages  over  in 
hospital treatment.  With respect to home treatment a statement was added in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics  that  this  does  not  concern  serious  bleeding  episodes  and  that,  in  the  case  of  mild  or 
moderate bleeding episodes, administration of NovoSeven should only be done in close collaboration 
with a haemophilia centre where the patient is regularly followed up. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Although the clinical data submitted were limited, activated recombinant DNA coagulation factor VII 
(rFVIIa)  gave  evidence  to  be  effective  in  the  treatment  of  haemophilia  patients  with  inhibitors.  The 
efficacy data showed 84% good response in 57 surgical bleeds and 59% response in 38 surgical bleeds 
[compassionate need study (IV B. 1-01.01)] in 61 “bad risk” patients with inhibitors. In these patients 
alternative treatment would likely prove ineffective for coverage of surgery in cases where the patients 
experienced a life - or limb threatening bleed. With respect to safety, the data of rFVIIa submitted so 
far suggest that the thrombogenic potential is low. 
During  the  centralised  procedure,  questions  regarding  the  preclinical  issues  were  answered 
comprehensively so that no issues were left open. 
The CPMP considered that the procedures put in place by the company to ensure the viral safety of the 
finished  product  were  reassuring  and  that  it  is  very  unlikely  that  a  virus  contaminated  batch  of  the 
finished product will be released. 
Thus a favourable opinion for granting a marketing authorisation was issued on 23 February 1996. 
On  4  December  1997,  following  the  submission  of  a  variation  type  II,  the  Commission  granted  an 
amended  Marketing  authorisation  for  NovoSeven.  As  result  of  this  variation,  NovoSeven  can  be 
administered  to  patients  at  home  under  close  monitoring.  The  new  therapeutic  indication  granted  is 
treatment  of  bleeding  episodes  and  surgery  in  patients  with  inherited  or  acquired  haemophilia  with 
inhibitors  to coagulation factors (FVIII  or FIX) > 10 BU  or  in patients with antibody titer < 10 BU 
who are expected to have a high anamnestic response to factor VIII or factor IX.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  NovoSeven  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  bleeding  episodes  and 
prevention  of  excessive  bleeding  in  connection  with  surgery  in  patients  with  inherited  or  acquired 
haemophilia with inhibitors to coagulation factors (FVIII or FIX). 
6. 
Extension of the indication in patients with Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia with antibodies 
to  GP  IIb-  IIIa  and/or  HLA,  and  with  past  or  present  refractoriness  to  platelet 
transfusions. 
Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia (GT) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of platelet function. In most 
cases there is a quantitative deficiency of the GP IIb-IIIa receptor on the platelet. In a small number of 
patients the quantity of receptor is normal but it has an abnormal sequence and is ineffective. 
GP IIb-IIIa receptors bind fibrinogen and other adhesive proteins. In GT the platelets cannot aggregate 
and a defective platelet haemostatic plug is formed. Patients with GT present with purpura, a normal 
platelet count, a long bleeding time and abnormal platelet aggregation to ADP and associated agonists 
with normal ristocetin aggregation. 
NovoSeven is an activated factor VII molecule currently licensed for the treatment of haemophiliacs 
with antibodies to factor VIII and factor IX.  There is a good biological plausibility for this use, since 
factor VIIa is the product of the extrinsic pathway and can activate factor IX and factor X bypassing 
the need for factor VIII and generating thrombin thus forming a clot. 
All of these mechanisms are intact in patients with Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia, however it is 
postulated that a large bolus dose of factor VIIa generates a large amount of thrombin, which sets off a 
feedback loop activating the intrinsic pathway.  There is some animal evidence to suggest that 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacological doses of factor VIIa directly activate factor X on the surface of the platelets 
independent of tissue factor. A clear pharmacological rationale for the use of NovoSeven in this 
indication however is not available. 
Results of in vitro models support the haemostatic effect of rFVIIa in Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia. In 
a perfusion chamber model using reconstituted blood, platelets deficient in GP IIb/IIIa, extra-cellular 
matrix of stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells and collagen type III, it was found that 
rFVIIa increased thrombin generation and significantly increased adhesion of these defective platelets 
to the sub-endothelial structure.  
Upon vascular injury, platelets adhere to exposed sub-endothelium and become activated. 
Recombinant FVIIa binds to activate platelets and converts factor X to factor Xa (in vitro data). The 
ability of pharmacological doses of rFVIIa to increase thrombin generation locally at the site of 
vascular injury may compensate for the defects in platelets in patients with Glanzmann’s 
thrombasthenia via the formation and polymerisation of fibrin as well as the activation of factor XIII 
to factor XIIIa. 
Platelet transfusion is the current standard treatment of Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia when local 
measures or anti-fibrinolytic drugs fail to stop bleeding or during invasive/surgical bleeding. Potential 
complications of platelet transfusuions are allo-immunisation to HLA or GP IIb/IIIa, rendering future 
platelet transfusions ineffective, and the transmission of viral or bacterial infection. 
The clinical experience with the treatment of patients with Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia with rFVIIa 
is based on the data from a clinical trial, the International Registry on Recombinant Factor VIIa and 
Congenital Platelet Disorders, and published case reports. As the four patients in the clinical trial were 
also included in the International Registry as well as six out of 10 published case reports, there is 
considerable overlap in the discussion of the data.  
The inclusion criteria in the clinical trial did not comprise the existence of anti-GPIIb/IIIa and/or anti-
HLA antibodies, nor refractoriness to platelet transfusions. Only one of the four children in the clinical 
trial matched the requested therapeutic indication: this patient had anti-GPIIb/IIIa antibodies and was 
refractory to platelet transfusions. All 18, predominantly mucosal, bleeding episodes in this patient 
stopped, 13 within 24 hours after the first rFVIIa dose and three after 24 hours. In three episodes the 
time to stop the bleeding was not recorded but the treating physician recorded two of the three cases as 
a success. In two other patients the efficacy of rFVIIa cannot be evaluated. Both patients received only 
one dose of rFVIIa with a concomitant platelet transfusion. The fourth patient did not match the 
requested indication: in this patient a surgical procedure was carried out successfully under the cover 
of rFVIIa. No adverse events were reported in the clinical trial. 
In the International Registry 59 patients were treated with rFVIIa for 108 bleeding episodes and 34 
invasive/surgical procedures. Treatment with rFVIIa was successful (bleeding stopped and no 
recurrence) in 58% (7/12) of the GI bleeds, 67% (28/42) of the nosebleeds, and 72% (21/29) of the 
oropharyngeal bleeds. All 9 dental extractions were performed successfully. In the 7 evaluable cases 
of major surgery, success was recorded in 6 procedures. Fourteen of the 15 evaluable minor 
invasive/surgical procedures were performed successfully.  
In the account of efficacy of rFVIIa per type of bleeding episode or per type of invasive/surgical 
procedure, no discrimination has been made between episodes or procedures occurring in patients with 
or without anti-GPIIb/IIIa and/or anti-HLA antibodies and with or without refractoriness to platelets. 
Overall, of the 57 evaluable bleeds in patients with platelet antibodies or platelet refractoriness, 42 
were successfully treated (74%), 4 recurred (7%) and treatment failed in 11 (19%). Among the 40 
evaluable episodes in patients without platelet refractoriness and antibodies, 28 were successfully 
treated (70%), 3 recurred (7%) and treatment failed in 9 (23%). The CPMP requested that the efficacy 
data of the International Registry and the four independently published case reports should be 
analysed separately for patients with anti-GPIIb/IIIa and/or anti-HLA antibodies and platelet 
refractoriness. MAH has performed this additional analysis and the results have shown that the 
number of evaluable surgical/invasive procedures and bleeding episodes dropped considerably 
compared with the original application. The present re-analysis is based on 17 patients from the 
International Registry and two patients from independently published case reports. The data 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrate that rFVIIa was effective for bleeding prophylaxis in 18 (95%) of 19 evaluable (minor 
plus major) surgical procedures. rFVIIa was effective in stopping 28/40 (70%) of the evaluable 
bleeding episodes, which is similar as the efficacy in bleeding episodes recorded in the original report. 
Three recurrent bleedings (3/40, 8%) could be successfully treated with additional doses of rFVIIa 
(but in one case a concomitant platelet transfusion was given). 
From January 1995 to February 2003 there were 10 published case reports on the use of rFVIIa in 
Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia. Six case reports were included in the International Registry. Four cases 
were published independently. Among the 10 cases published, rFVIIa was used in 9 bleeding episodes 
and 5 invasive/surgical procedures. Haemostasis was achieved in 6 out of 9 bleeding episodes and in 
all 5 surgical/invasive procedures. Seven patients had platelet refractoriness or anti-platelet antibodies 
but it is not clear from the submitted data what the outcome of treatment with rFVIIa was in these 
patients.  
The CPMP requested additional data on safety and efficacy of the proposed dosage regimen.  
Based on published data on the use of rFVIIa in Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia, a “presumed optimal 
dosage regimen” was defined. The data on all bleeding episodes reported in the International Registry 
showed that the “optimal” regimen had a higher efficacy than other regimens. In the subgroup of 
patients with antibodies to GPIIb/IIIa and/or HLA and with platelet refractoriness, the number of 
evaluable bleeding episodes and surgical procedures is too small to compare the "presumed optimal 
regimen" with other dosage regimens. However, based on the demonstrated efficacy of the proposed 
regimen in the subgroup covered by the proposed therapeutic indication, the presently recommended 
dosage regimen seems acceptable. More insight in the efficacy of the proposed regimen could come 
from a post-marketing registry. 
The benefit – risk relation for expanding the indication for NovoSeven was considered favourable.  
The condition for granting this marketing authorisation is the commitment of the MAH to establish a 
post-marketing registry of the treatment of patients with Glanzmann’s thrombasthenia.  
In this registry the MAH should focus on the administered dosage regimens, efficacy and safety, 
especially the occurrence of thrombo-embolic complications in relation to the concomitant use of 
antifibrinolytics. Reporting from this post-marketing registry should be done every two years. 
7. 
Extension of the indication in patients with FVII deficiency 
Congenital FVII deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive condition which was first described in 1951.  
Around 100 cases have been reported worldwide. Several different genetic variations of FVII 
deficiency have been described including those with and without cross-reacting material. 
The bleeding pattern of FVII deficiency is very variable with some patients having a severe bleeding 
disorder mimicking haemophilia and including haemarthroses and others having mucocutaneous 
bleeding such as epistaxis, gastrointestinal bleeding and menorrhagia.  Some patients with severe FVII 
deficiency do not appear to have a serious bleeding disorder. Patients with FVII deficiency have a 
prolonged prothrombin time and normal partial thromboplastin time. 
Factor VII is coded on chromosome 13 and is a 406 amino acid vitamin K dependent glycoprotein 
produced in the liver. It is an initiator of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation and requires to complex 
with tissue factor to be activated, without the complex factor VII is not active. 
Tissue factor is produced from endothelial cells at the site of injury and not much FVII is required to 
saturate it locally.  In normal conditions about 1% of circulating FVII is activated to FVIIa. FVII has a 
short half-life of about 5.25 hrs. Large doses of FVIIa directly activate thrombin on the surface of the 
platelet and use a feedback mechanism to initiate the coagulation cascade. 
Acquired FVII deficiency usually develops as a defect of vitamin K dependent clotting factors VII, IX 
and X in patients with liver disease or those on oral anticoagulation. Very rarely single factor VII 
deficiency can be acquired. 
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The current treatment of FVII deficiency is fresh frozen plasma, prothrombin complex concentrates 
and sometimes purified FVII where this is available. 
The application was supported by pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data in a limited number of 
FVII deficient patients. The clinical experience is predominantly based on three compassionate use 
programmes and one emergency use program with data on 32 patients with FVII deficiency (some 
patients suffered from acquired FVII deficiency) who were treated in 28 different sites in 6 countries 
between 1988 and 1999. 
The limitations of such programmes are mainly inclusion of patients with acquired FVII deficiency, 
sparse details on the bleeding episodes, inconsistencies in the recording of data, variable dose 
regimens, limitations in the recording of concomitant medication, emphasis on the monitoring of 
efficacy and possible underreporting of (minor) adverse events.  
At initiation of the compassionate/emergency use programmes, very limited experience was available 
on the treatment of patients with congenital FVII deficiency. Dosing was therefore individualised and 
based on the clinical assessment of the patient’s status. Subsequently, patients with FVII deficiency 
were recommended to be treated with rFVIIa at a dose of 15-30 µg/kg every 4-6 hours until 
haemostasis was achieved. This recommendation was based on a pharmacodynamic study in two 
patients and a study of two patients who underwent surgery . Retrospective analysis of the extent of 
exposure to rFVIIa in the compassionate/emergency use programmes demonstrated that in the 
majority of patients the recommended dose regimen was followed: the median rFVIIa dose per 
injection was within the recommended dose range and the median number of injections per day 
administered was four consistent with the recommendation on posology. However, smaller and greater 
doses were used with effective outcome. It can be concluded that the data collected in the 
compassionate/emergency use program support the proposed dose range. However, the administration 
of rFVIIa must always be supervised by an experienced clinician and guided by individualised factors 
like the severity of the bleeding condition, the clinical efficacy and the level of FVII:C activity in the 
plasma of the patient. 
There were two main concerns regarding the present application, the first one is the formation of 
inhibitory antibodies to FVIIa after the administration of rFVIIa in patients with congenital FVII 
deficiency. Three cases of antibody formation were reported with inhibitory antibodies in two of them. 
In one patient the antibody formation may have been caused by an accidental overdose of rFVIIa. The 
antibody formation was transient in a second patient. The CPMP is of the opinion that data on 
substitution therapy in FVII deficient patients are too scarce to draw any conclusions regarding the 
risk for antibody formation with a clinical consequence.  
The second concern was the occurrence of thrombo-embolic complications, especially in patients 
predisposed to thrombotic events. These complications were not reported in the 
compassionate/emergency use program or in the literature but were reported during post-marketing 
experience in 3 patients. Therefore, the MAH will continue to closely monitor and review adverse 
events, especially thrombo-embolic complications and the development of antibodies, in patients with 
congenital FVII deficiency who are treated with rFVIIa. 
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
