SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Novomix. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 September 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Diabetes is a group of metabolic disorders characterised by hyperglycaemia due to defects in insulin 
secretion and/or insulin action. The two most common forms of diabetes mellitus are type 1 and type 2 
diabetes. Type 1 diabetes is characterised by an absolute deficiency of insulin due to destruction of the 
pancreatic β-cells. Although the rate of β-cell destruction is variable, all type I diabetic patients will 
eventually need exogenous insulin for survival. In contrast, type 2 diabetes is characterised by insulin 
resistance,  relative  impairment  of  insulin  secretion  and  increased  hepatic  glucose  output.  In  general, 
patients with type 2 diabetes do not require exogenous insulin for survival. Nevertheless, during the 
course  of  the  disease,  a  large  minority  of  these  patients  will  be  treated  with  exogenous  insulin  to 
correct persistent hyperglycaemia. 
The  goal  of  insulin  treatment  is  to  mimic  the  physiologic  pattern  of  insulin  secretion,  which  under 
normal conditions consist of a basal secretion and meal related short peaks. Especially in patients with 
significant residual endogenous insulin production, insulin requirements may be acceptably provided 
by  a  premixed  insulin  formulation  containing  both  soluble  and  intermediate  acting  insulin,  usually 
given twice daily.  
Although this regimen does not offer optimal glycaemic control, patient compliance may be better for 
this simpler regimen than for the multiple injections regimens.  
This  application  seeks  marketing  authorisation  for  biphasic  insulin  aspart  30  (BIAsp  30),  which 
contains 30% soluble insulin aspart (IAsp) and 70% insulin aspart protamine crystals. Insulin aspart is 
a  human  insulin  analogue  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology,  which  differs  from  human 
insulin in that proline in position B 28 of the insulin B-chain is replaced by aspartic acid. A soluble 
formulation  of  IAsp  (NovoRapid)  was  authorised  under  the  centralised  procedure  on  7  September 
1999. 
BIAsp 30 has been developed to provide diabetic patients with the convenience of a premixed insulin 
which can be administered immediately before a meal or soon after a meal. The soluble fraction exerts 
rapid absorption reaching high insulin plasma concentrations after administration while the protamine 
bound  fraction  of  IAsp  has  retarded  absorption  and  provides  the  patient  with  a  low  insulin  release 
during the day. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The composition of NovoMix 30 is listed below. 
Insulin aspart 
Mannitol 
Phenol 
Metacresol 
Zinc (as chloride) 
Sodium chloride 
Disodium phosphate 
dihydrate 
Protamine sulphate 
Sodium hydroxide  
Hydrochloric acid  
Water for injections 
1/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NovoMix  30  is  presented  in  cartridges  (NovoMix  30  Penfill)  and  in  multidose  disposable  pre-filled 
syringes (NovoMix 30 NovoLet and FlexPen). 
Active substance 
The INN name of the active substance is insulin aspart.  
Development genetics 
Insulin aspart is produced from a protein, which is expressed by a gene incorporated into a plasmid. 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae is used as host strain. The production and characterisation of the production 
strain have been adequately described. 
Cell bank system 
The  cell  bank  system  consists  of  an  Initial  Cell  Culture  (ICC),  a  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  a 
Working Cell Bank (WCB). The preparation and storage of the cell bank system has been adequately 
described.  
Production of active substance 
The production of the active substance via two intermediate products has been adequately described. It 
involves the following process steps: propagation, fermentation, recovery and purification. 
The  applicant  has  developed  a  new  process  (NN2000)  for  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance 
employing a changed expression system of the same host organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae as used 
with  an  optimised  recovery  and  purification  steps.  The  new  clone,  YAK1214,  and  the  currently 
approved yJB155 cell clone have been established from the same parental cell line, but using different 
expression vector constructs. 
The current process will be replaced by the new process (NN2000). 
Specification 
An acceptable active substance specification has been proposed. 
The analytical methods have been described and sufficiently validated. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients comply with Ph.Eur. specifications apart from metacresol which is USP standard .  
Product development and finished product 
Development pharmaceutics 
A  comprehensive  development  pharmaceutics  section  has  been  presented  in  which  the  choice  of 
composition  for  a  neutral  premixed  formulation  of  30%  soluble  insulin  and  70%  protamine-
crystallised  insulin  aspart  is  justified.  Novo  Nordisk  has  concentrated  on  excipients,  which  are  well 
known and are currently used in their human insulin product range marketed in the EU. 
The rationale for the manufacturing process has also been comprehensively discussed.   
Studies have been presented showing that the NovoLet and FlexPen pen injector fulfils the dose 
accuracy tolerance limits defined in ISO/DIS 11608 “Pen-injectors for medical use - Part I: 
Requirements and test methods”. 
The  product  should  be  stored  at  2-8  °C  to  prevent  degradation  during  long  term  storage  and  is  also 
shown sensitive to light and freezing. 
GMP inspection status 
There  were  no  major  issues  relating  to  manufacture  of  the  finished  product,  therefore  a  product 
specific  inspection  was  not  considered  to  be  necessary  by  the  CHMP.  An  inspection  of  the  active 
substance  manufacturing  site  was  also  not  considered  to  be  necessary.  Batch  release  for  all  EU 
member states is performed by Novo Nordisk A/S, Novo Allé, DK-2880 Bagsværd and Novo Nordisk 
Pharmaceutique S.A. F-28002 Chartres France. 
2/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing facilities 
The active substance is manufactured by Novo Nordisk A/S. The site of manufacture is:  
• 
Hallas Allé, 4400 Kalundborg, Denmark.  
Manufacture of the finished dosage form takes place at the production sites: 
• 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Novo Allé, 2800 Bagsvaerd, Denmark 
Assembly of pre-filled syringes takes place in:  
• 
• 
• 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Hallas Allé, 4400 Kalundborg, Denmark 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Brennung Park, 3400 Hilleroed, Denmark 
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceutique S.A., 45, Avenue d’Orléans, F-28002 Chartres, France. 
Validation of the process 
Process validation for NovoMix 30 is mainly based on the applicant’s experience with their existing 
biphasic human insulin product range. The batch size, formulation, preparation steps and processing 
limits are identical for Penfill, NovoLet and FlexPen NovoMix 30 products. 
Finished product stability 
Testing has been carried out in accordance with the finished product specification. 
Overall it may be concluded that a shelf-life at 2-8°C, as indicated in the SPC, is acceptable. 
TSE risk assessment 
No animal derived raw materials have been used directly in the production of the active substance or 
the finished product. The requirements of EMEA/410/01 are met. 
Virus risk assessment 
The risk of transmission of viruses is negligible as no primary animal or human sourced materials have 
been used in the preparation of either active substance or finished product. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of the product has in all essential parts been acceptably documented. The requirements of 
the relevant directives and guidelines are met. The pharmaceutical portions of the SPC, package insert 
and product labels are supported by the information provided in the dossier. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
NovoMix  30  comprises  only  one  pharmacodynamically  active  substance,  insulin  aspart,  which  has 
already  been  approved  under  the  centralised  procedure  (NovoRapid),  and  the  known  substance 
protamine,  already  widely  used  to  modify  the  release  characteristics  of  insulins.  Therefore,  the 
the  pharmacodynamic  and 
preclinical  evaluation  has  been  concentrated  on  confirming 
pharmacokinetic properties of BIAsp 30, and on studies of its local and systemic toxicity. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Several studies have been done in animals, especially the pig, because subcutaneous injection in that 
species provides an adequate model for man. As anticipated from its known actions, BIAsp 30 resulted 
in a glucose lowering effect upon subcutaneous injection in the pig. The effect occurred more rapidly 
than  after  injection  of  biphasic  human  insulin  (BHI).  The  presence  of  the  insulin-aspart-protamine 
complex prolonged the glucose lowering effect.  
It can be concluded that BIAsp 30 has the intended altered release characteristics when administered 
subcutaneously, as shown by the onset and time course of its glucose lowering effect. 
No formal investigation of the receptor binding and other specific pharmacodynamic actions of BIAsp 
30 were performed because those properties have already been well proven for IAsp. 
3/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Various  studies  based  on  assay  of  plasma  levels  of  insulin  released  from  subcutaneous  injections of 
BIAsp 30 and IAsp in the pig were performed. Release from the injection site has been demonstrated 
by  following  the  disappearance  of  radioactivity  with  an  external  gamma  counter  after  subcutaneous 
administration  of  125I-tyrosine  labelled  insulin  aspart.  The  specific  biological  activity  of  the  radio-
labelled insulin aspart was proven by showing its glucose lowering effect. 
A single dose pharmacokinetic study in rats was conducted. Measured parameters, Cmax, AUC, MRT, t 
1/2 and tmax suggested linear pharmacokinetics.  
The disposition, metabolism and excretion of BIAsp 30 have not been examined because those aspects 
of insulin aspart are already known and protamine is a long-established component of NPH insulin in 
clinical use. 
Toxicity testing 
The studies have been limited to systemic single dose and local toxicity of BIAsp 30 in view of the 
information already available about its separate components and the programme of completed toxicity 
tests on IAsp. 
A  study  in  rats  using  aged  and  fresh  preparations  of  BIAsp  30  was  conducted  and  showed  results 
comparable to existing insulin preparations.  
Local tolerance 
Several  different  formulations  of  insulin  aspart-protamine  were  tested  in  pigs  in  comparison  with 
marketed preparations (Protaphane HM, Pen Mix 30 HM).  
Immunogenicity 
The  immunogenicity  of  fresh  and  aged  BIaAsp  30  was  examined  in  comparison  to  other  insulins, 
whose immunogenic properties have been established over years of manufacture and supply. 
The results showed: 
• 
• 
• 
no difference in immunogenicity between fresh and aged BIAsp 30. 
no  difference  in  immunogenicity  between  fresh  BIAsp  30  and  either  Protaphane  MC  or 
Ultralente Insulin. 
Protaphane MC resulted in lower antibody levels than the aged BIAsp 30. 
The  studies  show  that  the  immunogenicity  of  BIAsp  30  lies  within  the  range  of  that  of  marketed 
preparations of porcine and bovine insulin. 
Other toxicity tests 
No  other  formal  tests  have  been  done.  The  lack  of  repeated  dose  studies,  genotoxicity  testing, 
carcinogenicity and reproduction tests, or further pharmacokinetic investigations is justified by the fact 
that insulin  aspart has already been approved as a human medicine, and because protamine sulphate 
has been safely used for many years in preparations of biphasic insulins for human use. 
Overall conclusion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  pharmacology  and  toxicology  of  the  active  ingredient,  insulin  aspart,  has  already  been 
characterized.  There  are  no  new  issues  related  to  the  active  component  per  se  or  to  the  components 
included  except  those  that  can  be  derived  from  the  change  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile.  Relevant 
aspects of the pharmacological profile have been discussed in the assessment for IAsp (NovoRapid).  
Additional  studies  showed  that  the  glucose-lowering  effects  were,  as  expected,  more  rapid  and 
pronounced with increasing admixture of soluble insulin aspart.  
The results and conclusions from previous toxicity studies may also be considered valid for the present 
formulation.  Additional  pharmacokinetic  studies  using  single-dose  administration  were  in  line  with 
that  plasma  levels  with  the  new  formulation  were  covered  in  a  52-week  rat  toxicity  study  of  IAsp. 
4/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus, the dose and exposure in previous studies also seems to cover the present change in formulation 
and the more sustained pharmacokinetic profile.  
Immunogenicity  of  fresh  and  aged  BiAsp,  tested  in  rabbits,  indicated  that  the  compound  had 
comparable immunogenic potential with respect to bovine and porcine insulin.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  BIAsp  30,  which  has  been  studied  in  healthy  volunteers  using  a 
euglycaemic clamp model and in patients with type 2 diabetes, is characterised by a more rapid onset 
of  action  following  subcutaneous  injection,  compared  with  biphasic  human  insulin  30  (BHI  30). 
Furthermore, a more intense glucose lowering effect during the first six hours after injection could be 
observed. Some effect of BIAsp 30 remained after 24 hours, but the glucose lowering effect of BIAsp 
30 was less than that of BHI 30 during the later part of the 24-hour period of study. In type 2 diabetics, 
dosed  with  BIAsp  30  or  BHI  30  immediately  before  breakfast  and  dinner,  BIAsp  30  had  a  quicker 
onset of action, resulting in enhanced prandial control around those meals when the insulin was given, 
but resulted in inferior lunchtime control. 
Pharmacokinetics 
With  regard  to  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  BIAsp  30,  the  soluble  part  of  BIAsp  30  is  rapidly 
absorbed and reaches maximum concentration about 60 minutes after dose in healthy volunteers and at 
about  95  minutes  in  type  2  diabetic  patients.  The  absorption  is  significantly  faster  than  that  of  the 
soluble part of biphasic human insulin (BHI 30). Both Cmax and AUC reflecting the soluble part of the 
dose (AUC0-90min in healthy volunteers and AUC0-2h in patients) were higher for BIAsp 30 than for BHI 
30. Judged by the terminal half-life (t½) and area under the insulin concentration curve from 6 to 24 
hours (AUC6-24h), the absorption rate and bioavailability of the protamine bound fraction of BIAsp 30 
were  similar  to  those  of  BHI  30.  Thus,  there  is  a  difference  in  pharmacokinetic  profile  between  the 
soluble part of BIAsp 30 and BHI 30 while the pharmacokinetics of the protracted part of BIAsp 30 
and BHI 30 is similar. There was no difference in bioavailability between BIAsp 30 and BHI 30. In 
one study in type 2 diabetic patients receiving administration immediately before breakfast and dinner, 
the insulin profile appears improved after breakfast and dinner but not after lunch where insulin levels 
were  slightly  lower  for  BIAsp  30  compared  with  BHI  30.  Terminal  half-life  was  similar  in  healthy 
subjects  and  type  2  diabetic  patients.  The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  the  soluble  fraction  of 
BIAsp 30 are similar to those previously observed for IAsp. 
The  effect  of  various  injection  sites  on  the  absorption  of  BIAsp  30  has  not  been  investigated  and  a 
corresponding statement has been included in the SPC. 
Pharmacokinetics of BIAsp 30 have been studied in type 2 diabetic patients, but not in type 1 diabetic 
patients. However, IAsp showed similar pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers and Type 1 diabetic 
patients, and no differences between these populations are expected for BIAsp 30.  
Special populations 
The effect of hepatic function, renal function, age, gender and race was not studied.  
In conclusion, the pharmacokinetic data suggest that the soluble phase of BIAsp 30 is absorbed faster 
than the soluble phase of conventional BHI 30 while the absorption of the protamine bound phase is 
similar to that of conventional BHI 30. Compared with BHI 30, the insulin profile appears improved 
after breakfast and dinner but not after lunch.  
Clinical efficacy 
Only one confirmatory trial (038/D,UK) was presented in the application. This was a 12-week, open-
label, active-controlled, randomised, parallel-group, multicentre, multinational trial, which is currently 
ongoing  as  a  21-month  extension  trial  (067/D,UK).  BIAsp  30  and  BHI  30  were  injected 
subcutaneously  twice  daily  (before  breakfast  and  dinner).  BHI  30  was  recommended  to  be  injected 
5/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 minutes before meals, while BIAsp 30 was recommended to be injected within 10 minutes before 
meals.  The  study  randomised  294  patients  (BIAsp  30,  n=143;  BHI  30,  n=151).  Of  these,  291  were 
exposed  to  study  drug.  The  ITT-population  (defined  as  exposed  patients  with  any  efficacy  data) 
numbered  279  (BIAsp  30,  n=134;  BHI  30,  n=145).  In  excess  of  90%  of  patients  in  both  treatment 
arms completed more than 8 weeks on study drug. The PP population comprised 260 patients (BIAsp 
30, n=124, BHI 30, n=136). Enrolled patients had a mean age of 55-58 years and a mean duration of 
diabetes of 15 years. Type 2 diabetes was present in 61-68% of patients in the two treatment groups. 
Metabolic control at baseline was very similar between groups (mean HbA1c 8.2%). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was HbA1c after 12 weeks of treatment. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were derived from 8-point BG profiles after 12 weeks of treatment and 
included: 
(cid:190)  prandial BG increment; defined as the mean difference between the BG value 90 minutes after 
the meal and the BG value just before the meal, over the three meals, 
(cid:190)  BG range; defined as the range of the 8 BG values (minimum-maximum) for each subject, 
(cid:190)  average of the 8 BG values for each subject. 
The total daily dose of biphasic insulin was also evaluated. 
Both  for  the  ITT  population  and  the  PP  population,  protocol-specified  non-inferiority  was 
demonstrated.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  response  according  to  type  of 
diabetes. Average blood glucose (mean of 8-point profiles) was similar between treatments, supporting 
the  similarity  of  overall  control  indicated  by  HbA1c.  In  both  treatment  arms,  there  was  slight 
improvement in average metabolic control during the study period. 
In correspondence with the findings in the pharmacodynamic trials, blood glucose control was better 
with BIAsp 30 after breakfast and dinner. Mean prandial blood glucose increments (average over three 
meals) at study endpoint were significantly lower on BIAsp 30. The blood glucose control, as assessed 
by 8-point profiles, was superior with BIAsp 30 compared to BHI 30 after breakfast and dinner. In this 
3-month  study,  lunch  time  control  did  not  differ  significantly  between  treatments,  in  contrast  to  the 
findings  in  the  smaller  2-week  pharmacodynamics  study  described  in  the  section  Clinical 
Pharmacology. There was a trend to higher fasting blood glucose with BIAsp 30, compared with BHI 
30. 
In both study groups, the mean daily insulin dose increased somewhat during the study. At endpoint, 
the mean dose of biphasic insulin was statistically significantly higher in the BIAsp 30 treatment arm. 
The absolute difference was small, however, and clinically hardly relevant (0.03 IU/kg for total daily 
dose).  Insulin  antibodies  were  evaluated  (see  section  “Clinical  safety”),  but  did  not  correlate  with 
insulin dose or metabolic control, when evaluated at 12 weeks of therapy. 
Clinical safety 
Hypoglycaemia 
The overall incidences of hypoglycaemic episodes were similar between treatment groups. As would 
be  expected,  hypoglycaemia  was  more  common  in  type  1  than  in  type  2  patients.  There  were  no 
differences between treatment groups regarding the incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes over time on 
therapy. 
Antibodies 
The evaluation of the current application disclosed increased cross-reactive anti-insulin antibodies, the 
titres of which levelled off and decreased after the first 3-6 months of therapy, and which could not be 
correlated  with  insulin  dose  requirements  or  metabolic  control.  Long-term  extension  data  from  52 
weeks showed antibody levels that were still significantly increased with BIAsp 30, as compared with 
BHI 30. The relationship between titres of cross-reactive antibodies and long-term efficacy and safety 
of IAsp 30 will be reported post-marketing. 
Other adverse events 
No specific events with likely relationship to study drug were noted. 
6/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions on clinical efficacy and safety 
Confirmatory clinical experience is limited to one 12-week trial, enrolling a mixed population of type 
1  and  type  2  diabetic  patients.  BIAsp  30,  given  immediately  before  breakfast  and  dinner  was 
compared with BHI 30, recommended to be given 30 minutes before meals. Both insulins resulted in 
very  similar  overall  metabolic  control  at  study  endpoint  and  non-inferiority  of  BIAsp  30  to  BHI  30 
was  demonstrated  according  to  acceptable  criteria.  This  conclusion  remained  after  adjustment  for  a 
small,  but  statistically  significant  increase  in  total  daily  insulin  dose  seen  in  the  BIAsp  30  group. 
Eight-point  blood  glucose  profiles  indicated  improved  mean  prandial  control  with  BIAsp  30  after 
breakfast and dinner.  
In  the  confirmatory  trial,  the  overall  incidences  of  hypoglycaemic  episodes  were  similar  between 
treatment groups. As would be expected, hypoglycaemia was more common in type 1 than in type 2 
patients.  There  were  no  differences  between  treatment  groups  regarding  the  incidence  of  major 
nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes or regarding the incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes over time on 
therapy. 
As was seen with IAsp (NovoRapid), BIAsp 30 was associated with increased titres of cross-reactive 
anti-insulin  antibodies  during  the  12-week  study  period.  Antibodies  could  not  be  correlated  with 
metabolic  control  or  insulin  doses.  BIAsp  30  was  not  associated  with  increased  rates  of  allergic  or 
injection site reactions, compared with BHI 30. Long-term data on the relationship between antibody 
titres and efficacy and safety of IAsp 30 will be reported post-marketing. 
5. 
Overall conclusions on quality, efficacy and safety and benefit/risk assessment 
The quality of the product has in all essential parts been acceptably documented. 
The  pharmacology  and  toxicology  of  the  active  ingredient,  insulin  aspart,  has  already  been 
characterised.  There  are  no  new  issues  related  to  the  active  component  per  se  or  to  the  components 
included, except those that can  be  derived from the change in the pharmacokinetic profile. Relevant 
aspects of the pharmacological profile have been discussed in the assessment for NovoRapid.  
With regard to the clinical documentation, it was concluded that the activity profile of BIAsp 30 has 
been  acceptably  documented.  Compared  with  BHI  30,  BIAsp  30  has  a  quicker  onset  of  action, 
resulting  in  improved  prandial  control  around  those  meals  when  the  insulin  is  given.  Dosing 
immediately  before  meals  appears  adequate  and  may  be  an  advantage.  In  a  twice-daily  insulin 
regimen, extra insulin or a redistribution of calorie intake may in some cases be needed to provide for 
lunchtime control. The overall balance of benefit and disadvantage resulting from this can be assessed 
only in the individual patient. 
Confirmatory clinical experience is relatively short term. An extension trial is ongoing and 12 months 
data from this extension should be reported as a post approval commitment. 
The  studies  with  BIAsp  30  did  not  give  rise  to  any  unexpected  safety  findings.  The  incidence  of 
hypoglycaemic  events  was  similar  to  that  found  for  BHI  30  As  for  IAsp,  increased  titres  of  cross-
reactive antibodies were noted during the early phases of therapy and remained to some extent after  
12  months.  Although  there  is  reasonable  reassurance  that  this  will  not  be  a  clinically  important 
problem,  long-term  data  (24-month  data)  from  the  ongoing  extension  trial  should  be  reported  post 
marketing.  
7/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Post marketing experience 
Updating the Undesirable effects sections in labelling. 
Sections “Undesirable effects” in the SPC and ”Possible side effects” in the package leaflets have been 
revised and updated with the frequencies of adverse drug reactions from clinical trials as requested by 
CHMP.  Diabetic  retinopathy  and  painful  neuropathy  have  been  included  as  ADRs.  Diabetic 
retinopathy  and  painful  neuropathy  are  normal  complications  of  diabetes  mellitus  and  not  related  to 
insulin treatment. However, intensification of insulin therapy with abrupt improvement in glycaemic 
control may be associated with worsening of diabetic retinopathy and temporary painful neuropathy. 
Readability 
Readability test have been performed on package leaflets of the Novo Nordisk insulin products and the 
results  applied  to  the  NovoMix  30  package  leaflets.  Based  on  the  results  from  the  readability  tests 
CHMP has accepted to include an extra heading (“What to do in an emergency”) and a revised format 
for headings as compared to the QRD template. 
Combination use with metformin 
The combination use of NovoMix 30 and metformin has been studied in multi-centre trials, showing 
an additional effect of NovoMix 30, given b.i.d. or q.d on glycaemic control in patients with type 2 
diabetes on insufficient or failing metformin monotherapy. 
 Benefit/risk assessment 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of NovoMix 30 is favourable in the treatment of patients with 
diabetes mellitus. 
8/8  
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
