Summary of risk management plan for turoctocog 
alfa  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for NovoEight. The RMP 
details important risks of NovoEight, how these risks can be minimised and 
how more information will be obtained about NovoEight’s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
NovoEight’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on 
how NovoEight should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for NovoEight should be read in the context of all 
this information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European public assessment 
report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of NovoEight’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for  
NovoEight is authorised for treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 
with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency; see the SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains turoctocog alfa as the active substance and is given by 
the intravenous route.  
Further information about the evaluation of NovoEight’s benefits can be found 
in NovoEight’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage link 
to the EPAR summary landing page: EPAR link. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of NovoEight, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about NovoEight’s risks, are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be as 
follows: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct 
use, in the package leaflet and the SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals 
  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly 
  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the public 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help minimises its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A  List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of NovoEight are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of NovoEight. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on 
the long-term use of the medicine). An overview of important risks and 
missing information for NovoEight is provided in the table below. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Inhibitor development 
 
  Allergic/hypersensitivity 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  None 
  None 
reactions 
II.B  Summary of important risks  
An overview of important risks for NovoEight is provided in the table below. No 
risks are considered to be important potential risks and no information is 
considered missing. 
Important identified risks 
Inhibitor development  
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
The formation of neutralising antibodies (inhibitors) to FVIII is a 
known complication in the management of individuals with 
haemophilia A. In marketed products, the development of 
inhibitors (neutralising antibodies) to FVIII has a cumulative 
incidence of approximately 30−40% and they have mainly been 
observed in PUP. Inhibitor development is also observed in PUP 
during Novo Nordisk-sponsored clinical trials with turoctocog 
alfa.  
The risk of inhibitor development is highest in PUP. In PUP, the 
risk of developing inhibitors is highest within the first 50 
exposure days.  
Several patient-related factors have been associated with the 
risk of developing inhibitors, such as FVIII gene mutation, other 
genetic factors, family history of inhibitors and ethnicity. 
Non-genetic risk factors include surgery and intensive 
treatment. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine risk communication: The identified risk of developing 
inhibitors to FVIII will be addressed in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC and Section 4 of the PL. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: Recommendation for 
careful monitoring by appropriate clinical observations and 
laboratory tests is included in the SmPC Section 4.4 and PL 
Section 2. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: None. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: None.  
Allergic/hypersensitivity reactions 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Proteins administered intravenously present a potential risk for 
allergic reactions. Immune reactions to protein drugs can range 
from being mild to severe life-threatening allergic reactions. 
Few events of allergic/hypersensitivity reaction were observed 
in Novo Nordisk-sponsored clinical trials with turoctocog alfa. 
Patients with a history of allergic reactions or with known 
hypersensitivity to the active substance, to Chinese hamster 
proteins or to excipients are at higher risk. The risk of 
allergic/hypersensitivity reactions is expected to be higher with 
the initial administrations than with subsequent 
administrations. 
 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine risk communication: 
The identified risk of allergic/hypersensitivity reactions will 
be addressed in Section 4.8 of the SmPC and Section 4 of 
the PL.  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or excipients and 
known allergy to hamster protein are listed as 
contraindication in Section 4.3 of the SmPC and Section 2 of 
the PL. 
Risk minimisation activities in the Product Information 
beyond routine risk communication: 
Information on how to detect early signs of 
allergic/hypersensitivity reactions is included in the SmPC 
Section 4.4 and Section 2 of the PL. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: 
None. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: None.  
Abbreviations: FVIII = factor VIII; PL = package leaflet; PUP = previously untreated 
patients; rFVIII = recombinant factor VIII; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or 
specific obligation of NovoEight. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
There are no studies required for NovoEight. 
 
 
 
