28 March 2019 
EMA/462252/2019  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
NovoEight  
turoctocog alfa 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002719/P46/008 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 14 
  Fulfilled: ................................................................................................................ 15 
3. Additional clarification requested .......................................................... 15 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the development program
 .................................................................................................................. 16 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 4th January 2019, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study, in accordance with Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
NovoEight (Turoctocog alfa) is a third generation recombinant coagulation factor VIII (rFVIII) product.  In 
the European Union (EU), NovoEight was approved by the European medicines agency (EMA) on 13 
November 2013 for treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital 
factor VIII deficiency). Turoctocog alfa can be used for all age groups. 
The clinical trial NN7008-3809 is part of the Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP), decision number 
EMEA-000428-PIP-01-08-MO3. The PIP consists of 4 paediatric trials, where NN7008-3908 is the last trial 
to be completed. An overview of the paediatric trials for NovoEight PIP is provided in the annexed line 
listings. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Turoctocog alfa is a B-domain truncated recombinant human coagulation factor VIII without any other 
modifications in the amino acid sequence. It is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese 
hamster ovary cells, and prepared without the addition of any human or animal derived protein in the cell 
culture process, purification or final formulation. It was supplied as a sterile, freeze-dried powder in 
single-use vials of 250 IU/vial and 2000 IU/vial each to be reconstituted with 4.3 mL 0.9% sodium 
chloride for injection. After reconstitution, each 250 IU vial contained 62.5 IU/mL of turoctocog alfa and 
each 2000 IU vial contained 500 IU/mL of turoctocog alfa. The reconstituted solution was colourless, 
almost clear with a pH of 6.9 and was not to be further diluted.  
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for study NN7008-3809, a Phase 3a trial evaluating the safety and 
efficacy of the B-domain truncated rFVIII in the prevention and treatment of bleeding episodes in 
paediatric previously untreated patients (PUPs) with severe Haemophilia A without inhibitors. The study 
was given the title “guardian 4”.  
Initiation date of this study was 17 September 2012 and primary completion date 16 August 2017. Global 
completion date defined as actual last patient last visit (LPLV) was 27 June 2018, however, 3 patients are 
on ITI and continue treatment under Protocol exception criteria (criteria: patients with inhibitor will be 
allowed to receive inhibitor treatment for up to 24 months). Data about these 3 patients are to be 
submitted separately as an addendum to the final report after trial completion which was expected for 
December 2018. It was noted that this procedure has been agreed with the EMA. 
Clinical study NN7008-3809 (Guardian 4) 
Safety and efficacy of turoctocog alfa in prevention and treatment of bleeds in paediatric previously 
untreated patients with Haemophilia A  
Description 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objective:  
To evaluate safety of turoctocog alfa in paediatric previously untreated patients with haemophilia A 
Secondary objectives: 
- To evaluate efficacy and safety of turoctocog alfa in treatment of bleeds in paediatric PUP with 
haemophilia A 
- To evaluate preventive effect of turoctocog alfa on bleeds in paediatric PUP with haemophilia A 
- To evaluate patient reported outcomes (PRO) impact of turoctocog alfa treatment 
- To evaluate the health economic (HE) impact of turoctocog alfa treatment 
Study design 
Guardian 4 was a multi-centre, multi-national, non-randomised, open-label, safety and efficacy trial in a 
male paediatric population of PUPs (<6 years of age) with severe haemophilia A (FVIII level ≤1%). There 
was only one treatment arm and no comparator. 
The trial consisted of two phases: the main phase including the screening and 4 subsequent visits, and an 
extension phase with a rolling visit schedule consisting of 6 planned visits (including 4 dispensing visits) 
 
 
per year. Each patient was to receive turoctocog alfa doses of 15−60 IU/kg body weight (BW) 
administered as an i.v. injection for the prevention of bleeding (treatment regimens are outlined below). 
Patients who enrolled into the trial could postpone initiation of preventive treatment until a maximum of 
two treatment requiring bleeding episodes have occurred, or until the patient’s second birthday. The 
investigator decided what dose of turoctocog alfa to give based on the child’s clinical profile. It was 
recommended to have at least one day between each turoctocog alfa preventive dose. Patients waiting to 
start a preventive regimen were treated on demand for bleeds as they occurred. Patients were allowed to 
undergo minor or major surgical procedures during the trial. Upon completion of the surgery the patient 
could resume preventive treatment as before the surgery. 
In the event that a patient developed inhibitors during the trial he could continue treatment with 
turoctocog alfa and follow an alternative visit schedule. These patients were considered as a separate 
‘inhibitor’ cohort and evaluated accordingly. They were offered continued treatment with turoctocog alfa 
for up to 24 months. Treatment during the inhibitor cohort included Immune Tolerance Induction (ITI) as 
well as smaller dose adjustments in cases of clinically insignificant inhibitors. Upon entering the cohort, 
inhibitor patients could hold off from starting ITI treatment and be in a pre-ITI period, where they could 
either receive prophylaxis treatment with turoctocog alfa or no prophylactic treatment at all; similarly, at 
completion of ITI treatment the investigator could choose to keep the patient in a post-ITI period before 
allowing the patient to complete the cohort and enter the following study phase.  
Inhibitor treatment refers to the ITI part of the inhibitor cohort. In the event that the inhibitor 
disappeared (<0.6 Bethesda units [BU]) during inhibitor cohort, the patient could continue in the 
extension phase at a time point decided by the investigator, and resume/start preventive treatment as 
recommended in the protocol. However, patients with inhibitors that persisted beyond 24 months of 
‘inhibitor treatment’ or patients with a decrease less than < 20% from peak level inhibitor within the first 
12 months of ‘inhibitor treatment' were to be withdrawn from the trial. In addition, the patients who were 
not started on ITI treatment within 6 months from the date of confirmation of positive FVIII inhibitor were 
also to be withdrawn from the trial. 
An interim analysis (safety interim analysis) was performed to assess the incidence of inhibitors when the 
first 25 patients had performed visit 4 (20−25 ED), or had developed an inhibitor before visit 4. The data 
cut-off date for this analysis was 24 June 2015. Another interim analysis was performed upon completion 
of the main phase of the trial i.e. when an aggregated number of ≥50 patients had either received 
treatment with turoctocog alfa for at least 50 EDs or developed FVIII inhibitors. The cut-off date of this 
analysis was 13 February 2017. Data described in this clinical trial report are from the main phase, the 
extension phase and the combined (cumulative) main and extension phases of the trial. The main phase 
completed once an aggregated number of ≥50 patients had either received treatment with turoctocog 
 
 
 
alfa for at least 50 ED or developed inhibitors. The extension phase concluded once ≥50 patients achieved 
at least 100 ED. 
Study population /Sample size 
A total of 60 patients were enrolled in the trial and received at least one dose of turoctocog alfa. 
The inclusion criteria were as follows: 
1. Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities (trial-related activities are any procedure 
that would not have been performed during normal management of the patient) 
2. Male patients diagnosed with congenital severe haemophilia A (FVIII level ≤1%) 
3. Age <6 years 
4. No prior use of purified clotting FVIII products (previous exposure, equal to or less than 5 ED to blood 
components, e.g. cryoprecipitate, fresh frozen plasma, was accepted) including commercially available 
NovoEight/Novoeight 
The exclusion criteria were as follows: 
1. Known or suspected allergy to hamster protein or intolerance to trial product(s) or related products 
2. Previous participation in this trial defined as withdrawal after administration of trial product 
3. Congenital or acquired coagulation disorders other than haemophilia A 
4. Any history of FVIII inhibitor 
5. On-going or planned treatment during the trial with immunomodulatory agents (e.g. intravenous 
immunoglobulin (IVIG)), routine systemic corticosteroids) 
6. Any disease or condition which, judged by the investigator, could imply a potential hazard to the 
patient, interfere with the trial participation or trial outcome including renal and/or liver failure 
7. Unwillingness, language or other barriers precluding adequate understanding and/or cooperation from 
parents and/or legal representatives and child 
8. The receipt of any investigational product within 30 days prior to inclusion in this trial 
Treatments 
Treatment with turoctocog alfa was evaluated during the following 3 trial periods: 
Main: 
- On-demand: Visit 2 to first preventive dose. This group included children ≤2 years receiving on-demand 
treatment while waiting to start on a preventive regimen. 
- Preventive: Patients on prophylactic factor VIII replacement therapy until Visit 5 or until development of 
inhibitor, whichever came first. 
Extension (preventive): Prophylactic treatment administered from completion of the main phase or 
completion of the inhibitor cohort until the end-of-trial visit. 
Inhibitor cohort: Patients who developed an inhibitor during the course of the trial and followed an 
alternative treatment regimen. 
 
 
 
Duration of treatment: All patients were offered participation in the trial until either turoctocog alfa was 
commercially available in the relevant country or until the trial, part of the trial or a trial site was  
terminated by Novo Nordisk, or by a relevant authority for any reason in the relevant country. In any 
event, the LPLV for the trial should be no later than 30 June 2018 regardless of turoctocog alfa 
commercialisation in the relevant country, with the following exceptions: 
1. Patients will be allowed to achieve at least 100 ED with trial product 
2. Patients with inhibitor will be allowed to receive inhibitor treatment for up to 24 months 
Outcomes/endpoints 
• 
Primary safety endpoint 
1.  Incidence rate of FVIII inhibitors (≥0.6 BU) evaluated for the main phase of the trial 
 
 
 
 
•  Secondary safety endpoints (evaluated for the main phase of trial, extension phase, and 
combined main and extension phases of the trial). 
1.  Frequency of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) reported during the 
trial period 
2.  Incidence rate of clinically relevant inhibitors defined as an inhibitor titre (≥0.6 BU) combined 
with a decreased recovery (<66% of expected level) 
3.  Incidence rate of high-titre inhibitors defined as inhibitor titre ≥5 BU 
4.  Incidence rate of FVIII inhibitors (≥0.6 BU) 
•  Secondary efficacy endpoints 
1.  Haemostatic effect of turoctocog alfa on treatment of bleeds assessed on a predefined 
four-point scale: Excellent, Good, Moderate and None 
2.  Annualised bleeding rate 
3.  Number of turoctocog alfa infusions required per bleed 
4.  Total consumption of turoctocog alfa per patient (prevention, treatment of bleeds and during 
surgery) per month and annualised value 
5.  Consumption of turoctocog alfa (IU/kg/bleed) per bleed 
6.  Consumption of turoctocog alfa (IU/kg/ months) for bleed prevention 
• 
Patient reported outcomes (PRO) and Health economics (HE) endpoints: 
1.  Change in total scores for parent reported treatment satisfaction 
2.  Health resource utilization and caregiver burden associated with bleeds 
Statistical Methods 
Sample size: 
No formal sample size calculations were performed, but 50 patients were expected to give adequate 
precision for the estimate of inhibitor formation in PUP. Therefore, the trial enrolled 60 patients to allow 
for a 15% drop-out rate and achieve a target sample size of 50 patients completing the trial. 
Definition of analysis sets: 
Both the full analysis set (FAS) and safety analysis set included all dosed patients with data after dosing. 
All main descriptions and analyses of efficacy were based on the FAS. The analyses of safety were based 
on the safety analysis set. 
Efficacy: 
• 
The haemostatic effect of turoctocog alfa was summarised by frequency tables containing count and 
percentages of all bleeds and assessed on a predefined four point scale: excellent, good, moderate 
and none. The effect was also summarised by cause, site, time and classification of bleed. 
•  Annualised number of bleeds in total and by cause of bleeding (spontaneous or traumatic) were 
estimated by a Poisson model allowing for over-dispersion and presented with a 95% confidence 
interval (CI). In the analysis of this endpoint, patients were to be included only if they received at 
least 2 doses of trial product before testing positive for inhibitors. An additional analysis of annualised 
bleeding rate (ABR) was performed to calculate the bleeding rate for all dosing frequencies. 
• 
The number of infusions of turoctocog alfa required per bleed was calculated as the number of 
infusions of turoctocog alfa used in the time period from start of the bleed to stop of the bleed. 
•  Consumption (IU/kg BW) was listed in total by patient. For bleeds, the consumption was calculated 
based on the number of doses from start to stop of bleed. Consumption for preventive treatment was 
calculated as the consumption of preventive doses over a period of time. 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety: 
• 
Primary endpoint: The incidence rate of inhibitors defined as inhibitor titres ≥0.6 BU for the main 
phase of the trial was estimated alongside and a 1-sided 97.5% upper confidence limit. The 
numerator for this calculation included all patients with confirmed inhibitors. The denominator was 
the sum of patients with confirmed inhibitors during the main phase of the trial and the completers of 
the main phase without confirmed inhibitors. The analyses evaluated relationships between the 
incidence rate of inhibitors and different patients and treatment characteristics. 
The incidence rates of FVIII inhibitors defined as inhibitor titres ≥0.6 BU for the extension part of trial 
and for the combined main and extension phases of the trial were also calculated. These rates were 
analysed in a similar way as the primary endpoint. 
The time to inhibitor development for all patients with inhibitors and for patients with high-titre 
inhibitors across main phase and extension phase of the trial was summarised using Kaplan-Meier 
• 
• 
plots. 
•  All AEs and SAEs were analysed for the main phase, the extension phase, the inhibitor cohort and the 
combined main and extension phases of the trial. The events were summarised by frequency of 
events and frequency of patients with any event. 
• 
The incidence rates of high-titre inhibitors (≥5 BU) and clinically relevant inhibitors (≥0.6 BU with 
decreased recovery [<66% of expected level]) were calculated for the main, extension and combined 
main and extension phases of the trial. The 1-sided 97.5% upper confidence limits were provided for 
these calculations based on an exact calculation for a binomial distribution. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
As of the data cut-off date (27 June 2018) for the report, 58 patients had completed the main phase of the 
trial and 49 patients had entered the extension phase, including 17 patients with inhibitors and 32 
patients without inhibitors. In 2 inhibitor patients, the inhibitor was detected during the extension phase, 
and 1 of these 2 patients had a re-occurrence of inhibitor. The overall count of 26 inhibitors occurrences 
was comprised of 25 occurrences from the main phase and 1 occurrence from the extension phase. 
Overall, 48 patients completed both the main and extension phases of the trial and 1 patient completed 
the inhibitor cohort (and the trial) without entering the extension phase (Figure 2). One inhibitor patient 
successfully completed the inhibitor cohort with ITI treatment after developing an inhibitor during the 
main phase. This patient entered the extension phase but then restarted ITI treatment due to recurrence 
of inhibitor. Two (2) patients withdrew from the main phase with a reason stated as ‘other’. For both of 
these patients, their legal guardian requested a treatment change. Five (5) patients withdrew from the 
inhibitor cohort (2 patients due to adverse events (AEs), 2 patients due to withdrawal criteria no. 8 and 1 
patient due to withdrawal criteria no. 6) and 1 patient withdrew from the extension phase due to 
withdrawal criterion no. 3. 
As from the study protocol, a patient had to be withdrawn if the following applies: 
1. Allergy/Anaphylaxis to the trial product 
2. Treatment with FVIII products other than turoctocog alfa 
3. Not in use: For inhibitor patients – inhibitor treatment failure with N8 treatment 
4. Inhibitor treatment has not been started within 6 months from the date of confirmation of positive FVIII 
inhibitor (≥0.6 BU) 
5. FVIII inhibitor titer decline from peak level is less than 20% after 12 months of inhibitor treatment 
 
 
6. FVIII inhibitor is positive (≥0.6 BU) after 24 months of inhibitor treatment. 
7. After completed inhibitor treatment (maximum 24 months), preventive treatment as described in the 
protocol is not resumed/started. 
8. Preventive treatment not initiated at the patient’s age of 24 months. 
Baseline data 
The trial population of male patients with severe haemophilia A (mean FVIII activity of 0.5%, ranging 
from 0.0 to 1.0%) was divided into 2 cohorts based on whether a patient developed an FVIII inhibitor 
during the trial. 
Demography and baseline characteristics are summarised below. 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
Main and extension phases 
1.  A total of 60 patients were exposed to turoctocog alfa during the trial. The 59 patients (98.3%) that 
were administered a preventive regimen had a mean of 167.7 ED and received a mean of 172.4 
injections per patient. In the inhibitor cohort, 26 inhibitor patients had an average of 246.7 ED to 
turoctocog alfa and received an average of 341.2 injections per patient. 
2.  Overall, 402 treatment-requiring bleeds were reported in 52 of 59 patients treated under 94.27 years 
of preventive regimen during the main and extension phases of the trial. Of these 402 bleeds, 133 
bleeds occurred in 38 of 58 (65.5%) patients during the main phase and 269 bleeds in 40 of 49 
(81.6%) patients during the extension phase. 
 
 
 
3.  A total of 98 bleeds occurred in 36 of 51 (70.6%) patients during on-demand treatment. 
Subcutaneous bleeds accounted for more than half (53.7%) of bleeds in patients during preventive 
treatment: 51.1% of bleeds in the main phase and 55.0% of those in the extension phase. Joint 
bleeds counted for 19.7% of all bleeds in patients during preventive treatment (10.5% of bleeds in 
the main phase and 24.2% of those in the extension phase). 
4.  During preventive regimen patients had an estimated ABR of 4.26 bleeds/patient/year (95% CI: 
3.34−5.44), with 5.63 bleeds/patient/year in the main phase and 3.81 bleeds/patient/year in the 
extension phase. 
5.  Haemostatic response was rated as ‘excellent’ for 244 (60.7%) of the bleeds, ‘good’ for 102 (25.4%) 
of the bleeds, ‘moderate’ for 43 (10.7%) of the bleeds, and’ none’ for 2 (0.5%) of the bleeds in 
patients treated with preventive regimen across the main and extension phases. 
6.  The success rate for treatment of bleeds during a preventive regimen was 86.1% for 402 bleeds in the 
main and extension phase, and 84.2% for 133 bleeds in the main phase (including missing 
evaluations as failures). The success rates for the treatment of traumatic and spontaneous bleeds 
were 85.7% and 87.9%, respectively in patients receiving preventive treatment. 
7.  A total of 318 (79.1%) of bleeds reported for patients on preventive treatment were stopped with 1-2 
injections of turoctocog alfa (227 [56.5%] bleeds stopped with 1 injection, 91 [22.6%] stopped with 
2 injections and 30 [7.5%] stopped with 3 injections). The proportion of bleeds stopped with 1-2 
injection was 87.9% in the main phase and 74.7%, in the extension phase. 
8.  Most of the patients on preventive treatment were treated with low-frequency prophylaxis i.e. with 
turoctocog alfa injections once or twice weekly. 
9.  Overall, patients on preventive treatment consumed a mean 5245.9 IU/kg of turoctocog alfa per 
patient per year. The mean monthly consumption of turoctocog alfa per patient was 437.2 IU/kg 
overall for patients on preventive treatment and 117.6 IU/kg for patients treated on demand. Patients 
treated preventively vs. those on demand received similar amounts of turoctocog alfa for treatment 
of a bleed from start to stop: 98.9 IU/kg vs. 86.1 IU/kg, respectively. 
10. During the main and extension phases, a total of 51 caregivers or parents of the patients (with and 
without inhibitor) on preventive treatment missed an average of 2.8 days/patient/year (mean, range 
0.0 – 94.7) from workplace due to a bleed. An average of 0.37 days/patient/year (mean, range 0.0 – 
5.52) were missed by a total of 29 caregivers or parents of non-inhibitor patients on preventive 
treatment. More than half of patients received treatment for their severe bleed in a haemophilia clinic 
(55.6% of patients treated preventatively and 61.5% of those treated on demand). 
11. Consistently, low scores of the HEMO-Sat questionnaire were recorded across domains at all visits (0 
– 100, low score= good satisfaction). These low scores indicated a good treatment satisfaction across 
all domains. 
Inhibitor cohort 
1.  In the inhibitor cohort, 179 bleeds were reported in 19 patients, of which most were classified as 
mild/moderate (95.5%) and caused by trauma (86.0%). The anatomical distribution of bleeds 
resembled that of the FAS with 54.7% of bleeds categorised as subcutaneous and 13.4% of bleeds 
categorised as “joint” by the location of bleeds. Half (50%) of the 8 severe bleeds reported were joint 
bleeds. 
2.  The inhibitor cohort exhibited a slightly higher estimated bleeding rate of 6.34 bleeds/patient/year 
(95% CI: 3.98−10.13), overall compared to all patients and non-inhibitor patients. However, the rate 
 
 
 
decreased to 4.72 bleeds/patient/year (95% CI: 2.59−8.62) in the subset of 18 patients who 
completed the inhibitor cohort. 
3.  A total of 18 patients either completed or withdrew from ITI treatment. Of these 18 patients, 15 
(83.3%) successfully completed ITI treatment with negative inhibitor. 
4.  In the inhibitor cohort, patients consumed a mean 1822.6 IU/kg/month/patient of turoctocog alfa, 
driven mostly by consumption during ITI treatment (2712.6 IU/kg/month/patient). 
5.  Caregivers or parents of patients with inhibitors missed on average more work days per year due to 
their child’s bleeds during the inhibitor cohort compared to caregivers or parents of non-inhibitor 
patients on preventive treatment (mean 3.25 days/patient/year vs. mean 0.37 days/patient/year). 
Safety results 
1.  A total of 26 patients had at least one occurrence of FVIII inhibitor across the whole trial following the 
exposure to turoctocog alfa (25/58 [43.1%] patients during the main phase and 1/33 [3.0%] patients 
during the extension phase). Of the 25 patients with inhibitors during the main phase, 1 patient had 
recurrence of inhibitor during the extension phase and restarted in inhibitor cohort, but data related 
to this re-occurrence was only listed to preserve statistical independence of summarized records and 
the occurrence itself was not counted in the estimate of the incidence rates. 
2.  Of the 26 inhibitor patients, 16 (61.5%) patients developed high-titre inhibitors (defined as a peak 
titre ≥5 BU) with a median (IQR) of 28.4 (48.2) BU. 
3.  High risk gene mutations (inversions, nonsense mutations and large deletions, and small 
deletions/insertions not located at or near adenine stretches) were identified in 34 patients. Of these, 
19 patients (55.9%, p=0.049) developed FVIII inhibitors in the main phase. Of 19 inhibitor patients, 
13 patients presented with high-titre inhibitors. Asian race had numerical increase in the risk as more 
Asians (58.3%) developed inhibitors than Whites (39.5%). However, this result was not statistically 
significant. 
4.  The FVIII gene mutation type after high-/low-risk reclassification was also statistically significant as 
a predictor for FVIII inhibitor development in main phase (p=0.003), resulting in 56.1% of the 
patients with high risk mutation and 6.7% of those with low risk mutation to develop FVIII inhibitors 
during the main phase. Conversely, 92.0% (n = 23) of the patients who developed inhibitor in the 
main phase had high risk mutations and only 4.0% (n = 1) had a low risk mutation according to this 
reclassification. 
5.  Patients who completed the inhibitor cohort had a median (IQR) time to first negative inhibitor test 
(<0.6 BU) of 127.5 (126.0) calendar days from when the inhibitor was detected. 
6.  There were 721 AEs reported in 57 (95.01%) patients over a total of 140.14 patient years, 
corresponding to an AE rate of 5.14 events per patient years of exposure. 
7.  The most frequently reported AEs were pyrexia (0.64 events per patient years of exposure), upper 
respiratory tract infection (0.47 events per patient years of exposure), nasopharyngitis (0.26 events 
per patient years of exposure) and FVIII inhibition (0.22 events per patient years of exposure). 
8.  A total of 46 AEs in 33 patients were judged by the investigator to be possibly or probably related to 
turoctocog alfa. Of these 46 AEs, 31 AEs were related to FVIII inhibition. 
 
 
 
9.  The trial reported 102 SAEs in 36 patients of which 27 SAEs in 25 patients were related to FVIII 
inhibition. The SAE rate was higher in the inhibitor cohort compared to the main phase i.e., 1.54 vs. 
1.02 events per patient years of exposure, respectively. Several patients undergoing ITI treatment in 
the inhibitor cohort had procedure-related complications. 
10. There were no cases of hypersensitivity related to turoctocog alfa. There were 2 cases of rashes 
during the main phase and both events were of short duration. Investigators considered these cases 
of rash as possibly related to trial product. 
11. Laboratory parameter assessments and other safety-related examinations did not indicate clinically 
significant changes as a result of turoctocog alfa administration. 
2.3.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In accordance with their PIP (EMEA-000428-PIP-01-08-MO3) the MAH of NovoEight (Turoctocog alfa) 
submitted the final study report of the completed paediatric study NN7008-3809, a clinical Phase 3 trial 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of the B-domain truncated rFVIII in the prevention and treatment of 
bleeding episodes in PUPs with severe Haemophilia A without inhibitors. Turoctocog alfa is authorised for 
usage in all age groups. 
A total of 60 patients were enrolled and exposed to turoctocog alfa, the mean age was 10.2 months, 
73.3% of the subjects where White and 20% of Asian race. The primary safety endpoint was the incidence 
rate of FVIII inhibitors (≥0.6 BU) evaluated for the main phase of the trial. 25 out of 58 subjects (43.1%) 
completing the main phase developed FVIII inhibitory antibodies. Including one inhibitor patient from the 
extension phase, a total of 26 out of 58 patients had an inhibitor (44.8%). The total portion of patients 
with high titer inhibitors (≥5 BU) was 27.6% (which relates to more than half of all inhibitor patients) in 
the main phase and in total. It is considered that the observed inhibitor rate for turocotocog alfa is at the 
upper section amongst reported frequencies for various factor VIII products including recombinant 
variants, which are typically ranging around 25-30%. However, a conclusion whether the overall 
observed inhibitor rate and the relative fraction of high-titer inhibitor patients is unusual high is not 
possible due to methodological limitations with further reference made to the Factor VIII Art. 31 referral 
(EMA/765710/2017, EMA/763977/2017). As noted in the referral and as applicable for study NN7008-3809, 
the results are not considered sufficiently robust to allow a definite conclusion on the inhibitor risk for this 
product and therefore should not be reflected in the product information. The current SmPC of NovoEight 
includes a warning on the clinical importance of monitoring patients for FVIII inhibitor development within 
section 4.4. Furthermore, the tabled frequency of FVIII inhibition for PUPs is outlined as ‘very common’ in line 
with the referral and data of study NN7008-3809. 
Within the preventive treatment regimen, patients had a mean of 167.7 EDs, an ABR estimated by 
Poisson modelling of 4.26 (5.63 in the main study phase and 3.81 in the extension phase), and a mean 
total consumption of 5245.9 IU/kg of turoctocog alfa per patient per year. During the on-demand 
treatment period patients exhibited a similar ABR of 4.27 bleeds/patient/year. A subanalysis of patients 
within the preventive regimen by dosing frequency has been provided, however, no definite conclusions 
can be drawn with regard to treatment frequency. As per current SmPC, dosing every second day or 3 
times weekly is recommended in the paediatric population with recommended doses ranging between 25 
- 60 IU/kg. Based on study NN7008-3809 data, no changes are required in this regard. 
With reference made to secondary safety data and adverse events with possible or probable relation to 
turocotocog alfa, reported data were in line with the SmPC. A substantial amount of reported SAE were 
considered to be related to inhibitor development. Inhibitor patients on ITI also had increased rates of 
(catheter-related) infections. Noteworthy, 2 SAE of intracranial bleeds have been reported, however, 
 
 
these were considered unlikely related to turoctocog alfa treatment. Narratives have been provided and 
the conclusion drawn from these can be followed.  
Overall, it is considered that presented data of turoctocog alfa use in PUPs for prophylaxis, on-demand 
and for ITI do not change the overall benefit-risk assessment and are in line with the SmPC.  
CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
In conclusion, results from the study NN7008-3809 investigating safety and efficacy of preventive and 
on-demand treatment with turoctocog alfa in haemophilia A PUPs showed a substantial rate of inhibitor 
development. However, this issue is sufficiently covered within the SmPC with reference made to the EMA 
Factor VIII Art. 31 referral. No further safety issues have bene identified that would imply changes of the 
SmPC. Efficacy in the treatment of bleeding episodes has been be demonstrated and data provided for 
prophylactic use are in line with SmPC recommendations. Thus, no further regulatory actions are 
required. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
3.  Additional clarification requested 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
NA 
Clinical studies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
