SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  NovoRapid.  This 
scientific discussion has been updated until 1 September 2004. For information on changes after 
this date please refer to module 8B 
1 
Introduction 
Diabetes  mellitus  is  a  group  of  metabolic  diseases  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  resulting  from 
defects  in  insulin  secretion,  insulin  action,  or  both.  Acute,  life-threatening  consequences  of  diabetes 
are  hypoglycaemia,  and  hyperglycaemia  with  ketoacidosis  or  non-ketotic  hyperosmolar  syndrome. 
Long-term  complications  of  diabetes  include  retinopathy  with  potential  loss  of  vision,  nephropathy 
leading to renal failure, and peripheral neuropathy causing foot ulcers, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, 
and sexual dysfunction. The disease is also accompanied by an increased incidence of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and cerebrovascular disease. 
Type  1  diabetes,  which  usually  is  of  childhood  or  adolescence  onset,  accounts  for  5  to  10%  of 
diagnosed diabetes; it is characterised by loss of insulin production due to destruction of pancreatic ß 
cells as a result of an autoimmune response or idiopathic causes. Patients with Type 1 diabetes depend 
on exogenous insulin for survival. 
Type 2 diabetes, which usually is of adult onset, is by far the more common form of diabetes. In the 
Western  World,  it  constitutes  approximately  90%  of  all  cases  of  diabetes.  Type  2  diabetes  is 
characterised  by  impaired  insulin  secretion,  insulin  resistance,  increased  hepatic  glucose  output  and 
lipid disorders. Patients with Type 2 diabetes generally do not require insulin treatment for survival, 
although  a  substantial  number  (20-30%)  of  patients  need  insulin  to  achieve  acceptable  metabolic 
control. 
This application seeks marketing authorisation for insulin aspart (IAsp), a human insulin analogue, for 
the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus. 
Insulin  aspart  is  a  rapid-acting  human  insulin  analogue  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology. 
Insulin  aspart  differs  from  human  insulin  in  that  proline  in  position  B  28  of  the  insulin  B-chain  is 
replaced by aspartic acid. 
Insulin aspart (IAsp) has been developed for use as rapid-acting insulin in a meal-related regimen for 
the treatment of insulin requiring diabetes. The goal was to provide diabetic patients with a fast-acting 
insulin with a more physiological pharmacokinetic profile that allows doctors and patients to intensify 
mealtime insulin treatment without increasing the risk of hypoglycaemic or other adverse events.  
2 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The composition of NovoRapid is given in Table 1. 
Table 1. Composition of NovoRapid 
Ingredient 
Insulin aspart 
Glycerol 
Phenol 
Metacresol 
Zinc (as chloride) 
Disodium Phosphate Dihydrate 
Sodium Chloride 
Sodium Hydroxide 
Hydrochloric acid 
Water for injections 
NovoRapid  is  presented  in  vials  (NovoRapid),  cartridges  (NovoRapid  Penfill)  and  in  multidose 
disposable pre-filled syringes (NovoRapid NovoLet, NovoRapid FlexPen and NovoRapid InnoLet). 
1/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Development Genetics 
Insulin aspart is produced from a protein, which is expressed by a gene incorporated into a plasmid. 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae is used as host strain. The production and characterisation of the production 
strain have been adequately described. 
Cell bank system 
The  cell  bank  system  consists  of  an  Initial  Cell  Culture  (ICC),  a  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  a 
Working Cell Bank (WCB). The preparation and storage of the cell bank system has been adequately 
described.  
Production of active substance 
The production of the active substance via two intermediate products has been adequately described. It 
involves the following process steps: propagation, fermentation, recovery and purification. 
The  applicant  has  developed  a  new  process  (NN2000)  for  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance 
employing a changed expression system of the same host organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae as used 
with  an  optimised  recovery  and  purification  steps.  The  new  clone,  YAK1214,  and  the  currently 
approved yJB155 cell clone have been established from the same parental cell line, but using different 
expression vector constructs. 
The current process will be replaced by the new process (NN2000). 
Specification 
An  acceptable  active  substance  specification  has  been  proposed.  The  analytical  methods  have  been 
described and sufficiently validated. 
Other ingredients 
The  excipients  used  are  described  in  Ph.Eur.,  except  for  Zinc  (as  chloride),  sodium  hydroxide  and 
hydrochloric acid, which are manufactured from chemical agents conforming to Ph. Eur. 
Product development and finished product 
The  components  and  their  concentrations  have  been  chosen  with  regard  to  stability  of  the  active 
substance molecule in solution as well as to isotonicity and anti-microbial preservation of the product. 
A  comprehensive  development  pharmaceutics  section  has  been  presented  in  which  the  choice  of 
composition  for  a  neutral  soluble  preparation  of  rapid  acting  insulin  analogue,  insulin  aspart  is 
justified. 
Studies have been presented showing that the NovoLet, FlexPen and InnoLet pen injector fulfils the 
dose  accuracy  tolerance  limits  defined  in  ISO/DIS  11608  “Pen-injector  for  medical  use  –  Part  I: 
Requirements and test methods”. 
The rationale for the manufacturing process has also been comprehensively discussed. The (identical) 
manufacturing formulations are presented for vial and Penfill 3ml products.  
The  NovoLet,  FlexPen  and  InnoLet  are  manufactured  by  assembling  the  Penfill  cartridge  and  pen 
injector parts.  
The  validation  studies  performed  show  satisfying  performance  of  the  aseptic  process  and  closure  of 
the container.  
Finished product stability 
Testing has been carried out in accordance with the finished product specification.  
Overall it may be concluded that a shelf-life at 2-8°C, as indicated in the SPC, is acceptable. 
2/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Manufacturing facilities 
The active substance is manufactured by Novo Nordisk A/S. The site of manufacture is:  
• 
Hallas Allé, 4400 Kalundborg, Denmark.  
Manufacture of the finished dosage form takes place at the production sites: 
• 
• 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Novo Allé, 2800 Bagsvaerd, Denmark 
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceutique S.A., 45, Avenue d’Orléans, F-28002 Chartres, France. 
Assembly of pre-filled syringes takes place in:  
• 
• 
• 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Hallas Allé, 4400 Kalundborg, Denmark 
Novo Nordisk A/S, Brennung Park, 3400 Hilleroed, Denmark 
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceutique S.A., 45, Avenue d’Orléans, F-28002 Chartres, France. 
A  valid  manufacturing  licence  covering  these  sites  has  been  updated  on  9  July  2003  by  the  Danish 
Medicines Agency. 
GMP inspection status 
There  were  no  major  issues  relating  to  manufacture  of  the  finished  product,  therefore  a  product 
specific  inspection  was  not  considered  to  be  necessary  by  the  CHMP.  An  inspection  of  the  active 
substance  manufacturing  site  was  also  not  considered  to  be  necessary.  Batch  release  for  all  EU 
member states is performed by Novo Nordisk A/S, Novo Allé, DK-2880 Bagsværd, Denmark or Novo 
Nordisk Pharmaceutique S.A., 45, Avenue d’Orléans, F-28002 Chartres, France. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Satisfactory  evidence  is  provided  that  product  manufacture  is  well  controlled,  that  consistency  of 
production  is  achieved  and  that  a  stable  product  results.  The  requirements  of  the  relevant  directives 
and guidelines are met. The pharmaceutical portions of the SPC, package insert and product label are 
supported by the information provided in the dossier. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Related to the proposed indication 
Receptor  binding.  Data  from  human  insulin  (HI)  receptor  binding  assays  using  soluble  HI  receptors 
with and without the 36 bp exon11 insert and hepatoma (HepG2) cells, showed an affinity essentially 
similar (92-100%) to that of HI. There were also no significant differences in receptor dissociation rate 
constants  relative  to  HI  in  CHO  cells  overexpressing  the  HI  receptor  and  in  human  HepG2;  81±8% 
and 112±14% (SEM), respectively.  
Data from IGF-1 human receptor binding assays revealed a relative affinity of insulin aspart (IAsp) for 
the  soluble  human  IGF-1  receptor(s)  of  132%  (relative  EC50  values)  compared  with  HI,  while  the 
corresponding figure in human HepG2 cells was 69%.  
Tyrosine kinase activation. Studies on the activation of tyrosine kinase associated with partly purified 
soluble receptors (insulin and IGF-1) from HepG2 cells showed a relative activity compared to HI of 
204%  with  a  confidence  interval  of  118-353%.  Additional  data  were  submitted  showing  relative 
tyrosine kinase activation of 100 and 93% in two batches of IAsp. These assays were conducted using 
partly  purified  rat  skeletal  muscle  cells.  In  another  newly  performed  study  using  CHO  cells 
overexpressing the human insulin receptor, a relative potency to HI of 107% was obtained.  
It was concluded that the presented information on receptor affinities, dissociation rates and tyrosine 
kinase activation provided evidence that there were no relevant differences between IAsp and human 
insulin.  
3/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Glucose  lowering  effect.  IAsp  showed  similar  plasma  glucose  lowering  effect  in  diabetic  mice  to 
human  insulin  (HI)  at  a  subcutaneous  dose  of  1  U/kg.  IAsp  was  also  effective  in  lowering  plasma 
glucose in healthy rats. 
The  biological  potency  of  IAsp  was  determined  against  the  first  international  HI  standard  (WHO 
83/500)  using  the  blood  glucose  lowering  effect  in  mice  as  endpoint.  The  molar  potency  was  not 
statistically  significantly  different  from  that  of  HI.  When  using  the  blood  sugar  assay  in  rabbits 
according to the USP, a similar potency to that obtained in the mouse assay (Ph Eur) was observed. In 
mouse free fat cells, the stimulation of lipogenesis did not differ between IAsp and HI, lending further 
support to similar molar potency of these two insulins.  
In healthy pigs, IAsp gave an earlier onset and an earlier decline in glucose lowering effect compared 
with that of HI.  
General Pharmacodynamics 
A  number  of  studies  of  adequate  design  comparing  IAsp  with  HI  were  conducted  in  order  to 
investigate potential effects on the central nervous, autonomic, cardiovascular and respiratory system.  
The observed effects induced by IAsp did not qualitatively or quantitatively differ from those obtained 
with HI at equal dosing.  
Data on the mitogenic activity of IAsp relative to HI and the insulin analogue AspB10 as obtained in 
human MCF-7 cells and in CHO K1 cells was presented. The results in CHO K1 cells were essentially 
similar to those of HI whereas the mitogenic activity of IAsp in MCF-7 cells indicated differences to 
HI. Subsequent analysis indicated lower activity than initially calculated but the analysis also showed 
that the results in MCF-7 cells were not sufficiently robust for proper assessment. Newly performed 
studies using human osteosarcoma B10 cells revealed essentially similar response of IAsp and HI. A 
summary table of available mitogenicity data comparing IAsp with HI, insulin lispro and/or AspB10 is 
given in Table 2. 
Table  2.  Mitogenic  potential  (relative  EC50  values  to  HI)  of  IAsp,  insulin  lispro  and  AspB10  as 
determined in various cell systems; 95% confidence intervals or SEM are given. 
MCF-revised* 
CHO-K1** 
HOSC/B10*** 
HMEC**** 
IAsp 
1.2 (0.9-1.6) 
0.94 (.76-1.38) 
0.58 ± 0.22 
n.d. 
Insulin lispro 
n.d.  
1.0 (0.8-1.4) 
0.66 ± 0.21 
0.89 ± 0.1 
B10 analogue 
n.a. 
6.6 (5.3-8.3) 
15.1 ± 0.6 
3.4 ± 0.4 
Revised Study T-17; S-phase percentage used as endpoint. 
Chinese Hamster Ovary K1 cells; 3H-thymidine used as endpoint. 
* 
** 
***  Trub (new study, March 99); Human Osteosarcoma cells B10, 3H-thymidine as endpoint. 
****  Slieker et al 1997; Human Mammary Epithelial Cells; cell number used as endpoint. 
Data  presented  by  the  applicant  indicated  that  the  relative  numbers  of  insulin  and  IGF-1  receptors 
were  essentially  similar  in  CHO-K1,  human  osteosarcoma  B10  and  human  mammary  epithelial 
(HMEC)  cells.  It  was  concluded  that  sufficient  information  had  been  provided  to  demonstrate  no 
relevant differences in mitogenic potency between IAsp, insulin lispro and native insulin. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics were investigated in rats, dogs and pigs following single s.c. and i.v. injection, 
as well as after repeated s.c. administration in rats and dogs. HI was used as comparator in many of the 
studies. The PK data after single s.c. dosing in rats and dogs are shown in Table 3.  
4/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Comparative basic PK-parameters of IAsp and HI after s.c. injection 
Parameter 
t1/2   (min) 
Cmax (pM) 
Tmax (min) 
Cl (l . min/kg) 
Man (0.1 U/kg) 
IAsp 
   76       
   246 
   52 
  0.02 
HI 
   122 
   102 
   145 
   0.02 
Dog (1 U/kg) 
HI 
IAsp 
   67 
 3146 
   46 
 0.06 
   57 
 2871 
   60 
 0.05 
Rat (6 U/kg) 
IAsp 
   22 
 1700 
    15 
  0.04 
   HI 
   23 
 1800 
    15 
  0.06 
Plasma pharmacokinetics of repeated s.c. administered IAsp (twice daily for 7 days) were assessed in 
rat (up  to 6 U/kg) and dog (up to 1.0 U/kg). There were no apparent change in plasma profile level 
between day 1 and day 7, and a dose-proportional increase in AUC was evident in both species.  
Single and Repeated Dose Toxicity 
Single subcutaneous and intravenous injections of IAsp were well tolerated by rodents (mice and rats) 
and  dogs.  Only  few  animals  showed  signs  of  hypoglycaemia  even  at  very  high  doses  given 
systemically. Acute deaths in mice were considered to be due to hypoglycaemia. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  beagle  dogs  with 
subcutaneous administration of up to 52 weeks duration. In the pivotal 52-week study in dogs, daily 
dose levels of 0.5, 1, and 2 U/kg were given bid; another group of dogs was given 2 U/kg/day of HI. 
Despite careful management between food intake and treatment hypoglycaemic episodes occurred in 
high dose animals and the dose level was therefore reduced to 1 U/kg/day from week 29 onwards.  
No significant antibody titres were detected and the only toxicity findings observed were those related 
to hypoglycaemia. 
In  the  two  52-week  studies  performed  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  (T12  and  T13),  deaths  occurred 
especially  in  high  dose  animals  in  both  HI  and  IAsp  treated  animals.  The  cause  of  deaths  was 
considered to be the result from hypoglycaemia despite food access ad libitum. 
The  primary  pharmacological  effect  of  IAsp,  i.e.  p-glucose  depression,  appeared  to  be  maintained 
throughout the treatment periods of up to 52 weeks. Fasted p-glucose appeared to increase over time in 
a  dose-related  manner.  Antibody  determination  revealed  significant  immunological  response  against 
IAsp as well as HI (only in the 52-week studies). The antibodies detected did not appear to neutralise 
the primary effect of IAsp or HI. 
Other  findings  in  the  study  T12  were  elevated  p-triglyceride  levels,  increased  incidence  of  focal 
seminiferous epithelial atrophy in high dose males, and increased incidence of subcutaneous masses in 
the mammary gland region.  
A  statistical  analysis  (time-to-tumour  method  according  to  Peto  et  al.;  incidental/non-incidental 
classification)  of  the  data  coming  from  both  non-survivals  and  survivals  revealed  statistically 
significant  increase  in  the  incidence  of  all  mammary  gland  tumours  combined  (fibroadenoma, 
adenoma  and  adenocarcinoma)  and  benign  mammary  tumours  alone  in  IAsp  female  rats  dosed  200 
U/kg/day (~ 100-200 times maximum clinical dose) in comparison with that of the control group; see 
Table 4. There were no statistically significant differences when the incidence of mammary tumours in 
the 200 U/kg/day group was compared with that in the HI reference group (p=0.062). 
In the T13 study (non-GLP) in female Spraque-Dawley rats, no significant differences in incidence of 
mammary  tumours  were  reported  between  the  controls  and  rats  treated  with  200  U/kg/day  of  IAsp 
(Table 4). There were no statistically significant differences when the incidence of mammary tumours 
in the high dose group was compared with that in the HI reference group (p=0.52). 
A Peto analysis on the combined incidence of mammary tumours in high dose animals of the two 52-
week studies in Sprague-Dawley (T-12 and T-13) indicated that the tumourigenicity of IAsp was not 
different from human insulin (p=0.29). 
Table 4 summarises the statistically significant findings relative to control with respect to mammary 
tumors  in  female  Sprague-Dawley  rats  in  the  performed  52-week  toxicity  studies  on  IAsp  (T12  and 
T13). For comparison results are also shown from a previously performed study on insulin Asp B10  
(B10 analogue), which was previously identified as being significantly different from human insulin 
5/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
(Dideriksen/Huntington). Furthermore results from an additional 52-week female Sprague-Dawley rat 
study  with  human  insulin  (NVO104)  are  shown.  In  the  study,  HI  showed  a  significantly  increased 
incidence  of  mammary  tumours  in  female  rats  dosed  with  150  U/kg/day  (reduced  to  75  /kg/day  at 
week 40) compared to controls, see Table 4. The incidence of adenocarcinomas was also significantly 
elevated at this dose level. No statistically significantly differences compared to controls were found at 
the lower dose level of 60 U/kg/day (reduced to 30 U/kg/day at week 40). 
Table  4.  Overall  outcome  of  52-week  toxicity  studies  conducted  with  human  insulin  and  insulin 
analogues  in  female  Sprague  Dawley  rats.  Statistically  significant  differences  relative  to  controls  as 
regards  benign  tumors  (B),  malignant  tumors  (M),  all  tumors  combined  (C).  n.s.  indicates  no 
statistically significant increase in mammary tumors compared to controls. 
Dose U/kg/d 
Human insulin 
150 
60 
200 
B10 analogue 
12.5 
50 
200 
IAsp analogue 
10 
50 
200 
Dideriksen/ Huntington 
n.s. 
B 
M 
B/M 
NVO104 
n.s. 
M/C 
T13 
T12 
B/C 
n.s. 
B/C 
n.s. 
n.s. 
n.s. 
B/C 
It  is  concluded  that  both  HI  and  IAsp  have  the  capability  to  produce  mammary  tumours  in  the 
Sprague-Dawley rat upon  prolonged exposure at supraphysiological doses (approximately 100 times 
the human exposure). The relevance of results generated at such high doses/exposures as well as the 
ethics  of  conducting  long-term  studies  at  doses,  which  produce  50%  mortality  within  one  year,  was 
questioned. Although the design of the 52-week studies with IAsp can be criticised, it was concluded 
that  the  results  obtained  in  studies  with  a  similar  background  incidence  of  benign  and  malignant 
mammary  tumours  did  not  indicate  any  significant  or  relevant  difference  in  tumourigenic  potential 
between  IAsp  and  HI.  The  overall  evidence  from  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  data  thus  suggests  that  the 
mammary tumours observed are not relevant for the proposed therapeutic use of IAsp.  
Toxicity to Reproduction 
Toxicity  to  reproduction  was  investigated  with  conventional  designs  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and 
rabbits  following  subcutaneous  administration.  Reference  groups  of  animals  treated  with  HI  were 
included in all the three separate studies. In rats, IAsp had no direct effect on fertility or embryo-foetal 
development.  Findings  observed  were  secondary  to  treatment-induced  hypoglycaemia  and  were 
similar to those observed with HI. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
The  ability  of  IAsp  to  induce  gene  mutations  in  bacteria  and  mammalian  cells  and  chromosomal 
aberrations  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  was  investigated.  Tests  of  primary  DNA  damage  in  vitro  was  also 
conducted.  IAsp  showed  no  potential  for  mutagenicity  or  clastogenicity  in  the  standard  battery  of 
genotoxicity tests in the presence and absence of rat liver S9 fraction.  
No carcinogenicity study was performed and this was accepted in view of the tumour findings in the 
52-week repeat dose toxicity studies in rats, see above. 
Environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant  considers  that  the  protein  nature  of  IAsp  and  its  very  close  similarity  to  marketed 
insulins,  with  their  ready  degradation,  do  not  suggest  any  environmental  risk.  Neither  do  the 
containers and devices constitute any hazard to the environment. This argumentation was considered 
reasonable. 
6/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  submitted  documentation  is  in  accordance  with  a  full  application  for  a  new  active  substance. 
Insulin  aspart  from  two  different  manufacturing  processes  was  used  in  the  preclinical  studies.  The 
change  was  implemented  between  phase  I/II  and III clinical  trials.  Batches produced by  the  old and 
new  processes  were  compared  in  single  dose  toxicity  studies  as  well  as  in  a  4-week  repeated  dose 
study in rats; no differences in toxicity were observed. 
Information  was  provided  showing  the  expected  pharmacodynamics  of  this  modified  insulin. 
Toxicities related to the exaggerated pharmacological response were seen in all repeated dose studies. 
A  list  of  questions  covering  human  epidemiology,  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  experiments  related  to  the 
mitogenic and tumourigenic activity of IAsp in relation to HI formed the basis for discussions. It was 
concluded  that  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  data  provided  did  not  indicate  any  significant  or  relevant 
difference in mitogenic or tumourigenic potential between IAsp and human insulin. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic response to IAsp administered s.c. was investigated in: 
• 
• 
healthy subjects in three euglycaemic clamp trials 
diabetic subjects in four trials: 
− 
− 
− 
two in Type 1 male diabetic adults 
one in Type 2 diabetic adults 
one in Type 1 diabetic children and adolescents 
Healthy subjects 
The  results  from  trials  in  healthy  subjects  supported  the  conclusion  that  IAsp  has  a  faster  onset  and  a 
shorter  duration  of  action  compared  with  HI.  When  injected  s.c.  into  the  abdominal  wall,  the  onset  of 
action of IAsp occurred from 10 minutes of injection, and maximum effect was exerted between 1 to 3 
hours post injection. Based on tAUC½, the duration of action of IAsp was estimated at 3 to 5 hours. 
Type 1 diabetic adults 
In Type 1 diabetic subjects the postprandial serum glucose profiles were compared following a single 0.15 
U/kg dose of IAsp just before a standard meal, or of HI just before or 30 minutes before a standard meal. 
The subjects were clamped from the evening before trial product administration in order to obtain a blood 
glucose concentration of 5 to 8 mmol/L. Postprandial glucose excursion was lower for IAsp than for both 
HI  treatments.  The  duration  of  action  of  IAsp  ranged  between  subjects  from  3  to  5  hours,  which  was 
shorter than that for HI. Cmax for serum glucose was significantly lower for IAsp compared with HI0min, but 
not with HI-30min 
Type 1 diabetic children and adolescents 
In Type 1 diabetic children (aged 6 to 12 years) and adolescents (aged 13 to 17 years) pharmacodynamics 
were compared following a single 0.15 U/kg dose of either IAsp or HI just before a meal. IAsp tended to 
reduce  glucose  excursions  compared  with  HI  during  the  4-hour  post-dosing  period,  otherwise  no 
differences were observed 
Type 2 diabetic subjects 
In Type 2 diabetic subjects postprandial serum glucose profiles were determined following a single 0.15 
U/kg dose of IAsp just before a standard meal, or of HI just before (HI0min) or 30 minutes before (HI-30min) a 
standard  meal. The subjects were clamped overnight in order to obtain a morning serum glucose in the 
range  of  5  to  8 mmol/l.  Postprandial  glucose  excursions  and  maximal  postprandial  glucose  values  were 
lower with IAsp than with HI0min.  
7/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  IAsp  have  been  studied  in  healthy volunteers,  Type  1 and Type  2 diabetic 
patients and in Type 1 diabetic children and adolescents. 
Absorption 
IAsp  is  rapidly  absorbed  after  subcutaneous  administration.  Maximum  concentration  of  IAsp  was 
reached 40 to 50 min after dose, which is approximately 1 hour earlier than for HI. Cmax for IAsp was 
approximately twice that for HI. 
The pharmacokinetics have not been studied after multiple-dose or long-term administration. 
Elimination 
Clearance  was  estimated  to  be  1.22±0.32  l/h/kg.  The  half-life  has  not  been  determined  after  i.v. 
injection. The terminal half-life of s.c. administered insulin is absorption rate limited and was 102 min. 
The insulin concentration returned to baseline more rapidly for IAsp than for HI. 
Metabolism and excretion 
The  metabolites  of  IAsp  are  assumed  to  be  natural  amino  acids  and  peptides  that  are  subsequently 
incorporated into host proteins or metabolised, as with HI. 
Target population 
The pharmacokinetics profile of IAsp were compared with those of HI in Type 1 and Type 2 diabetic 
patients. The trials were performed with test meals after an overnight insulin infusion to ensure similar 
basal  glucose  levels  in  the  morning.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  IAsp  0.15  U/kg  bw  given  s.c. 
immediately  before  a  meal  were  compared  with  HI  given  30  minutes  before  a  meal  or  immediately 
before a meal. 
The  pharmacokinetics  in  Type  1  diabetic  patients  were  found  to  be  similar  to  that  of  healthy 
volunteers. The insulin concentrations increased rapidly and reached a Cmax that was twice as high as 
that for HI, and tmax was about 40-60 min earlier than for HI. The concentrations returned to baseline 
earlier than those for HI, about 4 to 6 hours after dose. 
In Type 2 diabetic patients the IAsp concentration was determined with an IAsp specific ELISA. Thus, 
no comparison with pharmacokinetics of HI was made. AUC was of the same magnitude in Type 2 
patients as in Type 1 patients, but Cmax was 30% lower in Type 2 patients and tmax was reached about 
20 minutes later than in Type 1 patients. This might partly be due to a thicker subcutaneous fat layer in 
Type  2  patients,  which  could  decrease  the  absorption  rate.  In  subjects  with  body  mass  index  (BMI) 
<26 median tmax was 50 min compared with 70 min in patients with BMI ≥26. Cmax was also higher in 
normal  Type  2  patients  compared  with  obese  patients,  68.3±41.4  and  51.8±39.2  mU/l,  respectively. 
The clinical relevance of these differences in Type 2 diabetic patients was considered to be small, but 
stresses the importance of individual titration. 
The  pharmacokinetics  were  studied  in  18  Type  1  diabetic  children  and  adolescents  aged  6-17  years 
after s.c. administration of a single dose of 0.15 U/kg IAsp or HI in two different periods. The data 
were  analysed  both  for  all  children  together  and  for  the  age  groups  6-12  and  13-17  years.  The 
pharmacokinetics in  paediatrics differed from adults,  in that higher Cmax and AUC were observed in 
paediatrics,  but  similar  tmax  and  MRT.  Similar  differences  between  paediatrics  and  adults  were  also 
seen for HI. 
Special populations 
The pharmacokinetics have not been studied in elderly or patients with liver or kidney impairment. 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of IAsp has been studied in 4 controlled clinical trials in patients with Type 1 and Type 2 
diabetes. They are summarised in Table 5. In all studies one or two daily injections of intermediate acting 
insulin (NPH) were combined with short acting insulin (IAsp or HI) before each meal. 
8/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 5. Overview of Controlled Clinical Trials 
Trial ID/Trial Population/ 
Designa 
Duration/Treatment 
Dose 
Phase II (Type 1 Diabetes) 
ANA/DCD/025/UK 
Well-controlled male patients 
Mean age 34 years 
Mean duration of diab 15 yrs 
n=104 
Randomised 
n=90 
Completers 
Phase III (Type 1 Diabetes) 
ANA/DCD/035/EUb,c  
Male and female patients 
M/F 55%/45% 
Mean age 38 years 
Mean duration of diab 15 yrs 
Randomised Iasp/HI 708/367 
ANA/DCD/036/USAd,e 
Male and female patients 
M/F 51%/49% 
Mean age 40 years 
Mean duration of diab 15 yrs 
Randomised Iasp/HI 597/287 
Phase III (Type 2 Diabetes) 
ANA/DCD/037/USA 
Male and female patients 
M/F 62%/38% 
Mean age 57 years 
Mean duration of diab 13 yrs 
Randomised Iasp/HI 91/91 
Double-blind 
Crossover 
4 weeks on IAsp + 
4 weeks on HI 
Dosage was adjusted on 
an individual basis. 
Primary 
Efficacy 
Variable 
Secondary Efficacy Variables and 
Other Variables 
Fructosamine  Derived from 23-hour serum glucose 
(SG) profiles: 
 - ∆AUC - Cmax and Cmin 
8-point blood glucose (BG) profiles 
Insulin: meal-related/basal ratio 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia 
Open-label 
Parallel-group 
6 months 
HbA1c 
Dosage was adjusted 
according to local 
practise 
Open-label 
Parallel-group 
6 months 
HbA1c 
. 
Dosage was adjusted 
according to local 
practise 
Open-label 
Parallel-group 
6 months 
HbA1c 
. 
Derived from 8-point BG-profiles: 
 - prandial increments 
 - variability 
Insulin: 
 - meal-related/basal ratio 
 - total daily dose 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia 
Insulin antibodies 
Derived from 8-point BG-profiles: 
 - prandial increments 
 - variability 
Insulin: 
 - meal-related/basal ratio 
 - total daily dose 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia 
Insulin antibodies 
Derived from 8-point BG-profiles: 
 - prandial increments 
 - variability 
Insulin: 
 - meal-related/basal ratio 
 - total daily dose 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia 
Insulin antibodies 
a 
b 
c 
d  
e 
All trials were designed as multi-centre, randomised, active-controlled trials  
EU = D,DK,N,S,SF,UK  
Subjects completing the trial were invited to participate in a 2.5 year extension trial 
The trial was also conducted in Canada 
Subjects completing the trial were invited to participate in a 6 month extension trial 
The phase II trial, 025/ UK, was designed to evaluate short-term safety and efficacy of IAsp compared 
with HI given immediately before meals in Type 1 diabetic subjects under strict glucose regulation. Serum 
fructosamine was the primary endpoint at the end of each 4-week treatment period. Enrolled patients were 
mainly  Caucasian  (96%),  aged  between  30  and  50  years  (mean  34.3  years),  with  a  mean  BMI  of  25.5 
kg/m2.  They  had  a  mean  duration  of  diabetes  of  nearly  15  years  and  a  mean  baseline  HbA1c  of  7.1%. 
Regarding  the  primary  variable,  fructosamine  levels  at  the  end  of  each  treatment  period,  no  differences 
between treatments were observed. The 23-hour Plasma Glucose Profiles and Serum Insulin Profiles are 
illustrated in Figure 1. 
9/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Mean 23-hour Plasma Glucose and Serum Insulin Profiles at the End of Treatment Period. 
Mean ± 2 SE (filled squares are IAsp, open circles are HI). 
insulin aspart
human insulin (Actrapid)
m g  d L -1
3 0 0
2 5 0
2 0 0
1 5 0
06:00
12:00
18:00
24:00
06:00
M e a n s  ±  2  S E M
insulin aspart
human insulin (Actrapid)
m m o l l-1
18
l
e
s
o
c
u
g
a
m
s
a
P
l
16
14
12
10
8
6
m U  l-1
100
n
i
l
u
s
n
i
m
u
r
e
S
80
60
40
20
0
06:00
12:00
18:00
B re a k fa s t
L u n c h
D in n e r
24:00
N P H
06:00
The  baseline  corrected  plasma  glucose  excursions  (∆AUC)  outside  the  normal  range  (defined  as 
4mmol/l  to  7mmol/l),  were  smaller  with  IAsp,  compared  with  HI.  The  maximum  plasma  glucose 
concentrations after breakfast (Cmax Morning) and lunch (Cmax Afternoon) were lower with IAsp than 
with  HI.  During  the  same  intervals,  the  minimum  postprandial  glucose  levels  (Cmin)  were  also 
significantly  lower  with  IAsp.  Hypoglycaemia  was  classified  in  minor  (the  patients  dealt  with  the 
episode themselves), and major episodes (the patient required third party help). During four weeks of 
treatment, a total of 16 patients reported 20 major hypoglycaemic episodes with IAsp and 24 patients 
reported 44 major episodes with HI (p=0.002). The incidence of major hypoglycaemic episodes during 
the  last  two  weeks  of  each  treatment  period  was  assessed  separately  to  avoid  possible  carry-over 
effects. A total of nine patients had 11 major hypoglycaemic episodes while on IAsp, compared with 
15 patients with 22 major episodes while on HI (p=0.04).  
The three phase III trials were essentially  identical in design. All three were 6-month multicentre, 
open label, parallel group trials, designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of IAsp compared with 
HI  in  type  1  (035/EU  and  036/USA)  and  type  2  diabetic  subjects  (037/USA).  In  these  trials  IAsp, 
given immediately before meals was studied against HI administered 30 minutes before meals, as part 
of  a  basal-bolus  regimen  with  one  or  two  daily  injections  of  NPH  as  the  basal  insulin  component. 
Enrolled patients were required to have been treated with HI in any treatment regimen for at least 12 
months. Therapeutic response was primarily evaluated by measurements of HbA1c. The secondary and 
other  efficacy  variables  are  presented  in  Table  11.  The  trials  excluded  patients  anticipated  to  be 
severely insulin resistant, or to exhibit poor compliance, as well as those with poor function of organ 
systems  involved  in  drug/glucose  metabolism.  The  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were 
similar in the European trial and the US trial, with the exception of the number of daily injections of 
basal  insulin  at  baseline.  In  035/EU,  60%  of  subjects  took  one  basal  injection  while  the  remaining 
40%  took  two  injections  daily.  In  036/USA,  more than 95% of  subjects  took only one basal insulin 
injection daily. 
HbA1c after 6 months 
Mean  HbA1c  after  6  months  was  slightly,  but  significantly  lower  for  type  I  diabetic  patients  treated 
with IAsp compared with HI in trials 036/USA, 035/EU (difference between treatment groups in mean 
HbA1c at 6 months being 0.12 and 0.15 percentage point, respectively).  
10/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
In  Type  2  diabetic  patients,  no  significant  differences  were  observed,  but  according  to  preplanned 
criteria, non-inferiority of IAsp to HI was documented. 
8-point BG (Blood Glucose) profiles 
In Type 1 diabetic patients, mean postprandial BG levels at 6 months were significantly lower in the 
IAsp  group  compared  with  the  HI  group  after  all  three  meals.  There  was  no  treatment  difference 
between  pre-  and  postprandial  BG  levels  or  bedtime  and  night-time  BG  levels  in  Type  2  diabetic 
subjects.  Analysis  of  mean  prandial  increments  for  the  three  main  meals  and  the  within  subject 
variability  (=  standard  deviation)  in  the  mean  8-point  BG  profile  after  6  months  of  treatment  was 
performed for each of the phase III trials. The mean prandial BG increments (mean difference between 
pre meal and post meal BG values) were significantly lower in Type 1 diabetic subjects treated with 
IAsp  compared  with  HI.  Despite  lower  postprandial  BG  levels  with  IAsp,  the  within-subject 
variability in BG over the day did not differ between treatments in either trial. There was no difference 
between IAsp and HI treatment with respect to the mean prandial increase in BG levels or the within 
subject variability in BG in Type 2 diabetic subjects. Twelve-month data (036ext/USA) on glycaemic 
control were available  in 467  patients on IAsp, compared with 208 on HI. The significant benefit of 
IAsp on mean HbA1c, seen at six months, was maintained over 12 months (difference HI – IAsp: 0.14 
percentage  point  ,  95%  C.I:  0.00;0.27)  as  was  the  slightly  better  postprandial  glucose  control  with 
IAsp, compared with HI. 
Hypoglycaemia versus Metabolic Control 
In the phase III trials, hypoglycaemia was classified in the same way as in the Phase II trial 025/UK. 
Overall,  no  relevant  differences  between  treatment  groups  were  noted  regarding  the  incidence  of 
hypoglycaemic events. To evaluate whether there was any difference between treatments with regard 
to  glycaemic  control  achieved  and  the  incidence  of  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  HbA1c  levels  were 
compared between patients in both treatment groups with the same frequency of major episodes and 
minor  episodes.  There  was  a  significant  treatment  difference  observed  in  HbA1c  in  Type  1  diabetic 
patients regardless of the frequency of major episodes in both trials. The majority of Type 2 diabetic 
subjects  did  not  have  any  major  hypoglycaemic  episodes  during  the  six  months  of  treatment  with 
either  IAsp  or  HI.  After  adjusting  for  the  rate  of  major  and  minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  the 
differences in HbA1c between treatments remained significant in Type 1 diabetic subjects. Thus, Type 
1  diabetic  subjects  with  similar  risk  of  having  major  or  minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes  had,  on 
average, significantly better glycaemic control with IAsp.  
Insulin doses 
The  mean  dose  of  basal  insulin  after  six  months  of  treatment  was  significantly  higher  in  Type  1 
diabetic subjects treated with IAsp compared to HI (p=0.0002). The mean dose of basal insulin was on 
average  7.4%  higher  in  the  IAsp  group  than  in  the  HI  group  in  036/USA,  and  10.3%  higher  in  the 
IAsp group than in the HI group in 035/EU. There was no difference between IAsp and HI treatment 
with respect to mean meal-related insulin dose after 6 months of treatment.  When the estimates of the 
IAsp-HI  differences  in  HbA1c  were  adjusted  for  differences  in  basal  insulin  dosing  at  baseline  and 
after 6 months, HbA1c with IAsp treatment was still significantly lower than with HI treatment in Type 
1  diabetic  patients  in  both  trials.  At  12  months,  mean  basal  insulin  doses  were  identical  between 
treatments  and  mean  daily  doses  of  IAsp  and  HI  remained  essentially  constant  over  the  entire 
treatment period. 
No  differences  in  meal-related  or  basal  insulin  dose  were  observed  between  treatment  in  Type  2 
diabetic subjects. 
Insulin Antibodies 
Insulin  antibodies  were  categorised  into  three  groups  according  to  their  insulin  binding  ability:  HI 
specific - only binding to HI; IAsp Specific - only binding to IAsp; cross-reacting antibodies - capable 
of binding to both HI and IAsp. Antibodies were measured by means of a radioimmunoassay (RIA) at 
baseline  and  three  months  (036/USA  and  037/USA),  and  after  six  months  (all  Phase  III  trials). 
Twelve-month  data  were  later  submitted  for  464  patients  on  IAsp  and  201  patients  on  HI 
(036ext/USA).  
11/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
HI and IAsp specific antibodies were absent in the majority of subjects. After six months of treatment, 
cross-reacting antibody titres were consistently higher than at baseline in the IAsp group, and similar 
or lower than at baseline in the HI group. Beyond 6 months, mean antibody titres decreased and at 12 
months had returned to baseline levels. At this timepoint, change in cross-reactive antibodies did not 
differ significantly between treatments. 
When  tested  at  6  months,  there  was  no  significant  correlation  between  the  percentage  of  antibodies 
(antibody titres) and the metabolic control or insulin doses reached during the studies. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure  
The cumulative number of subjects who were exposed to at least one dose of IAsp and/or HI in the 
controlled trials is presented by duration of exposure in Table 6. 
Table 6. Cumulative Number of Diabetic Subjects Exposed to IAsp and HI by 5 August 1998 – All 
Phase III Trials. 
Number of Subjects Exposed 
Duration of Exposurea 
= 1 month 
= 2 months 
= 3 months 
= 4 months 
= 5 months 
Type 1 Diabeticsb 
IAsp 
N 
1303 
1290 
1270 
1261 
1246 
1236 
870 
HI 
N 
644 
631 
623 
614 
608 
602 
447 
Type 2 Diabeticsc 
IAsp 
N 
91 
HI 
N 
91 
90 
89 
89 
89 
88 
89 
88 
86 
85 
84 
= 12 monthsd 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
one month = 30 days 
036/USA and 036ext/USA combined, and 035/EU and 050/EU, combined. 
037/USA. 
Includes limited safety data for 050/EU not presently included in the integrated database. 
A total of 1,303 Type 1 diabetic subjects and 91 Type 2 diabetic subjects were exposed to IAsp during 
the phase III development program. Due to the fact that monthly intervals between visits in the trial 
were not rigidly defined, not all subjects who completed 036ext/USA were treated for 12 x 30 days. 
Thus, a total of 49 subjects in the IAsp group and 20 in the HI group are not included in the category 
for ≥ 12 months.  
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Four deaths have been reported in the world-wide IAsp development programme up until 1 December 
1998, only one of these subjects was exposed to IAsp. Three of the deaths occurred in the phase III 
trials  (035/EU,  037/USA  and  050/EU)  and  one  occurred  in  a  phase  IIIb  trial.  All  four  deaths  were 
evaluated  by  investigators  as  being  unlikely  related  to  the  trial  products.  There  were  no  new  deaths 
reported in either of the extension trials. 
The overall incidence of withdrawals due to AEs during the IAsp Clinical Development Programme 
was  low.  In  the  phase  III  trials,  less  than  1%  of  Type  1  diabetic  subjects  in  either  treatment  group 
withdrew due to AEs. The AEs leading to withdrawals in both treatment groups are considered typical 
of the patient population studied (Table 7). There were no AE-related withdrawals reported for Type 2 
diabetic subjects in the IAsp group.  
12/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Adverse Events Leading to Withdrawal IAsp and HI Treatment in the Phase III Trials 035/EU 
and 036/USA combined 
Type 1 Diabetic Subjects 
Type 2 Diabetic Subjects 
Incidence of Events 
IAsp 
1303 
9 (<1%) 
HI 
644 
5 (<1%)  
1 
IAsp 
91 
0 
HI 
91 
3 (3%) 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
Preferred Terms 
Number of Subjects Exposed 
Number of subjects 
withdrawn due to AEs 
Angina pectoris 
Cerebrovascular disorder 
Colon carcinoma 
Coma hypoglycaemia 
Coronary artery disorder 
Fatigue 
Headache 
Hypoglycaemia 
Injury accidental 
Ketosis 
Larynx neoplasm malignant 
Myocardial infarction 
Nausea 
Neuropathy 
Urticaria 
Weight increase 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia 
A total of 592 major hypoglycaemic episodes were reported, mainly by Type 1 patients treated with IAsp 
in the phase III trials, compared with 317 major episodes in subjects treated with HI. The overall frequency 
distribution of major hypoglycaemic episodes in both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetic subjects was similar for 
IAsp  and  HI  treatments.  The  overall  rate  of  minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes  was  similar  between 
treatments.  
Relative Risk of Hypoglycaemic Episodes  
The  relative  risk  of  having  a  major  hypoglycaemic  episode  was  estimated  using  the  number  of  major 
hypoglycaemic episodes that occurred during each treatment as the endpoint. The estimated relative risk of 
major  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  adjusted  for  the  number  of  hypoglycaemic  episodes  during  the  run-in 
period, did not differ significantly from unity in either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetic patients.  
There  was  no  significant  difference  in  the  estimated  risk  of  minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes  between 
treatments in Type 1 diabetic subjects. For Type 2 diabetic subjects, the estimated risk of minor episodes 
was 15 % greater in the IAsp group than in the HI group, however, this difference was not significant. 
Diurnal Distribution of Hypoglycaemia 
The diurnal distribution of hypoglycaemic episodes during the treatment period was studied. Among Type 
1 diabetics, there were trends to fewer major hypoglycaemic episodes in the IAsp group during the night 
(midnight - 8:00 a.m.). This was not consistent between the two Phase III trials, however. There were too 
few major episodes reported for Type 2 diabetic subjects to distinguish any pattern. There was a tendency 
for minor episodes to occur more frequently in the HI group from midnight to 4 a.m., compared with IAsp 
in both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetic patients. 
The occurrence of major episodes in various time intervals after the last meal with short-acting insulin was 
generally distributed similarly for the IAsp group and the HI group. For both treatments, the proportion of 
subjects  and  the  number  of  major  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  peaked  in  the  interval  from  2  to  4  hours 
following a meal: 8% for the IAsp group versus 6% for the HI group. Three percent (3%) of the subjects in 
the IAsp group compared to 5% in the HI group had major hypoglycaemic episodes 4 to 6 hours after the 
meal when taking short-acting insulin before the meal.  
13/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equally  few major hypoglycaemic episodes  occurred in both treatment groups  (less than 1% of Type 1 
diabetic subjects) at 0-1 hour following injection.  
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory adverse events  of potential relevance were limited  to the development of IAsp-HI cross-
reactive antibodies.  
Conclusions on clinical efficacy and safety 
Pharmacological  trials  documented  IAsp  to  have  a  more  rapid  onset  and  shorter  duration  of  action, 
compared with HI. There were no indications of differences in glucose-lowering potency between HI 
and IAsp.  
Clinical  efficacy  and  safety  was  studied  mainly  in  three  six-month  trials  that  enrolled  patients  with 
long-standing type 1 and type 2 diabetes without major secondary complications.  
In two trials in type 1 diabetic patients, IAsp showed statistically significant superiority, compared with HI, 
regarding the primary endpoint, mean HbA1c at six months. The difference between IAsp and HI was small 
in both trials and of, at best, limited clinical relevance. Long-term data, available in a reasonable number of 
patients with type 1 diabetes indicate sustained efficacy of IAsp. In type 2 diabetic patients, treatment with 
IAsp was non-inferior to treatment with HI with respect to glycaemic control as measured by HbA1c after 6 
months of treatment.  
In  all  trials  in type 1 diabetic  patients, postprandial  blood glucose increments and mean maximal blood 
glucose levels were lower with IAsp, compared with HI. This is reasonably a reflection of the more rapid 
onset  of  action  of  IAsp.  In  type  2  diabetic  patients,  no  significant  relationships  were  observed  between 
diurnal blood glucose variations and the type of meal insulin used. 
In the only moderately well controlled populations studied, there was no consistent relationship between 
glycaemic control, measured as HbA1c and the incidence of hypoglycaemia. The slightly superior effect of 
IAsp on glycaemic control in type 1 diabetic subjects was not achieved at the expense of an increased risk 
of major or minor hypoglycaemic episodes, which occurred with similar incidence and diurnal variation 
irrespective of the type of meal insulin used. In type 2 diabetics, hypoglycaemic episodes were relatively 
few  and  without  obvious  relationship  to  glycaemic  control  or  type  of  insulin  used.  Apart  from 
hypoglycaemia, no specific, reasonably treatment related, clinical adverse reactions were observed. 
Laboratory adverse events were limited to the development of IAsp-HI cross-reactive antibodies, the 
mean titres of which increased significantly during the first six months of therapy in IAsp-treated, but 
not in HI-treated patients. After one year, antibody titres had returned to baseline levels and there were 
no  differences  between  treatment  groups.  There  is  currently  no  indication  of  clinically  relevant 
immunogenicity of IAsp. 
From  the  trials  performed,  it  is  considered  acceptably  documented  that  a  basal-bolus  regimen  including 
IAsp provides at least as good metabolic control, as when HI is used as the meal component, and that IAsp, 
in  comparison  with  HI,  does  not  increase  the  rate  of  severe  hypoglycaemia,  nor  alters  the  warning 
symptoms of hypoglycaemia. The lack of documentation of efficacy and safety beyond 6 months in type 2 
diabetes is noted as a deficiency, but is considered acceptably compensated for by the extended experience 
in type 1 diabetes. A comparative pharmacodynamic study vs. insulin lispro in diabetic patients could yield 
clinically valuable information and will be performed by the MAH as a post-marketing commitment. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Overall conclusions on quality, efficacy and safety and benefit/risk assessment 
The  quality  of  the  product  has  in  all  essential  parts  been  acceptably  documented.  The  applicant  has 
agreed to resolve remaining quality issues by providing additional data on an ongoing basis or within 
one year post marketing authorisation. 
Following  evaluation  of  the  preclinical  documentation,  it  was  concluded  that  IAsp  showed  the 
expected effects of an insulin product both in terms of primary pharmacodynamic effects and toxicity. 
With  regard  to  the  clinical  documentation,  it  was  concluded  that  IAsp  has  been  acceptably 
documented  as  a  fast-acting  insulin  that  provides  metabolic  control  comparable  with  that  of  soluble 
14/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
human  insulin  when  used  as  the  meal  component  of  a  basal/bolus  regimen  in  patients  with  diabetes 
mellitus. The safety profile of IAsp is considered comparable with that of soluble human insulin.  
When  considering  the  recommendations  of  use  as  defined  in  the  SPC,  the  benefit/risk  ratio  was 
regarded to be positive for NovoRapid.  
The Company has agreed  to study the pharmacodynamic characteristics of IAsp in comparison with 
insulin lispro.  
6. 
Post marketing experience 
Comparative pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic study with insulin lispro  
A trial was performed with the objective to compare the pharmacodynamic and the pharmacokinetic 
profiles of subcutaneously injected IAsp and insulin lispro. The pharmacodynamic effects in terms of 
blood glucose profiles are essentially similar with the two insulin analogues. Due to methodological 
difficulties,  the  specific  insulin  analogue  levels  could  not  be  determined  and,  thus,  a  strict 
pharmacokinetic  comparison  is  not  possible.  It  can  be  noted,  however,  that  the  post  injection,  post-
prandial profiles for total insulin concentrations (the sum of basal human insulin and insulin analogue 
levels) were similar for the two analogues. 
Postprandial administration 
The postprandial administration of IAsp was studied in a single-centre, double-blind, double-dummy, 
4  period,  crossover  study  performed  in  20,  young  to  middle-aged  patients  with  type-1  diabetes 
compared  with  soluble HI. In  randomised order, HI  was tested at 15 minutes before a  breakfast test 
meal  and  immediately  before  the  meal.  IAsp  was  given  immediately  before  the  meal  or  15  minutes 
postprandially. 
The  administration  of  IAsp  15  minutes  after  a  meal  represents  suboptimal  use  of  the  product  but 
postprandial  administered  IAsp  is  not  inferior  to  suboptimally/incorrectly  used  HI.  Occasional 
postprandial  use  of  fast-acting  insulin  may  be  practical  and  it  does  not  create  any  substantial  health 
concern. Therefore, a statement was included in section 4.2 to reflect that when necessary, NovoRapid 
can be given soon after a meal. 
Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion (CSII) 
A pump system employs an electronic pump that can be programmed to deliver IAsp continuously and 
as  a  bolus.  From  a  clinical  point  of  view,  the  results  from  two  studies  provided  sufficient  data  to 
conclude that IAsp could be used for continuous subcutaneous infusion in compatible pump systems 
One study was an open-label, single centre study, where 30 patients were randomised 2:1 to receive 
either IAsp or buffered HI by continuous subcutaneous infusion. The patients were treated for 6 weeks 
with  infusion  set  changes  every  48  hours.  The last 7th week the  patients used  the same  infusion set 
during  the  whole  week.  Insulin  doses,  efficacy  of  treatment,  safety  and  pump  compatibility  were 
evaluated. In this small study there was an insignificant tendency for more pump flow obstructions in 
the IAsp group. However, the frequency of catheter changes was the same in the 2 groups. There was 
a tendency for a higher proportion of basal to bolus doses in the IAsp group. Otherwise, there were no 
differences in clinical outcome.   
Another  study  was  a  multicentre,  open-label  study  where  146  patients  were  randomised  to  IAsp, 
buffered  human  insulin  or  insulin  lispro  on  a  2:2:1  basis  and  they  were  treated  for  16  weeks.  The 
within-patient blood glucose variability did not differ between the 3 groups. 
The mean daily insulin doses (basal, bolus and total) remained unchanged for each treatment group. 
The study results supported the conclusion that IAsp given subcutaneously in a suitable pump system 
can  maintain  good  glucose  control  over  time.  The  number  of  adverse  events  did not differ from the 
expected, as compared to other insulin preparations approved for use in external pumps.   
Hypoglycaemic episodes 
A  class-labelling  statement  for  fast-acting  insulins  was  introduced  in  the  SPC  and  PL  with  the 
following  wording  “A  consequence  of  the  pharmacodynamics  of  rapidly  acting  insulin  analogues  is 
15/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
that  if  hypoglycaemia  occurs,  it  may  occur  earlier  after  an  injection  when  compared  with  soluble 
human insulin”. 
In  addition,  the  Product  Information  was  updated  to  reflect  a  reduced  incidence  of  nocturnal 
hypoglycaemia,  compared  with  human  insulin  with  the  following  statement:  “Clinical  trials  in 
patients with type 1 diabetes have demonstrated a reduced risk of nocturnal hypoglycaemia with IAsp 
compared  with  soluble  human  insulin.  The  risk  of  day-time  hypoglycaemia  was  not  significantly 
increase”. 
The data studying the incidence of major hypoglycaemic episodes included: 
- 
- 
-A double-blind, cross-over trial comparing IAsp and HI in a multi-dose regimen over 16-week 
study periods with intervening 4-week washout in type1 diabetic patients. The primary endpoint 
was incidence of major hypoglycaemic episodes.  
-An  analysis  of  pooled  data  from  two  six-month,  open  label  clinical  trials  in  type1  diabetic 
patients, where IAsp was compared with HI in a basal/mealtime bolus regimen. 
Intravenous administration 
IV administration (bolus or infusion) of soluble human insulin (HI) is well-established therapy e.g. in 
situations of diabetic ketoacidosis and/or severe hyperglycaemia, during acute illness, and during and 
after  surgery.  The  short-acting  insulin  analogues  are  specifically  engineered  to  provide  improved 
absorption kinetics after SC administration and cannot be expected to have any inherent benefit after 
IV administration, relative to human insulin. Nevertheless, the CHMP has accepted utility in principle 
for  IV  use  of  short-acting  insulin  analogues,  e.g.  for patients  already established on such  therapy or 
with ”insulin allergy”. 
The experience with IV administration of IAsp is studied in to two pharmacodynamic trials. Although 
no  clinical  trial  data  have  been  provided  in  the  intended  target  population,  the  documentation  is 
considered sufficient to support the essential characteristics of glucodynamic response and autonomic 
and hormonal counter-regulation to hypoglycaemia after IV administration. In all these respects, IAsp 
could  be  considered  equivalent  to  HI.  Therefore,  the  SPC  and  PL  were  updated  to  reflect  that 
“NovoRapid may also be administered intravenously.” 
Updating the Undesirable effects sections in labelling. 
Sections “Undesirable effects” in the SPC and ”Possible side effects” in the package leaflets have been 
revised and updated with the frequencies of adverse drug reactions from clinical trials as requested by 
CHMP.  Diabetic  retinopathy  and  painful  neuropathy  have  been  included  as  ADRs.  Diabetic 
retinopathy  and  painful  neuropathy  are  normal  complications  of  diabetes  mellitus  and  not  related  to 
insulin treatment. However, intensification of insulin therapy with abrupt improvement in glycaemic 
control may be associated with worsening of diabetic retinopathy and temporary painful neuropathy. 
Readability 
Readability test have been performed on package leaflets of the Novo Nordisk insulin products and the 
results  applied  to  the  NovoRapid  package  leaflets.  Based  on  the  results  from  the  readability  tests 
CHMP has accepted to include an extra heading (/What to do in an emergency”) and a revised format 
for headings as compared to the QRD template. 
Benefit/Risk assessment 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  NovoRapid  is  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
diabetes mellitus. 
16/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
