01 September 2017 
EMA/763977/2017 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report  
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Active substances: human coagulation factor VIII; efmoroctocog alfa; 
moroctocog alfa; octocog alfa; simoctocog alfa; susoctocog alfa; turoctocog 
alfa 
Procedure number(s):   EMEA/H/A-31/1448 
Advate EMEA/H/C/0520/A31/0078 
Elocta EMEA/H/C/3964/A31/0006  
Helixate Nexgen EMEA/H/C/0276/A31/0178  
Iblias EMEA/H/C/4147/A31/0002  
Kogenate Bayer EMEA/H/C/0275/A31/0185  
Kovaltry EMEA/H/C/3825/A31/0004  
NovoEight EMEA/H/C/2719/A31/0014  
Nuwiq EMEA/H/C/2813/A31/0015  
Obizur EMEA/H/C/2792/A31/0003  
Refacto AF EMEA/H/C/0232/A31/0134  
Voncento EMEA/H/C/2493/A31/0022  
Note:  
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Clinical discussion ................................................................................................. 4 
3. Expert consultation ................................................................................. 8 
4. Benefit-risk balance ................................................................................ 9 
4.1. Initial benefit-risk balance assessment .................................................................... 9 
4.2. Re-examination procedure ................................................................................... 10 
4.2.1. Detailed grounds for re-examination submitted by LFB Biomedicaments ................. 10 
4.2.2. PRAC discussion on grounds for re-examination .................................................. 11 
4.2.3. Conclusion on the benefit-risk balance following the re-examination procedure ....... 13 
5. Risk management .................................................................................. 14 
5.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................... 14 
6. Grounds for Recommendation following the re-examination procedure 15 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 2/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
In May 2016, an open-label, randomised controlled trial aimed at addressing the incidence of inhibitors 
between the two classes (pdFVIII vs. rFVIII products) was published in the New England Journal of 
Medicine1. This trial, known as the SIPPET study (“Survey of Inhibitors in Plasma-Product Exposed 
Toddlers”) was conducted to evaluate the relative risk of inhibitors in patients treated with pdFVIII 
compared to rFVIII. It found that patients treated with rFVIII products had an 87 % higher incidence of 
all inhibitors than those treated with pdFVIII (which contained VWF) (hazard ratio, 1.87; 95% CI, 1.17 
to 2.96).  
On 6 July 2016 Paul-Ehrlich-Institut Germany initiated a referral under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to assess the impact of 
the results of the SIPPET study on the benefit-risk balance of human and recombinant coagulation 
factor VIII containing medicinal products and to issue a recommendation on whether the relevant 
marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Treatment of congenital haemophilia is currently based on prophylactic or on-demand replacement 
therapy with coagulation factor VIII (FVIII). FVIII replacement therapy can be generally categorised 
into two broad classes of products; plasma derived (pdFVIII) and recombinant (rFVIII) FVIII. A wide 
range of individual pdFVIII and rFVIII products are authorised for use in the European Union.  
A major complication of FVIII therapy is the occurrence of IgG alloantibodies (inhibitors) that 
neutralise FVIII activity, causing loss of bleeding control. Treatment of patients who have developed 
inhibitors requires careful individual management and can be resistant to therapy.  
Treatment with both pdFVIII and rFVIII can lead to development of inhibitors (tested with the 
Nijmegen method of the Bethesda assay and defined as ≥0.6 Bethesda units (BU) for “a low titre” 
inhibitor and >5 BU for a “high-titre” inhibitor). 
The occurrence of inhibitor development in haemophilia A patients receiving FVIII products mostly 
occurs in previously-untreated patients (PUPs) or minimally treated patients (MTPs) who are still within 
the first 50 days of exposure (EDs) to the treatment. Inhibitors are less likely to occur in previously-
treated patients (PTPs).  
The known risk factors for inhibitor development can be grouped into patient and treatment-related 
factors:  
• 
Patient-related risk factors include type of F8 gene mutation (e.g. null and large mutations 
carry highest risk), severity of haemophilia (those with severe haemophilia A are at highest 
risk), ethnicity (studies have suggested that Caucasians have a lower risk than other 
ethnicities), family history of inhibitor development and possibly HLA-DR (Human Leukocyte 
Antigen - antigen D Related) constitution.  
1 F. Peyvandi et al. “A Randomized Trial of Factor VIII and Neutralizing Antibodies in Hemophilia A” N Engl J Med. 2016 May 
26;374(21):2054-64)   
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 3/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
• 
Treatment-related factors include intensity of exposure, number of exposure days (EDs), on 
demand treatment posing a greater risk than prophylaxis, particularly in the context of danger 
signals such as trauma, surgery, and young age at first treatment poses a higher risk.  
Whether there are significant differences in the risk of inhibitor development between different types of 
FVIII replacement product remains an area of uncertainty. Differences between products in each FVIII 
class and consequently differential risks between individual products, are biologically plausible. The 
pdFVIII class consists of products with or without Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), and those with VWF 
contain a range of VWF levels. Some experimental studies have suggested a role for VWF in protecting 
FVIII epitopes from recognition by the antigen-presenting cells, thereby reducing immunogenicity, 
although this remains theoretical. VWF is not present in rFVIII, but there is significant heterogeneity 
within the rFVIII class for instance due to the different manufacturing processes used, with a wide 
range of products from different manufacturers produced over the past 20 years. These different 
manufacturing processes (including the different cell lines used to engineer the rFVIII products) can in 
theory lead to differential immunogenicity. 
Further to the recent publication on the SIPPET study, the MAHs were requested to assess the potential 
impact of the results of this study and other relevant safety data on inhibitor development in PUPs on 
the MA of their FVIII product including consideration on risk minimisation measures.  
The lead authors of the SIPPET study were also invited to respond to a list of questions regarding the 
study methods and findings and to present their conclusions at the February 2017 PRAC plenary 
meeting. Information submitted by the lead authors of the SIPPET study during the course of the 
referral was also taken into consideration by PRAC in reaching its conclusion.  
2.2.  Clinical discussion 
Published observational studies 
The responses of MAHs referred to a range of published observational studies (the CANAL, RODIN, 
FranceCoag, UKHCDO, amongst others) which have sought to evaluate any differential risks of inhibitor 
development between the classes of pdFVIII and rFVIII, as well as any differential risk of inhibitor 
development between products within the rFVIII class.  
These studies have yielded different results and suffer from the limitations of observational studies, 
and in particular from possible selection bias. The risk of inhibitor development is multifactorial (aside 
from any putative product-specific risk), and such studies have not always been able to collect 
information on relevant covariates and to adjust the analyses accordingly; residual confounding is 
inevitably a significant uncertainty. Furthermore, over time there have been changes in manufacturing 
process of individual products and changes in treatment regimens between centres, hence “like for 
like” comparisons between products is not always possible. These factors make control of such studies 
and interpretation of the results challenging. 
The CANAL study2 found no evidence of a class difference, including pdFVIII products with considerable 
quantities of von Willebrand factor; for ‘clinically relevant’ inhibitors the adjusted hazard ratio was 0.7 
(95% CI 0.4-1.1), and for high titre inhibitors (≥5 BU) was 0.8 (95% CI 0.4-1.3).  
2 http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/109/11/4648.full.pdf 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The RODIN/Pednet study3 also found no evidence of a class difference in inhibitor risk between all 
pdFVIII vs all rFVIII; for ‘clinically relevant’ inhibitors the adjusted hazard ratio was 0.96 (95% CI 
0.62-1.49), and for high titre inhibitors (≥5 BU/ml) was 0.95 (95% CI 0.56-1.61). However, the study 
found evidence of an increased risk of inhibitors (all and high titre) for 2nd generation rFVIII octocog 
alfa (Kogenate FS/Helixate NexGen) compared with 3rd generation rFVIII octocog alfa (which was 
driven solely by data for Advate). 
This signal of significant increased risk of inhibitors (all and high titre) for 2nd compared with 3rd 
generation rFVIII then became the focus of two European reviews. First, in relation to the 
RODIN/Pednet findings, the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) / Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) - EMA/781158/20134) concluded in 2013 within a referral 
under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 that the data were not sufficiently robust to support a 
conclusion that Kogenate FS/Helixate NexGen was associated with an increased risk of developing 
factor VIII inhibitors compared with other products. The PRAC/ CHMP considered that when all the 
available data were taken into account, they were consistent with the general clinical experience that 
most inhibitors develop within the first 20 days of exposure.  
Two studies were then published in 2014, the UKHCDO and FranceCoag studies, that further evaluated 
the ‘signal’ generated by the RODIN/Pednet study. These studies evaluated only rFVIII products, and 
did not include pdFVIII products.  
Similar to RODIN/Pednet, the UKHCDO study found a significant increased risk of inhibitors (all and 
high titre) for Kogenate FS/Helixate NexGen (2nd generation rFVIII) compared to Advate (3rd 
generation rFVIII). Although this became non-significant when UK patients (also included in the 
RODIN/Pednet study were excluded. There was also evidence for an increased risk with Refacto AF 
(another 3rd generation rFVIII) vs Advate, but only for all inhibitor development. Like the UKHCDO 
study, the FranceCoag study also found no statistically significant increased risk for any rFVIII products 
vs Advate when French patients (also in the RODIN/Pednet study) were excluded.  
The findings of UKHCDO and FranceCoag studies prompted a raw data meta-analysis of all three 
studies (RODIN/Pednet, UKHCDO and FranceCoag studies). The PRAC assessed this meta-analysis in a 
signal procedure in 2016. A total of 1,102 PUPs (481 RODIN, 293 FranceCoag and 328 UKHCDO) for 
whom data on exposure to recombinant factor VIII are available were included in this meta-analysis. 
The meta-analysis suggested a trend towards an increase of high-titre inhibitor development and all 
inhibitor development with Kogenate Bayer compared to Advate. Overall, 147 out of 400 PUPs treated 
with Kogenate Bayer / Helixate Nexgen (37%) developed inhibitory antibodies, of which 88 (22%) had 
high-titre inhibitors. For Advate, a total of 100 out of 385 PUPs (26%) treated with the medicine 
developed inhibitors, of which 57 (15%) had high-titre inhibitors. The percentages are similar for the 
study period from 2004 onwards when both products were licensed in parallel. A similar trend was also 
observed for other recombinant factor VIII products. However, the results are even less pronounced 
due to sample size constraints.  
Although the meta-analysis was well conducted, the PRAC noted several limitations including the 
possibility of residual confounding in the three studies, which cannot be corrected for in the meta-
analysis. Furthermore, PRAC acknowledged that inhibitor development is multifactorial, where a 
number of parameters may have an impact on the incidence in PUPs, and that adjusting for all of these 
factors in the analyses may not be possible. PRAC also noted that there has been no signal for a similar 
3 Gouw SC et al. PedNet and RODIN Study Group. Factor VIII products and inhibitor development in severe hemophilia A. N 
Engl J Med 2013; 368: 231-9. - http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/121/20/4046.full.pdf 
4 EMA/781158/2013 http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Press_release/2013/12/WC500158681.pdf 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
trend of increases in inhibitor incidences with Kogenate Bayer in PTPs in other studies, a population 
where the experience with this product is large.  
It was noted that the PRAC had agreed in 2016 that the currently available evidence does not confirm 
that Kogenate Bayer/Helixate NexGen is associated with an increased risk of factor VIII inhibitors, 
compared with other recombinant factor VIII products in previously untreated patients 
(EMA/PRAC/332348/20165). These conclusions were consistent with the previous conclusions drawn by 
the PRAC in 2013. 
MAH-sponsored studies 
The MAHs provided an analysis of low and high titre inhibitor development in PUPs with severe 
haemophilia A (FVIII < 1%) from all clinical trials and observational studies conducted with their 
products, along with critical discussion on the limitations of these studies.   
The data came from a very wide range of heterogenous studies across products and over time. Many 
of these studies were small and not specifically designed to evaluate the inhibitor risk in PUPs with 
severe haemophilia A. The studies were mostly single arm and do not provide data to perform 
comparative analysis (either between pdFVIII and rFVIII as a class comparison, or within the rFVIII 
class). However, the general estimates of inhibitor rates from these studies for individual products are 
broadly in line with the findings from large observational studies. 
Of the larger and more relevant studies for pdFVIII products, inhibitor rates observed (often not stated 
if high or low titre) ranged from 3.5 to 33%, with most around 10-25%. However, in many cases little 
information was provided on the methods, patient populations and nature of the inhibitors to assess 
the information in the context of more recent published data. For most rFVIII products, newer and 
more relevant information from clinical trials in PUPs is available. Inhibitor rates in these studies range 
from 15 to 38% for all inhibitors and 9 to 22.6% for high titre inhibitors; i.e. within the range of ‘very 
common’.  
The PRAC also considered interim results submitted by the MAHs from ongoing studies from CSL 
(CRD019_5001) and Bayer (Leopold KIDS, 13400, part B.). 
Furthermore, the PRAC examined clinical trials and the scientific literature for de novo inhibitors in 
PTPs. The analysis demonstrated that the frequency of inhibitor development is much lower in PTPs 
compared to PUPs. The available data showed that in many studies including the EUHASS registry 
(Iorio A, 20176; Fischer K, 20157) the frequency could be classified as “uncommon”.  
The SIPPET study 
The SIPPET study was an open-label, randomized, multi-centre, multi-national trial investigating the 
incidence of neutralising allo-antibodies in patients with severe congenital haemophilia A (plasma FVIII 
5 EMA/PRAC/332348/2016 http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Report/2016/05/WC500206411.pdf 
6 Iorio A, Barbara AM, Makris M, Fischer K, Castaman G, Catarino C, Gilman E, Kavakli K, Lambert T, Lassila R, Lissitchkov 
T, Mauser-Bunschoten E, Mingot-Castellano ME0, Ozdemir N1, Pabinger I, Parra R1, Pasi J, Peerlinck K, Rauch A6, Roussel-
Robert V, Serban M, Tagliaferri A, Windyga J, Zanon E: Natural history and clinical characteristics of inhibitors in previously 
treated haemophilia A patients: a case series. Haemophilia. 2017 Mar;23(2):255-263. doi: 10.1111/hae.13167. Epub 2017 
Feb 15. 
7 Fischer K, Lassila R, Peyvandi F, Calizzani G, Gatt A, Lambert T, Windyga J, Iorio A, Gilman E, Makris M; EUHASS 
participants Inhibitor development in haemophilia according to concentrate. Four-year results from the European 
HAemophilia Safety Surveillance (EUHASS) project. Thromb Haemost. 2015 May;113(5):968-75. doi: 10.1160/TH14-10-
0826. Epub 2015 Jan 8. 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
concentration<1%) with either the use of pdFVIII or rFVIII concentrates. Eligible patients (<6 years, 
male, severe haemophilia A, no previous treatment with any FVIII concentrate or only minimal 
treatment with blood components) were included from 42 sites. The primary and secondary outcomes 
assessed in the study were the incidence of all inhibitors (≥0.4 BU/mL) and the incidence of high-titre 
inhibitors (≥5 BU/mL), respectively. 
Inhibitors developed in 76 patients, 50 of whom had high-titre inhibitors (≥5 BU). Inhibitors developed 
in 29 of the 125 patients treated with pdFVIII (20 patients had high-titre inhibitors) and in 47 of the 
126 patients treated with rFVIII (30 patients had high-titre inhibitors). The cumulative incidence of all 
inhibitors was 26.8% (95% confidence interval [CI], 18.4 to 35.2) with pdFVIII and 44.5% (95% CI, 
34.7 to 54.3) with rFVIII; the cumulative incidence of high-titre inhibitors was 18.6% (95% CI, 11.2 to 
26.0) and 28.4% (95% CI, 19.6 to 37.2), respectively. In Cox regression models for the primary end 
point of all inhibitors, rFVIII was associated with an 87% higher incidence than pdFVIII (hazard ratio, 
1.87; 95% CI, 1.17 to 2.96). This association was consistently observed in multivariable analysis. For 
high-titre inhibitors, the hazard ratio was 1.69 (95% CI, 0.96 to 2.98).  
The PRAC considered that as a prospective randomised trial, the SIPPET study avoided many of the 
design limitations of the observational and registry-based studies undertaken so far to evaluate the 
risk of inhibitor development in PUPs. However the PRAC is of the view that there are uncertainties 
with regards to the findings of the SIPPET study which preclude the conclusion that there is a higher 
risk of inhibitor development in PUPs treated with rFVIII products than pdFVIII products studied in this 
clinical trial, as detailed below:   
• 
The SIPPET analysis does not allow for product-specific conclusions to be made as it relates 
only to a small number of certain FVIII products. The study was not designed and powered to 
generate sufficient product-specific data and, therefore, to draw any conclusions on the risk of 
inhibitor development for individual products. In particular, only 13 patients (10% of the FVIII 
arm) received a third generation rFVIII product. However, despite the lack of robust evidence 
to support differential risks between rFVIII products, differential risks cannot be excluded, as 
this is a heterogeneous product class with differences in composition and formulations. 
Therefore, there is a high degree of uncertainty around extrapolating the SIPPET findings to 
the entire rFVIII class, particularly for more recently-authorised rFVIII products which were not 
included in the SIPPET trial.  
• 
• 
The SIPPET study has methodological limitations, with particular uncertainty around whether 
the randomisation process (block size of 2) may have introduced a selection bias in the study.   
There were also deviations from the final protocol and statistical analysis plan. The statistical 
concerns include the fact that no pre-specified primary analysis has been published and the 
fact that the study was stopped early following the publication of the RODIN study indicating 
that Kogenate FS might be associated with an increased risk of inhibitor formation. Although 
this could not have been prevented, an early termination of an open label trial raises the 
possibility of investigator bias and inflation of the probability of detecting an effect that is not 
present. 
• 
Treatment regimens in EU are different from those in the SIPPET study. The relevance for 
clinical practice in the EU (and therefore for the products subject to this procedure) is therefore 
questioned. It is uncertain whether the findings of SIPPET can be extrapolated to the risk of 
inhibitors in PUPs in current clinical practice in the EU as treatment modality and intensity have 
been suggested as risk factors for inhibitor development in previous studies. Importantly, the 
EU SmPCs do not include modified prophylaxis (as defined in the SIPPET study) as an 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
authorised posology, and the impact of the apparent imbalance in the unspecified other 
combinations of treatment modality on the SIPPET findings is unclear. Therefore, it remains 
uncertain whether the same differential risk of inhibitor development observed in the SIPPET 
study would be apparent in patient populations treated in routine care in other countries where 
the modality of treatment (i.e. primary prophylaxis) is different from that in the study. The 
additional points of clarification provided by the SIPPET authors do not fully resolve this 
uncertainty. 
Having considered the abovementioned results from SIPPET, the published literature and all the 
information submitted by the MAHs, as well as the views expressed by experts expressed at the ad-hoc 
expert meeting, the PRAC concluded that: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Inhibitor development is an identified risk with both pdFVIII and rFVIII products. Although the 
clinical studies for some individual products have identified limited numbers of cases of 
inhibitor development, these tend to be small studies with methodological limitations, or 
studies not adequately designed to evaluate this risk. 
The FVIII products are heterogenous, and the plausibility of different rates of inhibitor 
development between individual products cannot be excluded.  
Individual studies have identified a wide range of inhibitor development across products, but 
the direct comparability of study results is questionable based on diversity of study methods 
and patient populations over time.  
The SIPPET study was not designed to evaluate the risk of inhibitor development for individual 
products, and included a limited number of FVIII products. Due to heterogeneity across 
products, there is considerable uncertainty in extrapolating the findings of studies that have 
evaluated only class effects to individual products; and particularly to products (including more 
recently authorised products) which are not included in such studies. 
Finally, the PRAC noted that to date most studies evaluating a differential risk of inhibitor 
development between classes of FVIII products suffer from a variety of potential 
methodological limitations and based on the available data considered there is no clear and 
consistent evidence to suggest differences in relative risk between classes of FVIII products. 
Specifically, the findings from the SIPPET study, as well as those from the individual clinical 
trials and observational studies included in the MAH responses, are not sufficient to confirm 
any consistent statistically and clinically meaningful differences in inhibitor risk between the 
rFVIII and pdFVIII product classes. 
Further to the assessment of the totality of the responses submitted by the MAH for susoctocog alfa 
(Obizur), the PRAC is of the opinion that the outcome of this article 31 referral procedure does not 
apply to this product in view of the indication of Obizur (acquired haemophilia A due to inhibitory 
antibodies to endogenous FVIII) and the different target population. 
3.  Expert consultation  
The PRAC consulted an ad hoc expert group on 22 February 2017.  
The PRAC considered the views expressed by experts during an ad-hoc meeting. The expert group was 
of the view that the relevant available data sources have been considered. The expert group suggested 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that further data are needed to establish if there are clinically relevant differences in frequency of 
inhibitor development between different factor VIII products and that, in principle, such data should be 
collected separately for individual products, as degree of immunogenicity will be difficult to generalise 
across the classes of products (i.e. recombinant vs. plasma-derived). 
The experts also agreed that the degree of immunogenicity of different products was adequately 
described overall with the amendments to the SmPC proposed by the PRAC highlighting the clinical 
relevance of inhibitor development (in particular low compared to high titre inhibitors), as well as the  
frequency of ‘very common’ in PUPs and ‘uncommon’ in PTPs. The experts also suggested studies 
which could further characterise the immunogenic properties of the factor VIII medicinal products (e.g. 
mechanistic, observational studies).   
4.  Benefit-risk balance 
4.1.  Initial benefit-risk balance assessment 
Based on the current evidence from the SIPPET study, as well as data from the individual clinical trials 
and observational studies included in the MAH responses, and the views expressed by the experts of 
the ad-hoc expert meeting, the PRAC agreed that the current evidence does not provide clear and 
consistent evidence of any statistically and clinically meaningful differences in inhibitor risk between 
rFVIII and pdFVIII products. No conclusions can be drawn on any role of VWF in protecting against 
inhibitor development. 
Given these are heterogenous products, this does not preclude individual products being associated 
with an increased risk of inhibitor development in ongoing or future PUP studies. 
Individual studies have identified a wide range of inhibitor frequency in PUPs across products, and the 
SIPPET study was not designed to differentiate between individual products in each class. Due to very 
different study methods and patient populations that have been studied over time, and inconsistent 
findings across studies, the PRAC found that the totality of evidence does not support a conclusion that 
recombinant factor VIII medicines, as a class, poses a greater risk of inhibitor development than the 
class derived from plasma. 
Besides, the PRAC noted that several FVIII products currently include in their product information 
reference to data from study results which do not allow a definite conclusion on the inhibitor risk for 
individual products. As the evidence suggests that all human FVIII products carry a risk of inhibitor 
development, within the frequency of ‘very common’ and ‘uncommon’ for PUPs and PTPs respectively, 
the PRAC recommends that the SmPCs should be aligned with these frequencies unless justified by 
product specific data. 
In view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Factor VIII products 
indicated as for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital 
factor VIII deficiency), remains favourable subject to the changes to the product information agreed 
(section 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC).  
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.  Re-examination procedure 
Following the adoption of the PRAC recommendation in May 2017, a re-examination request was 
received from one of the MAHs involved in the procedure, LFB Biomedicaments, on 26 May 2017. The 
detailed grounds for re-examination from LFB Biomedicaments, were received on 5 July 2017. 
4.2.1.  Detailed grounds for re-examination submitted by LFB 
Biomedicaments 
The grounds for re-examination of the PRAC recommendation as submitted by LFB Biomedicaments 
are summarised below: 
Evidence from the SIPPET study 
LFB Biomedicaments claimed that SIPPET study, which is the first randomised controlled trial (RCT) 
designed as a superiority study, and published in the peer-reviewed New England Journal of Medicine 
(NEJM), demonstrates results that are consistent with that of other publications presenting 
multivariable analyses or adjustment for cofounders. In addition, LFB Biomedicaments considered that 
SIPPET publication brings an important piece of new scientific knowledge that needs to be taken into 
account, although some reservations might be made on extrapolation to single FVIII products. 
LFB Biomedicaments states that SIPPET study has shown a higher risk in inhibitor development of the 
recombinant FVIII products as compared to plasma-derived ones and LFB Biomedicaments believes 
that not reflecting this information in the product information of human and recombinant coagulation 
factor VIII containing medicinal products would lead the prescribers to be prompted to prescribe 
recombinant products, having their patients losing a chance to minimise inhibitor development. 
Required level of evidence from inhibitor development studies 
LFB Biomedicaments agrees with the May 2017 PRAC Recommendation of requesting specific 
prospective studies for new factor VIII products, although the feasibility of such PUPs studies is to be 
assessed. The MAH’s view is that not only clinical trials would bring relevant information on the risk of 
inhibitor development but also post-marketing studies, whether prospective retrospective, 
interventional or non-interventional.  
LFB Biomedicaments claimed that most of pdFVIII products were developed before the implementation 
of the paediatric regulation and most of rFVIII products after, and thus, the choice of this milestone is 
thought to introduce a severe bias for the selection of data allowed to be mentioned in the SmPCs. 
PUPs population is rare and thus, the statistical power in case of specific interventional clinical study is 
difficult to reach. It is also LFB Biomedicament’s view that the PIP process does not bring any further 
assurance of the robustness of the data in the specific context of inhibitor occurrence analysis (as they 
have low statistical power), but instead brings a bias in favour of the Factor VIII recombinant medicinal 
products.     
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk communication of product-specific data on inhibitor development  
LFB Biomedicaments does not agree with the removal of reference to data from study results currently 
included in sections 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPCs, and consequently the removal of the results on the 
incidence of inhibitors from the LFB Retrospective study from the SmPC of Factane, as they consider 
these data useful for the prescribers in order to inform the patients about the inhibitor development 
risk. 
Furthermore, LFB Biomedicaments argues that the absence of such information in the SmPCs for 
plasma-derived products will not give the chance to prescribers to compare inhibitor development 
incidence of individual products or across the two classes of products (recombinant and plasma 
derived). This would attract prescribers towards products with PUPs studies mentioned in their SmPC 
over products without mention of PUP study.  
4.2.2.  PRAC discussion on grounds for re-examination 
The PRAC carefully considered the detailed grounds for re-examination by LFB Biomedicaments 
together with the underlying data for these grounds. 
Evidence from the SIPPET study 
While it is acknowledged that SIPPET study is a large randomized trial of interest, important 
uncertainties on the methodology and the results remain. Indeed several weaknesses and bias are 
noted such as the potentially biased patient selection due to randomisation with block size, the choice 
of products and centres and the central laboratory testing of all samples. 
Also, important concerns were raised on the extrapolation of the results to the wide range of existing 
plasma-derived and recombinant FVIII medicines. Only a total of 8 products (4 plasma-derived and 4 
recombinant factor VIII medicinal products) were included in the SIPPET study.  
Besides, the important variability of the two classes of FVIII products (composition, FVIII activity, VWF 
content and conformation, glycosylation, HCP or impurities …) make it impossible to draw a general 
conclusion on a class level. 
PRAC also considered that a differential class-specific risk for the full range of the authorised medicinal 
products would need to be based on robust evidence that would allow assuming homogeneity within 
each of the two classes of pdFVIII- and the rFVIII-products, respectively.  
Considering all these uncertainties, the PRAC maintains its view that the results of the SIPPET study 
are not suitable to draw conclusion on difference in the risk of inhibitor development across the class of 
products and therefore PRAC did not support the mentioning of these results in the SmPCs of 
corresponding medicinal products. 
During the re-examination procedure, additional information from the SIPPET authors were submitted 
to PRAC. PRAC considered that the additional data submitted did not impact its conclusions on the 
results of the SIPPET studies and the limitations mentioned above.  
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication on risk of inhibitor development  
With regards to the grounds claimed by LFB Biomedicaments regarding the level of information to be 
included in the product information and the communication on the risk of inhibitor development, PRAC 
considered that standardised information on the frequency for FVIII products in PUP and PTP should be 
reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC, and only clinical studies providing relevant product-specific data 
(such as a specific frequency in PUP or PTP differing from the one stated in section 4.8 of the initial 
PRAC recommendation) should be reflected in the SmPC. This will ensure prescribers have access to 
robust and reliable information on the frequency of inhibitor development in the section 4.8 of the 
SmPC. 
The PRAC maintained its conclusions that all human FVIII products carry a risk of inhibitor 
development, within the frequency of ‘very common’ and ‘uncommon’ for PUPs and PTPs respectively, 
and recommended that the SmPCs should be aligned with these frequencies, unless justified by robust 
product specific data, and that current references to study results on risk of inhibitor development in 
the product information of some FVIII products do not allow a definite conclusion for individual 
products and should therefore be deleted.  
The above is without prejudice to the legal provisions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
(‘Paediatric Regulation’), as acknowledged by the PRAC.  
On the specific retrospective study for Factane, PRAC considered that the relevance of the results from 
the retrospective study is not demonstrated due to several limitations in the parameters used in the 
study and to some changes in clinical practices and therefore PRAC maintained its previous conclusion 
that these results are not suitable to be mentioned in the SmPC of Factane. 
Overall, the PRAC maintains its conclusions that standardised information on the frequency for FVIII 
products in PUP and PTP should be reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC, unless another frequency 
range for a specific medicinal product is demonstrated by robust clinical studies for which the results 
would be summarised in section 5.1.  
Expert consultation  
The PRAC consulted an ad hoc expert group on 3 August 2017 in particular to discuss whether the 
proposed changes to the product information, coupled with independent clinical guidance, provided an 
adequate level of information for prescribers and patients about the risk of inhibitor development 
associated with Factor VIII medicinal products. All data available, including all submitted data 
belonging to the SIPPET study, were considered by the expert group.  
Overall, the expert group supported the PRAC initial conclusions that based on all available data no 
conclusion could be drawn on differences in the risk of inhibitor development between plasma derived 
and recombinant factor VIII medicines. The group also agreed that the proposed product information 
provides an adequate level of information to appropriately communicate to prescribers and patients 
about the risk of inhibitor development. No additional communication, on risk factors for inhibitor 
development beyond the product information or any additional risk minimisation measures was 
considered as necessary by the expert group. 
The expert group also agreed that specific risk factors for inhibitor development should not be stated in 
the product information considering that there is no evidence to suggest prompt changes to the clinical 
management, e.g. additional monitoring of patients or choice of particular product.  
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The group also agreed that specific data about frequency of inhibitors for each product should not be 
included in the SmPC as the available studies are not adequately powered to draw precise conclusions 
on the absolute frequency for each product or on the relative frequency of inhibitors between products.  
The experts also expressed the importance of adherence to the dosing and dose adjustment 
recommendations in section 4.2 of the SmPC and suggested some additional changes to the product 
information, in particular regarding the cut-off for the number of exposure days to separate PUPs from 
PTPs, the frequency of high-titre inhibitors and the current recommendation on switching treatment. 
Finally, the experts welcomed initiatives to collect harmonised data through registries. Collaboration 
between academia, industry and regulators should be encouraged and data sharing agreements should 
be put in place.  
4.2.3.  Conclusion on the benefit-risk balance following the re-examination 
procedure 
Further  to  the  assessment  by  PRAC  of  the  totality  of  the  data  submitted  with  regards  to  the  risk  of 
inhibitor development for the classes of recombinant and plasma derived FVIII products, as well as on 
the grounds submitted by LFB Biomedicaments, and on the views from two expert group meetings, the 
PRAC considered that:  
• 
• 
The SIPPET study was not designed to evaluate the risk of inhibitor development for individual 
products, and included a limited number of FVIII products. Due to heterogeneity across 
products, there is considerable uncertainty in extrapolating the findings of studies that have 
evaluated only class effects to individual products; and particularly to products (including more 
recently authorised products) which are not included in such studies.   
To date most studies evaluating a differential risk of inhibitor development between classes of 
FVIII products suffer from a variety of potential methodological limitations and based on the 
available data considered there is no clear and consistent evidence to suggest differences in 
relative risk between classes of FVIII products. Specifically, the current evidence suggests that 
all human FVIII products carry a risk of inhibitor development, within the frequency of ‘very 
common’ and ‘uncommon’ for PUPs and PTPs respectively and therefore the SmPCs of all factor 
VIII products should be aligned with these frequencies. 
•  Although the clinical studies for some individual products have identified limited numbers of 
cases of inhibitor development, these tend to be small studies with methodological limitations, 
or studies not adequately designed to evaluate this risk. Besides, the FVIII products are 
heterogeneous, and the plausibility of different rates of inhibitor development between 
individual products cannot be excluded. Therefore, references to studies where their 
robustness was not demonstrated should be removed from the SmPC of the concerned 
products.  
• 
The results of any new clinical study providing relevant product-specific data (such as a specific 
frequency in PUP or PTP differing from the one stated in section 4.8 of the initial PRAC 
recommendation) should be reflected in the product information depending on their robustness 
(statistically and clinically compelling) in line with the SmPC guideline. 
In conclusion, further to the initial assessment and the re-examination procedure, PRAC maintains its 
conclusion that the benefit-risk balance of the human plasma derived and recombinant coagulation 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Factor VIII containing medicinal products remains favourable subject to the agreed changes to the 
product information (section 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC). 
5.  Risk management 
5.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC recommended the following updates of sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC (and 2 and 4 
of the Package Leaflet) for the FVIII products indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding 
in patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). 
The section 4.4 of the SmPC should be amended to include a warning on the clinical importance of 
monitoring patients for FVIII inhibitor development. 
With regards to sections 4.8 and 5.1, reference to data from study results which do not allow a definite 
conclusion on the inhibitor risk for individual products should be removed. Frequencies for PUPs and 
PTPs should be respectively mentioned as ‘very common’ and ‘uncommon’, unless justified by product 
specific data. For products for which section 4.2 contains the following statement for PUPs: 
“<Previously untreated patients. The safety and efficacy of {(Invented) name} in previously untreated 
patients have not yet been established. No data are available. >), the above frequency for PUPs should 
not be implemented.  
In relation to section 5.1, reference to inhibitor development studies in PUPs and PTPs should be 
deleted unless studies provide robust evidence of a product specific frequency of inhibitors in PUP. 
Statements on studies conducted in compliance with an agreed PIP are maintained. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Grounds for Recommendation following the re-
examination procedure 
Whereas, 
•  The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data, for human plasma derived and recombinant coagulation factor VIII 
containing medicinal products (see Annex I and Annex A).  
•  The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted with regards to the risk of inhibitor 
development for the classes of recombinant and plasma derived FVIII products, in previously 
untreated patients (PUPs). This included published literature (SIPPET study 8), data generated 
in individual clinical trials and a range of observational studies submitted by the marketing 
authorisation holders, including the data generated in large multicentre cohort studies, data 
submitted by the national competent authorities of the EU Member States as well as responses 
provided by the Authors of the SIPPET study. PRAC also considered grounds submitted by LFB 
Biomedicaments as basis for their request for re-examination of the PRAC recommendation and 
the views of two experts meetings held on the 22 February 2017 and the 3 August 2017. 
•  The PRAC noted that the SIPPET study was not designed to evaluate the risk of inhibitor 
development for individual products, and included a limited number of FVIII products in total. 
Due to the heterogeneity across products, there is considerable uncertainty in extrapolating 
the findings of studies evaluating only class effects to individual products; and particularly to 
the products that are not included in such studies. 
•  The PRAC also considered that studies conducted to date suffer from a variety of 
methodological limitations and, on balance, there is no clear and consistent evidence to 
suggest differences in relative risks between FVIII product classes based on available data. 
Specifically, the findings from the SIPPET study, as well as those from the individual clinical 
trials and observational studies included in the MAH responses, are not sufficient to confirm 
any consistent statistically and clinically meaningful differences in inhibitor risk between rFVIII 
and pdFVIII product classes. Given these are heterogeneous products, this does not preclude 
individual products being associated with an increased risk of inhibitor development in ongoing 
or future PUP studies. 
• 
The PRAC noted that the efficacy and safety of Factor VIII products as indicated in the 
treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A have been established. 
Based on the available data, the PRAC considered that SmPC updates for the FVIII products 
are warranted: section 4.4 should be amended to include a warning on the clinical importance 
of monitoring patients for FVIII inhibitor development. With regards to sections 4.8 and 5.1, 
the PRAC noted that several FVIII products currently include reference to data from study 
results which do not allow a definite conclusion on the inhibitor risk for individual products. 
Results of clinical studies not sufficiently robust (e.g. suffering from methodological limitations) 
should not be reflected in the product information on FVIIII products. The PRAC recommended 
changes to the product information accordingly. Besides, as the evidence suggests that all 
human FVIII products carry a risk of inhibitor development, within the frequency of ‘very 
common’ and ‘uncommon’, for PUPs and PTPs respectively, the PRAC recommended that the 
8 Peyvandi F, Mannucci PM, Garagiola I, et al. A Randomized Trial of Factor VIII and Neutralizing Antibodies in Hemophilia 
A. The New England journal of medicine 2016 May 26;374(21):2054-64 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
SmPCs of these products should be aligned with these frequencies unless justified by product 
specific data.  
Therefore, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the human plasma derived and 
recombinant coagulation Factor VIII containing medicinal products remains favourable and 
recommended the variations to the terms of the marketing authorisations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/763977/2017  
Page 16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
