European Medicines Agency 
London, 4 December 2006 
Product Name: NOXAFIL 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/610/II/02 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu   http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Introduction 
Fungal  infections  are  a  major  cause  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  immunocompromised  patients. 
Filamentous mould and yeast-like fungi are ubiquitous organisms found worldwide in many different 
media. The Candida species are the most common cause of fungal infections. However, epidemiologic 
shifts have begun to occur, most likely due to the prophylactic and empiric use of antifungal agents. 
Emerging  fungal  pathogens,  such  as  Aspergillus,  Fusarium,  and  Zygomycetes,  are  changing  the 
clinical spectrum of fungal diagnoses. 
Pathogens 
General  risk  factors  for  invasive  fungal  infections  are  exposure  to  pathogens,  an  impaired  immune 
system, and fungal spores. The presence of a colonised environment, partnered with a disruption in a 
physiologic barrier, potentiates the risk of an invasive fungal infection in an immunologically impaired 
host,  such  as  a  patient  infected  with  HIV,  someone  taking  chronic  systemic  steroids,  or  a  transplant 
recipient.  In  addition,  contaminated  implanted  devices  (e.g.  catheters,  prostheses),  external  devices 
(e.g.  contact  lenses),  and  community  reservoirs  (e.g.  hand  lotion,  pepper  shakers)  have  all  been 
implicated as sources of fungal outbreaks. 
Candida albicans continues to be the most frequent cause of invasive fungal infections in most patient 
populations. However, prophylaxis and the widespread use of antifungal agents as empiric therapy for 
neutropenic  fever  have  led  to  a  shift  in  the  epidemiology  of  invasive  Candida  infections.  Infections 
with  species  other  than  C.  albicans  (Candida  glabrata,  Candida  parapsilosis  ,  Candida  tropicalis, 
Candida krusei, and Candida lusitaniae) are becoming more prevalent. Due to susceptibility variations 
between species, species identification and susceptibility testing have become important tools. 
The  second  most  common  fungal  pathogen  to  cause  invasive  fungal  disease  is  Aspergillus.  Found 
worldwide, Aspergillus is able to thrive in almost every environment. The organism is found primarily 
in  soil  but  is  also  commonly  isolated  from  water,  food,  and  air.  The  usual  route  of  infection  for 
invasive  aspergillosis  is  via  inhalation  of  conidia  (asexual  spores).  As  a  result,  the  lung  is  the  most 
common  location of  invasive  infection. The  sinuses,  central  nervous  system,  and  skin  are  also  areas 
that  can  become  infected.  Clinically,  the  most  common  species  to  cause  infection  are  Aspergillus 
fumigatus,  Aspergillus  flavus,  Aspergillus  terreus,  and  Aspergillus  niger.  Despite  the  availability  of 
antifungal  agents  to  treat  infections  caused  by  Aspergillus,  the  morbidity  and  mortality  of  invasive 
aspergillosis remains high. 
Antifungal Therapy 
Diagnosing  invasive  fungal  infections  early,  reliably,  and  definitively  continues  to  be  a  major 
challenge to practitioners.  
Systemic  fungal  infections  lead  to  considerable  morbidity  and  mortality  in  patients  with  suppressed 
immune  systems,  such  as  HIV,  cancer  and  transplant  patients.  While  the  increasing  size  of  such 
population  groups  has  driven  the  need  for  effective  treatments,  the  advent  of  highly  active 
antiretroviral  therapy  (HAART)  and  associated  declining  incidence  among  HIV  patients  has  limited 
market growth. 
Posaconazole (POS) is a triazole antimycotic agent, currently indicated for a range of invasive fungal 
infections  in  adults,  including  invasive  aspergillosis  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to 
amphotericin  B  or  itraconazole  or  in  patients  who  are  intolerant  of  these  medicinal  products.  The 
centralised Marketing Authorisation was approved in October 2005. 
Candidiasis  in  the  oropharynx  is  a  very  common  fungal  infection,  and  is  the  most  common 
opportunistic  infection  in  HIV-infected  patients,  the  population  studied  in  this  submission.    In  these 
patients, oesophageal candidiasis is also a significant and difficult to treat problem. 
Generally, the initial treatment for oropharyngeal candidiasis might be with nystatin, amphotericin or 
miconazole  given  topically.    Fluconazole  or  itraconazole  might  be  tried  orally  for  unresponsive 
infections.  For  immunocompromised  patients,  or  patients  with  severe  or  recurrent  oropharyngeal 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
2/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
candidiasis,  initial  oral  treatment  would  be  more  appropriate,  and  first-line  use  is  covered  in  the 
current licensed indications for both fluconazole and itraconazole.   
The initial treatment for oesophageal candidiasis would generally be systemic azole antifungals such 
as fluconazole and itraconazole.   
The  current  options  for  oropharyngeal  or  oesophageal  candidiasis  in  patients  with  disease  already 
refractory to itraconazole and fluconazole are limited.   
Through this type II variation the MAH initially applied to extend the therapeutic indication to include 
oropharyngeal  candidiasis  as  well  as  for  oesophageal  candidiasis.  Further  to  the  preliminary 
assessment of the submitted data, the latter indication was no longer pursued. 
Consequently  this  Assessment  Report  focuses  on  the  treatment  of  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  as  the 
proposed indication for assessment. 
2  
Non clinical aspects 
No new non clinical data has been provided in support to the request of extension of indication. 
3 
Clinical aspects 
3.1  Bioequivalence and Bioavailability Studies 
Pharmacokinetics  
A bioequivalence study with posaconazole (POS) oral suspension (P03409) was conducted to assess 
the feasibility of changing the drug product particle size, comparing two oral suspensions differing in 
median particle size (2.3 µm versus 1.7 µm, reference), in the context of possible future manufacturing 
scale  and  equipment  changes.  The  POS  suspension  was  used  because  some  patients  were  unable  to 
swallow the capsules. 
This study is presented by the MAH to support the choice of the posaconazole presentation used in the 
main studies (described later) in support of the orophangyeal Candidiasis indication. 
Also,  a  relative  bioavailability  and  bioequivalence  study  (C90-180)  was  conducted  with  Diflucan 
(fluconazole)  encapsulated  commercial  tablet  vs  Diflucan  commercial  tablet.  This  study  was 
performed in order to assist to the blinding of the following clinical studies submitted to support the 
change of the indication claim, described below. 
Study P03409 
Design 
In theory, changes to the particle size of a drug in suspension alter the surface area, which may result 
in changes of the rate of dissolution and ultimately of the rate and extent of absorption. Therefore, this 
bioequivalence study was conducted to see whether this small increase in median particle size affects 
the oral bioavailability of the posaconazole suspension. 
Approximately  40  healthy  male  and  female  subjects  were  planned  to  be  enrolled.  Subjects  were  to 
receive  a  single  dose  of  the  reference  treatment  on  two  occasions  and  a  single  dose  of  the  test 
treatment on two occasions. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
3/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To minimise the impact of variability of POS pharmacokinetics on the assessment of bioequivalence, a 
replicate,  crossover  design  was  chosen  for  the  study.  Treatment  sequence  for  each  subject  —  either 
ABAB or BABA — was determined according to a randomisation code. 
The single dose of 400 mg was chosen as the recommended clinical dose for the treatment of invasive 
fungal infections (400 mg BID of the suspension). POS 400 mg was given in the morning after a high-
fat  breakfast  as  it  was  found  that  food  consumption  was  a  critical  factor  that  affected  the 
bioavailability of POS. Administration of POS with a non-fat meal or a high-fat nutritional supplement 
(~14  gm  fat)  resulted  in  2.6  times  higher  exposure  relative  to  the  fasted  state,  while  administration 
with  a  high-fat  meal  (~50  gm  fat)  resulted  in  4  times  higher  exposure.  Thus,  in  order  to  maximise 
exposure, it was recommended that POS be administered with food or a nutritional supplement. 
A  single  dose  of  POS  was  administered  on  Day  1  of  each  7-day  treatment  period  for  four  periods. 
Each period was 7-day treatment followed by at least 14 days washout period between the treatment 
administrations. Subjects were confined to the study site from Day -1 until the morning of Day 4 in all 
four-treatment periods. The duration of the study was approximately 60 days. Subjects returned to the 
site for three outpatient visits on Days 5, 6, and 7.  
For POS suspension with median particle size 1.7 µm, the dissolution data indicated that an average of 
97%  of  the  suspension  dissolved  in  30  minutes  vs  an  average  of  89%  for  test  product.  The  content 
uniformity  data  indicated  an  average  of  103.8%  labelled  strength  vs  an  average  of  100.8% 
respectively. 
Methods 
Blood  samples  for  the  determination  of  plasma  POS  concentrations  were  obtained  prior  to  the  first 
morning dose (0 hour) and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 96, 120, and 144 hours postdose in 
all  periods.  The  96-,  120-,  and  144-hour  blood  samples  were  to  be  collected  on  an  outpatient  basis. 
Plasma sample analysis for POS was performed by using a validated liquid chromatography with mass 
spectrometric detection (LC-MS/MS) method. 
The primary pharmacokinetic endpoints were Cmax and AUC. 
Bioequivalence  was  assessed  by  the  90%  confidence  intervals  (90%  CI)  for  the  difference  between 
two treatments. There were no amendments to the protocol. 
Results 
Twenty-one  subjects  were  included  in  each  of  the  treatment  sequences:  ABAB  or  BABA.  Eighteen 
subjects  completed  treatment  sequence  ABAB  and  21  completed  treatment  sequence  BABA.  Three 
subjects discontinued from the study (ABAB sequence) mainly due to possibly drug related Adverse 
Events. 
With  the  exception  of  AUC(I),  which  could  not  be  determined  in  one  subject,  pharmacokinetic 
analysis was conducted on the data for all 39 subjects who completed the four treatment periods. All 
42 randomised subjects were included in the safety analysis. 
The relative bioavailability of the large (2.3µm) particle size batch compared with the small (1.7µm) 
particle size batch was 76% with 90% confidence interval (CI) limits of 65-88%  
The  intrasubject  and  intersubject  variability  appeared  to  be  higher  for  the  large  particle  size  test 
product  compared  with  that  for  the  small  particle  size  reference  product.  For  the  small  particle  size 
reference  product,  the  intrasubject  variability  was  lower  than  the  intersubject  variability,  as  would 
typically  be expected.  The  intrasubject  variability  for  the  large particle  size  test  product was  greater 
than the intersubject variability. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
4/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Intersubject and Intrasubject Variability (Variance Estimate Based on Log-Transformed Data) 
Intersubject Variability 
B 
A 
0.09 
0.17 
0.13 
0.19 
0.13 
0.19 
Intrasubject Variability 
A 
0.07 
0.07 
0.07 
Cmax 
AUC(tf) 
AUC(l) 
B 
0.20 
0.23 
0.22 
Although  the  analysis  did  not  reveal  any  statistically  significant  sequence  or  period  effect,  the 
geometric means of AUC values for the subjects who received the small particle size batch in periods 
1  and  3  appeared  higher  than  those  for  the  subjects  who  received  the  small  particle  size  batch  in 
periods 2 and 4. 
In contrast, the geometric means of AUC values for the large particle size suspension were relatively 
consistent no matter which sequence (ABAB or BABA) the subject was enrolled into. 
While treated with the large particle size suspension, 4 subjects had consistently (i.e., replicated) low 
AUC values with low AUC ratio estimates for large particle size relative to small particle size (0.17 to 
0.39), but did not meet the statistical criteria to be considered outliers and cannot be excluded from the 
analysis. Therefore, high AUC values for subjects administered the small particle size batch in periods 
1 and 3 and consistently low AUC values for four subjects in the large particle size group may have in 
part contributed to the observed difference in bioavailability.  
Conclusion of study P03409 
Following the analysis of the results of this study (P03409) it was shown that POS suspension with a 
median particle size of 2.3 µm is not bioequivalent to POS suspension with a median particle size of 
1.7 µm. The relative bioavailability of the large particle size suspension was 76% of the small particle 
size suspension.  
The  fact  that  the  two  different  sized  POS  suspensions  are  not  bioequivalent,  has  to  be  taken  into 
account in the context of possible future manufacturing scale and equipment changes. 
Unfortunately  no  studies  have  been  performed  to  further  investigate  the  bioequivalence  of  the  POS 
suspension and the POS capsule. 
Study C90-180 
Design 
This study was designed to compare the bioavailability/bioequivalence of the commercially available 
Diflucan tablet to a Diflucan encapsulated tablet. The latter was the intended formulation to be used 
for  blinding  purposes  in  comparative  studies  with  POS.  Bioequivalency  of  the  Diflucan  tablet  and 
Diflucan encapsulated tablet would allow the results and conclusions obtained from the encapsulated 
tablet to be applied to the commercially available tablet formulation. 
Each subject alternately received a single dose of 50 mg Diflucan as a tablet and as an encapsulated 
tablet, in an order determined by a computer generated randomisation schedule. A washout period of 
two weeks was observed between the treatments. 
Conclusion of study C90-180 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of fluconazole were similar between the 2 formulations. The relative 
bioavailability of  the  Diflucan  encapsulated  tablet  was  100%  based  on  AUC(tf)  and  AUC(I)  values, 
and 102% based on Cmax values. The 90% confidence interval for the AUC and Cmax values were both 
within the range satisfying the criteria for bioequivalence (between 80% to 125%). 
Therefore,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  Diflucan  encapsulated  tablet  was  bioequivalent  to  the 
commercially  available  Diflucan  tablet.  Results  obtained  with  Diflucan  encapsulated  (for  blinding 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
5/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
purpose)  in  clinical  studies  could  then  be  applied  to  the  commercially  available  tablet  of  Diflucan. 
Results  obtained  with  Diflucan  encapsulated  (for  blinding  purpose)  in  clinical  studies  could  then  be 
applied to the commercially available tablet of Diflucan. 
3.2 
Clinical Efficacy 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  main  data  to  support  the  claimed  indications  comprises  four  clinical  studies  (C/I97-209,  C/I97-
331, P00298, C/I97-330), all in HIV patients > 18 years of age. For brevity they will be referred as 
studies 209, 331, 298 and 330 in the report. 
Study designs 
Azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Study 331 is pivotal for the claim in azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis; this was preceded by 
the dose-ranging study 209.  Between these 2 studies, there were 260 patients (MITT subset) treated 
with  the  proposed  100  mg  daily  dose  of  posaconazole,  and  243  patients  available  for  comparison 
receiving fluconazole. 
Study 209 was (a dose finding study) a Phase II, double-blind study comparing posaconazole (400 mg 
twice daily on day 1 and then 50, 100, 200 or 400 mg daily) and fluconazole (200 mg on day 1 and 
then 100 mg daily) in HIV-infected patients with oropharyngeal candidiasis with the objective to show 
that the highest dose was shown to be at least equivalent to FLU and to assess the clinical response at 
the end of the 14-day treatment phase. 
Azole refractory oropharyngeal candidiasis/oesophageal candidiasis 
Study  330,  the  pivotal  study  in  patients  with  non-refractory  oropharyngeal  candidiasis,  was  a 
randomised,  active  comparator  study  with  evaluator  blinding  only.  It  was  a  Phase  III,  randomised, 
multicenter, evaluator-blinded study in HIV-infected patients with oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Study 298 was a Phase II, open-label, non comparative trial of posaconazole in the treatment of azole 
refractory candidiasis in HIV-infected subjects, while the study 330 was a Phase III, open-label, non 
comparative  trial  of  posaconazole  in  the  treatment  of  azole  refractory  candidiasis  in  HIV-infected 
subjects. 
Studies 330 and 298 are pivotal for the claims in oropharyngeal candidiasis/ oesophageal candidiasis, 
in patients with disease refractory to itraconazole and fluconazole. Study 330 enrolled 199 patients, of 
which  176  featured  in  the  primary  analysis  set  (MITT  analysis  set,  patients  with  evidence  of  azole 
refractory  candida  culture  at  baseline).  Of  these,  43 had  azole-refractory  oesophageal  candidiasis, 
either  alone  or  in  combination  with  oropharyngeal  candidiasis.  Study  298  was  very  similar  but 
included  a  maintenance  treatment  phase.  This  enrolled  100  patients,  of  which  60  (including  15 with 
azole-refractory  oesophageal  candidiasis)  had  been  previously  treated  in  Study 330.  The  MITT 
analysis set contained 90 patients.  
All  the  4  clinical  studies  submitted  in  oropharyngeal  and  oesophageal  candidiasis  were  in  HIV-
infected adults ≥18 years of age.  
The 2 studies in patients with refractory disease, studies 330 and 298, were however open-label and 
uncontrolled. 
Justification for posaconazole dose in azole-susceptible patients (study 331) 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
6/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 331 the dose of posaconazole suspension was 200 mg on day 1, followed by 100 mg QD on 
days 2-14.  This was compared against fluconazole suspension, 200 mg on day 1, followed by 100 mg 
QD on days 2-14. 
The dose in study 331 was based on the previous dose ranging study 209.  In this study, posaconazole 
800 mg for one day followed by 100 mg QD for 13 days was the lowest efficacious dose. No clear 
clinical dose response was observed for posaconazole 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, or 400 mg QD. It was 
felt  that  this  was  due  to  use  of  the  same  high  loading  dose  (400  mg  BID)  of  posaconazole  in  each 
group,  particularly  given  the  long  half-life  of  the  drug.    The  400-mg  and  100-mg  doses  of 
posaconazole were clinically equivalent and similar to fluconazole in the proportions of subjects with 
clinical success (cure or improvement) in both the MITT and per-protocol subsets. The 50-mg dose of 
posaconazole was also equivalent to fluconazole in the MITT subset using the same criteria; however, 
this was not the case in the per-protocol subset. The posaconazole dose of 100 mg was chosen as the 
optimal  dose  from  the  standpoint  of  efficacy,  since  the  clinical  response  rate  for  the  50-mg 
posaconazole dose was not statistically equivalent to fluconazole 100 mg across all datasets examined. 
The  clinical  success  rate  for  the  200-mg  dose  was  the  lowest  of  all  treatment  groups  and  was  not 
clinically  equivalent  to  fluconazole  in  either  data  set.  No  dose-response  was  observed  for 
posaconazole 50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, and 400 mg based on mycological success rates (≤20 CFU/ml) 
for the MITT subset of subjects at treatment endpoint. 
Dose regimen in refractory patients (studies 330 and 298) 
In study 330 the original dosing schedule was posaconazole 400 mg BID x 3 days, then 400 mg QD x 
25 days, with a maintenance phase of 400 mg BID three times weekly for 3 months. In an amendment 
to the protocol an amended schedule of posaconazole 400 mg BID for 28 days was introduced. The 
reason was that clinical relapse rates 4 weeks after the last dose of POS were lower for subjects treated 
with 400 mg BID (24.6%) than for subjects treated with 400 mg QD (32.8%), suggesting better and 
more  sustained  efficacy  with  the  400  mg  BID  daily  dosing  regimen  compared  to  the  400  mg  daily 
dosing.  The  maintenance  period  included  in  the  original  protocol  was  discontinued;  study  298  was 
initiated instead to look at long-term treatment. 
In study 298, looking at a long-term treatment, the posology was posaconazole 400 mg BID for up to 
15 months; administered as oral suspension (treatment phase of up to 3 months, with 1-month follow-
up for subjects with clinical cure, followed by maintenance phase of up to 12 months for subjects who 
relapsed in follow-up or showed improvement after treatment phase) 
Efficacy endpoints 
Azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis 
The primary efficacy variable in the two azole-susceptible OPC studies (studies 209 and 331) was the 
clinical  success  rate.    This  was  defined  as  the  number  of  subjects  with  a  cure  (absence  of 
pseudomembranous plaques/ulcers and no, or minimal, symptoms) or improvement (partial resolution 
of  pre-treatment  signs  and  symptoms)  at  end  of  therapy  (after  14  days  of  treatment)  in  the  MITT 
subset. The MITT subset consisted of all randomised subjects with a positive Candida culture at Visit 
1 (baseline) who had taken at least one dose of study drug. 
Posaconazole was considered equivalent to FLU if the lower limit of the confidence interval for the 
difference in the corresponding response rates (POS-FLU) exceeded a delta of -15%, if the observed 
rate for FLU was greater than 80% and exceeded a delta of -20%, and if the observed rate for FLU was 
80% or less.  
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
7/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A scale from a  modified AIDs Clinical Trial Group (ACTG) protocol was used to evaluate signs of 
mucositis/oesophagitis (plaques or ulcers) at each visit as follows: 
0   None = Absent 
1   Minimal = 1 to 5 discrete plaques and/or one confluent plaque ≤3 cm in longest length 
2   Diffuse = Plaques that were more than minimal extent 
3   Worse = Plaques were clearly worse than on previous visit. (Applied only to Visits 2 
and 3 in subjects with diffuse plaques on the previous visit.) 
Symptoms of mucositis were rated as follows: 
0   None = Symptom was not present 
1   Mild = Symptom was present, but no or minimal interference was noted with eating 
2   Moderate = Symptom(s) present, which led to interference with eating many foods 
3   Severe = Symptom(s) were very marked. The subject was unable to eat most foods 
The Secondary efficacy endpoints were: 
- Clinical response after 7 days of treatment (compared to that achieved after 14 days fluconazole) 
- Rate of clinical relapse 4 weeks after last dose of study drug 
- Mycologic response 
After 7 days of treatment  
At the end of treatment (major timepoint for this analysis) 
At the end of follow-up (1 month after end of treatment) 
Mycological response was evaluated according to the following definitions: 
- Eradication (Mycological success):   ≤20 CFU/mL Candida species 
- Persistence (Mycological failure):   >20 CFU/mL Candida species 
- Relapse:   ≤20 CFU/mL Candida species at Visit 3 and >20 CFU/mL at Visit 4 
- Superinfection:   A Candida species present at Visit 3 (end of treatment), but not at baseline 
- New Infection:   A Candida species present for the first time at Visit 4 
- Indeterminant:   Extenuating circumstances preclude classification 
Azole refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis 
The primary endpoint in studies 298 and 330 was also clinical response.  For study 330, the primary 
timepoint was the end of the 4-week treatment period, for study 289 the primary timepoint was the end 
of  the  3-month  acute  treatment  period.  This  was  scored  in  a  similar  way  to  study  331,  and  the 
definition of clinical success was also subjects who were cured or improved based on these scales. 
For  study  330,  in  subjects  with  suspected  oesophagitis,  an  oesophagoscopy  was  performed  at  the 
initial  visit  and  at  the  4-week  visit.  Following  a  protocol  amendment  it  could  be  performed  at  the  
2-week  point  if  clinically  indicated.  In  study  298,  oesophagoscopy  was  obtained  at  visit  1  only  for 
patients  with  symptoms  of  oesophagitis,  and  for  patients  with  oesophagitis  who  failed  therapy  or 
relapsed. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included mycologic response (evaluated as per study 331) and measures 
of relapse rate. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
8/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient population 
Azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Study 331  
The key inclusion criteria were:  
•  HIV  positive  patients  with  clinical  evidence  of  pseudomembranous  Oropharyngeal 
Candidiasis at time of enrolment into the study 
•  Laboratory evidence of candidiasis documented by fungal stain of scraping positive for yeasts, 
hyphae  or  pseudohyphae  that  was  consistent  with  Candida  species,  and  subsequently 
confirmed by a positive mycologic culture 
Exclusions  for  enrolment  included  history  of  treatment  failure  with  fluconazole  (100  mg/day  for  
2 weeks in the last 3 months) and prior use of Posaconazole in the preceding 3 months. 
In  both  studies  of  azole-susceptible  Oropharyngeal  Candidiasis,  the  two  treatment  groups  were 
generally  similar  for  baseline  demographic  and  disease  characteristics.  In  the  main  study  331,  the 
median CD4 (clusters of differentiation 4 antigen) count was 82 cells/mm3 in the posaconazole group 
(MITT subset) and 71 in the fluconazole group, although it varied widely.  
Also in study 331, the MIC values confirmed that this was an azole-susceptible population, based on 
lack  of  fluconazole  resistance  at  baseline.    This  was  assessed  against  2002  Clinical  and  Laboratory 
Standards  Institute  (CLSI)  breakpoints  of:  susceptible  (≤8  µg/ml),  dose  dependent  (>8  µg/ml  to  
≤32 µg/ml),  and resistant  (>32 µg/ml).  European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing 
(EUCAST) breakpoints for fluconazole are not yet available. 
The vast majority of subjects in study 331 had C. albicans identified at baseline.  A handful of subjects 
had other Candida species (i.e. C. glabrata, C. krusei, and C. tropicalis) 
Azole refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis 
Both  studies  (298  and  330)  included  adult  HIV-infected  subjects  with  oral  and/or  oesophageal 
candidiasis refractory to a standard course of therapy with fluconazole or itraconazole within 3 months 
prior to enrolment.  A standard course of therapy was defined as ≥100 mg/day fluconazole for at least 
10 consecutive days, or itraconazole 200 mg/day for at least 10 consecutive days for oral, or ≥3 weeks 
for oesophageal candidiasis. 
Evidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis at time of enrolment had to be accompanied by laboratory stain 
and  confirmed  by  subsequent  culture,  as  per  study  331.    Oesophageal  candidiasis  had  to  be 
documented by oesophagoscopy or oesophageal biopsy/brushing and culture. 
Study  298  included  subjects  who  were  previously  treated  under  study  330  and  who  had  incomplete 
resolution of disease or subsequently relapsed. 
In  study  298,  59  of  the  90  subjects  in  the  MITT  subset  were  enrolled  and  previously  treated  with 
posaconazole under study 330 and 31 subjects were posaconazole-naïve. 
A CD4 count was available for most patients at baseline in study 330 – the median value was around 
10 cells/mm3,  as  would  be  expected  this  was  significantly  lower  than  the  median  value  in  the  non-
refractory patients (82 cells/mm3), in study 331. 
Overall, in the MITT subset for studies 330 and 298 the mean baseline MIC was 44 for fluconazole, 
2.7 for itraconazole, the baseline MIC50 results for any Candida isolate were 64 mcg/ml for fluconazole 
and 0.5 mcg /ml for itraconazole. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
9/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As above, for fluconazole the breakpoint for resistance is >32 µg/ml.  For itraconazole the values are: 
Sensitive  ≤0.125  mcg/ml,  Sensitive/dose-dependent  0.25-0.5  mcg/ml,  resistant  ≥1  mcg/ml.  The 
efficacy results were analysed by baseline resistance, as discussed below. 
The baseline species found are given in the following table: 
Fungal culture at baseline – MITT subset 
Candida Species 
Study 298, (n=90) 
Study 330, (n=176) 
C albicans 
C glabrata 
C krusei 
C tropicalis 
Other species 
68 (91%)i 
24 (32%) 
3 (4%) 
2 (3%) 
2 (3%) 
100 (58%) 
25 (14%) 
10 (6%) 
3 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
i   Percentages are based on the number of subjects with a baseline culture greater than 20 CFU/mL 
Some subjects may have had more than one isolate and thus may be included in more than one of the culture categories. 
Disposition of subjects and extent of exposure 
In study 331, 89% of subjects who received study drug completed treatment. In total there were 350 
patients:  157,  153  for  POS  &  FLU  respectively  as  per  the  table  below.  At  end  of  therapy,  clinical 
response rates were very similar between treatments in the MITT (92% per group) and evaluable (97% 
and 96% per group) populations. Fewer patients in the posaconazole group had relapsed by the follow-
up at week 4 post-therapy (59% vs 74% in both populations). 
Disposition of subjects in study 331 
In study 330, 74% of subjects completed the acute treatment period.  Among the 239 unique subjects 
treated  with  posaconazole  in  the  two  azole-refractory  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  and/or  oesophageal 
candidiasis  studies,  69%,  of  subjects  were  treated  with  posaconazole  for  up  to  3  months,  14%  were 
treated for 3 to <6 months, 9% were treated for 6 to <12 months, and 6% of subjects were treated for 
at least 12 months.  The mean exposure to posaconazole based on the actual days dosed was 102 days 
(range of 1 to 544 days) 
In study 298, 65% of subjects completed the acute treatment phase. 43% of all subjects entered follow-
up  either  immediately  following  completion  of  acute  treatment  or  discontinuation  from  acute 
treatment, of which 81% completed follow-up. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
10/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 
Results 
Azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis 
For  the  main  study  331,  posaconazole  was  non-inferior  to  fluconazole  in  the  primary  efficacy 
parameter, clinical success rate.  In the primary MITT subset the percentages of patients with cure or 
improvement  after  14  days  of  treatment  were  91.7%  in  the  posaconazole  group  and  92.5%  in  the 
fluconazole group.  The majority of subjects in each group were assessed as cured at this timepoint.  
Results for the primary endpoint were consistent in the protocol evaluable subset. 
Study 331: Primary endpoint - Clinical Success After 14 Days of Treatment  
The MAH stated that the clinical response rate in study 331 achieved with posaconazole after 7 days 
was equivalent to that achieved with fluconazole after 14 days of treatment (in the MITT subsets the 
figures were 91.7% vs. 92.5% respectively).  
This is difficult to interpret without knowing what the response rate was for fluconazole after 7 days of 
treatment – both treatments might have a good response rate by day 7, half-way through treatment. 
Clinical  response  rates  4  weeks  after  the  cessation  of  treatment  were  68.5%  versus  61.8%  for 
posaconazole- and fluconazole-treated subjects respectively – i.e. the relapse rates were lower in the 
posaconazole group (figures for MITT subset). 
Mycological response is given in the table below: 
Study 331 - Mycological Response (in subjects with Candida Isolated, MITT subset)  
a:   Results for other data subsets was consistent 
b:   For subjects with follow-up data. 
c:   MAH quotes P=0.025 for this comparison – however no adjustment was made for multiplicity. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
11/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Subjects treated with posaconazole had a greater mycological success rate 4 weeks following cessation 
of treatment than did subjects treated with fluconazole (40.6%, versus 26.4%, respectively; P=0.0376).  
There was no difference in the treatment arms with respect to the antiretroviral therapy at the baseline 
study  331  (37%  of  POS-treated  subjects  and  30%  of  FLU-treated  subjects  received  anti-retroviral 
therapies). 
In view of current therapeutic guidelines, it is rather unexpected that a significant number of patients 
with CD4<200 cells/mm3 (inclusion criteria) were not receiving HIV therapies.   
Is  Study  209  there  was  no  apparent  dose  response  relationship  for  clinical  success  rates  between 
posaconazole doses (85%, 87%, 77%, 87% for 50, 100, 200 and 400 mg respectively) and these rates 
were similar to that for fluconazole (89%). However, the corresponding mycological eradication rates 
were 36-40% for posaconazole from 50 mg to 400 mg and 51% for fluconazole. 
Azole refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis 
Studies  330  and  298  assessed  the  use  of  posaconazole  in  HIV  patients  with  oropharyngeal  and/or 
oesophageal  candidiasis  with  disease  refractory  to  itraconazole  and  fluconazole.  The  patients  had 
advanced HIV disease as is clear from the low average CD4 count. 
Primary endpoints 
The  primary endpoint in study 330 was clinical response at the end of the 4-week treatment period.  
For this endpoint, in the primary MITT subset, a 75% clinical success rate (either cured or improved, 
53%  were  cured).    Clinical  success  rate  was  generally  similar  in  subjects  with  documented  baseline 
microbiological  resistance  to  fluconazole  and/or  itraconazole,  both  for  subjects  with  C  albicans 
isolates and in the smaller number with other isolates (see table below) 
Clinical Response Rates for Any Candida and Candida albicans Baseline Isolates: Number (%) of Clinical 
Responders by Baseline Fluconazole and/or Itraconazole MIC Values Based on the CLSI MIC Breakpoints – 
Modified Intent-to-Treat Subset 
The  primary  endpoint  in  study  298  was  clinical  response  at  the  completion  of  the  3-month  acute 
treatment  period.  In  the  primary  MITT  subset,  a  85.6%  clinical  success  rate  was  achieved  after  
3  months  of  posaconazole  treatment.  However  this  percentage  included  patients  either  cured  or 
improved, without indicating the percentage of the cured patients. When subdivided into posaconazole 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
12/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated  (patients  who  had  previously  responded  to  posaconazole)  and  naïve  patients,  the  clinical 
response rates were 88% and 81% respectively.  
The MAH noted that the clinical response rates in the literature were 80% for itraconazole, 83% for 
voriconazole  and  64%  for  caspofungin,  among  HIV  subjects  with  clinical  failure  of  first-line 
treatment.  
Secondary endpoints –mycological response 
In  study  330  a  36.5%  mycological  response  rate  were  achieved  after  4  weeks  of  posaconazole 
treatment. 
In study 298, cultures at the end of acute treatment were available only in 57% of subjects in the MITT 
population.  At  the  end  of  the  acute  treatment  period,  18%  of  these  subjects  were  mycological 
responders – however, this analysis is not helpful because mycological cultures were not mandated for 
subjects considered to be clinical responders.  
Secondary endpoints – relapse after cessation of treatment 
In study 298, most patients were not assessed for clinical relapse at the end of acute treatment because 
they  either  went  immediately  into  maintenance  or  discontinued  study  during  acute  treatment.  More 
data are available for study 330, for relapse in the 4-week post-treatment period. This was defined as 
the presence  of greater than 20 CFU/mL of the same  Candida species  at a post-treatment follow-up 
visit as was present at baseline. Of the 132 subjects (MITT subset) who were treatment responders at 
week 4 and who did not enrol into study 298 to continue treatment, clinical relapse rates were given as 
28.8%, 4 weeks after the cessation of treatment.   
3.4  
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
Azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Two pivotal controlled clinical studies (209 and 331) were included in this submission for the 100mg 
dose of posaconazole for the azole susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis indication.  For both studies, 
the primary analysis used a non-inferiority margin of 15% whereas the CPMP/EWP/558/95 note for 
guidance on evaluation of new anti-bacterial medicinal products suggests a non-inferiority margin of 
10% might be preferred.   
Study 331 is the main study in patients with azole-susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis. This was a 
randomised,  active  comparator  study  with  evaluator  blinding.  This  study  was  preceded  by  the  dose-
ranging  study  209.  Between  these  2  studies,  there  were  260  patients  (MITT  subset)  treated  with  the 
proposed  100  mg  daily dose  of  posaconazole  suspension,  and 243  patients  available  for  comparison 
receiving fluconazole suspension. 
The  initial  major  objection  with  the  proposed  indication  in  azole-susceptible  oropharyngeal 
candidiasis  was  that  it  was  worded  in  very  broad  terms,  appearing  to  encompass  1st  line  use  in  all 
patients. This was not clinically justified, and was not supported by the submitted studies. The MAH 
agreed to restrict the indication to (in adults):  
“Oropharyngeal  candidiasis:  As  first-line  therapy  in  patients  who  have  severe  disease  or  are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor” 
This  wording  is  considered  to  be  adequately  supported  by  the  submitted  data.  In  particular,  the 
extrapolation from HIV infected patients to immunocompromised patients generally is accepted by the 
CHMP.  The  amended  SPC  also  makes  clear  that  use  in  these  patients  should  be  by  a  physician 
experienced in the management of fungal infections, as with the other indications for posaconazole. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
13/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  331  was  designed  as  essentially  an  open  study,  whilst  evaluation  of  clinical  response  was 
carried out by a blinded person. Given this, the MAH was asked to comment on a number of possible 
sources of bias in this  study which  might have arisen from the  open-label design. It was  noted that, 
despite the limitations raised for this endpoint, non-inferiority was shown for the objective measure of 
mycological  response  for  the  pre-defined  non-inferiority  margin,  and  borderline  met  using  a  stricter 
10%  non-inferiority  margin.  Taking  into  account  that  the  clinical  relapse  results  are  reasonably 
compelling  in  this  study,  this  point  has  been  addressed  satisfactorily.  The  inclusion  and  exclusion 
criteria, choice and assessment of endpoints were acceptable in study 331, and the 2 treatment groups 
were well balanced.  The duration of the treatment period and the length of follow-up were reasonable. 
The dose-ranging study 209 provides some limited justification for the dose regimen of posaconazole 
used,  although  a  very  clear  dose-response  was  not  shown  in  this study.  As  an  additional  caveat,  the 
dose-ranging study compared a posaconazole capsule to a fluconazole capsule, whilst the subsequent 
study 331 compared posaconazole suspension to fluconazole suspension. The relative bioavailability 
between the research capsule and oral suspension was not formally evaluated.  The MAH noted that a 
post hoc evaluation of the cumulative  data set comprising bioavailability data for the capsule, tablet 
and suspension formulations estimated that the point estimate of the suspension to capsule (AUC and 
Cmax) would be approximately 109.7% and 96.9%, respectively, using a comparison of the geometric 
means.  It  should  be  noted  that  a  suspension  would  achieve  greater  local  concentrations  in  the 
oropharynx  than  a  capsule,  and  it  is  not  clear  that  any  increase  in  efficacy  going  from  capsule  to 
suspension would be the same for both posaconazole and fluconazole.   
In the study 209, the subjects were treated with POS 400 mg BID for 1 day, followed by 100 mg QD 
for 13 days, compared with the subjects received FLU 200 mg QD for 1 day, followed by 100 mg QD 
for  13  days.  The  clinical  success  rate  (cure  or  improvement)  achieved  with  100  mg  (87%)  was 
equivalent to that achieved with FLU 100 mg (85%). There is no separate posology for patients who 
cannot  take  food.  The  MAH  has  given  a  reasonable  justification  that  the  three-times  daily  regimen 
proposed, in comparison to the twice-daily regimen in the current indications, maximises exposure in 
such  patients.  The  MAH  made  a  number  of  additional  clarifications  to  the  SPC  regarding  the 
posology, and regarding advice for patients with diarrhoea or other gastrointestinal disease.   
Turning  to  the  choice  of  comparator,  the  dose  of  fluconazole  in  study  331  was  200 mg  on  day 1, 
followed by 100 mg QD on days 2-14. The usual dose given in the UK national SPC for fluconazole is 
50 mg once daily for 7 - 14 days, which may be increased to 100 mg daily “In unusually difficult cases 
of mucosal candidal infections”. This would certainly include HIV patients, as used in this study, and 
recurrent  cases.  A  number  of 
to  use  of  fluconazole  at  
100-200  mg  per  day  for  oropharyngeal  candidiasis.  Although  not  mentioned  in  the  Diflucan  SPC,  a 
200  mg  fluconazole  loading  dose  on  the  1st  day  will  enable  optimum  plasma  levels  to  be  reached 
quickly, and makes for a fairer comparison with the posaconazole dose schedule used. The patients in 
study  331  would  have  been  difficult  to  treat.  Certainly  they  had  a  significant  degree  of 
immunosuppression, with mean CD4 count below 100 cells/mm3, and overall the dose of fluconazole 
comparator chosen is considered acceptable.   
the  references  submitted  refer 
The primary efficacy variable in the two azole-susceptible OPC studies was the clinical success rate 
(defined as cure or improvement) after 14 days of treatment in the Modified Intent-to-Treat (MITT) 
subset.  
The  results  of  study  331  showed  that  in  azole-susceptible  patients  with  oropharyngeal  candidiasis, 
14 days  of  posaconazole  therapy  was  non-inferior  to  the  comparator  fluconazole  regimen  for  the 
primary endpoint, clinical success rate, at the end of the treatment period. In the primary MITT subset 
the  percentages  of  patients  with  cure  or  improvement  after  14  days  of  treatment  were  91.7%  in  the 
Posaconazole group and 92.5% in the fluconazole group. The majority of subjects in each group were 
assessed  as  cured  at  this  timepoint.  This  was  consistent  with  the  effect  of  this  dose  regimen  in  the 
dose-ranging study. As well as coming within the margins pre-specified in the protocol, posaconazole 
therapy  was  non-inferior  using  a  margin  of  10%.  The  Note 
for  Guidance  document 
(CPMP/EWP/558/95)  suggests  that  this  margin  might  be  preferred,  although  an  even  tighter  margin 
might be considered in light of the relatively high response rates found on fluconazole. The MAH’s 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
14/21
 
 
 
 
 
assumption as to what the upper limit of the difference (5.04%) might represent in terms of potential 
loss of chance for patients is accepted by the CHMP. There is a suggestion that posaconazole would 
retain a significant part of the effect, and that the potential loss of efficacy would be minimal enough 
to be considered not clinically relevant. 
Secondary endpoints suggest that the clinical and mycological response rates 4 weeks after the end of 
treatment  favour  the  posaconazole  group.  Further  analyses  of  the  mycological  responses  endpoint 
were requested in order to interpret this. The response rates for both treatments were presented by the 
MAH  for  the  mycological  endpoint  using  the  MITT  and  per  protocol  populations  for  those  patients 
who had a positive culture for Candida species at baseline, and these results were similar to the MITT 
population. The clinical response rates 4 weeks after the cessation of treatment were similar between 
POS and FLU; however, subjects treated with POS had a significantly greater sustained mycological 
success rate 4 weeks following cessation of treatment than subjects treated with FLU (40.6%, versus 
26.4%,  respectively;  P=0.0376).  This  suggests  that  over  a  longer  observation  period  more  of  the 
subjects treated with FLU than POS might go on to clinical relapse. The MAH has however noted the 
lack  of  strong  correlation  between  clinical  and  mycological  responses  in  OPC,  and  the  greater 
relevance of clinical response to patient care.  
The primary endpoint results for study 331 were consistent in the protocol evaluable subset, and were 
supported by the secondary endpoints including measures of mycological response. The results in the 
comparator arm were in line with expectations.   
All  the  above-discussed  results  suggest  that  POS  was  at  least  as  effective  as  fluconazole  in  the 
treatment  of  HIV  subjects  with  azole-susceptible  OPC.  In  addition,  POS  is  associated  with  fewer 
mycological relapses off therapy. 
Azole refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis 
For these claimed indications there were submitted two clinical studies, 330 and 298, which were both 
open-label and uncontrolled. The MAH failed to justify the lack of a comparator arm. In addition no 
formal historical comparison with a control group has been carried out, and no adequate justification 
has been given for the dose of posaconazole studied.  
In the study 298 the number of patients with a diagnosis of oesophageal candidiasis has not even been 
specified and the mycological response is quite low: only 18% of all MITT subjects were mycological 
responders  at  the  end  of  the  acute  treatment  period.  There  is  neither  mention  of  local  antifungal 
treatment permitted during the study nor of antiprotease administration 
Besides,    a  3-month  evaluation  is  rather  unusual  and  late;  it  is  usually  done  at  3  weeks.  This  long 
period  of  evaluation  should  involve  the  follow-up  of  CD4  count  and  the  mention  of  antiretroviral 
treatment  given  as  any  patient  immunity  improvement  could  impact  positively  on  the  clinical 
response.  This  study  did  not  allow  supporting  the  claimed  indication  in  the  treatment  of  azole 
refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis. 
In the study 330, the open-label design as well as the small sample size (n=22) of this study did not 
allow CHMP to draw any conclusion from its results. 
The Azole refractory oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis indications were fully discussed in 
the  preliminary  assessment  of  this  application.  As  the  CHMP  could  not  conclude  on  a  positive 
Benefit/Risk balance in these indications the MAH withdrew both these proposed indications. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
15/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Clinical Safety 
The  pooled  data  is  divided  into  two  groups,  based  on  the  differences  in  the  study  designs, 
posaconazole doses administered and populations studied: 
-  Controlled  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  (OPC):  pooled  data  from  the  randomised,  blinded, 
active-controlled trials in non-refractory OPC in subjects with HIV disease (studies 209 and 
331);  posaconazole  administered  up  to  400 mg/day  in  comparison  with  fluconazole 
100 mg/day for 14 days. 
-  Refractory  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  (OPC):  pooled  non-comparative  data  from  trials  in 
oropharyngeal  and/or  esophageal  candidiasis  refractory  to  standard  courses  of  therapy  with 
azole  antifungals  (fluconazole  or  itraconazole)  in  subjects  with  HIV  disease  (study  330  and 
298); posaconazole administered up to 800 mg/day for up to 15 months. 
The  higher  proportions  of  patients  presenting  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  (TEAEs)  in  the 
refractory  Oropharyngeal  Candidiasis  pool  compared  with  the  controlled  OPC  pool  may  reflect  the 
severity of illness in the refractory population as evidenced by the lower CD4 counts in these patients 
and  the  resultant  complications  of  advanced  HIV  disease  (e.g.  a  greater  number  of  subjects  with 
respiratory symptoms in the refractory group) 
No  age-related  comparison  could  be  made,  as  nearly  all  subjects  were  18-65  years  of  age  (only  
1  patient  >65  years  in  each  group).  The  safety  profile  appeared  similar  when  considered  by  race; 
however the number of patients is limited in some groups.  
Deaths 
In  the  controlled  OPC  pool,  the  proportions  of  patients  who  died  were  similar  with  POS  (3  %)  and 
FLU  (2  %).  Most  of  the  deaths  were  attributed  to  progression  or  complications  of  underlying  HIV 
disease. 
In  the  refractory  OPC  pool,  22  %  of  patients  died.  Most  of  these  deaths  were  attributed  to  AEs 
considered unlikely related to POS or to progression or complications of underlying HIV disease. One 
death was attributed to the complications related to OPC. 
Two deaths were considered by the investigator to be possibly related to POS. 
Serious adverse events (SAEs) 
For the OPC pool, the SAEs for study 209 are presented separately from the SAE summaries for the 
rest of the pool because of the unique data handling used for this study. SAEs reported for at least 2 % 
of  patients  in  either  treatment  group  included  Fever,  Anaemia,  Diarrhoea,  Pneumonia,  Dehydration, 
Disease Progression, Sepsis. 
SAEs were reported for 13 % of patients on POS and 18 % of patients on FLU. The most commonly 
reported SAE was fever (3 % with POS; 6 % with FLU). 
For the remainder of the OPC pool, the SAEs reported for at least 4 % of patients in any group were 
fever,  neutropenia,  AIDS,  pneumonia,  Dehydration,  Diarrhoea,  Vomiting,  Candidiasis  Oral, 
Coughing, Nausea, Sepsis. 
The proportions of patients with SAEs were similar for the two treatment groups (10 % with POS and 
13 % with FLU). Respiratory insufficiency was reported for two POS-treated patients (1 %); all other 
SAEs each were reported in one POS-treated subject. 
There were no treatment-related SAEs reported for patients treated with POS. 
In the refractory OPC pool, SAEs were reported for 55 % of patients. The most commonly reported 
SAEs were fever (13 %) and neutropenia (10 %). Treatment-related SAEs were reported for 14 % of 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
16/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients. Neutropenia (5 %) and abdominal pain (2 %) were the only treatment-related SAEs reported 
for more than 1 % of patients on POS. Most subjects with treatment-related SAEs of neutropenia had a 
history of neutropenia and were taking many concomitant antiretroviral medications. 
Treatment discontinuations 
There were AEs that led to study-drug or study discontinuation or death in at least 2 % of patients in 
the OPC pool. 
In the controlled OPC pool, 9% of patients on POS and 5% of patients on FLU had AEs that led to 
discontinuation  or  death.  The  difference  between  the  two  treatment  pools  resulted  from  a  greater 
proportion  of  POS-treated  patients  with  gastrointestinal  system  disorders  (3 %  with  POS;  1%  with 
FLU)  and  with  AEs  categorised  as  infections  and  infestations  (3%  with  POS;  1%  with  FLU).  No 
individual  AEs  that  led  to  study  discontinuation  were  reported  for  more  than  1%  of  subjects  with 
either treatment. The most commonly reported treatment-related AEs that led to study-drug or study 
discontinuation  or  death  for  patients  on  POS  were  fever,  nausea,  and  rash,  each  reported  for  1%  of 
patients on POS and ≤1% of patients on FLU. 
In the Refractory OPC pool, 34% of patients had AEs that led to study-drug, study discontinuation, or 
death.  The  most  commonly  reported  of  these  AEs  were  AIDS  (7%),  respiratory  insufficiency  (3%), 
neutropenia,  pneumonia,  and  sepsis  (2%  each).  The  most  commonly  reported  treatment-related  AEs 
that  led  to  study-drug  or  study  discontinuation  or  death  were  vomiting,  cardiac  failure,  increased 
hepatic enzymes, neutropenia, rash, and thrombocytopenia, each reported for 1 % of patients. 
The  safety  profile  of  POS  in  OPC  is  similar  to  that  observed  in  refractory  invasive  fungal  infection 
(rIFI)  pool and in FLU arm. Most of the SAEs reported are expected taking into account the treated 
populations.  Most  patients  presented  confounding  factors  in  the  occurrence  of  SAEs  such  as 
underlying  disease,  progression  of  disease,  multiple  concomitant  medications  which  may  have 
contributed to the occurrence of SAEs, treatment discontinuation or death 
Separately the safety data from the two bioequivalence/bioavailability studies have been reported and 
are presented below: 
Safety – Studies P03409 and C90-180 
No major concerns in terms of safety have been identified. The majority of the adverse events reported 
during these studies were considered to be unrelated to treatment. The incidence of adverse events was 
low, with no notable differences between the formulations. Most of the adverse events reported were 
mild to moderate in severity. 
4.1 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH provided a RMP proposal consisting of a safety specification  Pharmacovigilance Plan and 
a Risk minimisation plan. 
Safety specification 
Two  concerns  were  identified  in  the  safety  review  of  the  original  MAA:  drug  interactions  due  to 
inhibition  of  P450  CYP3A4  which  may  cause  adverse  effects,  and  phospholipidosis  in  preclinical 
studies phospholipidosis in several tissues including lung. 
No additional concerns have been identified in the new indications of oropharyngeal candidiasis and 
prophylaxis for patients with prolonged neutropenia or haematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. 
Pharmacovigilance Plan 
The objectives are the assessment of drug interactions, the evaluation of potential signals associated to 
phospholipidosis, and the continuous assessment of the safety profile of posaconazole by an enhanced 
pharmacovigilance program. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
17/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase  IV  studies  will  be  conducted  as  follow-up  measures  to  the  original  application,  to  assess 
potential  drug  interactions  and  to  better  understand  the  impact  of  hepatic  insufficiency  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of posaconazole. 
The postmarketing programme consists of continuous review of individual cases and periodic review 
of reports of other sources including literature. Periodic signaling reviews on events of interest will be 
performed and PSURs will be generated as usual. 
Risk minimisation plan 
The  MAH  considered  that  information  in  section  4.4  “Special  warning  and  precautions  for  use”  is 
sufficient to inform prescribers about both azole class events such as hypersensitivity, hepatic toxicity 
and QTc prolongation and specific posaconazole adverse events such as drug interactions based on the 
CYP3A4 metabolism. The MAH had undertaken the commitment to perform drug interaction studies 
interaction with midazolam, sirolimus, PI +/- ritonavir and atazanavir. Moreover, pharmacokinetics in 
hepatic insufficiency will be explored. 
Pharmacovigilance  activities  (as  described  below)  will  be  performed  to  further  identify  and  assess 
potential  safety  issues  associated  with  posaconazole  administration.  Review  will  occur  at  the 
individual,  aggregate  and  epidemiological  level  with  the  goal  of  assessing  the  strength  of  an 
association between an event and posaconazole. Particular focus will be placed on pulmonary events 
as a previously agreed follow-up measure. 
In addition to the information included in the SPC, no further need for  minimisation  measures have 
been identified. 
However a revised Risk Management Plan will be submitted as per the FUM of this opinion to include 
the safety concerns raised by the CHMP. In this revision hepatic events, hypokalaemia, worsening of 
depression, the thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and pulmonary haemorrhage are included 
for close monitoring. 
The postmarketing surveillance program consists of continual review of individual cases and periodic 
aggregate review of reports received and review of other sources including literature. The MAH will 
collect and analyze data in the form of case reports as part of routine pharmacovigilance. In particular, 
pulmonary events that could be reflective of pulmonary phospholipidosis will be considered during the 
individual  and  periodic  aggregate  review.  Expedited  reports  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
The  MAH  will  submit  PSURs,  which  will  focus  on  overall  safety  of  posaconazole,  primarily  in  the 
context of serious unlisted events, non-serious unlisted events in addition to anticipated adverse drug 
reactions associated with ‘azoles’ in general. 
Signalling  and  trend  analysis  will  consist  of  identification  of  potential  safety  signals  to  be  further 
evaluated  by  the  MAH  pharmacovigilance  physicians,  and  in  the  first  year  in  analyses  of  available 
pharmacovigilance databases. 
4.2  
Discussion on the Clinical Safety 
As  seen  in  the  randomised,  controlled,  first-line  OPC  studies  (209  and  331),  the  POS  safety  profile 
was similar to that of FLU. No clinical difference was observed in the types of TEAEs or AEs leading 
to discontinuation when POS was compared to FLU in this patient population. 
The bioavailability of posaconazole after oral administration appears to be affected by the quantity of 
food intake more than any demographic or disease  factor. Therefore, to optimise exposure to obtain 
maximum therapeutic benefit, it was recommended to administer each dose with food containing fat 
content  or  a  standard  nutritional  supplement.  This  is  mentioned  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  Unfortunately  no  related  studies  have  been  performed  to  exactly  demonstrate  the 
above relationship 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
18/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the OPC studies, the incidence of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation was similar between 
the  POS  and  FLU  treatment  groups.  POS  did  not  exhibit  an  increased  incidence  of  cardiac  adverse 
events, vision disorders, hepatic disorders and neurologic disorders which were previously reported for 
itraconazole  or  voriconazole.  The  proportion  of  subjects  reporting  AEs  associated  with  hepatic 
dysfunction  was  similar  in  the  POS  and  FLU  treatment  groups.  Overall,  the  majority  of  hepatic 
associated AEs in this category were considered not to be related to study drug treatment.  
Elevated liver function tests were reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these 
tests  normalised  without  interruption  of  therapy.  Therefore,  it  is  prudent  to  recommend  routine 
monitoring  (particularly  liver  function  tests  and  bilirubin)  for  patients  who  have  abnormal  liver 
function  tests  during  POS  therapy  to  screen  for  the  development  of  more  severe  hepatic  injury. 
Discontinuation  of  POS  should  be  considered  if  clinical  signs  and  symptoms  are  consistent  with 
development of worsening liver disease. 
POS  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  In  these  patients,  the 
prolonged elimination half-life may lead to increased exposure.  
Following  the  discussion  on  the  clinical  safety  the  MAH  commits  to  provide  a  revised  Risk 
Management  Plan  including  the  close  monitoring  of  hepatic  events,  hypokalaemia,  worsening  of 
depression, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and pulmonary haemorrhage. 
The  overall  safety  profile  is  considered  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  data  previously  presented 
during  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  application.  The  new  concerns  appearing  during  this 
assessment will be closely monitored by the MAH in the future as per the commitment. 
5  
Overall Conclusion and Benefit/Risk Assessment 
Following  the  initial  assessment  the  azole  refractory  oropharyngeal  and/or  oesophageal  candidiasis 
indications were withdrawn by the applicant.  Therefore, the Overall Conclusions and the Benefit/Risk 
Assessment  presented  here  concern  only 
indication  of  azole-susceptible  oropharyngeal 
Candidiasis.  
the 
To support this indication, two pivotal controlled clinical studies (209 and 331) were included in this 
submission  for  the  100mg  dose  of  posaconazole  for  the  azole  susceptible  oropharyngeal  candidiasis 
indication.  For both studies, the primary analysis used a non-inferiority margin of 15% whereas the 
CPMP/EWP/558/95  Note  for  Guidance  on  evaluation  of  new  anti-bacterial  medicinal  products 
suggests a non-inferiority margin of 10% might be preferred.  However the data assessed here support 
the  indication  of  the  Oropharyngeal  Candidiasis.  It  was  shown  that  the  poasacozanole  is  considered 
non-inferior to fluaconazole in terms of primary efficacy.  
The  posology  of  this  indication  has  been  assessed  and  proposed  for  the  immunocompromised 
population.  The  MAH  has  suggested  a  once  a  day  of  200 mg  loading  dosage  following  of  100 mg 
posaconazole  daily  administration  for  the  next  13  days  regarding  the  indication  under  examination. 
Also although there are no specific studies assessing the interaction with food, it was recommended 
that posaconazole is administered with high fat food and/or in special cases with a food supplement 
depending on the state of the patients. All the above suggestions have been accepted by the CHMP. 
The Safety profile has been assessed following the data submitted for the clinical studies performed. 
Although the safety profile was not dramatically changed, the MAH has committed to submit a revised 
Risk Management Plan to closely monitor the hepatic events, hypokalaemia, worsening of depression, 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and pulmonary haemorrhage adverse reactions in the future and 
post-marketing, together with the submission of PSURs and Annual Safety Reports. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
19/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  relevant  points  have  been  adequately  addressed  and  it 
recommends  the  granting  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  for  the  indication  of  Oropharyngeal 
Candidiasis. 
Benefit/Risk assessment 
As regards efficacy, posaconazole has been shown as non-inferior to the comparator fluoconazole for 
the indication of azole-susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis.  
The  safety  profile  of  the  studies  was  considered  as  acceptable  and  the  commitment  of  the  MAH  to 
submit  a  revised  Risk  Management  Plan  was  taking  into  account.  The  commitment  includes  the 
mentioning of hepatic events, hypokalaemia, worsening of depression, thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura  and  pulmonary  haemorrhage  in  the  new  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  as  safety  concerns, 
and to submit a revised RMP 
Therefore taken into account the clinical data presented during the efficacy and safety assessment, it is 
considered  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  for  the  proposed  indication  in  azole-susceptible  oropharyngeal 
candidiasis is positive. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on efficacy and safety the CHMP considered by consensus that the 
benefit/risk  ratio  of  Noxafil  was  favourable  for  the  indication  of  azole-susceptible  oropharyngeal 
Candidiasis  and  therefore  recommended  the  proposed  changes  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and the Package Leaflet. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
20/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
Changes To The Product Information 
Product Information 
The MAH’s initial proposed changes to section 4.1 were discussed and not agreeable by the CHMP 
mainly due to the fact that the data submitted did not support the broad indication in oropharyngeal 
candidiasis (OPC) or the treatment of refractory oropharyngeal (rOPC) and/or oesophageal candidiasis 
(rEC). However, a revised wording was proposed by the MAH and accepted by the CHMP following 
the  assessment  of  this  variation  which  does  not  include  the  treatment  of  refractory  oropharyngeal 
(rOPC) and/or oesophageal candidiasis (rEC). Consequently sections have been revised so the finally 
agreed indication is as: 
Section 4.1 “Therapeutic indication” 
Noxafil is indicated for use in the treatment of the following invasive fungal infections in 
adults (see section 5.1): 
(…) 
“- 
Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe 
disease or are immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to 
be poor”. 
The following sections of the Summary of the Product Characteristics have also been updated. 
The  Section  4.2  “Posology  and  method  of  administration”  was  updated  to  reflect  the  assessment 
discussion and to incorporate the dose adjustments related to the specific indication and the state of the 
patients.  
The  Section 4.4 “Special warnings and special precautions for use” was updated to incorporate the 
findings from the assessment of Safety and to highlight the precautions for the use of posaconazole in 
patients with serious underlying medical conditions (e.g. hematologic malignancy). 
Due  to  the  state  of  the  patients  receiving  posaconazole  the  Section  4.5  "Interaction  with  other 
medicinal products and other forms of interactions", was revised especially for the patients receiving 
cyclosporine, and in consequence now includes the safety data assessed. 
The Section 4.8 "Undesirable effects", has been reworked and presented in a way to better reflect the 
safety assessment in the new indication. 
The  Section  5.1  “Pharmacodynamic  properties”  and  the  Section  5.2  "Pharmacokinetic  properties" 
have been updated to include the relevant clinical studies and the results that have been presented in 
support of this indication. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-02 
21/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
