ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each mL of oral suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole.
Excipients with known effect
This medicinal product contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension.
This medicinal product contains 10 mg of sodium benzoate (E211) per 5 mL of suspension.
This medicinal product contains up to 1.25 mg of benzyl alcohol per 5 mL of suspension.
This medicinal product contains up to 24.75 mg of propylene glycol (E1520) per 5 mL of suspension.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Oral suspension
White suspension
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Noxafil oral suspension is indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections in adults
(see section 5.1):
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products;
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are
intolerant of amphotericin B;
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole;
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products;
Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe disease or are
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor.
-  
-  
-  
- 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.
Noxafil oral suspension is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following
patients:
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML)
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are
at high-risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high-risk of developing
invasive fungal infections.
- 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion
and the gastro-resistant tablets for use in primary treatment of invasive aspergillosis.
2
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in
the supportive care of high-risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis.
Non-interchangeability between Noxafil oral suspension and Noxafil tablets or Noxafil
gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
Noxafil oral suspension is indicated for the adult population (≥18 years old) only. Another formulation
(Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension) is available for paediatric patients
from 2 years to less than 18 years of age.
The oral suspension is not to be used interchangeably with either the tablet or gastro-resistant powder
and solvent for oral suspension due to the differences in frequency of dosing, administration with food
and plasma drug concentration achieved. Therefore, follow the specific dose recommendations for
each formulation.
Posology
Noxafil is also available as 100 mg gastro-resistant tablet, 300 mg concentrate for solution for
infusion, and 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. Noxafil tablets generally
provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil oral suspension under both fed and fasted
conditions. Therefore, the tablets are the preferred formulation over the oral suspension to optimize
plasma concentrations.
Recommended dose is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Recommended dose in adults according to indication
Indication 
Refractory invasive fungal 
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI 
intolerant to 1st line therapy 
Oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections 
Dose and duration of therapy
(See section 5.2)
200 mg (5 mL) four times a day. Alternatively, patients who can
tolerate food or a nutritional supplement may take 400 mg (10 mL)
twice a day during or immediately following a meal or nutritional
supplement.
Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the
underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical
response.
Loading dose of 200 mg (5 mL) once a day on the first day, then
100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day for 13 days.
Each dose of Noxafil should be administered during or
immediately after a meal, or a nutritional supplement in patients
who cannot tolerate food to enhance the oral absorption and to
ensure adequate exposure.
200 mg (5 mL) three times a day. Each dose of Noxafil should be
administered during or immediately after a meal, or a nutritional
supplement in patients who cannot tolerate food to enhance the oral
absorption and to ensure adequate exposure. The duration of
therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or
immunosuppression. For patients with acute myelogenous
leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, prophylaxis with Noxafil
should start several days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia
and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above
500 cells per mm3.
3
Special populations
Renal impairment 
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment 
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for
higher plasma exposure.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension have not been established in children and
adolescents aged below 18 years. Currently available data are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2, but no
recommendation on a posology can be made. Two other oral formulations, Noxafil gastro-resistant
powder and solvent for oral suspension and Noxafil tablets, are available for the paediatric population.
Method of administration
For oral use
The oral suspension must be shaken well before use.
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide,
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4
and 4.5).
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin
(see section 4.5).
Co-administration during the initiation and dose-titration phase of venetoclax in Chronic Lymphocytic
Leukaemia (CLL) patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing posaconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to
other azoles.
Hepatic toxicity
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests
normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes
have been reported. 
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see
sections 4.2 and 5.2).
4
Monitoring of hepatic function
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy.
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during posaconazole therapy must be routinely
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin).
Discontinuation of posaconazole should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent
with development of liver disease.
QTc prolongation
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Posaconazole must not be
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Posaconazole should be administered with caution to patients
with pro-arrhythmic conditions such as:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those
mentioned in section 4.3).
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias
Sinus bradycardia
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy.
Drug interactions
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam,
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5).
Vincristine toxicity
Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been
associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral
neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus. Reserve
azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options (see section 4.5).
Venetoclax toxicity
Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors, including posaconazole, with the CYP3A4
substrate venetoclax, may increase venetoclax toxicities, including the risk of tumour lysis syndrome
(TLS) and neutropenia (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Refer to the venetoclax SmPC for detailed guidance.
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine,
phenobarbital, primidone), efavirenz and cimetidine
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see
section 4.5).
Gastrointestinal dysfunction
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for
breakthrough fungal infections.
5
Glucose
This medicinal product contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension. Patients
with rare glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
Sodium benzoate
This medicinal product contains 10 mg of sodium benzoate (E211) per 5 mL of suspension.
Benzyl alcohol
This medicinal product contains up to 1.25 mg of benzyl alcohol per 5 mL of suspension. Benzyl
alcohol may cause anaphylactoid reactions.
Propylene glycol
This medicinal product contains up to 24.75 mg of propylene glycol (E1520) per 5 mL of suspension.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for
p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine,
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, etc.)
of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations,
respectively.
Rifabutin
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively.
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels. 
Efavirenz
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to
the patient outweighs the risk. 
Fosamprenavir
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 days) by 21 % and 23 %,
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with
ritonavir is unknown.
Phenytoin
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g.
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient
outweighs the risk.
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors
Posaconazole plasma concentrations (Cmax and AUC) were reduced by 39 % when posaconazole was
administered with cimetidine (400 mg twice a day) due to reduced absorption possibly secondary to a
6
decrease in gastric acid production. Co-administration of posaconazole with H2 receptor antagonists
should be avoided if possible. 
Similarly, administration of 400 mg posaconazole with esomeprazole (40 mg daily) decreased mean
Cmax and AUC by 46 % and 32 %, respectively, compared to dosing with 400 mg posaconazole alone.
Co-administration of posaconazole with proton pump inhibitors should be avoided if possible.
Food
The absorption of posaconazole is significantly increased by food (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the
interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole
occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4
substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is
expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be
variable within a patient, unless posaconazole is administered in a strictly standardised way with food,
given the large food effect on posaconazole exposure (see section 5.2).
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates)
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see
section 4.3).
Ergot alkaloids
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and
atorvastatin)
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).
Vinca alkaloids
Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant
administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with
serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of
vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore,
reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options.
Rifabutin
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these
7
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended.
Sirolimus
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days)
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the dose
of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that there
should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. Sirolimus
concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at discontinuation of
posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be noted that the
relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-administration
with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the usual therapeutic
range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore trough concentrations that fall in the upper part
of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid to clinical signs
and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies.
Ciclosporin
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g.
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose
of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary.
Tacrolimus
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 %
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary.
HIV Protease inhibitors
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold),
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole.
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days)
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average
8
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to
8-10 hours during co-administration.
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4).
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine,
nisoldipine)
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel
blockers may be required.
Digoxin
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore,
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment.
Sulfonylureas
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or tretinoin
As ATRA is metabolised by the hepatic CYP450 enzymes, notably CYP3A4, concomitant
administration with posaconazole, which is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, may lead to increased
exposure to tretinoin resulting in an increased toxicity (especially hypercalcaemia). Serum calcium
levels should be monitored and, if needed, appropriate dose adjustments of tretinoin should be
considered during the treatment with posaconazole, and during the following days after treatment.
Venetoclax
Compared with venetoclax 400 mg administered alone, co-administration of 300 mg posaconazole, a
strong CYP3A inhibitor, with venetoclax 50 mg and 100 mg for 7 days in 12 patients, increased
venetoclax Cmax to 1.6-fold and 1.9-fold, and AUC to 1.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively (see sections
4.3 and 4.4).
Refer to the venetoclax SmPC.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown.
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk
to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on
initiation of treatment with posaconazole.
9
Fertility
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (1.7 times the 400-mg
twice daily regimen based on steady-state plasma concentrations in healthy volunteers) or female rats
at a dose up to 45 mg/kg (2.2 times the 400-mg twice daily regimen). There is no clinical experience
assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans.
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be used.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy
volunteers enrolled in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and increased
bilirubin.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from
the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency reported in clinical studies and/or post-
marketing use *
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Immune system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Endocrine disorders
Rare:
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
neutropenia
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia,
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage
allergic reaction
hypersensitivity reaction 
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased,
pseudoaldosteronism
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite,
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder
psychotic disorder, depression
paraesthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia,
insomnia
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral
neuropathy, syncope
10
 
Eye disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Ear and labyrinth disorder
Rare:
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon: 
Rare:
Vascular disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Gastrointestinal disorders
Very Common:
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hepatobiliary disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
Uncommon: 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon:
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced 
diplopia, scotoma
hearing impairment
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§,
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles,
tachycardia
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia,
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction
hypertension
hypotension, vasculitis
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain,
tachypnoea
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis
nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth,
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric
discomfort, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux disease,
oedema mouth
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus 
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased,
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT
increased)
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly,
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, liver
tenderness, asterixis
rash, pruritis
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased 
Rare: 
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis 
Reproductive system and breast
disorders
Uncommon:
Rare: 
General disorders and
administration site conditions 
Common:
menstrual disorder
breast pain
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue
11
Uncommon:
Rare:
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation
tongue oedema, face oedema
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest
x-ray abnormal 
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, concentrate for solution for infusion,
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension.
§ See section 4.4.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatobiliary disorders
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
During clinical studies, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses.
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator.
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02AC04.
Mechanism of action
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential
step in ergosterol biosynthesis.
Microbiology
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, C.
inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus; however the clinical
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents.
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. In a surveillance
study of > 3,000 clinical mold isolates from 2010-2018, 90 % of non-Aspergillus fungi exhibited the
following in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC): Mucorales spp (n=81) of 2 mg/L;
Scedosporium apiospermum/S. boydii (n=65) of 2 mg/L; Exophiala dermatiditis (n=15) of 0.5 mg/L,
and Purpureocillium lilacinum (n=21) of 1 mg/L.
12
Resistance
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51.
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp.
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology.
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L
EUCAST ECOFF values:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do
not equate to clinical breakpoints.
Breakpoints
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]:
• 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida dubliniensis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R > 0.06 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species.
Combination with other antifungal agents
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole or
the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will
provide an added benefit.
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens and the effects of food on
absorption).
Clinical experience
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies
Invasive aspergillosis
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy study (Study 0041). Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an
external control group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control
group included 86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the
same sites as the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered
to be refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external control
group (79 %).
As shown in Table 3, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was
seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, this
13
was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external control
group should be viewed with caution.
Table 3. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.1 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group
22/86 (26 %)
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %)
(35 %)
(19 %)
(15 %)
(29 %)
Fusarium spp. 
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole,
seven patients were classed as responders.
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma 
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species.
Coccidioidomycosis 
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days.
Treatment of azole-susceptible Oropharyngeal Candidiasis (OPC)
A randomised, evaluator-blind, controlled study was completed in HIV-infected patients with azole-
susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis (most patients studied had C. albicans isolated at baseline). The
primary efficacy variable was the clinical success rate (defined as cure or improvement) after 14 days
of treatment. Patients were treated with posaconazole or fluconazole oral suspension (both
posaconazole and fluconazole were given as follows: 100 mg twice a day for 1 day followed by
100 mg once a day for 13 days).
The clinical response rates from the above study are shown in the Table 4 below.
Posaconazole was shown to be non-inferior to fluconazole for clinical success rates at Day 14 as well
as 4 weeks after the end of treatment.
Table 4. Clinical success rates in Oropharyngeal Candidiasis
Endpoint
Clinical success rate at Day 14
Posaconazole 
Fluconazole
91.7 % (155/169)  92.5 % (148/160)
Clinical success rate 4 weeks after end of treatment
68.5 % (98/143) 
61.8 % (84/136)
Clinical success rate was defined as the number of cases assessed as having a clinical response (cure or improvement)
divided by the total number of cases eligible for analysis.
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899)
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high-risk for
developing invasive fungal infections.
1 Includes other less common species or species unknown
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomisation as determined by an independent,
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive (195/600,
[32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole and
77 days for fluconazole.
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
at 100 days post-randomisation. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole.
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 5
and 6 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients.
Table 5. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
Control a
P-Value 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs
1899d
316e
1899d 
316 d 
On-treatment periodb
7/304 (2)
7/291 (2)
25/298 (8)
22/288 (8)
Fixed-time periodc
14/304 (5) 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009
0.0038
0.0031
0.0740
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole.
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
b: 
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
c: 
d:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
15
Table 6. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
Controla
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis
1899d
316e
1899d 
On-treatment periodb
2/304 (1)
3/291 (1)
Fixed-time periodc
4/304 (1) 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole.
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
b: 
7/301 (2) 
20/298 (7)
17/288 (6)
26/298 (9)
21/299 (7)
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
c: 
d:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all-cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomisation, was significantly higher for posaconazole
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209).
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU
group (12/299; P= 0.0413).
Paediatric population
No dose of posaconazole oral suspension could be recommended for paediatric patients. However, the
safety and efficacy of other formulations of posaconazole (Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent
for oral suspension; Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion) have been established in paediatric
patients 2 to less than 18 years of age. Refer to their SmPC for additional information. 
Electrocardiogram evaluation
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12-hour period were obtained before and during
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption 
Posaconazole is absorbed with a median Tmax of 3 hours (fed patients). The pharmacokinetics of
posaconazole are linear following single and multiple dose administration of up to 800 mg when taken
with a high fat meal. No further increases in exposure were observed when doses above 800 mg daily
were administered to patients and healthy volunteers. In the fasting state, AUC increased less than in
proportion to dose above 200 mg. In healthy volunteers under fasting conditions, dividing the total
daily dose (800 mg) into 200 mg four times daily compared to 400 mg twice daily, was shown to
increase posaconazole exposure by 2.6-fold.
Effect of food on oral absorption in healthy volunteers
The absorption of posaconazole was significantly increased when posaconazole 400 mg (once daily)
was administered during and immediately after the consumption of a high fat meal (~ 50 grams fat)
compared to administration before a meal, with Cmax and AUC increasing by approximately 330 % and
16
360 %, respectively. The AUC of posaconazole is: 4 times greater when administered with a high-fat
meal (~ 50 grams fat) and about 2.6 times greater when administered during a non-fat meal or
nutritional supplement (14 grams fat) relative to the fasted state (see sections 4.2 and 4.5).
Distribution
Posaconazole is slowly absorbed and slowly eliminated with a large apparent volume of distribution
(1,774 litres) and is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin.
Biotransformation
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to be
altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are glucuronide
conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) metabolites
observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % of the
administered radiolabelled dose.
Elimination
Posaconazole is slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 35 hours (range 20 to 66 hours). After
administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces (77 % of
the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the radiolabelled
dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled dose excreted in
urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state is attained following 7 to
10 days of multiple-dose administration.
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Children (< 18 years)
Following administration of 800 mg per day of posaconazole as a divided dose for treatment of
invasive fungal infections, mean trough plasma concentrations from 12 patients 8 - 17 years of age
(776 ng/mL) were similar to concentrations from 194 patients 18 - 64 years of age (817 ng/mL).
Similarly, in the prophylaxis studies, the mean steady-state posaconazole average concentration (Cav)
was comparable among ten adolescents (13-17 years of age) to Cav achieved in adults (≥ 18 years of
age). In a study of 136 neutropenic paediatric patients 11 months – 17 years treated with posaconazole
oral suspension at doses up to 18 mg/kg/day divided TID, approximately 50 % met the pre-specified
target (Day 7 Cav between 500 ng/mL-2,500 ng/mL). In general, exposures tended to be higher in the
older patients (7 to <18 years) than in younger patients (2 to <7 years). 
Gender
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole are comparable in men and women.
Elderly 
An increase in Cmax (26 %) and AUC (29 %) was observed in elderly subjects (24 subjects  65 years
of age) relative to younger subjects (24 subjects 18 - 45 years of age). However, in clinical efficacy
studies, the safety profile of posaconazole between the young and elderly patients was similar.
Race
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the Black
and Caucasian subjects was similar.
Weight
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to weight. In patients > 120 kg, the Cav is
decreased by 25 % and in patients < 50 kg, the Cav is increased by 19 %.
It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing
more than 120 kg. 
17
Renal impairment
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild and
moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics;
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not significantly
renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is
not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis.
Hepatic impairment
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total
AUC. The elimination half-life (t1/2) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained
at therapeutic doses in humans. 
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for  3 months at lower systemic exposures than
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved
therapeutically.
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes
in humans.
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety
pharmacology study in monkeys at systemic exposures 4.6-fold greater than the concentrations
obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of cardiac
decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 1.4-fold
greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up to
29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 1.4-fold and 4.6-fold greater,
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses.
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability.
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic
doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered
to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis.
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal
special hazards for humans.
18
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Polysorbate 80
Simeticone
Sodium benzoate (E211)
Sodium citrate dihydrate
Citric acid monohydrate
Glycerol
Xanthan gum
Liquid glucose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Artificial cherry flavour containing benzyl alcohol and propylene glycol (E1520)
Purified water
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3  Shelf life
Unopened container: 3 years
After first opening the container: 4 weeks
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Do not freeze.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
105 mL of oral suspension in a bottle (glass amber type IV) closed with a plastic child-resistant cap
(polypropylene) and a measuring spoon (polystyrene) with 2 graduations: 2.5 mL and 5 mL.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/001
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005
19
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
<{MM/YYYY}>
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
20
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Gastro-resistant tablet (tablet)
Yellow-coated, capsule-shaped tablet of 17.5 mm length debossed with “100” on one side.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections
in adults (see sections 4.2 and 5.1):
Invasive aspergillosis
-  
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections
in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and adults (see sections 4.2
and 5.1):
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products;
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are
intolerant of amphotericin B;
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole;
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products.
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the
following paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and adults (see
sections 4.2 and 5.1):
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML)
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are
at high-risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high-risk of developing
invasive fungal infections.
- 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil oral suspension for use in
oropharyngeal candidiasis.
21
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in
the supportive care of high-risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis.
Non-interchangeability between Noxafil tablets and Noxafil oral suspension
The tablet is not to be used interchangeably with the oral suspension due to the differences between
these two formulations in frequency of dosing, administration with food and plasma drug
concentration achieved. Therefore, follow the specific dose recommendations for each formulation.
Posology
Noxafil is also available as 40 mg/mL oral suspension, 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion,
and 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. Noxafil tablets generally provide
higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions.
Therefore, the tablets are the preferred formulation to optimise plasma concentrations.
Recommended dose in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and in adults
is shown in Table 1.
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is recommended for oral use in
paediatric patients 2 years of age and older weighing 40 kg or less. Refer to the gastro-resistant
powder and solvent for oral suspension SmPC for additional dosing information.
Table 1. Recommended dose in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and
in adults according to indication
Indication 
Dose and duration of therapy
(See section 5.2)
Treatment of invasive 
aspergillosis (only for adults) 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets or 300 mg
concentrate for solution for infusion) twice a day on the first day,
then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets or 300 mg concentrate for
solution for infusion) once a day thereafter.
Each tablet dose may be taken without regard to food intake.
Recommended total duration of therapy is 6-12 weeks.
Switching between intravenous and oral administration is
appropriate when clinically indicated.
Refractory invasive fungal
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI
intolerant to 1st line therapy
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the
first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a day thereafter.
Each dose may be taken without regard to food intake. Duration of
therapy should be based on the severity of the underlying disease,
recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response. 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal
infections
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the
first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a day thereafter.
Each dose may be taken without regard to food intake. Duration of
therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or
immunosuppression. For patients with acute myelogenous
leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, prophylaxis with Noxafil
should start several days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia
and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above
500 cells per mm3.
22
Special populations
Renal impairment 
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment 
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for
higher plasma exposure.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole in children aged below 2 years have not been established. 
No clinical data are available.
Method of administration
For oral use
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets may be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). The tablets should
be swallowed whole with water and should not be crushed, chewed, or broken.
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide,
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4
and 4.5).
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin
(see section 4.5).
Co-administration during the initiation and dose-titration phase of venetoclax in Chronic Lymphocytic
Leukaemia (CLL) patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing posaconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to
other azoles.
Hepatic toxicity
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests
normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes
have been reported. 
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see
sections 4.2 and 5.2).
23
Monitoring of hepatic function
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy.
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during posaconazole therapy must be routinely
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin).
Discontinuation of posaconazole should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent
with development of liver disease.
QTc prolongation
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Posaconazole must not be
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Posaconazole should be administered with caution to patients
with pro-arrhythmic conditions such as:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those
mentioned in section 4.3).
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias
Sinus bradycardia
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy.
Drug interactions
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam,
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5).
Vincristine toxicity
Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been
associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral
neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus. Reserve
azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options (see section 4.5).
Venetoclax toxicity
Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors, including posaconazole, with the CYP3A4
substrate venetoclax, may increase venetoclax toxicities, including the risk of tumour lysis syndrome
(TLS) and neutropenia (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Refer to the venetoclax SmPC for detailed guidance.
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine,
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz.
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see
section 4.5).
Plasma exposure
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets are generally
higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. Posaconazole plasma concentrations
following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase over time in some patients (see
section 5.2).
24
Gastrointestinal dysfunction
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for
breakthrough fungal infections.
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for
p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine,
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, etc.)
of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations,
respectively.
Rifabutin
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively.
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels. 
Efavirenz
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to
the patient outweighs the risk. 
Fosamprenavir
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %,
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with
ritonavir is unknown.
Phenytoin
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g.
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient
outweighs the risk.
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors
No clinically relevant effects were observed when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with
antacids, H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. No dose adjustment of posaconazole
tablets is required when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H2-receptor
antagonists and proton pump inhibitors.
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4
25
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the
interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole
occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4
substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is
expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be
variable within a patient.
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates) 
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see
section 4.3).
Ergot alkaloids
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and
atorvastatin)
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).
Vinca alkaloids
Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant
administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with
serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of
vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore,
reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options.
Rifabutin
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended.
Sirolimus
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days)
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the dose
of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that there
should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. Sirolimus
concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at discontinuation of
posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be noted that the
relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-administration
with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the usual therapeutic
range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore, trough concentrations that fall in the upper part
26
of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid to clinical signs
and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
Ciclosporin
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g.
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose
of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary.
Tacrolimus
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 %
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary.
HIV Protease inhibitors
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold),
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole.
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days)
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to
8-10 hours during co-administration.
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4).
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine,
nisoldipine)
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel
blockers may be required.
27
Digoxin
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore,
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment.
Sulfonylureas
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or tretinoin
As ATRA is metabolised by the hepatic CYP450 enzymes, notably CYP3A4, concomitant
administration with posaconazole, which is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, may lead to increased
exposure to tretinoin resulting in an increased toxicity (especially hypercalcaemia). Serum calcium
levels should be monitored and, if needed, appropriate dose adjustments of tretinoin should be
considered during the treatment with posaconazole, and during the following days after treatment.
Venetoclax
Compared with venetoclax 400 mg administered alone, co-administration of 300 mg posaconazole, a
strong CYP3A inhibitor, with venetoclax 50 mg and 100 mg for 7 days in 12 patients, increased
venetoclax Cmax to 1.6-fold and 1.9-fold, and AUC to 1.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively (see sections
4.3 and 4.4). 
Refer to the venetoclax SmPC.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown.
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk
to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on
initiation of treatment with posaconazole.
Fertility
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (3.4 times the 300-mg
tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg
(2.6 times the 300-mg tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients). There is no
clinical experience assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans.
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be used.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension.
28
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy
volunteers enrolled in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and increased
bilirubin.
Posaconazole tablets 
The safety of posaconazole tablet has been assessed in 104 healthy volunteers and 230 patients
enrolled in a clinical study of antifungal prophylaxis. 
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and posaconazole tablet has been
assessed in 288 patients enrolled in a clinical study of aspergillosis of whom 161 patients received the
concentrate for solution for infusion and 127 patients received the tablet formulation.
The tablet formulation was investigated in AML and MDS patients and those after HSCT with or at
risk for Graft versus Host Disease (GVHD) only. Maximum duration of exposure to the tablet
formulation was shorter than with the oral suspension. Plasma exposure resulting from the tablet
formulation was higher than observed with the oral suspension. 
The safety of posaconazole tablets has been assessed in 230 patients enrolled in the pivotal clinical
study. Patients were enrolled in a non-comparative pharmacokinetic and safety study of posaconazole
tablets when given as antifungal prophylaxis. Patients were immunocompromised with underlying
conditions including haematological malignancy, neutropenia post-chemotherapy, GVHD, and post
HSCT. Posaconazole therapy was given for a median duration of 28 days. Twenty patients received
200 mg daily dose and 210 patients received 300 mg daily dose (following twice daily dosing on Day
1 in each cohort).
The safety of posaconazole tablets and concentrate for solution for infusion were also investigated in a
controlled study of treatment of invasive aspergillosis. The maximum duration of invasive
aspergillosis treatment was similar to that studied with the oral suspension for salvage treatment and
was longer than that with the tablets or concentrate for solution for infusion in prophylaxis.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from
the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency reported in clinical studies and/or post-
marketing use*
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Immune system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Endocrine disorders
Rare:
neutropenia
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia,
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage
allergic reaction
hypersensitivity reaction 
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased,
pseudoaldosteronism
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite,
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
29
 
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Eye disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Ear and labyrinth disorder
Rare:
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon: 
Rare:
Vascular disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Gastrointestinal disorders
Very Common:
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hepatobiliary disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
Uncommon: 
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder 
psychotic disorder, depression
paraesthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia,
insomnia
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral
neuropathy, syncope
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced 
diplopia, scotoma
hearing impairment
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§,
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles,
tachycardia
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia,
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction
hypertension
hypotension, vasculitis
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain,
tachypnoea
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis
nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth,
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric
discomfort, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux disease,
oedema mouth
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus 
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased,
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT
increased)
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly,
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, liver
tenderness, asterixis
rash, pruritis
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity
30
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon:
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased 
Rare: 
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis 
Reproductive system and breast
disorders
Uncommon:
Rare: 
General disorders and
administration site conditions 
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
menstrual disorder
breast pain
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation
tongue oedema, face oedema
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest
x-ray abnormal 
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, concentrate for solution for infusion,
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension.
§ See section 4.4.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatobiliary disorders
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole tablets.
During clinical studies, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses.
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator.
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02AC04.
Mechanism of action
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential
step in ergosterol biosynthesis.
Microbiology
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species
31
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, C.
inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus; however, the clinical
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents.
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. In a surveillance
study of > 3,000 clinical mold isolates from 2010-2018, 90 % of non-Aspergillus fungi exhibited the
following in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC): Mucorales spp (n=81) of 2 mg/L;
Scedosporium apiospermum/S. boydii (n=65) of 2 mg/L; Exophiala dermatiditis (n=15) of 0.5 mg/L,
and Purpureocillium lilacinum (n=21) of 1 mg/L.
Resistance
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51.
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp.
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology.
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L
EUCAST ECOFF values:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do
not equate to clinical breakpoints.
Breakpoints
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]:
• 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida dubliniensis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R > 0.06 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species.
Combination with other antifungal agents
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole or
the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will
provide an added benefit.
Clinical experience
Summary of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and tablet study invasive aspergillosis
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole for the treatment of patients with invasive aspergillosis was
evaluated in a double-blind controlled study (study-69) in 575 patients with proven, probable, or
possible invasive fungal infections per EORTC/MSG criteria.
Patients were treated with posaconazole (n=288) concentrate for solution for infusion or tablet given at
a dose of 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1). Comparator patients were treated with voriconazole (n=287)
given IV at a dose of 6 mg/kg BID Day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg BID, or orally at a dose of 300 mg BID
Day 1 followed by 200 mg BID. Median treatment duration was 67 days (posaconazole) and 64 days
(voriconazole).
32
In the intent-to-treat (ITT) population (all subjects who received at least one dose of study drug), 288
patients received posaconazole and 287 patients received voriconazole. The full analysis set
population (FAS) is the subset of all subjects within the ITT population who were classified by
independent adjudication as having proven or probable invasive aspergillosis: 163 subjects for
posaconazole and 171 subjects for voriconazole. The all-cause mortality and global clinical response
in these two populations are presented in Table 3 and 4, respectively.
Table 3. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: all-cause mortality at Day 42 and
Day 84, in the ITT and FAS populations 
Population 
Mortality in ITT at
Day 42
Mortality in ITT at
Day 84
Mortality in FAS at
Day 42
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
N 
288 
n (%) 
44 (15.3) 
N 
287 
n (%) 
Difference* (95 % CI)
59 (20.6) 
-5.3 % (-11.6, 1.0)
288 
81 (28.1) 
287 
88 (30.7) 
-2.5 % (-9.9, 4.9)
163 
31 (19.0) 
171 
32 (18.7) 
0.3% (-8.2, 8.8)
Mortality in FAS at
Day 84
* Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for mortality/poor
outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme.
3.1% (-6.9, 13.1)
53 (31.0) 
56 (34.4) 
163 
171 
Table 4. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: global clinical response at Week 6 and
Week 12 in the FAS population 
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
Population 
N 
Success (%) 
N 
Success (%) 
Difference* (95 % CI)
Global clinical
response in the FAS 
at 6 weeks 
Global clinical
response in the FAS 
at 12 weeks
163 
73 (44.8) 
171 
78 (45.6) 
-0.6 % (-11.2, 10.1)
163 
69 (42.3) 
171 
79 (46.2) 
-3.4 % (-13.9, 7.1)
* Successful Global Clinical Response was defined as survival with a partial or complete response
Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for mortality/poor
outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme.
Summary of posaconazole tablet bridging study
Study 5615 was a non-comparative multi-centre study performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic
properties, safety, and tolerability of posaconazole tablet. Study 5615 was conducted in a similar
patient population to that previously studied in the pivotal posaconazole oral suspension clinical
program. The pharmacokinetics and safety data from Study 5615 were bridged to the existing data
(including efficacy data) with the oral suspension. 
The subject population included: 1) patients with AML or MDS who had recently received
chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia, or 2) patients
who had undergone a HSCT and were receiving immunosuppressive therapy for prevention or
treatment of GVHD. Two different dosing groups were evaluated: 200 mg twice daily on Day 1,
followed by 200 mg once daily thereafter (Part IA) and 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by
300 mg once daily thereafter (Part 1B and Part 2).
Serial PK samples were collected on Day 1 and at steady-state on Day 8 for all Part 1 subjects and a
subset of Part 2 subjects. Moreover, sparse PK samples were collected at several days during steady
state before the next dose (Cmin) for a larger subject population. Based on average Cmin concentrations,
a predicted average concentration (Cav) could be calculated for 186 subjects dosed with 300 mg. PK
analysis in patients of Cav found that 81 % of the subjects treated with the 300 mg once daily dose
attained steady state predicted Cav between 500-2,500 ng/mL. One subject (<1 %) had a predicted Cav
33
 
 
below 500 ng/mL and 19 % of the subjects had a predicted Cav above 2,500 ng/mL. Subjects achieved
a mean predicted Cav at steady state of 1,970 ng/mL.
In Table 5 a comparison is shown of exposure (Cav) after administration of posaconazole tablet and
posaconazole oral suspension at therapeutic doses in patients depicted as quartile analysis. Exposures
after tablet administration are generally higher than, but overlapping with, exposures after
administration of posaconazole oral suspension.
Table 5. Cav quartile analyses of pivotal patient studies with posaconazole tablet and oral suspension
Posaconazole oral suspension
Posaconazole 
tablet
Prophylaxis in 
AML and HSCT 
Study 5615 
300 mg once daily 
(Day 1 300 mg 
twice daily)* 
Prophylaxis in 
GVHD 
Study 316 
Prophylaxis in 
Neutropenia 
Study 1899 
200 mg three 
times daily 
200 mg three 
times daily 
Quartile 
pCav Range 
(ng/mL) 
442 – 1,223 
1,240 – 1,710 
1,719 – 2,291 
2,304 – 9,523 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
pCav: predicted Cav
Cav = the average concentration when measured at steady state
*20 patients received 200 mg once daily (Day 1 200 mg twice daily)
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
22 – 557 
557 – 915 
915 – 1,563 
1,563 – 3,650 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
90 – 322 
322 – 490 
490 – 734 
734 – 2,200 
Treatment –
Invasive
Aspergillosis
Study 0041
200 mg four times
daily
(hospitalized) then
400 mg twice daily
Cav Range
(ng/mL)
55 – 277
290 – 544
550 – 861
877 – 2,010
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies
Invasive aspergillosis
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy study (Study 0041). Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an
external control group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control
group included 86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the
same sites as the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered
to be refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external control
group (79 %).
As shown in Table 6, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was
seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, this
was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external control
group should be viewed with caution.
34
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group 
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.2 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group
22/86 (26 %)
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %)
(35 %)
(19 %)
(15 %)
(29 %)
Fusarium spp. 
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole,
seven patients were classed as responders.
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma 
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species.
Coccidioidomycosis 
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days.
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899)
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high-risk for
developing invasive fungal infections.
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomisation as determined by an independent,
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive (195/600,
[32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole and
77 days for fluconazole.
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
at 100 days post-randomisation. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole.
2 Includes other less common species or species unknown
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 7
and 8 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients.
Table 7. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
Control a
P-Value 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs
1899d
316e
1899d 
316 d 
On-treatment periodb
7/304 (2)
7/291 (2)
25/298 (8)
22/288 (8)
Fixed-time periodc
14/304 (5) 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009
0.0038
0.0031
0.0740
FLU = fluconazole ; ITZ = itraconazole ; POS = posaconazole.
A:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
B: 
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
C: 
D:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
Table 8. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
Controla
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis
1899d
316e
1899d 
On-treatment periodb
2/304 (1)
3/291 (1)
Fixed-time periodc
4/304 (1) 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole ; ITZ = itraconazole ; POS = posaconazole.
A:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
B: 
7/301 (2) 
20/298 (7)
17/288 (6)
26/298 (9)
21/299 (7)
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
C: 
D:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomisation, was significantly higher for posaconazole
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209).
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU
group (12/299; P= 0.0413).
36
Paediatric population
There is limited paediatric experience for posaconazole tablets.
Three patients 14-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion
and tablet 300 mg/day (BID on Day 1 followed by QD thereafter) in the study of treatment of invasive
aspergillosis. 
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole (Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension; Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion) have been established in paediatric
patients 2 to less than 18 years of age. Use of posaconazole in these age groups is supported by
evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of posaconazole in adults and pharmacokinetic
and safety data from paediatric studies (see section 5.2). No new safety signals associated with the use
of posaconazole in paediatric patients were identified in the paediatric studies (see section 4.8).
Safety and efficacy in paediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established.
No data are available.
Electrocardiogram evaluation
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens).
Absorption
Posaconazole tablets are absorbed with a median Tmax of 4 to 5 hours and exhibits dose proportional
pharmacokinetics after single and multiple dosing up to 300 mg. 
Following a single dose administration of 300 mg posaconazole tablets after a high fat meal to healthy
volunteers, the AUC0-72 hours and Cmax were higher compared to administration under fasted condition
(51 % and 16 % for AUC0-72 hours and Cmax respectively). Based on a population pharmacokinetic
model, posaconazole Cav is increased 20 % when given with a meal compared to a fasted state.
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase
over time in some patients. The reason for this time-dependency is not completely understood.
Distribution
Posaconazole, after administration of the tablet, has a mean apparent volume of distribution of 394 L
(42 %), ranging between 294-583 L among the studies in healthy volunteers.
Posaconazole is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin.
Biotransformation
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to be
altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are glucuronide
conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) metabolites
observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % of the
administered radiolabelled dose.
37
Elimination
Posaconazole after administration of the tablets, is slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of
29 hours (range 26 to 31 hours) and a mean apparent clearance ranging from 7.5 to 11 L/hr. After
administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces (77 % of
the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the radiolabelled
dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled dose excreted in
urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state plasma concentrations are
attained by Day 6 at the 300 mg dose (once daily after twice daily loading dose at Day 1).
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Based on a population pharmacokinetic model evaluating posaconazole pharmacokinetics, steady state
posaconazole concentrations were predicted in patients administered posaconazole concentrate for
solution for infusion or tablets 300 mg once a day following BID dosing on Day 1 for the treatment of
invasive aspergillosis and prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections.
Table 9. Population predicted median (10th percentile, 90th percentile) posaconazole steady state
plasma concentrations in patients following administration of posaconazole concentrate for solution
for infusion or tablets 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1)
Regimen 
Cmin (ng/mL)
Cav (ng/mL) 
Population 
Tablet-(Fasted) 
Concentrate for 
Solution for 
Infusion 
Prophylaxis 
Treatment of
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Prophylaxis 
Treatment of
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
1,550 
(874; 2,690) 
1,330
(667; 2,400)
1,780 
(879; 3,540) 
1,890 
(1,100; 3,150) 
1,490
(663; 3,230)
1,500
(745; 2,660)
2,240 
(1,230; 4,160) 
1,780
(874; 3,620)
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of posaconazole in patients suggests that race, sex, renal
impairment and disease (prophylaxis or treatment) have no clinically meaningful effect on the
pharmacokinetics of posaconazole.
Children (< 18 years)
There is limited (n=3) paediatric experience with posaconazole tablets.
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole oral suspension have been evaluated in paediatric patients.
Following administration of 800 mg per day of posaconazole oral suspension as a divided dose for
treatment of invasive fungal infections, mean trough plasma concentrations from 12 patients 8 –
17 years of age (776 ng/mL) were similar to concentrations from 194 patients 18 – 64 years of age
(817 ng/mL). No pharmacokinetic data are available from paediatric patients less than 8 years of age.
Similarly, in the prophylaxis studies, the mean steady-state posaconazole average concentration (Cav)
was comparable among ten adolescents (13-17 years of age) to Cav achieved in adults (≥ 18 years of
age). 
Gender
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in men and women.
Elderly
No overall differences in safety were observed between the geriatric patients and younger patients.
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to age. Posaconazole Cav is generally
comparable between young and elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age); however, the Cav is increased by
11 % in the very elderly (≥ 80 years). It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor very elderly patients
(≥ 80 years) for adverse events.
38
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in young and elderly subjects
(≥ 65 years of age).
Pharmacokinetic differences based upon age are not considered to be clinically relevant; therefore, no
dose adjustment is required.
Race
There is insufficient data among different races with posaconazole tablets.
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the Black
and Caucasian subjects was similar.
Weight
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to weight. In patients > 120 kg, the Cav is
decreased by 25 % and in patients <50 kg, the Cav is increased by 19 %.
It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing
more than 120 kg.
Renal impairment
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild and
moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics;
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not significantly
renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is
not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis.
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been
conducted with the posaconazole tablets.
Hepatic impairment
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total
AUC. The elimination half-life (t½) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure.
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been
conducted with the posaconazole tablets.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained
at therapeutic doses in humans. 
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for  3 months at lower systemic exposures than
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved
therapeutically.
39
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes
in humans.
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.5-fold greater than the
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of
cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure
2.1-fold greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up
to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 2.1-fold and 8.5-fold greater,
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses.
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability.
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic
doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered
to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis.
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal
special hazards for humans.
In a nonclinical study using intravenous administration of posaconazole in very young dogs (dosed
from 2-8 weeks of age) an increase in the incidence of brain ventricle enlargement was observed in
treated animals as compared with concurrent control animals. No difference in the incidence of brain
ventricle enlargement between control and treated animals was observed following the subsequent
5 month treatment-free period. There were no neurologic, behavioural or developmental abnormalities
in the dogs with this finding, and a similar brain finding was not seen with either oral posaconazole
administration to juvenile dogs (4 days to 9 months of age) or intravenous posaconazole
administration to juvenile dogs (10 weeks to 23 weeks of age). The clinical significance of this finding
is unknown.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Tablet core
Hypromellose acetate succinate
Cellulose, microcrystalline
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463)
Silica dental type
Croscarmellose sodium
Magnesium stearate
Tablet coat
polyvinyl alcohol
macrogol 3350
titanium dioxide (E171)
talc
iron oxide yellow (E172)
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
40
6.3  Shelf life
2 years
6.4  Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets are packaged in a PVC/ polychlorotrifluoroethylene laminate
blister with push-through aluminium lidding.
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are packaged in a blister in cartons of 24 (2x12) or 96 (8x12) tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/002 
EU/1/05/320/003 
24 tablets
96 tablets
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
<{MM/YYYY}>
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
41
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole.
Each mL contains 18 mg of posaconazole.
Excipients with known effect
Each vial contains 462 mg (20 mmol) of sodium.
Each vial contains 6,680 mg of cyclodextrin (as Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD)).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).
Clear, colourless to yellow liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is indicated for use in the treatment of the following
fungal infections in adults (see sections 4.2 and 5.1):
-  
Invasive aspergillosis
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is indicated for use in the treatment of the following
fungal infections in adult and paediatric patients from 2 years of age (see sections 4.2 and 5.1):
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products;
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are
intolerant of amphotericin B;
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole;
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products.
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal
infections in the following adult and paediatric patients from 2 years of age (see sections 4.2 and 5.1):
- 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML)
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are
at high-risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease (GVHD) and who are at high-risk of
developing invasive fungal infections.
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil oral suspension for use in
oropharyngeal candidiasis.
42
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in
the supportive care of high-risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis.
Posology
Noxafil is also available for oral administration (Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets, 40 mg/mL
oral suspension, and 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension). A switch to oral
administration is recommended as soon as the patients’ condition allows (see section 4.4).
Recommended dose is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Recommended dose according to indication
Indication 
Dose and duration of therapy
(See section 5.2)
Treatment of invasive 
aspergillosis (only for adults) 
Loading dose of 300 mg Noxafil (300 mg concentrate for solution
for infusion or three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the first day,
then 300 mg (300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion or three
100 mg tablets) once a day thereafter.
Each tablet dose may be taken without regard to food intake. 
Recommended total duration of therapy is 6-12 weeks.
Switching between intravenous and oral administration is
appropriate when clinically indicated.
Refractory invasive fungal
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI
intolerant to 1st line therapy
Adults:
Loading dose of 300 mg Noxafil twice a day on the first day, then
300 mg once a day thereafter. Duration of therapy should be based
on the severity of the underlying disease, recovery from
immunosuppression, and clinical response. 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal
infections
Paediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years:
Loading dose of 6 mg/kg (to a maximum of 300 mg) twice a day
on the first day, then 6 mg/kg (to a maximum of 300 mg) once a
day thereafter. Duration of therapy should be based on the severity
of the underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and
clinical response. 
Adults:
Loading dose of 300 mg Noxafil twice a day on the first day, then
300 mg once a day thereafter. Duration of therapy is based on
recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. For patients
with AML or MDS, prophylaxis with Noxafil should start several
days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia and continue for
7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per mm3.
Paediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years:
Loading dose of 6 mg/kg (to a maximum of 300 mg) twice a day
on the first day, then 6 mg/kg (to a maximum of 300 mg) once a
day thereafter. Duration of therapy is based on recovery from
neutropenia or immunosuppression. For patients with acute
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes,
prophylaxis with Noxafil should start several days before the
anticipated onset of neutropenia and continue for 7 days after the
neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per mm3.
43
Noxafil should be administered via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately
90 minutes. Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration.
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a peripheral
venous catheter. When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be
administered over approximately 30 minutes (see sections 4.8 and 6.6).
Special populations
Renal impairment
In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min),
accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), is expected to
occur. Oral formulations of Noxafil should be used in these patients unless an assessment of the
benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion. Serum
creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients (see section 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for
higher plasma exposure.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole in children aged below 2 years have not been established.
No  clinical
 data are available.
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be used in children aged below 2 years
because of pre-clinical safety concerns (see section 5.3).
Method of administration
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion requires dilution (see section 6.6) prior to administration.
Noxafil should be administered via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous (IV) infusion over approximately
90 minutes (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8).
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration.
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a peripheral
venous catheter. When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be
administered over approximately 30 minutes to reduce the likelihood of infusion site reactions (see
section 4.8).
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide,
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4
and 4.5).
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin
(see section 4.5).
Co-administration during the initiation and dose-titration phase of venetoclax in Chronic Lymphocytic
Leukaemia (CLL) patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
44
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing posaconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to
other azoles.
Hepatic toxicity
Hepatic reactions (e.g. elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin and/or clinical
hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver function tests were
generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests normalised
without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes have been
reported. 
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see
sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Monitoring of patients with severe renal impairment
Due to the variability in exposure, patients with severe renal impairment should be monitored closely
for breakthrough fungal infections (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Monitoring of hepatic function
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy.
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during posaconazole therapy must be routinely
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin).
Discontinuation of posaconazole should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent
with development of liver disease.
QTc prolongation
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Posaconazole must not be
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Posaconazole should be administered with caution to patients
with pro-arrhythmic conditions such as:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those
mentioned in section 4.3).
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias
Sinus bradycardia
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy.
In patients, mean maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) after posaconazole concentrate for solution
for infusion are 4-fold increased compared to administration of oral suspension. An increased effect on
the QTc interval cannot be ruled out. Particular caution is advised in such cases where posaconazole is
administered peripherally, as the recommended infusion time of 30 minutes may further increase Cmax.
Drug interactions
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam,
45
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5).
Vincristine toxicity
Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been
associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral
neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus. Reserve
azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options (see section 4.5).
Venetoclax toxicity
Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors, including posaconazole, with the CYP3A4
substrate venetoclax, may increase venetoclax toxicities, including the risk of tumour lysis syndrome
(TLS) and neutropenia (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Refer to the venetoclax SmPC for detailed guidance.
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine,
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see
section 4.5).
Plasma exposure
Plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole intravenous concentrate for solution
for infusion are generally higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. Posaconazole
plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole may increase over time in some
patients (see section 5.2). 
Thromboembolic events
Thromboembolic events have been identified as a potential risk for posaconazole intravenous
concentrate for solution for infusion but were not observed in the clinical studies. Thrombophlebitis
was observed in clinical studies. Caution is warranted on any sign or symptom of thromboembolic
events (see sections 4.8 and 5.3).
Sodium
This medicinal product contains 462 mg (20 mmol) sodium per vial, equivalent to 23 % of the WHO
recommended maximum daily intake of sodium.
The maximum daily dose of this product is equivalent to 46% of the WHO recommended maximum
daily intake for sodium.
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion is considered high in sodium. This should be
particularly taken into account for those on a low salt diet.
Cyclodextrin
This medicinal product contains 6,680 mg of cyclodextrin per vial.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The following information was derived from data with posaconazole oral suspension or early tablet
formulation. All drug interactions with posaconazole oral suspension, except for those that affect the
absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility) are considered relevant to posaconazole
concentrate for solution for infusion as well.
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for
p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine,
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, etc.)
of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations,
respectively.
46
Rifabutin
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively.
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels. 
Efavirenz
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to
the patient outweighs the risk. 
Fosamprenavir
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %,
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with
ritonavir is unknown.
Phenytoin
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g.
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient
outweighs the risk.
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. 
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates)
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see
section 4.3).
Ergot alkaloids
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and
atorvastatin)
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).
47
Vinca alkaloids
Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant
administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with
serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of
vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore,
reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options.
Rifabutin
After oral administration, posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to
the patient outweighs the risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of
posaconazole). If these medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood
counts and adverse reactions related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended.
Sirolimus
Repeat dose administration of oral posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days)
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the dose
of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that there
should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. Sirolimus
concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at discontinuation of
posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be noted that the
relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-administration
with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the usual therapeutic
range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore trough concentrations that fall in the upper part
of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid to clinical signs
and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
Ciclosporin
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g.
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose
of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary.
Tacrolimus
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 %
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary.
HIV Protease inhibitors
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold),
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with
48
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole.
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days)
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to 8-
10 hours during co-administration.
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4).
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine,
nisoldipine)
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel
blockers may be required.
Digoxin
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore,
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment.
Sulfonylureas
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or tretinoin
As ATRA is metabolised by the hepatic CYP450 enzymes, notably CYP3A4, concomitant
administration with posaconazole, which is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, may lead to increased
exposure to tretinoin resulting in an increased toxicity (especially hypercalcaemia). Serum calcium
levels should be monitored and, if needed, appropriate dose adjustments of tretinoin should be
considered during the treatment with posaconazole, and during the following days after treatment.
Venetoclax
Compared with venetoclax 400 mg administered alone, co-administration of 300 mg posaconazole, a
strong CYP3A inhibitor, with venetoclax 50 mg and 100 mg for 7 days in 12 patients, increased
venetoclax Cmax to 1.6-fold and 1.9-fold, and AUC to 1.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively (see sections
4.3 and 4.4). 
Refer to the venetoclax SmPC.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
49
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown.
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk
to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on
initiation of treatment with posaconazole.
Fertility
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (2.8 times the exposure
achieved from a 300 mg intravenous dose in human) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg (3.4 times
the exposure from a 300 mg intravenous dose in patients). There is no clinical experience assessing the
impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans.
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be used.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension.
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy
volunteers enrolled in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and increased
bilirubin.
Posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion has been assessed in 72 healthy
volunteers and 268 patients enrolled in a clinical study of antifungal prophylaxis. 
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and posaconazole tablet has been
assessed in 288 patients enrolled in a clinical study of aspergillosis of whom 161 patients received the
concentrate for solution for infusion and 127 patients received the tablet formulation. 
Posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion was investigated in AML and MDS patients and
those after HSCT with or at risk for GVHD only. Maximum duration of exposure to the concentrate
for solution for infusion was shorter than with the oral suspension. Plasma exposure resulting from the
solution for infusion was higher than observed with the oral suspension. 
In initial studies of healthy volunteers, administration of a single dose of posaconazole infused over
30 minutes via a peripheral venous catheter was associated with a 12 % incidence of infusion site
reactions (4 % incidence of thrombophlebitis). Multiple doses of posaconazole administered via a
peripheral venous catheter were associated with thrombophlebitis (60 % incidence). Therefore, in
subsequent studies posaconazole was administered via central venous catheter. If a central venous
catheter was not readily available, patients could receive a single infusion over 30 minutes via a
peripheral venous catheter. Peripheral infusion time longer than 30 minutes, leads to a higher
incidence of infusion site reactions and thrombophlebitis.
50
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion has been assessed in 268 patients in
clinical studies. Patients were enrolled in a non-comparative pharmacokinetic and safety study of
posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion when given as antifungal prophylaxis (Study 5520).
Eleven patients received a single dose of 200 mg posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion,
21 patients received 200 mg daily dose for a median of 14 days, and 237 patients received 300 mg
daily dose for a median of 9 days. No safety data are available for administration > 28 days. Safety
data in the elderly are limited.
The most frequently reported adverse reaction (>25 %) with an onset during the posaconazole
intravenous phase of dosing with 300 mg once daily was diarrhoea (32 %).
The most common adverse reaction (>1 %) leading to discontinuation of posaconazole concentrate for
solution for infusion 300 mg once daily was AML (1 %). 
The safety of posaconazole tablets and concentrate for solution for infusion were also investigated in a
controlled study of treatment of invasive aspergillosis. The maximum duration of invasive
aspergillosis treatment was similar to that studied with the oral suspension for salvage treatment and
was longer than that with the tablets or concentrate for solution for infusion in prophylaxis.
Posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for solution for
infusion safety
The safety of posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for
solution for infusion has been assessed in 115 paediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years for
prophylaxis use. Immunocompromised paediatric patients with known or expected neutropenia were
exposed to posaconazole at 3.5 mg/kg, 4.5 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg.
Reported adverse reactions were generally consistent with those expected in a paediatric oncology
population undergoing treatment for malignancy or with the safety profile of posaconazole in adults.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>2 %) during treatment were alanine aminotransferase
increased (2.6 %), aspartate aminotransferase increased (3.5 %) and rash (2.6 %).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from
the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency reported in clinical studies and/or post-
marketing use*
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
neutropenia
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia,
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage
Immune system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
allergic reaction
hypersensitivity reaction 
51
 
Endocrine disorders
Rare:
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Eye disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Ear and labyrinth disorder
Rare:
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon: 
Rare:
Vascular disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Gastrointestinal disorders
Very Common
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hepatobiliary disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased,
pseudoaldosteronism
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite,
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder
psychotic disorder, depression
paraesthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia,
insomnia
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral
neuropathy, syncope
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced 
diplopia, scotoma
hearing impairment
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§,
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles,
tachycardia
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia,
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction
hypertension
hypotension, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain,
tachypnoea
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis
nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth,
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort 
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric
discomfort, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux disease,
oedema mouth
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus 
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased,
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT
increased)
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly,
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal 
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, liver
tenderness, asterixis 
52
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
Uncommon: 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon:
rash, pruritis
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased 
Rare: 
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis 
Reproductive system and breast
disorders
Uncommon:
Rare: 
General disorders and
administration site conditions 
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
menstrual disorder
breast pain
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug
intolerance, feeling jittery, infusion site pain, infusion site
phlebitis, infusion site thrombosis, mucosal inflammation
tongue oedema, face oedema
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest x-
ray abnormal 
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, concentrate for solution for infusion,
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension.
§ See section 4.4.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatobiliary disorders
During post-marketing surveillance severe hepatic injury with fatal outcome has been reported (see
section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion.
During clinical studies, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses.
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator.
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered.
53
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code:
J02A C04.
Mechanism of action
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential
step in ergosterol biosynthesis.
Microbiology
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, C.
inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus; however, the clinical
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents.
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. In a surveillance
study of > 3,000 clinical mold isolates from 2010-2018, 90 % of non-Aspergillus fungi exhibited the
following in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC): Mucorales spp (n=81) of 2 mg/L;
Scedosporium apiospermum/S. boydii (n=65) of 2 mg/L; Exophiala dermatiditis (n=15) of 0.5 mg/L,
and Purpureocillium lilacinum (n=21) of 1 mg/L.
Resistance
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51.
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) values for Aspergillus spp.
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology.
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L
EUCAST ECOFF values:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do
not equate to clinical breakpoints.
Breakpoints
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]:
• 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida dubliniensis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R > 0.06 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species.
Combination with other antifungal agents
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole or
the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will
provide an added benefit.
54
Clinical experience
Summary of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion bridging study
Study 5520 was a non-comparative multi-center study performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic
properties, safety, and tolerability of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Study 5520 enrolled a total of 279 subjects, including 268 receiving at least one dose of posaconazole
concentrate for solution for infusion. Cohort 0 was designed to evaluate the tolerability of a single
dose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion when administered via a central line. 
The subject population for Cohorts 1 and 2 included subjects with AML or MDS who had recently
received chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia. Two
different dosing groups were evaluated in Cohorts 1 and 2: 200 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by
200 mg once daily thereafter (Cohort 1) and 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 300 mg once
daily thereafter (Cohort 2).
The subject population in Cohort 3 included: 1) patients with AML or MDS who had recently received
chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia, or 2) patients
who had undergone a HSCT and were receiving immunosuppressive therapy for prevention or
treatment of GVHD. These types of patients had been previously studied in a pivotal controlled study
of posaconazole oral suspension. Based on the pharmacokinetics and safety results of Cohorts 1 and 2,
all subjects in Cohort 3 received 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 300 mg once daily
thereafter.
The total subject population had a mean age of 51 years (range = 18-82 years), 95 % were White, the
major ethnicity was not Hispanic or Latino (92 %), and 55 % were male. The study treated 155 (65 %)
subjects with AML or MDS, and 82 (35 %) subjects with HSCT, as the primary diseases at study
entry.
Serial pharmacokinetic samples were collected on Day 1 and at steady-state on Day 14 for all Cohort 1
and 2 subjects and on Day 10 for a subset of Cohort 3 subjects. This serial pharmacokinetic analysis
demonstrated that 94 % of the subjects treated with the 300 mg once daily dose attained steady state
Cav between 500-2,500 ng/mL [Cav was the average concentration of posaconazole at steady state,
calculated as AUC/dosing interval (24 hours)]. This exposure was selected based on
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic considerations with posaconazole oral suspension. Subjects who
received 300 mg once daily achieved a mean Cav at steady state of 1,500 ng/mL.
Summary of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and tablet study invasive aspergillosis
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole for the treatment of patients with invasive aspergillosis was
evaluated in a double-blind controlled study (study-69) in 575 patients with proven, probable, or
possible invasive fungal infections per EORTC/MSG criteria.
Patients were treated with posaconazole (n=288) concentrate for solution for infusion or tablet given at
a dose of 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1). Comparator patients were treated with voriconazole (n=287)
given IV at a dose of 6 mg/kg BID Day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg BID of voriconazole (intravenous), or
orally at a dose of 300 mg BID Day 1 followed by 200 mg BID. Median treatment duration was
67 days (posaconazole) and 64 days (voriconazole).
In the intent-to-treat (ITT) population (all subjects who received at least one dose of study drug), 288
patients received posaconazole and 287 patients received voriconazole. The full analysis set
population (FAS) is the subset of all subjects within the ITT population who were classified by
independent adjudication as having proven or probable invasive aspergillosis: 163 subjects for
posaconazole and 171 subjects for voriconazole. The all-cause mortality and global clinical response
in these two populations are presented in Table 3 and 4, respectively 
55
Table 3. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: all-cause mortality at Day 42 and
Day 84, in the ITT and FAS populations 
Population 
Mortality in ITT at
Day 42
Mortality in ITT at
Day 84
Mortality in FAS at
Day 42
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
N 
288 
n (%) 
44 (15.3) 
N 
287 
n (%) 
Difference* (95 % CI)
59 (20.6) 
-5.3 % (-11.6, 1.0)
288 
81 (28.1) 
287 
88 (30.7) 
-2.5 % (-9.9, 4.9)
163 
31 (19.0) 
171 
32 (18.7) 
0.3% (-8.2, 8.8)
Mortality in FAS at
Day 84
* Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for mortality/poor
outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme.
3.1% (-6.9, 13.1)
53 (31.0) 
56 (34.4) 
163 
171 
Table 4. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: global clinical response at Week 6 and
Week 12 in the FAS population 
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
Population 
N 
Success (%) 
N 
Success (%) 
Difference* (95 % CI)
Global clinical
response in the FAS 
at 6 weeks 
Global clinical
response in the FAS 
at 12 weeks
163 
73 (44.8) 
171 
78 (45.6) 
-0.6 % (-11.2, 10.1)
163 
69 (42.3) 
171 
79 (46.2) 
-3.4 % (-13.9, 7.1)
* Successful Global Clinical Response was defined as survival with a partial or complete response
Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for mortality/poor
outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme.
Summary of gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for solution for
infusion bridging study
The pharmacokinetics and safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and gastro-
resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension have been assessed in 115 paediatric subjects aged 2
to less than 18 years in a non-randomised, multi-centre, open-label, sequential dose-escalation study
(Study 097). Immunocompromised paediatric subjects with known or expected neutropenia were
exposed to posaconazole at 3.5 mg/kg, 4.5 mg/kg or 6.0 mg/kg daily (BID on Day 1). All 115 subjects
initially received posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion for at least 7 days, and 63 subjects
were transitioned to gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. The mean overall
treatment duration (posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and gastro-resistant powder and
solvent for oral suspension) of all treated subjects was 20.6 days (see section 5.2).
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies
Invasive aspergillosis
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy study. Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an external control
group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control group included
86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the same sites as
the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered to be
refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external control group
(79 %).
As shown in Table 5 a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was
seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, this
56
 
 
was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external control
group should be viewed with caution.
Table 5. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.3 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group
22/86 (26 %)
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %)
(35 %)
(19 %)
(15 %)
(29 %)
Fusarium spp.
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole,
seven patients were classed as responders.
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species.
Coccidioidomycosis
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days.
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899)
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high-risk for
developing invasive fungal infections.
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomisation as determined by an independent,
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive (195/600,
[32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole and
77 days for fluconazole.
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs
at 100 days post-randomisation. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most
3 Includes other less common species or species unknown
57
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole.
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 6
and 7 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients.
Table 6. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension
Control a
P-Value 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs
1899d
316e
1899d 
316 d 
On-treatment periodb
7/304 (2)
7/291 (2)
25/298 (8)
22/288 (8)
Fixed-time periodc
14/304 (5) 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009
0.0038
0.0031
0.0740
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole.
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
b: 
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
c: 
d:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
Table 7. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections
Study 
Posaconazole oral suspension 
Controla
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis
1899d
316e
1899d 
On-treatment periodb
2/304 (1)
3/291 (1)
Fixed-time periodc
4/304 (1) 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole.
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316).
b: 
7/301 (2) 
20/298 (7)
17/288 (6)
26/298 (9)
21/299 (7)
In 1899 this was the period from randomisation to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days.
In 1899, this was the period from randomisation to 100 days post-randomisation; in 316 it was the period from the
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline.
c: 
d:  All randomised 
e:  All treated 
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomisation, was significantly higher for posaconazole
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209).
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU
group (12/299; P= 0.0413).
58
Paediatric population
There is limited paediatric experience for posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion.
Three patients 14-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion
and tablet 300 mg/day (BID on Day 1 followed by QD thereafter) in the study of treatment of invasive
aspergillosis. 
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole (Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension; Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion) have been established in paediatric
patients 2 to less than 18 years of age. Use of posaconazole in these age groups is supported by
evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of posaconazole in adults and pharmacokinetic
and safety data from paediatric studies (see section 5.2). No new safety signals associated with the use
of posaconazole in paediatric patients were identified in the paediatric studies (see section 4.8).
Safety and efficacy of Noxafil in paediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been
established.
No data are available.
Electrocardiogram evaluation
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens).
Distribution
Following administration of 300 mg posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion over
90 minutes, mean peak plasma concentration at the end of infusion was 3,280 ng/mL (74 % CV).
Posaconazole exhibits dose proportional pharmacokinetics after single and multiple dosing in the
therapeutic dose range (200-300 mg). Posaconazole has a distribution volume of 261 L, indicating
extravascular distribution.
Posaconazole is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin.
Biotransformation
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites. Of the circulating metabolites, the
majority are glucuronide conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450
mediated) metabolites observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for
approximately 17 % of the administered radiolabelled dose of posaconazole oral suspension.
Elimination
Posaconazole, after administration of 300 mg of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion, is
slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 27 hours and a mean clearance of 7.3 L/hr. After
administration of 14C-posaconazole as oral suspension, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in
the faeces (77 % of the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 %
of the radiolabelled dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the
radiolabelled dose excreted in urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-
state plasma concentrations are attained by Day 6 at the 300 mg dose (once daily after twice daily
loading dose at Day 1).
59
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole concentrate for
solution for infusion single dose increased in a greater than dose proportional manner over the range of
50-200 mg; by comparison, dose-dependent increases were observed over a range of 200-300 mg.
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Based on a population pharmacokinetic model evaluating posaconazole pharmacokinetics, steady 
state posaconazole concentrations were predicted in patients administered posaconazole concentrate
for solution for infusion or tablets 300 mg once a day following BID dosing on Day 1 for the treatment
of invasive aspergillosis and prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections.
Table 8. Population predicted median (10th percentile, 90th percentile) posaconazole steady state
plasma concentrations in patients following administration of posaconazole concentrate for solution
for infusion or tablets 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1)
Regimen 
Tablet-
(Fasted)
Concentrate 
for Solution for 
Infusion 
Population 
Prophylaxis 
Treatment of
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Prophylaxis 
Treatment of
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Cav (ng/mL) 
Cmin (ng/mL)
1,550 
(874; 2,690) 
1,330
(667; 2,400)
1,780 
(879; 3,540) 
1,890 
(1,100; 3,150) 
1,490
(663; 3,230)
1,500
(745; 2,660)
2,240 
(1,230; 4,160) 
1,780
(874; 3,620)
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of posaconazole in patients suggests that race, sex, renal
impairment and disease (prophylaxis or treatment) have no clinically meaningful effect on the
pharmacokinetics of posaconazole.
Children (< 18 years)
There is limited (n=3) paediatric experience with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion in
the study of treatment of invasive aspergillosis (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
The mean pharmacokinetic parameters after multiple dose administration of posaconazole concentrate
for solution for infusion and posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension in
neutropenic paediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age are shown in Table 9. Patients were
enrolled into 2 age groups and received posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension doses at 6 mg/kg (maximum
300 mg) once daily (twice daily on Day 1) (see section 5.1).
Table 9. Summary of Steady-State Geometric Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters (% Geometric CV)
After Multiple Dosing with Posaconazole Concentrate for Solution for Infusion and Posaconazole
Gastro-Resistant Powder and Solvent for Oral Suspension 6 mg/kg in Paediatric Patients with
Neutropenia or Expected Neutropenia
Age Group  Dose 
N 
AUC0- 
Cav* 
Cmax 
Cmin 
† 
T max
CL/F ‡ 
Type 
24 hours
(ng/mL) 
(ng/mL) 
(ng/mL) 
(hr) 
(L/hr)
(ng·hr/mL)
2 to
<7 years
IV 
17 
31,100
(48.9)
1,300
(48.9)
3,060
(54.1)
626
(104.8)
PFS 
7 
23,000
(47.3)
960
(47.3)
1,510
(43.4)
542
(68.8)
7 to 
IV  
24 
44,200 
1,840 
3,340 
1,160 
1.75  
(1.57-
1.83)
4.00  
(2.17-
7.92)
1.77  
(1.33-
3.27
(49.3)
4.60
(35.2)
4.76
60
Age Group  Dose 
N 
AUC0- 
Cav* 
Cmax 
Cmin 
† 
Tmax 
CL/F ‡
Type 
24 hours
(ng/mL) 
(ng/mL) 
(ng/mL) 
(hr) 
(L/hr)
(ng·hr/mL)
17 years 
(41.5) 
(41.5) 
(39.4) 
(60.4) 
6.00) 
(55.7)
PFS 
12 
25,000 
(184.3) 
1,040
1,370
713
(184.3)
(178.5)
(300.6)
2.78  
(0.00-
4.00)
8.39
(190.3) 
IV= posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion; PFS=posaconazole gastro-resistant powder
and solvent for oral suspension; AUC0-24 hours = Area under the plasma concentration-time curve
from time zero to 24 hr; Cmax = maximum observed concentration; Cmin = minimum observed plasma
concentration; Tmax = time of maximum observed concentration; CL /F = apparent total body
clearance
* Cav = time-averaged concentrations (i.e., AUC0-24 hours/24hr)
† Median (minimum-maximum)
‡ Clearance (CL for IV and CL/F for PFS)
Based on a population pharmacokinetic model evaluating posaconazole pharmacokinetics and
predicting exposures in paediatric patients, the exposure target of steady-state posaconazole average
concentration (Cav) of approximately 1,200 ng/mL and Cav ≥ 500 ng/mL in approximately 90 % of
patients is attained with the recommended dose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. Simulations, using the population
pharmacokinetic model, predict a Cav ≥ 500 ng/mL in 90% of paediatric patients weighing at least
40 kg following administration of the adult dose of posaconazole gastro-resistant tablets (300 mg
twice daily on Day 1 and 300 mg once daily starting on Day 2).
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of posaconazole in paediatric patients suggests that age, sex,
renal impairment and ethnicity have no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of
posaconazole.
Gender
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole concentration for solution for infusion are comparable in men
and women.
Elderly
No overall differences in safety were observed between the geriatric patients and younger patients.
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to age. Posaconazole Cav is generally
comparable between young and elderly patients ( 65 years of age); however, the Cav is increased by
11 % in the very elderly ( 80 years). It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor very elderly patients
(≥ 80 years) for adverse events.
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion are comparable in young
and elderly subjects ( 65 years of age).
Pharmacokinetic differences based upon age are not to be considered clinically relevant; therefore, no
dose adjustment is required.
Race
There is insufficient data among different races with posaconazole concentrate for solution for
infusion.
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the Black
and Caucasian subjects was similar.
61
Weight
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to weight. In patients > 120 kg, the Cav is
decreased by 25 % and in patients < 50 kg, the Cav is increased by 19 %.
It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing
more than 120 kg. 
Renal impairment 
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild and
moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics;
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not significantly
renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is
not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis.
Due to the variability in exposure, patients with severe renal impairment should be monitored closely
for breakthrough fungal infections (see section 4.2).
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion; however, a
specific study has not been conducted with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion.
Hepatic impairment
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total
AUC. The elimination half-life (t½) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure.
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion; however, a
specific study has not been conducted with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained
at therapeutic doses in humans. 
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for  3 months at lower systemic exposures than
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved
therapeutically.
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes
in humans.
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.9-fold greater than the
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans with 300 mg intravenous infusion
administration. Echocardiography revealed no indication of cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose
safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 2.2-fold greater than that achieved
therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and
62
monkeys at systemic exposures 2.2-fold and 8.9-fold greater, respectively, than those achieved with
the human therapeutic doses.
A non-dose related incidence of thrombus/emboli in the lung was seen in the 1 month repeated dose
study in the monkey. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability.
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic
doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered
to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis.
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal
special hazards for humans.
In a nonclinical study using intravenous administration of posaconazole in very young dogs (dosed
from 2-8 weeks of age) an increase in the incidence of brain ventricle enlargement was observed in
treated animals as compared with concurrent control animals. No difference in the incidence of brain
ventricle enlargement between control and treated animals was observed following the subsequent
5-month treatment-free period. There were no neurologic, behavioural or developmental abnormalities
in the dogs with this finding, and a similar brain finding was not seen with either oral posaconazole
administration to juvenile dogs (4 days to 9 months of age) or intravenous posaconazole administration
to juvenile dogs (10 weeks to 23 weeks of age). The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD)
Disodium edetate 
Hydrochloric acid [for pH adjustment]
Sodium hydroxide [for pH adjustment]
Water for injections
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Noxafil must not be diluted with:
Lactated Ringer’s solution
5 % glucose with Lactated Ringer’s solution
4.2 % sodium bicarbonate
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in
section 6.6.
6.3  Shelf life
3 years
From a microbiological point of view, once admixed, the product should be used immediately. If not
used immediately, the solution can be stored up to 24 hours refrigerated 2°C-8°C. This medicinal
product is for single use only.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
63
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
Type I glass vial closed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal containing 16.7 mL of
solution.
Pack size: 1 vial
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Administration instructions for Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of Noxafil to room temperature.
Aseptically transfer 16.7 mL of posaconazole to an intravenous bag (or bottle) containing a
compatible admixture diluent (see below for list of diluents) using the volume ranging from
150 mL to 283 mL depending on the final concentration to be achieved (not less than 1 mg/mL
and not greater than 2 mg/mL).
Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted
central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes. Noxafil
concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration.
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a
peripheral venous catheter with a volume to achieve a dilution of approximately 2 mg/mL.
When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be administered
over approximately 30 minutes.
Note: In clinical studies, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein
resulted in infusion site reactions (see section 4.8).
Noxafil is for single use.
The following medicinal products can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line
(or cannula) as Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion:
Amikacin sulfate
Caspofungin
Ciprofloxacin
Daptomycin
Dobutamine hydrochloride
Famotidine
Filgrastim
Gentamicin sulfate
Hydromorphone hydrochloride
Levofloxacin
Lorazepam
Meropenem
Micafungin
Morphine sulphate
Norepinephrine bitartrate
Potassium chloride
Vancomycin hydrochloride
Any products not listed in the table above should not be coadministered with Noxafil through the same
intravenous line (or cannula).
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to
administration. The solution of Noxafil ranges from colourless to pale yellow. Variations of colour
within this range do not affect the quality of the product.
64
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned
below:
5 % glucose in water
0.9 % sodium chloride
0.45 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 0.45 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 0.9 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 20 mEq KCl
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/004 
1 vial
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
<{MM/YYYY}>
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
65
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each sachet contains 300 mg of posaconazole. Following reconstitution, the gastro-resistant oral
suspension has a concentration of approximately 30 mg per mL.
Excipients with known effect
This medicinal product contains 0.28 mg/mL methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) and 0.04 mg/mL
propyl parahydroxybenzoate.
This medicinal product contains 47 mg of sorbitol (E420) per mL.
This medicinal product contains 7 mg of propylene glycol (E1520) per mL.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension.
Off-white to yellow powder.
The solvent is a cloudy, colourless liquid.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is indicated for use in the treatment of
the following fungal infections in paediatric patients from 2 years of age (see sections 4.2 and 5.1):
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products;
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are
intolerant of amphotericin B;
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole;
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products.
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is indicated for prophylaxis of
invasive fungal infections in the following paediatric patients from 2 years of age:
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML)
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are
at high-risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high-risk of developing
invasive fungal infections.
- 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion
and the gastro-resistant tablets for use in primary treatment of invasive aspergillosis.
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil oral suspension for use in
oropharyngeal candidiasis.
66
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Non-interchangeability between Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
and Noxafil oral suspension
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is indicated for paediatric population
(<18 years old) only. Another formulation (Noxafil oral suspension) is available for adult patients
≥18 years old.
The gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is not to be used interchangeably with oral
suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific
dose recommendations for each of the formulations.
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in
the supportive care of high-risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis.
Posology
Noxafil is also available as 40 mg/mL oral suspension; 100 mg gastro-resistant tablet; and 300 mg
concentrate for solution for infusion.
Dosing for paediatric patients 2 years to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 1.
The maximum dose volume that can be administered with a 10 mL dosing syringe is 8 mL using one
marketed sachet of Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension, corresponding to a
maximum dose of 240 mg (i.e., the recommended dose for patients weighing 40 kg). For paediatric
patients weighing > 40 kg, it is recommended to use posaconazole tablets if the patient can swallow
whole tablets. Refer to the tablet SmPC for additional dosing information. 
Table 1. Recommended dose in paediatric patients (2 years to less than 18 years of age) and weighing
10 to 40 kg 
Weight (kg) 
10-<12 kg 
12-<17 kg 
17-<21 kg 
21-<26 kg 
26-<36 kg 
36-40 kg 
Dose (volume)
90 mg (3 mL)
120 mg (4 mL)
150 mg (5 mL)
180 mg (6 mL)
210 mg (7 mL)
240 mg (8 mL)
On Day 1, the recommended dose is administered twice. 
After Day 1, the recommended dose is administered once daily.
Duration of therapy
For patients with refractory invasive fungal infections (IFI) or patients with IFI intolerant to 1st line
therapy, the duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the underlying disease, recovery
from immunosuppression, and clinical response.
For patients with acute myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, prophylaxis of
invasive fungal infections with Noxafil should start several days before the anticipated onset of
neutropenia and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per mm3. Duration
of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression.
Special populations
Renal impairment 
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2).
67
Hepatic impairment 
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for
higher plasma exposure.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole in children aged below 2 years have not been established.
No clinical data are available.
Method of administration
For oral use
The dose should be administered orally within 30 minutes of mixing.
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension must be administered with the
provided notched tip syringes. 
For details on preparation and administration of the gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension, see section 6.6 and Instructions for Use.
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension may be taken with or without food
(see section 5.2).
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide,
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4
and 4.5).
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin
(see section 4.5). 
Co-administration during the initiation and dose-titration phase of venetoclax in Chronic Lymphocytic
Leukaemia (CLL) patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing posaconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to
other azoles.
Hepatic toxicity
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests
normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes
have been reported.
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see
sections 4.2 and 5.2).
68
Monitoring of hepatic function
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy.
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during posaconazole therapy must be routinely
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin).
Discontinuation of posaconazole should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent
with development of liver disease.
QTc prolongation
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Posaconazole must not be
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Posaconazole should be administered with caution to patients
with pro-arrhythmic conditions such as:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those
mentioned in section 4.3).
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias
Sinus bradycardia
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy.
Drug interactions
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam,
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5).
Vincristine toxicity
Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been
associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral
neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus. Reserve
azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options (see section 4.5).
Venetoclax toxicity
Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors, including posaconazole, with the CYP3A4
substrate venetoclax, may increase venetoclax toxicities, including the risk of tumour lysis syndrome
(TLS) and neutropenia (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Refer to the venetoclax SmPC for detailed guidance.
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine,
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see
section 4.5).
Plasma exposure
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets are generally
higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. Posaconazole plasma concentrations
following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase over time in some patients (see
section 5.2). 
69
Gastrointestinal dysfunction
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for
breakthrough fungal infections.
Methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl parahydroxybenzoate
This medicinal product contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) and propyl
parahydroxybenzoate. May cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed).
Sorbitol
This medicine contains 47 mg sorbitol (E420) per mL.
In medicinal products for oral use, sorbitol may affect the bioavailability of other medicinal products
for oral use administered concomitantly.
Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) should not take/be given this medicinal product.
Propylene glycol
This medicine contains 7 mg propylene glycol (E1520) per mL.  
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for
p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine,
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, etc.)
of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations,
respectively.
Rifabutin
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively.
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels. 
Efavirenz
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to
the patient outweighs the risk.
Fosamprenavir
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %,
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with
ritonavir is unknown.
Phenytoin
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %,
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g.
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient
outweighs the risk.
70
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors
No clinically relevant effects were observed when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with
antacids, H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. No dose adjustment of posaconazole
tablets is required when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H2-receptor
antagonists and proton pump inhibitors.
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during
co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose
of the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with
CYP3A4 substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations
may be associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4
substrate and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed.
Several of the interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to
posaconazole occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on
CYP3A4 substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and
is expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be
variable within a patient.
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates) 
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see
section 4.3).
Ergot alkaloids
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and
atorvastatin)
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).
Vinca alkaloids
Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant
administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with
serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of
vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore,
reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options.
Rifabutin
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended.
71
Sirolimus
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days)
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients.
Co-administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided
whenever possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended
that the dose of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy
and that there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole
blood. Sirolimus concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at
discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be
noted that the relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-
administration with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the
usual therapeutic range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore, trough concentrations that fall
in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid
to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
Ciclosporin
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g.
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose
of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary.
Tacrolimus
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 %
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary.
HIV Protease inhibitors
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold),
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during
co-administration with posaconazole.
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days)
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg
72
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to
8-10 hours during co-administration.
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4).
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine,
nisoldipine)
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel
blockers may be required.
Digoxin
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore,
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment.
Sulfonylureas
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or tretinoin
As ATRA is metabolised by the hepatic CYP450 enzymes, notably CYP3A4, concomitant
administration with posaconazole, which is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, may lead to increased
exposure to tretinoin resulting in an increased toxicity (especially hypercalcaemia). Serum calcium
levels should be monitored and, if needed, appropriate dose adjustments of tretinoin should be
considered during the treatment with posaconazole, and during the following days after treatment.
Venetoclax
Compared with venetoclax 400 mg administered alone, co-administration of 300 mg posaconazole, a
strong CYP3A inhibitor, with venetoclax 50 mg and 100 mg for 7 days in 12 patients, increased
venetoclax Cmax to 1.6-fold and 1.9-fold, and AUC to 1.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively (see sections
4.3 and 4.4).
Refer to the venetoclax SmPC.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown.
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk
to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on
initiation of treatment with posaconazole.
Fertility
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (3.4 times the 300-mg
tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg
73
(2.6 times the 300-mg tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients). There is no
clinical experience assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans.
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be used.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension.
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy
volunteers enrolled in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and increased
bilirubin.
Posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for solution for
infusion safety
The safety of posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for
solution for infusion has been assessed in 115 paediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years for
prophylaxis use. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions during treatment were alanine aminotransferase
increased (2.6 %), aspartate aminotransferase increased (3.5 %) and rash (2.6 %).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from
the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency reported in clinical studies and/or post-
marketing use*
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Immune system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Endocrine disorders
Rare:
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
neutropenia
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia,
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage
allergic reaction
hypersensitivity reaction 
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased,
pseudoaldosteronism
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite,
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder 
psychotic disorder, depression
74
 
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Eye disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Ear and labyrinth disorder
Rare:
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon: 
Rare:
Vascular disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Gastrointestinal disorders
Very Common:
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hepatobiliary disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
Uncommon: 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon:
paraesthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia,
insomnia
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral
neuropathy, syncope
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced 
diplopia, scotoma
hearing impairment
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§,
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles,
tachycardia
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia,
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction
hypertension
hypotension, vasculitis
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain,
tachypnoea
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis
nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth,
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric
discomfort, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux disease,
oedema mouth
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus 
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased,
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT
increased)
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly,
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, liver
tenderness, asterixis
rash, pruritis
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased 
Rare: 
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis 
75
Reproductive system and breast
disorders
Uncommon:
Rare: 
General disorders and
administration site conditions 
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
menstrual disorder
breast pain
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation
tongue oedema, face oedema
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest
x-ray abnormal 
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, concentrate for solution for infusion,
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension.
§
 See section 4.4.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatobiliary disorders
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension.
During clinical studies, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses.
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator.
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02AC04.
Mechanism of action
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential
step in ergosterol biosynthesis.
Microbiology
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, C.
inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea
76
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus; however, the clinical
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents.
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. In a surveillance
study of > 3,000 clinical mold isolates from 2010-2018, 90 % of non-Aspergillus fungi exhibited the
following in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC): Mucorales spp (n=81) of 2 mg/L;
Scedosporium apiospermum/S. boydii (n=65) of 2 mg/L; Exophiala dermatiditis (n=15) of 0.5 mg/L,
and Purpureocillium lilacinum (n=21) of 1 mg/L.
Resistance
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51.
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp.
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology.
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L
EUCAST ECOFF values:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do
not equate to clinical breakpoints.
Breakpoints
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]:
• 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L
Candida dubliniensis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R > 0.06 mg/L
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species.
Combination with other antifungal agents
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole or
the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will
provide an added benefit.
Clinical experience
Summary of gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and concentrate for solution for
infusion bridging study
The pharmacokinetics and safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and
gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension have been assessed in 115 paediatric subjects
aged 2 to less than 18 years in a nonrandomized, multi-center, open-label, sequential dose-escalation
study (Study 097). Immunocompromised paediatric subjects with known or expected neutropenia were
exposed to posaconazole at 3.5 mg/kg, 4.5 mg/kg or 6.0 mg/kg daily (BID on Day 1). All 115 subjects
initially received posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion for at least 7 days, and 63 subjects
were transitioned to gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. The mean overall
treatment duration (posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and gastro-resistant powder and
solvent for oral suspension) of all treated subjects was 20.6 days (see section 5.2).
77
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole have been established in paediatric patients 2 to less than
18 years of age. Use of posaconazole in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and
well-controlled studies of posaconazole in adults, pharmacokinetic and safety data from paediatric
studies, and by population pharmacokinetic modelling (see section 5.2). No new safety signals
associated with the use of posaconazole in paediatric patients were identified in the paediatric studies
(see section 4.8).
Safety and efficacy of Noxafil have not been established in paediatric patients below the age of
2 years.
No data are available.
Electrocardiogram evaluation
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12-hour period were obtained before and during
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
The absolute bioavailability of the gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is
approximately 83 %. Administration of posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension following consumption of a high fat meal in adults had no significant effect on AUC and
resulted in a moderate (23% to 41 %) decrease in Cmax. Based on a population pharmacokinetic model,
no significant effect of a meal on posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
bioavailability was identified in paediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age. Therefore, the
gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension can be administered without regard to food.
Concomitant administration of posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
with medicinal products affecting gastric pH or gastric motility would not be expected to demonstrate
any significant effects on posaconazole pharmacokinetic exposure based on similarity to the
gastro-resistant tablets.
An in vitro dissolution study was conducted to evaluate the impact of alcohol (5, 10, 20, and 40 %) on
the dissolution of Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. Posaconazole was
found to release faster from Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension in the
presence of alcohol in vitro, which may interfere with its delayed release characteristics.
Distribution
Posaconazole has a central volume of distribution of 112 L (5.2 % RSE) based on population PK
modelling in paediatric subjects receiving IV or PFS formulations. Posaconazole is highly protein
bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin.
Biotransformation
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to be
altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are glucuronide
conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) metabolites
observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % of the
administered radiolabelled dose.
Elimination
Posaconazole is slowly eliminated with a mean clearance 4.7 L/h (3.9%RSE) and a corresponding to
half-life (t½) of 24 hours based on population PK modelling in paediatric subjects receiving IV or PFS.
After administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces
(77 % of the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the
78
radiolabelled dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled
dose excreted in urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state plasma
concentrations are attained by Day 7 after once daily dosing (twice daily on Day 1) in paediatric
subject receiving PFS.
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Children (< 18 years)
Based on a population pharmacokinetic model evaluating posaconazole pharmacokinetics and
predicting exposures in paediatric patients, the exposure target of steady-state posaconazole average
concentration (Cav) of approximately 1,200 ng/mL and Cav ≥ 500 ng/mL in approximately 90 % of
patients is attained with the recommended dose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion
and gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. Simulations, using the population
pharmacokinetic model, predict a Cav ≥ 500 ng/mL in 90% of paediatric patients weighing at least
40 kg following administration of the adult dose of posaconazole gastro-resistant tablets (300 mg
twice daily on Day 1 and 300 mg once daily starting on Day 2).
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of posaconazole in paediatric patients suggests that age, sex,
renal impairment and ethnicity have no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of
posaconazole.
No dose adjustment is recommended in case of renal impairment (see section 4.2).
5.3  Preclinical safety data
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained
at therapeutic doses in humans. 
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for  3 months at lower systemic exposures than
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved
therapeutically.
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes
in humans.
In a nonclinical study using intravenous administration of posaconazole in very young dogs (dosed
from 2-8 weeks of age) an increase in the incidence of brain ventricle enlargement was observed in
treated animals as compared with concurrent control animals. No difference in the incidence of brain
ventricle enlargement between control and treated animals was observed following the subsequent
5 month treatment-free period. There were no neurologic, behavioural or developmental abnormalities
in the dogs with this finding, and a similar brain finding was not seen with either oral posaconazole
administration to juvenile dogs (4 days to 9 months of age) or intravenous posaconazole
administration to juvenile dogs (10 weeks to 23 weeks of age). The clinical significance of this finding
is unknown.
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.5-fold greater than the
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of
cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure
2.1-fold greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up
to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 2.1-fold and 8.5-fold greater,
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses.
79
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability.
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic
doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered
to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis.
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal
special hazards for humans.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Powder
Hypromellose acetate succinate
Solvent
purified water
glycerol (E422)
methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218)
propyl parahydroxybenzoate
sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
citric acid anhydrous (E330)
xanthan gum (E415)
sodium citrate (E331)
saccharin sodium (E954)
microcrystalline cellulose 
carmellose sodium
carrageenan calcium sulfate trisodium phosphate (E407)
sorbitol solution (E420)
potassium sorbate (E202)
flavour berry citrus sweet containing propylene glycol (E1520), water, natural and artificial flavour
antifoam Af emulsion containing polyethylene glycol (E1521), octamethyl cyclotetrasiloxane,
decamethylcyclopentasiloxane and poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxooctadecyl)-.omega.-
hydroxy
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3  Shelf life
2 years 
After reconstitution: 30 minutes.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
80
6.5  Nature and contents of container
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is supplied as a pack containing:
Package 1: The kit contains 8 child-resistant single-use sachets (PET/aluminium/LLDPE), two 3 mL
(green) notched tip syringes, two 10 mL (blue) notched tip syringes, two mixing cups, one 473 mL
solvent bottle (HDPE) with polypropylene (PP) closure with a foil induction seal liner, and one bottle
adapter for the solvent bottle.
Package 2: A box of six 3 mL (green) and six 10 mL (blue) notched tip syringes.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Complete details on preparation and administration of the gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral
suspension can be found in the instructions for use booklet that is included in the kit. Parents and/or
caregivers should be instructed to read the instructions for use booklet before preparing and
administering Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension. 
Each single-use sachet contains 300 mg of posaconazole which is suspended in 9 mL of solvent to
obtain 10 mL total of suspension with a final concentration of approximately 30 mg per mL.
Note: ONLY the solvent in the kit should be used to prepare Noxafil.
Note: To ensure delivery of the correct dose, ONLY the provided notched tip syringes should be used
for preparation and administration. The design of the notched tip syringe prevents aggregation of the
suspension during preparation and administration.
The notch-tip syringe provided in the kit should be used to administer Noxafil with the enteral feeding
tube. The enteral feeding tube size should be selected based on the patient characteristics. Use a
suitable enteral feeding tube based on tube material per the following table. 
Type 
Tube material 
Tube size
Gastric Tubing 
Polyurethane 
16 Fr or larger
Nasogastric Tubing 
PVC* 
Silicone 
14 Fr or larger
12 Fr or larger
Polyurethane 
12 Fr or larger
*PVC – polyvinyl chloride 
The tube should be flushed again with at least 10 mL water to ensure Noxafil is delivered and to clear
the tube.
After administration of the required volume, the remaining suspension in the mixing cup cannot be
re-used and must be discarded.  
The dose should be administered orally within 30 minutes of mixing.
Any unused medicinal product, solvent or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with
local requirements.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
81
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/005
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
<{MM/YYYY}>
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
82
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH
RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
83
A  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer (s) responsible for batch release
Organon Heist bv, Industriepark 30, 2220 Heist-op-den-Berg, Belgium
Merck Sharp & Dohme B. V. Waarderweg 39, 2031 BN, Haarlem, The Netherlands
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
• 
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
84
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
85
A. LABELLING
86
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension
posaconazole
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each mL of oral suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also liquid glucose, sodium benzoate (E211), benzyl alcohol, propylene glycol (E1520).
See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
One bottle of 105 mL of oral suspension.
Measuring spoon
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Shake well before use.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Noxafil oral suspension and tablets are NOT interchangeable.
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
Any product remaining four weeks after opening the bottle should be discarded. Open date: ________
87
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not freeze.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Noxafil oral suspension
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
88
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension
posaconazole
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each mL of suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains also liquid glucose, sodium benzoate (E211), benzyl alcohol, propylene glycol (E1520).
See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
105 mL
oral suspension
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Shake well before use.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
Discard after 4 weeks. Open date: ________
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not freeze.
89
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
90
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets
posaconazole
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
24 gastro-resistant tablets
96 gastro-resistant tablets
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Noxafil oral suspension and tablets are NOT interchangeable.
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
91
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/002 
EU/1/05/320/003 
24 tablets
96 tablets
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
noxafil tablets
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
92
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTERS
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets
posaconazole
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
MSD
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.  OTHER
93
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
posaconazole
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole.
Each mL contains 18 mg of posaconazole.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), disodium edetate, hydrochloric acid and
sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), water for injections.
See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
1 vial
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use after dilution.
Single use vial.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
94
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/004 
1 vial
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
95
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Noxafil 300 mg sterile concentrate
posaconazole
Intravenous use after dilution
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
See leaflet
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
96
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX)
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
posaconazole
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each sachet contains 300 mg of posaconazole. Following reconstitution, the gastro-resistant oral
suspension has a concentration of approximately 30 mg per mL.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
The reconstituted product contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate,
propylene glycol (E1520) and sorbitol solution (E420). See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
This box contains a pack (pack 1) with: 8 sachets, two 3 mL and two 10 mL notched tip syringes, two
mixing cups, one solvent bottle and one bottle adapter; and a pack (pack 2) with: extra six 3 mL and
six 10 mL notched tip syringes.
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is NOT interchangeable with
Noxafil oral suspension.
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
97
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
After reconstitution: the gastro-resistant oral suspension must be used within 30 minutes.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/005
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
noxafil 300 mg powder for oral suspension
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
98
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON – Pack 1 (of 2) (WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
NOXAFIL 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
posaconazole
Pack 1 (of 2)
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each sachet contains 300 mg of posaconazole. Following reconstitution, the gastro-resistant oral
suspension has a concentration of approximately 30 mg per mL.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
The reconstituted product contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate,
propylene glycol (E1520) and sorbitol solution (E420). See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
This pack contains: 8 sachets, two 3 mL and two 10 mL notched tip syringes, two mixing cups,
one solvent bottle and one bottle adapter.
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet and booklet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is NOT interchangeable with
Noxafil oral suspension.
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
99
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
After reconstitution: the gastro-resistant oral suspension must be used within 30 minutes.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/005
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
noxafil 300 mg powder for oral suspension
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
100
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
SACHET LABEL for NOXAFIL 300 mg gastro-resistant powder for oral suspension
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder for oral suspension
posaconazole
oral use
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet and booklet before use.
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
MSD
101
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
LABEL for the SOLVENT bottle to be used with Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder for
oral suspension
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Solvent for Noxafil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate, propylene glycol (E1520)
and sorbitol solution (E420). See leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
473 mL
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Shake well before use.
Read the package leaflet and booklet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
102
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/005
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
103
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) – Pack 2 (of 2) – ADDITIONAL SYRINGES to be
used with Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
For use only with Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension kit
Pack 2 (of 2)
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
This carton contains six 3 mL and six 10 mL notched tip oral dosing syringes individually wrapped
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
104
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/320/005
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
Read the booklet with instructions provided with the Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and
solvent for oral suspension kit.
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Not applicable
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
105
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
106
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension
posaconazole
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
- 
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Noxafil
Possible side effects
How to store Noxafil
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called
“antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections.
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause
infections. 
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat the following types of fungal infections when other antifungal
medicines have not worked or you have had to stop taking them:
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment
with the antifungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped;
• 
• 
• 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped;
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole
has had to be stopped;
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped;
Infections in the mouth or throat area (known as “thrush”) caused by fungi called Candida,
which were not previously treated.
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults who are at high-risk of getting a
fungal infection, such as:
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous
leukaemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS) 
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell
transplant” (HSCT).
• 
107
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil
Do not take Noxafil
• 
if you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in
section 6).
• 
• 
if you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin”
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin.
if you have just started taking venetoclax or your venetoclax dose is being slowly increased for
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking Noxafil.
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for more information including information on other
medicines which may interact with Noxafil.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you: 
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole,
itraconazole or voriconazole. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking
this medicine.
develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this
medicine.
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure
have a very slow heartbeat
have heart rhythm disturbance
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood
are taking vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (medicines used to treat cancer).
are taking venetoclax (a medicine used to treat cancer).
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before
taking Noxafil.
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Noxafil, talk to your doctor,
pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See section 4 for more
information.
Children
Noxafil oral suspension should not be used in children and adolescents (17 years of age and younger).
Other medicines and Noxafil
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines.
astemizole (used to treat allergies)
terfenadine (used to treat allergies)
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems)
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness) 
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious
changes to your heart rhythm.
• 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms).
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to
halofantrine (used to treat malaria)
108
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them.
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol.
venetoclax when used at the start of the treatment of a type of cancer, chronic lymphocytic
• 
• 
leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking this medicine.
Other medicines
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems
that may be greater when they are taken with Noxafil. Please make sure you tell your doctor about all
the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed).
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil
in the blood. 
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of
Noxafil in the blood:
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin.
• 
• 
• 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or primidone (used to treat or prevent fits).
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection.
medicines used to decrease stomach acid such as cimetidine and ranitidine or omeprazole and
similar medicines that are called proton pump inhibitors.
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer)
venetoclax (used to treat cancer)
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used during or after transplant surgery)
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery)
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections)
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir,
which are given with ritonavir) 
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle
relaxants)
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat
high blood pressure)
digoxin (used to treat heart failure)
glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar)
all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), also called tretinoin (used to treat certain blood cancers).
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking
Noxafil.
Noxafil with food and drink
To improve absorption of posaconazole, whenever possible it should be taken during or immediately
after food or a nutritional drink (see section 3 “How to take Noxafil”). There is no information on the
effect of alcohol on posaconazole.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil.
Do not take Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor. 
109
 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Noxafil, contact your doctor
straight away.
Do not breast-feed while taking Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and
contact your doctor. 
Noxafil contains glucose
Noxafil contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension. If you have been told by
your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this
medicine.
Noxafil contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 5 mL of suspension, that is to say
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
Noxafil contains sodium benzoate
This medicine contains 10 mg of sodium benzoate (E211) per 5 mL of suspension.
Noxafil contains benzyl alcohol
This medicine contains up to 1.25 mg of benzyl alcohol per 5 mL of suspension. Benzyl alcohol may
cause allergic reactions.
Noxafil contains propylene glycol
This medicine contains up to 24.75 mg of propylene glycol (E1520) per 5 mL of suspension.
3.  How to take Noxafil
Do not switch between Noxafil oral suspension and Noxafil tablets or Noxafil gastro-resistant oral
suspension without talking to your doctor or pharmacist because it may result in a lack of efficacy or
an increased risk of adverse reactions.
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor
or pharmacist if you are not sure. Your doctor will monitor your response and condition to determine
how long Noxafil needs to be given and whether any change is needed to your daily dose. 
The table below shows the recommended dose and length of treatment which depend on the type of
infection that you have and may be individually adapted for you by your doctor. Do not adapt your
dose yourself before consulting your doctor or change your treatment regime.
Whenever possible you should take posaconazole during or immediately after food or a nutritional
drink.
Indication
Recommended dose and length of treatment
Treatment of refractory Fungal
Infections (Invasive aspergillosis,
Fusariosis,
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma,
Coccidioidomycosis)
First time treatment of Thrush
The recommended dose is 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful) taken
four times daily.
Alternatively, if recommended by your doctor, you may take
400 mg (two 5 mL spoonfuls) twice a day provided that you are
able to take both doses during or after food or a nutritional
drink. 
On the first day of treatment take 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful)
once. After the first day, take 100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day.
110
Indication
Recommended dose and length of treatment
Prevention of serious Fungal
Infections
Take 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful) three times a day.
If you take more Noxafil than you should
If you are concerned that you may have taken too much, contact your doctor or healthcare professional
immediately.
If you forget to take Noxafil
If you have missed a dose, take it as soon as you remember and then carry on as before. However, if it
is almost time for your next dose, take your dose when it is due. Do not take a double dose to make up
for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment:
• 
• 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea
• 
allergic reaction
Other side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects:
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or
weak
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning
headache
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests
high blood pressure
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat)
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) –this can make you more
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests
fever
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy
rash
itching
constipation
rectal discomfort
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people
• 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding
• 
111
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this can
make you more likely to get infections 
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you
have inflammation
inflammation of the blood vessels 
heart rhythm problems 
fits (convulsions) 
nerve damage (neuropathy)
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat,
high or low blood pressure
low blood pressure
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach
pain
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour than
usual 
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests
cough, hiccups
nose bleeds
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleuritic pain)
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy)
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin
tremor
high or low blood sugar levels
blurred vision, sensitivity to light
hair loss (alopecia)
mouth ulcers
shivering, feeling generally unwell
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs
water retention (oedema)
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding)
inability to sleep (insomnia)
being completely or partially unable to talk 
swelling of the mouth 
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping
problems with co-ordination or balance
mucosal inflammation
stuffy nose
difficulty breathing
chest discomfort
feeling bloated
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain
belching
feeling jittery
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause
serious damage to your lungs and heart
• 
• 
• 
• 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there 
fainting
112
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that
you cannot control
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart
rhythm problems, with sudden death
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the
legs 
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain
while breathing
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel – signs include
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (haemolysis) which may happen
with or without kidney failure 
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in
blood tests
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) 
swelling of the face or tongue
depression
double vision
breast pain
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin
discolouration
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that
affect the function of the male or female sex organs
hearing problems
pseudoaldosteronism, which results in high blood pressure with a low potassium level (shown in
blood test)
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data
• 
some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Noxafil.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Noxafil
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the
last day of that month.
Do not freeze.
If you have any suspension left in a bottle more than four weeks after it was first opened, you should
not use this medicine. Please return the bottle containing any leftover suspension to your pharmacist.
113
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Noxafil contains
- 
- 
The active substance in Noxafil is posaconazole. Each millilitre of oral suspension contains
40 milligrams of posaconazole.
The other ingredients in the suspension are polysorbate 80, simeticone, sodium benzoate
(E211), sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, glycerol, xanthan gum, liquid
glucose, titanium dioxide (E171), artificial cherry flavour containing benzyl alcohol and
propylene glycol (E1520), and purified water.
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack
Noxafil is a white, cherry flavoured, 105 mL oral suspension packaged in amber glass bottles. A
measuring spoon is provided with each bottle for measuring 2.5 and 5 mL doses of the oral
suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
Organon Heist bv
Industriepark 30
2220 Heist-op-den-Berg
Belgium
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 010 111 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
114
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: + 372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 446 5700
inform_pt@merck.com 
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: + 354 535 7000
Italia
MSD Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: + 371-67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
115
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
116
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets
posaconazole
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
- 
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Noxafil
Possible side effects
How to store Noxafil
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called
“antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections.
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause
infections. 
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat fungal infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family.
Noxafil can be used in adults and children from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg to treat the
following types of fungal infections:
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment
with the antifungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped;
• 
• 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped;
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole
has had to be stopped;
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped.
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults and children from 2 years of age
weighing more than 40 kg who are at high-risk of getting a fungal infection, such as:
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous
leukaemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS) 
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell
transplant” (HSCT).
• 
117
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil
Do not take Noxafil
• 
if you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in
section 6).
• 
• 
if you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin”
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin.
if you have just started taking venetoclax or your venetoclax dose is being slowly increased for
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking Noxafil.
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for more information including information on other
medicines which may interact with Noxafil.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you: 
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole,
itraconazole or voriconazole. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking
this medicine.
develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this
medicine.
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure
have a very slow heartbeat
have heart rhythm disturbance
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood
are taking vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (medicines used to treat cancer).
are taking venetoclax (a medicine used to treat cancer).
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before
taking Noxafil.
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Noxafil, talk to your doctor,
pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See section 4 for more
information.
Children
Noxafil should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.
Other medicines and Noxafil
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines.
118
astemizole (used to treat allergies)
terfenadine (used to treat allergies)
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems)
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness) 
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious
changes to your heart rhythm.
• 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms).
halofantrine (used to treat malaria)
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them.
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol.
venetoclax when used at the start of the treatment of a type of cancer, chronic lymphocytic
• 
• 
leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking this medicine.
Other medicines
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems
that may be greater when they are taken with Noxafil. Please make sure you tell your doctor about all
the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed).
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil
in the blood. 
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of
Noxafil in the blood:
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin.
• 
• 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or primidone (used to treat or prevent fits).
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection.
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer)
venetoclax (used to treat cancer)
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used during or after transplant surgery)
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery)
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections)
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir,
which are given with ritonavir) 
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle
relaxants)
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat
high blood pressure)
digoxin (used to treat heart failure)
glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar)
all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), also called tretinoin (used to treat certain blood cancers).
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking
Noxafil.
119
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil.
Do not take Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Noxafil, contact your doctor
straight away.
Do not breast-feed while taking Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and
contact your doctor.
Noxafil contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How to take Noxafil
Do not switch between Noxafil tablets and Noxafil oral suspension without talking to your doctor or
pharmacist because it may result in a lack of efficacy or an increased risk of adverse reactions.
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much to take
The usual dose is 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the first day, then 300 mg (three
100 mg tablets) once a day, thereafter.
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection that you have and may be individually
adapted for you by your doctor. Do not adapt your dose yourself before consulting your doctor or
change your treatment regimen.
Taking this medicine
• 
• 
• 
Swallow the tablet whole with some water.
Do not crush, chew, break or dissolve the tablet.
Tablets may be taken with or without food.
If you take more Noxafil than you should
If you think that you may have taken too much Noxafil, talk to a doctor or go to the hospital straight
away.
If you forget to take Noxafil
• 
• 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember it. 
However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your
regular schedule. 
• 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
120
Serious side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment:
• 
• 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea
• 
allergic reaction
Other side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects:
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or
weak
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning
headache
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests
high blood pressure
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat)
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) – this can make you more
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests
fever
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy
rash
itching
constipation
rectal discomfort
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this can
make you more likely to get infections 
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you
have inflammation
inflammation of the blood vessels 
heart rhythm problems 
fits (convulsions) 
nerve damage (neuropathy)
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat,
high or low blood pressure
low blood pressure
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach
pain
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour than
usual 
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests
cough, hiccups
nose bleeds
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleuritic pain)
121
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy)
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin
tremor
high or low blood sugar levels
blurred vision, sensitivity to light
hair loss (alopecia)
mouth ulcers
shivering, feeling generally unwell
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs
water retention (oedema)
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding)
inability to sleep (insomnia)
being completely or partially unable to talk 
swelling of the mouth 
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping
problems with co-ordination or balance
mucosal inflammation
stuffy nose
difficulty breathing
chest discomfort
feeling bloated
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain
belching
feeling jittery
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause
serious damage to your lungs and heart
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there 
fainting
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that
you cannot control
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart
rhythm problems, with sudden death
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the
legs 
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain
while breathing
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool 
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel – signs include
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (haemolysis) which may happen
with or without kidney failure 
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in
blood tests
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) 
swelling of the face or tongue
depression
122
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
double vision
breast pain
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin
discolouration
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that
affect the function of the male or female sex organs
hearing problems
pseudoaldosteronism, which results in high blood pressure with a low potassium level (shown in
blood test)
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data
• 
some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Noxafil.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Noxafil
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister after EXP. The expiry date
refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Noxafil contains
- 
- 
The active substance in Noxafil is posaconazole. Each tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole.
The other ingredients are: hypromellose acetate succinate; cellulose, microcrystalline;
hydroxypropylcellulose (E463); silica dental type; croscarmellose sodium; magnesium stearate,
polyvinyl alcohol, macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc, iron oxide yellow (E172).
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are yellow-coated and capsule-shaped, debossed “100” on one side
packaged in a blister in cartons of 24 (2x12) or 96 (8x12) tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
123
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
Organon Heist bv
Industriepark 30
2220 Heist-op-den-Berg
Belgium
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 010 111 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: + 372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
124
France
MSD France
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 446 5700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: + 354 535 7000
Italia
MSD Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: + 371-67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
125
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion
posaconazole
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
• 
• 
• 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
• 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you use Noxafil
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Noxafil
Possible side effects
How to store Noxafil
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called
“antifungals”. Noxafil is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections.
Noxafil works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause infections. 
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat fungal infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family.
Noxafil can be used in adults and children from 2 years of age to treat the following types of fungal
infections:
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment
with the antifungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped;
• 
• 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped;
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole
has had to be stopped;
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides. that have not improved during treatment with
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped.
Noxafil can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults and children from 2 years of age who
are at high-risk of getting a fungal infection, such as:
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous
leukaemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS) 
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell
transplant” (HSCT).
• 
126
2.  What you need to know before you use Noxafil
Do not use Noxafil
• 
if you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in
section 6).
• 
• 
if you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin”
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin.
if you have just started taking venetoclax or your venetoclax dose is being slowly increased for
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Do not use Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking Noxafil.
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for information on other medicines which may interact with
Noxafil.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you: 
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole,
itraconazole or voriconazole. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking
Noxafil.
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure
have a very slow heartbeat
have heart rhythm disturbance
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood 
are taking vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (medicines used to treat cancer).
are taking venetoclax (a medicine used to treat cancer).
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before
using Noxafil.
Children 
Noxafil should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.
Other medicines and Noxafil
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines.
astemizole (used to treat allergies)
terfenadine (used to treat allergies)
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems)
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness)
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious
changes to your heart rhythm.
• 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms).
halofantrine (used to treat malaria)
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them.
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol.
venetoclax when used at the start of the treatment of a type of cancer, chronic lymphocytic
• 
• 
leukaemia (CLL)
127
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist before taking Noxafil.
Other medicines
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems
that may be greater when they are taken with posaconazole. Please make sure you tell your doctor
about all the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed).
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil
in the blood.
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of
Noxafil in the blood:
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin.
• 
• 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or primidone (used to treat or prevent fits).
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection.
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer)
venetoclax (used to treat cancer)
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used during or after transplant surgery)
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery)
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections)
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir,
which are given with ritonavir)
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle
relaxants)
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat
high blood pressure)
digoxin (used to treat heart failure)
glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar)
all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), also called tretinoin (used to treat certain blood cancers).
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking
Noxafil.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil.
Do not use Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor.
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are
using Noxafil. If you become pregnant while you are using Noxafil, contact your doctor straight away.
Do not breast-feed while using Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk.
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and
contact your doctor.
Noxafil contains sodium
The maximum recommended daily dose of this medicine contains 924 mg sodium (found in table salt).
This is equivalent to 46 % of the adult recommended maximum daily dietary intake for sodium.
128
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you need Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion or
more daily for a prolonged period, especially if you have been advised to follow a low salt (sodium)
diet.
Noxafil contains cyclodextrin
This medicine contains 6,680 mg of cyclodextrin per vial.
3.  How to use Noxafil
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor
or pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended dose for adults is 300 mg twice a day on the first day, then 300 mg once a day,
thereafter.
The recommended dose for children aged 2 to less than 18 years, is 6 mg/kg to a maximum of 300 mg
twice a day on the first day, then 6 mg/kg to a maximum of 300 mg once a day, thereafter.
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion will be diluted to the correct concentration by your
pharmacist or nurse.
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion will always be prepared and given to you by a healthcare
professional.
You will be given Noxafil:
• 
• 
through a plastic tube placed in your vein (intravenous infusion)
usually over 90 minutes
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection that you have or the length of time your
immune system is not working properly and may be individually adapted for you by your doctor. Do
not adapt your dose yourself before consulting your doctor or change your treatment regimen.
If a dose of Noxafil has been forgotten
As you will be given this medicine under close medical supervision, it is unlikely that a dose would be
missed. However, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you think that a dose has been forgotten.
When Noxafil treatment is stopped by your doctor you should not experience any effects.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment:
• 
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea,
• 
signs of liver problems, these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests
• 
allergic reaction
129
Other side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects:
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests signs include feeling confused or
weak
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking, or burning
swelling, redness, and tenderness along the vein in which Noxafil was given
headache
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests
high blood pressure
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat)
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) – this can make you more
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests
fever
feeling weak, dizzy, tired, or sleepy
rash
itching
constipation
rectal discomfort
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anaemia- signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this can
make you more likely to get infections 
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you
have inflammation
inflammation of the blood vessels
heart rhythm problems
fits (convulsions)
nerve damage (neuropathy)
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat,
high or low blood pressure
low blood pressure
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach
pain
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine that is a different colour than
usual 
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests
cough, hiccups
nose bleeds
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleuritic pain)
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy)
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin 
tremor
high or low blood sugar levels 
blurred vision, sensitivity to light
hair loss (alopecia) 
mouth ulcers
shivering, feeling generally unwell
130
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs
water retention (oedema)
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding)
inability to sleep (insomnia)
being completely or partially unable to talk
swelling of the mouth
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping
problems with co-ordination or balance
mucosal inflammation
stuffy nose
difficulty breathing
chest discomfort
feeling bloated
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain
belching
feeling jittery
inflammation or pain at injection site
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause
serious damage to your lungs and heart
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there 
fainting
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that
you cannot control
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart
rhythm problems, with sudden death
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the
legs
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain
while breathing
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel – signs include
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (haemolysis) which may happen
with or without kidney failure
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in
blood tests
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura)
swelling of the face or tongue
depression
double vision
breast pain
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin
discolouration
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that
affect the function of the male or female sex organs
hearing problems
131
• 
pseudoaldosteronism, which results in high blood pressure with a low potassium level (shown in
blood test)
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data
• 
some patients have also reported feeling confused after using Noxafil.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Noxafil
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date refers to the
last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2C–8C).
Once prepared, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, the solution can be
stored up to 24 hours at 2°C-8°C (in a refrigerator). This medicine is for single use only and any
unused solution should be discarded.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Noxafil contains
- 
- 
The active substance is posaconazole. Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole.
The other ingredients are: Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), disodium edetate,
hydrochloric acid (concentrated), sodium hydroxide, water for injections.
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is a clear, colourless to yellow liquid. Variations of
colour within this range do not affect the quality of the product.
This medicine is available in a single use glass vial closed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and
aluminium seal.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
Organon Heist bv
Industriepark 30
2220 Heist-op-den-Berg
Belgium
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
132
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 010 111 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: + 372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 446 5700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900
msdromania@merck.com
133
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: + 354 535 7000
Italia
MSD Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: + 371-67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Administration instructions for Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of Noxafil to room temperature.
Aseptically transfer 16.7 mL of posaconazole to an intravenous bag (or bottle) containing a
compatible admixture diluent (see below for list of diluents) using the volume ranging from
150 mL to 283 mL depending on the final concentration to be achieved (not less than 1 mg/mL
and not greater than 2 mg/mL).
Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted
central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes. Noxafil
concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration.
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a
peripheral venous catheter with a volume to achieve a dilution of approximately 2 mg/mL.
When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be administered
over approximately 30 minutes.
Note: In clinical studies, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein
resulted in infusion site reactions (see section 4.8).
Noxafil is for single use.
134
The following medicinal products can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line
(or cannula) as Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion:
Amikacin sulfate
Caspofungin
Ciprofloxacin
Daptomycin
Dobutamine hydrochloride
Famotidine
Filgrastim
Gentamicin sulfate
Hydromorphone hydrochloride
Levofloxacin
Lorazepam
Meropenem
Micafungin
Morphine sulphate
Norepinephrine bitartrate
Potassium chloride
Vancomycin hydrochloride
Any products not listed in the table above should not be coadministered with Noxafil through the same
intravenous line (or cannula).
The infusion solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. The
solution of Noxafil ranges from colourless to pale yellow. Variations of colour within this range do not
affect the quality of the product.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
Noxafil must not be diluted with:
Lactated Ringer’s solution
5 % glucose with Lactated Ringer’s solution
4.2 % sodium bicarbonate
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned
below:
5 % glucose in water
0.9 % sodium chloride
0.45 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 0.45 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 0.9 % sodium chloride
5 % glucose and 20 mEq KCl
135
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
posaconazole
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking or giving this medicine to your child
because it contains important information for you.
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
- 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
- 
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you or your child takes Noxafil
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Noxafil
Possible side effects
How to store Noxafil
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called
“antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections.
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause
infections. 
Noxafil can be used in children from 2 years of age to treat the following types of fungal infections
when other antifungal medicines have not worked or you have had to stop taking them:
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment
with the antifungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped;
• 
• 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped;
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole
has had to be stopped;
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had
to be stopped.
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in children from 2 years of age who are at
high-risk of getting a fungal infection, such as:
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous
leukaemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS).
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell
transplant” (HSCT). 
• 
136
2.  What you need to know before you or your child takes Noxafil
Do not take Noxafil
• 
if you or your child is allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine
(listed in section 6).
• 
• 
if you or your child is taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine,
quinidine, any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or
dihydroergotamine, or a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin.
if you have just started taking venetoclax or your venetoclax dose is being slowly increased for
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you or your child. If you are not sure, talk to your
doctor or pharmacist before taking Noxafil.
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for more information including information on other
medicines which may interact with Noxafil.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you or your child:
• 
has had an allergic reaction to another antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole,
itraconazole or voriconazole. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
has or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking this
medicine.
develops severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this
medicine.
has an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval
has a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure
has a very slow heartbeat
has heart rhythm disturbance
has any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood
is taking vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (medicines used to treat cancer).
are taking venetoclax (a medicine used to treat cancer).
If any of the above apply to you or your child (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or
nurse before taking Noxafil.
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Noxafil, talk to your doctor,
pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See section 4 for more
information. 
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension with food and drink
This medicine can be taken with or without food.
Alcohol may affect the absorption of this medicine.
Children 
Noxafil should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age.
Other medicines and Noxafil
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or your child is taking, have recently taken or might take any
other medicines.
137
astemizole (used to treat allergies)
terfenadine (used to treat allergies)
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems)
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness) 
Do not take Noxafil if you or your child is taking any of the following:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious
changes to your heart rhythm.
• 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms).
halofantrine (used to treat malaria)
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them.
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol.
venetoclax when used at the start of the treatment of a type of cancer, chronic lymphocytic
• 
• 
leukaemia (CLL)
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you or your child. If you are not sure, talk to your
doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine.
Other medicines
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you or your child is taking
Noxafil. In addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of
rhythm problems that may be greater when they are taken with Noxafil. Please make sure you tell your
doctor about all the medicines you or your child is taking (prescribed or non-prescribed).
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil
in the blood. 
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of
Noxafil in the blood:
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin.
• 
• 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or primidone (used to treat or prevent fits).
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection.
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer)
venetoclax (used to treat cancer)
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used during or after transplant surgery)
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery)
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections)
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir,
which are given with ritonavir) 
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle
relaxants)
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat
high blood pressure)
digoxin (used to treat heart failure)
glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar)
all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), also called tretinoin (used to treat certain blood cancers).
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you or your child (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist
before taking Noxafil.
138
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil.
Do not take Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Noxafil, contact your doctor
straight away.
Do not breast-feed while taking Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk.
Driving and using machines
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and
contact your doctor.
Noxafil contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl parahydroxybenzoate
This medicine contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) and propyl parahydroxybenzoate. May
cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed).
Noxafil contains sorbitol
This medicine contains 47 mg sorbitol (E420) per mL.
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If your doctor has told you that you (or your child) have an intolerance
to some sugars or if you have been diagnosed with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare genetic
disorder in which a person cannot break down fructose, talk to your doctor before you (or your child)
take or receive this medicine.
Noxafil contains propylene glycol
This medicine contains 7 mg of propylene glycol (E1520) per mL.
Noxafil contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How to take Noxafil
Do not switch between taking Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension and
Noxafil oral suspension.
Always give this medicine to your child exactly as their doctor or pharmacist has told you. You should
check with your child’s doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
• 
See the instructions for use in the booklet for how to prepare and give a dose of Noxafil. Keep
the booklet and follow it each time you prepare the medicine. Bring this booklet to your child’s
appointments. 
Make sure the doctor or pharmacist explains how to mix and give the right dose to your child. 
The powder for oral suspension needs to be mixed with the provided solvent before use. You
must give to your child within 30 minutes of mixing.
ONLY the solvent in the kit should be used to prepare Noxafil.
To ensure delivery of the correct dose, ONLY the provided notched tip syringes should be used
for preparation and administration.
Make sure to follow the instructions of your doctor. The doctor will tell you if and when to stop
giving Noxafil to your child.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
How much to take
The recommended dose for children aged 2 to less than 18 years, weighing 10 to 40 kg, is shown in
the below table.
Weight (kg) 
Dose (volume)
139
10-<12 kg 
12-<17 kg 
17-<21 kg 
21-<26 kg 
26-<36 kg 
36-40 kg 
90 mg (3 mL)
120 mg (4 mL)
150 mg (5 mL)
180 mg (6 mL)
210 mg (7 mL)
240 mg (8 mL)
On Day 1 the recommended dose is administered twice. 
After Day 1, the recommended dose is administered once daily.
For children weighing > 40 kg, it is recommended to use Noxafil tablets if they can swallow whole
tablets.
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection or the length of time the immune system
is not working properly and may be individually changed by the doctor. Do not change the dose or the
treatment regimen before consulting the doctor that prescribed the medicine.
If you or your child takes more Noxafil than you should
If you think that you or your child may have taken too much Noxafil, talk to a doctor or go to the
hospital straight away.
If you forget to take Noxafil
• 
• 
If you forget a dose, take it or give it to your child as soon as you remember it.
However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to the regular
schedule.
• 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Serious side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious
side effects – you or your child may need urgent medical treatment:
• 
• 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea
• 
allergic reaction
Other side effects
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects:
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or
weak
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning
headache
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests
high blood pressure
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat)
140
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) – this can make you more
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests
fever
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy
rash
itching
constipation
rectal discomfort
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this can
make you more likely to get infections 
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you
have inflammation
inflammation of the blood vessels 
heart rhythm problems 
fits (convulsions) 
nerve damage (neuropathy)
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat,
high or low blood pressure
low blood pressure
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach
pain
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour than
usual 
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests
cough, hiccups
nose bleeds
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleuritic pain)
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy)
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin
tremor
high or low blood sugar levels
blurred vision, sensitivity to light
hair loss (alopecia)
mouth ulcers
shivering, feeling generally unwell
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs
water retention (oedema)
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding)
inability to sleep (insomnia)
being completely or partially unable to talk 
swelling of the mouth 
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping
problems with co-ordination or balance
mucosal inflammation
stuffy nose
difficulty breathing
chest discomfort
feeling bloated
141
• 
• 
• 
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain
belching
feeling jittery
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause
serious damage to your lungs and heart
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there 
fainting
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that
you cannot control
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart
rhythm problems, with sudden death
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the
legs
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain
while breathing
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool 
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel – signs include
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (haemolysis) which may happen
with or without kidney failure
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in
blood tests
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura)
swelling of the face or tongue
depression
double vision
breast pain
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin
discolouration
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that
affect the function of the male or female sex organs
hearing problems
pseudoaldosteronism, which results in high blood pressure with a low potassium level (shown in
blood test)
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data
• 
some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Noxafil.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above.
Reporting of side effects
If you or your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more
information on the safety of this medicine.
142
5.  How to store Noxafil
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after EXP. The expiry date
refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines or solvent via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away
medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
See the instructions for use booklet for the right way to dispose of your leftover medicine.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Noxafil contains
The active substance is posaconazole. Each single-use sachet of gastro-resistant powder for oral
suspension is an off-white to yellow powder containing 300 mg of posaconazole.
The other ingredient is: hypromellose acetate succinate.
The solvent contains the following ingredients: purified water, glycerol (E 422), methyl
parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate
monohydrate, citric acid anhydrous (E330), xanthan gum (E415), sodium citrate (E331), saccharin
sodium (E954), microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium, carrageenan calcium sulfate
trisodium phosphate (E407), sorbitol solution (E420), potassium sorbate (E202), flavour berry citrus
sweet (containing propylene glycol (E1520), water, natural and artificial flavour), antifoam Af
emulsion (containing polyethylene glycol (E1521), octamethyl cyclotetrasiloxane,
decamethylcyclopentasiloxane and poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxooctadecyl)-.omega.-
hydroxy).
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack
Noxafil gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension is supplied as a pack containing:
Package 1: The kit contains 8 child-resistant single-use sachets (PET/aluminium/LLDPE), two 3 mL
(green) notched tip syringes, two 10 mL (blue) notched tip syringes, two mixing cups, one 473 mL
solvent bottle (HDPE) with polypropylene (PP) closure with a foil induction seal liner, and one bottle
adapter for the solvent bottle.
Package 2: A box of six 3 mL (green) and six 10 mL (blue) notched tip syringes.
Each single-use sachet contains 300 mg of posaconazole which is suspended in 9 mL of solvent to
obtain 10 mL total of suspension with a final concentration of approximately 30 mg per mL.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
143
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 010 111 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: + 372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 446 5700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
144
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: + 354 535 7000
Italia
MSD Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: + 371-67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
145
Instructions for Use
Noxafil 300 mg gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral suspension
posaconazole
Instructions for Use
for caregivers of toddlers and children
•  Make sure you read and understand these instructions for use.
•  Bring this booklet to your child’s appointments.
Before you start
•  Before you start, make sure that you read and understand 
all of these instructions. They may be different
than those for medicines that you have used in
the past.
• 
It is important that you make all
measurements very carefully.
•  Before you give Noxafil, check all 3 expiry
dates. The expiry date is printed on the box
(Figure 1), the Noxafil sachets (Figure 2), and
the solvent (Figure 3).
•  Do not open the Noxafil sachets until you are
ready to mix the dose.
Note: If you have any questions, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
Figure 1
Figure 2
Figure 3
146
Before you start
• 
• 
The amount of Noxafil you give depends on your child's 
weight. Your doctor will tell you the right dose to give 
your child. Make sure to keep your doctor’s appointments so 
you get new dosing information as your child grows.
This booklet tells you how to:
o  Make the Noxafil into a liquid form
o  Measure the right dose using an oral syringe
o 
o 
Give the Noxafil to your child
Clean up
Note: Put your child in a safe place. You will need both hands 
to prepare Noxafil. Wash your hands with soap and water before preparing
Noxafil.
Note before adding Noxafil: Make sure you and your child are ready. If
you do not use Noxafil within 30 minutes, you will need to throw it away
and start over.
Kit Contents
• 
• 
• 
• 
Outer 
carton  
Instructions for use 
(this booklet)
Package leaflet
4 syringes (shown below)
• 
• 
• 
• 
2 mixing cups
8 sachets 
of Noxafil powder
Bottle adapter 
Bottle of solvent
for use with Noxafil 
2 blue (10 mL) syringes   
2 green (3 mL) syringes
The kit has an extra cup and set of syringes in case one is lost or damaged.
Do not use any damaged cups or syringes.
147
 
Get to Know the Oral Syringes
•  Before you prepare a dose, review
the parts of the syringe and how to
use them.
• 
If you have any questions about 
 measuring with a syringe, talk to 
 your doctor or pharmacist.
•  Make sure the plunger is pushed 
all the way into the barrel before 
you start to measure the dose.
•
•
Look for the number on the measuring scale that matches
the amount of solvent or Noxafil that you need.
Make sure to follow the directions in this booklet to remove
air bubbles from the syringe. Air bubbles can affect the 
amount of medicine that the child gets.
Step 1. Get the solvent ready
Note: Noxafil needs to be prepared using the solvent.
Do not mix Noxafil with milk, juice, or water.
Open the bottle and remove the safety seal. Use scissors if needed.
Place the bottle adapter on top of the bottle with the small hole facing up.
When you use the solvent for the first time:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Put the cap back on the bottle.
Push the bottle adapter all the way down.
Once in place, the bottle adapter stays in the bottle.
148
 
Step 2. Gather all your supplies and put on a clean surface
Note: Put your child in a safe place. You will need both hands to prepare Noxafil. Wash
your hands with soap and water before preparing Noxafil. 
1 mixing cup
(Using the tab
on the mixing
cup, pull open
the lid.)
1 sachet of
Noxafil powder
Solvent
1 blue syringe and
1 green syringe 
(Have 1 of each
ready, but you may
only use 1,
depending on the
dose.)
Scissors
(not included 
with kit:
use sharp
household
or kitchen scissors)
The Noxafil box has a mixing cup
holder inside to help tilt the cup 
when you are measuring the dose.
Step 3. Add Noxafil to the mixing cup
Note before adding Noxafil: 
Make sure you and your child are ready. If you do not use 
Noxafil within 30 minutes, you will need to throw it away and start over.
.
Figure 1
•  Cut open the sachet 
at the dotted line and add all of 
the powder to the mixing cup. 
Make sure the sachet is 
completely empty. (Figure 2)
•  Take 1 sachet of Noxafil 
and shake the powder to 
the bottom of the sachet. (Figure 1)
Figure 2
149
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 4. Shake the solvent bottle
• 
Shake the solvent well before each 
time you prepare Noxafil.
Step 5. Fill the blue syringe with 9 mL of solvent
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Push the plunger of the 
blue syringe into the 
syringe barrel as far as 
it goes.
Remove the cap from the bottle of solvent.
Push the notched tip of the syringe into
the bottle adapter.
With the syringe attached to the bottle, turn 
the bottle and syringe upside down. With 
your other hand, pull back the plunger to 
draw the solvent back into the syringe.
Stop when you get to the 9 mL line.
Turn the bottle back over and remove the 
syringe to check your measurement.
150
Step 6. Check for air bubbles
• 
• 
Hold the syringe with 
notched tip up. Tap 
it with your finger to 
move any air bubbles.
Slowly push the plunger
to make the air come out. (Figure 1)
Figure 1
•  Re-check the measurement 
of the solvent in the 
syringe. If it is less than 
9 mL, put the notched tip 
back into the solvent 
and pull the plunger back 
until you get to the 
9 mL mark. (Figure 2)
Figure 2
Step 7. Add the 9 mL of solvent to the Noxafil
• 
Add the 9 mL of solvent to the Noxafil powder in the mixing cup by pushing all the way down
on the plunger.
151
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 8. Mix the Noxafil
• 
• 
Snap the lid of the mixing cup shut.
Shake the mixing cup really 
hard for 45 seconds to mix
the Noxafil. (Figure 1)
Figure 1
• 
Check to make sure the
powder is mixed. 
If it is not mixed, shake the
mixing cup some more.
Noxafil should look cloudy 
and free of clumps. (Figure 2)
Figure 2
Step 9. Check your prescription
• 
Use the dose amount in ‘mL’ prescribed by the doctor. 
Note: The dose may change each time you go to the doctor, so make sure you have all the recent
information. Be sure to go to all of your child’s doctor appointments so your child gets the right
dose.
Step 10. Choose the syringe you need
Note: Only use the syringes provided in the kit.
Choose the correct syringe for your child's dose:
For 1 mL 
to 3 mL 
Green 
For 3 mL 
to 10 mL 
Blue
• 
Then find the mL mark on the syringe that matches your child's dose.
152
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 11. Measure the Noxafil
• 
• 
• 
• 
Push the plunger into the
dosing syringe as far as 
it goes. (Figure 1)
Tilt the cup by hand or use 
the mixing cup holder inside 
the Noxafil box. (Figure 2)
Put the notched tip of the 
dosing syringe into the 
lowest part of the cup with 
the Noxafil and pull back 
the plunger. (Figure 3)
Stop when you get to the line 
showing the prescribed dose.
Figure 1
Figure 2
Note: You will not use all of the Noxafil. There will be 
some left over in the mixing cup.
Figure 3
Step 12. Check for air bubbles
• 
• 
Hold the syringe with 
notched tip up. Tap 
it with your finger to 
move any air bubbles.
Slowly push the plunger
to make the air come out. (Figure 1) 
Figure 1
• 
Re-check the measurement of 
Noxafil in the syringe. If it is less 
than the prescribed dose, put 
the notched tip back into the 
mixing cup with the Noxafil and 
pull the plunger back until you 
get to the right dose mark. (Figure 2)
Figure 2
153
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 13. Give the Noxafil to your child
• 
• 
Gently place the syringe 
inside your child’s mouth 
so that the notched tip 
touches the inside of their cheek.
Slowly push down on the plunger to give the dose of 
Noxafil. It is important that your child takes all of the dose 
(a little left in the syringe notched tip is ok).
Note:
•  If your child vomits or spits out the whole dose within 15 minutes of taking Noxafil, a dose
may be repeated once. Follow-up your doctor or pharmacist if this occurs. 
•  Only use the solvent from the kit. Do not mix Noxafil with milk, juice, or water.
Step 14. Clean the cup and syringes
Note: Syringes and mixing cups should be reused. Do not throw away syringes and mixing cups
provided until all the Noxafil sachets are used. If syringes cannot be washed and reused, additional
syringes are provided in pack 2.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pour the leftover Noxafil from the mixing 
cup into the household waste bin.
Do not pour it into the sink.
Pull the plungers out of any syringes you used. 
Hand wash the syringes, plungers, and mixing 
cup with warm water and washing-up liquid. Do not wash 
in the dishwasher.
Rinse with water and air dry.
Put everything in a clean, dry place.
Step 15. After all sachets of Noxafil have been used
• 
After you have used the last Noxafil sachet in this box, you will have leftover solvent in the
bottle. Throw away the leftover solvent and all components of the kit.
154
