European Medicines Agency 
London, 4 December 2006 
Product Name: NOXAFIL 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/610/II/01 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Introduction 
Fungal  infections  are  a  major  cause  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  immunocompromised  patients. 
Filamentous mould and yeast-like fungi are ubiquitous organisms found worldwide in many different 
media. The Candida species are the most common cause of fungal infections. However, epidemiologic 
shifts have begun to occur, most likely due to the prophylactic and empiric use of antifungal agents. 
Emerging  fungal  pathogens,  such  as  Aspergillus,  Fusarium,  and  Zygomycetes,  are  changing  the 
clinical spectrum of fungal diagnoses. 
Pathogens 
General  risk  factors  for  invasive  fungal  infections  are  exposure  to  pathogens,  an  impaired  immune 
system, and fungal spores. The presence of a colonised environment, partnered with a disruption in a 
physiologic barrier, potentiates the risk of an invasive fungal infection in an immunologically impaired 
host,  such  as  a  patient  infected  with  HIV,  someone  taking  chronic  systemic  steroids,  or  a  transplant 
recipient.  In  addition,  contaminated  implanted  devices  (e.g.,  catheters,  prostheses),  external  devices 
(e.g.,  contact  lenses),  and  community  reservoirs  (e.g.,  hand  lotion,  pepper  shakers)  have  all  been 
implicated as sources of fungal outbreaks. 
Candida albicans continues to be the most frequent cause of invasive fungal infections in most patient 
populations. However, prophylaxis and the widespread use of antifungal agents as empiric therapy for 
neutropenic  fever  have  led  to  a  shift  in  the  epidemiology  of  invasive  Candida  infections.  Infections 
with  species  other  than  C.  albicans  (Candida  glabrata,  Candida  parapsilosis,  Candida  tropicalis, 
Candida krusei, and Candida lusitaniae) are becoming more prevalent. Due to susceptibility variations 
between species, species identification and susceptibility testing have become important tools. 
The  second  most  common  fungal  pathogen  to  cause  invasive  fungal  disease  is  Aspergillus.  Found 
worldwide, Aspergillus is able to thrive in almost every environment. The organism is found primarily 
in  soil  but  is  also  commonly  isolated  from  water,  food,  and  air.  The  usual  route  of  infection  for 
invasive  aspergillosis  is  via  inhalation  of  conidia  (asexual  spores).  As  a  result,  the  lung  is  the  most 
common  location of  invasive  infection. The  sinuses,  central  nervous  system,  and  skin  are  also  areas 
that  can  become  infected.  Clinically,  the  most  common  species  to  cause  infection  are  Aspergillus 
fumigatus,  Aspergillus  flavus,  Aspergillus  terreus,  and  Aspergillus  niger.  Despite  the  availability  of 
antifungal  agents  to  treat  infections  caused  by  Aspergillus,  the  morbidity  and  mortality  of  invasive 
aspergillosis remains high. 
Antifungal Therapy 
Diagnosing  invasive  fungal  infections  early,  reliably,  and  definitively  continues  to  be  a  major 
challenge to practitioners.  
Systemic  fungal  infections  lead  to  considerable  morbidity  and  mortality  in  patients  with  suppressed 
immune  systems,  such  as  HIV,  cancer  and  transplant  patients.  While  the  increasing  size  of  such 
population groups has driven the need for effective treatments and prophylaxis, the advent of HAART 
and associated declining incidence among HIV patients has limited market growth. 
Posaconazole  is  a  triazole  antimycotic  agent,  currently  indicated  for  a  range  of  invasive  fungal 
infections  in  adults,  including  invasive  aspergillosis  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to 
amphotericin  B  or  itraconazole  or  in  patients  who  are  intolerant  of  these  medicinal  products.  The 
centralised licence was approved in October 2005. 
Up  to  now  fluconazole  is  the  only  validated  oral  therapy  in  prophylaxis  indication.  Fluconazole  is 
more reliably absorbed and probably less toxic overall. However, its poor activity on Aspergillus is a 
significant limitation of this therapeutic option.  
The  proposed  new  indication  for  posaconazole  assessed  in  this  report  is  the  prophylaxis  of  invasive 
fungal infections in high-risk patients.  
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
2/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
Non Clinical aspects 
No new non clinical data have been submitted in support to the request of this extension of indication 
3 
Clinical aspects 
The 2 pivotal efficacy studies submitted are Study C/ I98-316 and Study P01899 
Study  C/I98-316  (study  316  in  this  report)  was  in  patients  with  graft  versus  host  disease  following 
allogeneic stem-cell transplant, treated with high-dose immunosuppressive therapy, and study P01899 
(study  1899  in  this  report)  involved  patients  undergoing  chemotherapy  for  acute  leukemia  or 
myelodysplastic syndromes.  
Study 316 
Design 
The  study  316  was  a  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind,  double  dummy,  parallel-group,  active 
comparator-controlled study. 
The objective of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension vs 
Fluconazole in the Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections in High-Risk Recipients of Allogeneic 
Progenitor Cell Transplantation With Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD). The patients included had 
Grade  2  to  4  acute  graft-versus-host  disease  (GVHD)  or  extensive  chronic  GVHD,  with  intensive 
immunosuppressive therapy for at least 2 weeks after enrolment.  
This  study  was  first  designed  as  a  two  stages  study  (first  for  equivalence  then  for  superiority  if 
equivalence  is  demonstrated.  Further  to  a  specific  amendment  after  the  interim  analysis  of  the  data 
obtained the equivalence was changed to a non-inferiority demonstration.  
The  posaconazole  dose  was  600  mg  daily  (200  mg  or  5  mL  of  40  mg/ml  suspension,  administered 
three  times  daily),  taken  orally  with  food.  The  comparator  was  fluconazole  only,  400  mg  daily  
(100 mg capsules, 4 capsules), taken orally once daily at the same time, preferably in the morning. As 
a  capsule  was  being  compared  against  a  suspension,  a  double-dummy  design  was  used  to  enable 
blinding. 
The  duration  of  therapy was  16  weeks,  or  until  an  (Invasive  Fungal  Infection)  IFI  was  suspected  or 
diagnosed.  
The use of empiric systemic antifungal therapy was prohibited by the study protocol except for the use 
of one short (<5 days) empiric course, and one short (<5 days) course during a period of study drug 
interruption (either due to an inability to take oral medication or due to an AE). 
Primary Endpoint 
Incidence rate of DRC-adjudicated proven or probable1 IFI within the time period from randomisation 
to 16 weeks after the start of treatment or 112 days from randomization if study drug was never taken. 
The  IFI  status  of  the  subject  was  determined  by  the  Data  Review  Committee  (DRC)  based  on  the 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Mycoses study group (EORTC-MSG) 
criteria. 
1 proven, probable and possible IFI definitions; see: Clinical Infectious Diseases, 2002, 34: p7-14 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
3/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Secondary Endpoint 
The clinical outcome was treatment success versus failure where a clinical failure was defined as the 
presence  of  a  proven  or  probable  IFI  or  more  than  5  consecutive  days  of  empiric  treatment  with  an 
antifungal other than POS within 16 weeks of start of treatment. 
The secondary efficacy parameters were also to be summarized by treatment group (Incidence rate of 
DRC  adjudicated  proven,  probable,  or  possible  IFI  according  to  the  EORTC-MSG  criteria,  Time  to 
first  diagnosis  of  IFI,  Incidence  rate  of  IFI  during  the  follow-up  period,  Incidence  of  fungal-related 
mortality  during  the  study  period,  All  cause  mortality  during  the  study  period,  Performance  status 
(ECOG score) by visit and by treatment group, Grading of GVHD and steroids requirements, Use of 
empiric  systemic  antifungal  therapy,  Incidence  of  a  fungal  colonization,  Incidence  rate  of 
mucocutaneous  or  superficial  fungal  infections,  Incidence  of  proven  or  probable  IFI  within  the  time 
period from randomization to the end of treatment, defined as the time of the last dose of study drug 
plus 7 days). 
Study 1899 
Design 
The  study  1899  was  an  open  label  with  evaluator  blinding  multi-centre,  randomised,  parallel-group, 
active comparator-controlled study. 
The  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  posaconazole  oral  suspension 
(POS)  compared  with  fluconazole  (FLU)  or  itraconazole  (ITZ)  in  the  prevention  of  invasive  fungal 
infections (IFI) in subjects with prolonged neutropenia due to remission-induction chemotherapy for 
acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. 
This study was designed to show statistical equivalence (non-inferiority) or superiority between POS 
and the standard azole (FLU/ITZ) reference arm. 
The duration of therapy was until complete remission of neutropenia, or until other protocol-specified 
endpoints were reached, for up to a maximum of 12 weeks. 
All  subjects  had  routine  evaluations  for  the  presence  of  fungal  infection  at  baseline  and  during  the 
study, this included screening questions, physical examination, Aspergillus antigen testing, and fungal 
blood  cultures/  PCR  every  2  weeks,  with  other  investigations  as  clinically  necessary.  At  any  time 
during the study, if a subject developed a fever, or any other sign or symptom of infection, a complete 
evaluation was performed. 
Primary endpoint 
As primary endpoint was defined the incidence of proven or probable IFI from randomization to the 
end of the Oral Treatment Phase, defined as the period from randomization to last dose of oral study 
medication plus 7 days (or the discontinuation date for subjects randomized but never treated). 
The evaluation of primary efficacy was made in two stages. First, non-inferiority of posaconazole vs. 
comparator  arm  was  assessed.  If  non-inferiority  was  demonstrated,  then  superiority  of  posaconazole 
vs. the comparator arm was assessed.  
Secondary endpoints 
The clinical outcome was used as secondary endpoint (treatment success versus failure), and the 
Incidence of proven or probable IFI. 
In addition, the secondary efficacy variables were to be summarized by treatment group (Time to first 
diagnosis  of  IFI  (proven,  probable,  or  possible  IFI,  as  determined  by  a  panel  of  external  expert 
evaluators), Time to initiation of empiric parenteral antifungal therapy for suspected fungal infections 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
4/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(time  to  onset  of  febrile  episodes  refractory  to  antibacterial  therapy  from  onset  of  neutropenia), 
Incidence  of  IFI  (proven,  probable,  or  possible  IFI,  as  determined  by  a  panel  of  external  expert 
evaluators) during the follow-up period (defined as up to 30 days after the discontinuation/completion 
of study drug therapy or 100 days after randomization, whichever occurred later), Number of subjects 
receiving empiric SAF therapy for a suspected IFI during the neutropenic episode, Number of subjects 
with  positive  fungal  surveillance  cultures  developing  subsequent  proven  or  probable  IFI  during  the 
Treatment  Phase,  Incidence  of  superficial  (mucocutaneous)  fungal  infections  during  study  drug 
therapy) 
Results  
i. 
Results of Study 316 
Patient population /Demographic notes  
Six hundred subjects were randomized, 301 to posaconazole and 299 to fluconazole. 
The majority of subjects randomized in this study had at least two or more known risk factors for the 
subsequent development of IFI.  
Of the 600 All Randomized Subjects, nearly all were between the ages of 18 and 65 (range 13 to 72, 
median age 43.0 posaconazole and 41.0 FLU), about two-thirds were male in both treatment groups, 
and most were Caucasian (86% posaconazole, 82% FLU). Approximately two-thirds of subjects had 
acute GVHD (posaconazole: N=202; FLU: N=197) and one-third had chronic GVHD (posaconazole: 
N=98; FLU=100).  The median time from transplant to baseline date was over 60 days in each group, 
thus  a  large  majority  required  long-term  antifungal  prophylaxis  after  engraftment  due  to  receipt  of 
intensive  immunosuppressive  treatment  for  GVHD.  All  subjects  had  been  treated  with  antifungal 
agents  prior  to  baseline  and  more  than  half  of  these  in  each  group  had  been  treated  for  more  than 
14 days.  The  median  number  of  days  of  prior  therapy  was  similar  between  the  two  groups 
(16 posaconazole, 19 FLU) and the type and proportion of agents received was also similar. 
There  were  12  subjects  under  the  age  of  18,  4  in  the  posaconazole  group  and  8  in  the  fluconazole 
group. 
In study 316, approximately two-thirds of subjects (69% posaconazole, 64% fluconazole) completed 
the Primary Time Period (defined as randomization day to 111 days after the Baseline date).   
No  subjects  were  mis-randomized.  In  addition  to  the  600  subjects  properly  randomized,  three 
additional subjects were randomized but did not sign informed consent and were not treated; therefore, 
they are not included in the All Randomized Subjects population (see table below). 
Data Set Analyzed 
All Randomized Subjects (n=600) 
All Treated (n=579) 
Modified Intent-to-Treat (n=445) 
Efficacy-Evaluable (n=384) 
N (%) of Subjectsa 
POS 
301 (100) 
291 (97) 
211 (70) 
180 (60) 
FLU 
299 (100) 
288 (96) 
234 (78) 
204 (68) 
a:   Percentage of subjects is based on the All Randomized Subjects population. 
The Efficacy-Evaluable population (≈Per Protocol analysis) is the most relevant in the context of the 
non-inferiority  demonstration.  However,  it  only  represents  around  65%  of  the  overall  randomized 
population 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
5/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below shows the results on the Disposition  of Subjects at End of Treatment by Treatment 
Group: (All Randomized Subjects) 
Subjects Who Completed Treatment  
Subjects Who Discontinued Treatment 
Administrative 
Adverse Event 
Did Not Meet Protocol Eligibility 
Non-compliance With Protocol 
Subject Did Not Wish to Continue 
Treatment Failure  
POS 
(n=301) 
165 (55) 
136 (45) 
0 
100 (33) 
3 (1) 
8 (3) 
17 (6) 
8 (3) 
FLU/ITZ 
(n=299) 
144 (48) 
155 (52) 
1 (<1) 
98 (33) 
7 (2) 
10 (3) 
15 (5) 
24 (8) 
The main difference between the two treatment arms in the rate of discontinuation of treatment phase 
is driven by the  more important rate of treatment failure in the FLU/ITZ arm  (8% versus 3% in the 
POS arm). 
The  table  below  shows  the  Disposition  of  Subjects  During  the  Primary  Time  Period  by  Treatment 
Group (All Randomized Subjects) 
Subjects Who Completed Primary Time Period 
Subjects Who Discontinued From the Study During the Primary Time Period 
Administrative 
Adverse Event 
Did Not Meet Protocol Eligibility 
Lost To Follow Up 
Non-compliance With Protocol 
Subject Did Not Wish to Continue 
Treatment Failure 
Disposition Unknown 
POS 
(n=301) 
207 (69) 
94 (31) 
1 (<1) 
57 (19) 
3 (1) 
1 (<1) 
6 (2) 
15 (5) 
11 (4) 
0 
FLU/ITZ 
(n=299) 
192 (64) 
105 (35) 
0 
55 (18) 
5 (2) 
0 
4 (1) 
12 (4) 
29 (10) 
2 (1) 
Of the 600 subjects in the All Randomized Subjects population, 349 completed follow-up at Week 24 
(186 POS, 163 FLU); 62% of the POS subjects and 55% of the FLU subjects completed Follow-up at 
Week 24. 
The Disposition of Subjects at End of Follow-Up (Week 24) by Treatment Group: (All Randomized 
Subjects) is shown in the Table that follows 
Subjects Who Completed Primary Time Period 
Subjects Who Discontinued From the Study During the Primary 
Time Period 
Administrative 
Adverse Event 
Lost To Follow Up 
Never Entered Follow-up 
Subject Did Not Wish to Continue 
Treatment Failure 
Disposition Unknown 
POS 
(n=301) 
186 (62) 
113 (38) 
0 
9 (3) 
1 (<1) 
99 (33) 
3 (1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (1) 
FLU/ITZ 
(n=299) 
163 (55) 
133 (44) 
1 (<1) 
11 (4) 
3 (1) 
110 (37) 
5 (2) 
3 (1) 
3 (1) 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
6/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results on the Primary endpoint of study 316 
There  were  175  potential  cases  of  IFI  provided  to  the  DRC  for  adjudication  of  which  62 
Proven/Probable  IFIs  occurred  during  the  study  overall  per  DRC  while  43  Proven/Probable  IFIs 
occurred during Primary Time period per DRC (Interval of time which begins on the Randomization 
Date and ends on the Baseline Date + 111 days) 
Analysis of the proven/probable IFIs by pathogens 
During  the  Primary  Time  Period,  the  distribution  of  Proven/Probable  IFI  by  Pathogen  Group  (All 
Randomized Subjects) is presented below: 
Distibution of Proven/Probable IFI by Pathogen Group (All Randomized Subjects) 
No. Subjects With Proven/Probable IFI 
Pathogen or Pathogen Group 
Aspergillus 
Candida 
Other Fungi 
Pseudallescheriaa 
Rhizomucor mieheia 
Trichosporon beigeliia 
Scedosporium prolificansa 
Moulda 
All 
POS 
7 
4 
5 
1 
0 
1 
1 
2 
16 
FLU 
21 
4 
2 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
27 
a: Specific pathogens under the Other Fungi group are not counted again in the ‘All’ row. 
Per protocol, non-inferiority of POS vs FLU was assessed first then superiority of POS vs FLU was 
assessed.  Proven  or  probable  IFI  distribution  due  to  all  pathogens  During  the  Primary  Time  Period, 
according  to  Mantel-Haenszel  analysis  adjusted  for  GVHD  classification  (Acute  vs  Chronic)  at 
Baseline for All Randomized Subjects is presented: 
Subjects With Proven/Probable IFI During the Primary Time Perioda 
All randomized 
population  
Efficacy Evaluable 
population  
POS 
N=301 
16 (5) 
N=180 
10 (6) 
FLU 
Odds Ratio
P-value 
95.01% CI 
Max 
Valueb 
N=299 
27 (9) 
N=204 
20(10) 
0.5614 
0.0740 
0.2959 – 1.0651 
1.1625 
0.5636 
0.1225 
0.2479- 1.1918 
1.1637 
a:   Per protocol, the primary efficacy analysis was performed on All Randomized Subjects during this 
time period. 
b:   Calculated value corresponding to 15% relative difference in incidence of proven/probable IFI with 
respect to the incidence of fluconazole and the total number of proven/probable IFI observed. 
While on Treatment time period is defined as the period from first dose of study drug to seven days 
after the last dose of study drug. Unlike the Primary Time Period, the While on Treatment time period 
does not include time when subjects were not treated with study drug due to early discontinuations or 
delays in treatment after randomization (as shown below). 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
7/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution of Proven/Probable IFI by Pathogen Group while on treatment (All Treated Subjects) 
No. Subjects With Proven/Probable IFI 
Pathogen or Pathogen Group 
n=29 
Aspergillus 
Candida 
Other Fungia 
Pseudallescheria boydii 
Rhizomucor miehei 
Trichosporon beigelii 
Mould 
Posaconazole 
n=7 
3 
1 
3 
1 
0 
1 
1 
Fluconazole 
n=22 
17 
3 
2 
0 
1 
0 
1 
a:   Specific pathogens under the Other Fungi group are not counted again in the ‘All’ row. 
IFI = Invasive Fungal Infection; While on Treatment = Interval of time which begins on the first day of treatment and 
ends on the last day of treatment + 7 days; All Treated Subjects = all subjects who received at least one dose of study 
drug. 
It is important to note that the timing of IFIs during the While on Treatment period differed between 
the  treatment  groups;  in  the  POS  group  5  of  the  7  IFIs  developed  in  the  first  5  weeks  of  treatment 
compared with 11 of 22 that occurred in the FLU group during the first 5 weeks of treatment. After the 
first 5 weeks, only two IFIs developed in the POS group, while 11 IFIs developed in the FLU group. 
This  timing  confirms  the  efficacy  of  POS  as  most  of  the  IFIs  occur  very  early  in  the  study  when 
immunosuppression is maximum. 
Aspergillus 
It  should  be  noted  that  the  most  common  infecting  pathogen  for  proven  or  probable  IFI  was 
Aspergillus,  causing  28  of  the  43  total  IFIs  in  the  study  in  the  Primary  Time  Period  among  All 
Randomized  Subjects  (7/16  POS  and  21/27  FLU)  and  the  Mantel-Haenszel  analysis  adjusted  for 
GVHD Classification (Acute vs Chronic) at Baseline gave an OR 0.3121, 95.01% CI 0.1306 – 0.7458, 
P-value 0.0059. 
Results on Secondary endpoints of study 316 
Clinical  outcome  is  the  main  secondary  endpoint  designed  to  evaluate  a  potential  treatment  effect 
regarding clinical failure. 
A clinical failure was defined as the presence of a proven or probable IFI, or more than 5 consecutive 
days of empiric treatment with an antifungal other than assigned study drug, within 16 weeks of start 
of  treatment.  Subjects  not  followed  for  the  entire  16-week  treatment  phase  were  also  considered 
failures. A similar comparison of the upper 95.01% confidence limit of the adjusted odds ratio for the 
effect  of  treatment  was  to  be  used  to  make  the  treatment  comparison  with  respect  to  the  clinical 
outcome failure rate. 
The  distribution  of  Clinical  Failure  by  Treatment  Group  All  randomized  subjects  Mantel-Haenszel 
analysis of clinical failure by Treatment Group adjusted for GVHD at Baseline is presented below: 
Analysis of Clinical Failure by Treatment Group Adjusted for GVHD at Baseline 
Variable 
FLU 
N  % N  % Odd Ratio P-value
POS 
IFI 
Clinical Failure-per protocol  Total  299  100 301 100
189  63 202 67
110  37 99 33
no 
yes 
. 
0.8528 
. 
. 
0.3612
. 
Lower 
95.01% CI 
. 
0.6060 
. 
Upper 
95.01% CI 
. 
1.2001 
. 
Max. value
. 
1.2391 
. 
Incidence rate of DRC adjudicated proven, probable, or possible IFI 
The difference in incidence of all IFIs between the two treatment groups was statistically significant 
for the While on Treatment period in All Treated Subjects is represented below: 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
8/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POS 
N=291 
20 (7) 
FLU 
N=288 
41 (14) 
Odds Ratio 
P-value 
95.01% CI  Max Valuea
0.4411 
0.0038 
0.2507-0.7759 
1.1690 
a:   Calculated value corresponding to 15% relative difference in incidence of proven/probable IFI with respect to the 
incidence in fluconazole group and total number of proven/probable IFI during the Primary Time Period. 
Incidence rate of IFI during the follow-up period. 
This section focuses on both follow-up to the Post Primary Time Period, which is the same as the Post 
Treatment Phase, (interval of time which begins on the Baseline Date + 112 days and ends on the last 
contact date) and to the Post While on Treatment period (interval of time which begins on the last day 
of treatment + 8 days and ends on the last contact date) (as it is summarized below). 
Proven/Probable IFIs Due to All Pathogens During Follow-Up (All Randomized Subjects) 
Study Period 
Post Primary Time Perioda 
Post While on Treatmentb 
Proven 
POS 
2 
8 
FLU 
7 
8 
Probable 
DRC-Adjudicated Invasive Fungal Infections 
Proven/Probable 
FLU 
15 
20 
Proven/Probable 
Total 
19 
32 
FLU 
8 
12 
POS 
4 
12 
POS 
2 
4 
During the Post Treatment Phase POS was superior to FLU with regard to the reduced incidence of 
proven or probable IFIs with a P-value 0.0089. 
Analysis of study 316 
For  each  day  of  blood  sampling,  a  mean  composite  concentration-time  profile  of  posaconazole  was 
constructed  using  all  concentration-time  points  collected  from  subjects  on  the  same  day.  Plasma 
posaconazole  trough  values  were  to  be  collected  at  Weeks  2,  4,  8,  12,  and  16  just  prior  to  subjects 
receiving their posaconazole dose or during the visit done if posaconazole was discontinued earlier. 
271  subjects  randomized  to  POS  were  available  at  several  time  points  postdose  on  sample  days 
ranging from Day 2 to Day 138. 
The  median  posaconazole  Cmax  for  non-IFI  while  on  treatment  was  1360  ng/ml  (n=241)  versus 
635 ng/ml (n=5) for those with proven/probable IFI while on treatment. The plasma levels in GVHD 
subjects with no proven/probable IFI were affected by the type of GVHD, as chronic GVHD subjects 
had  a  ≈58%  higher  median  plasma  Cmax  compared  to  acute.  Subjects  with  diarrhea  on  the  day  of 
pharmacokinetic sampling had a ≈57% lower median plasma Cmax compare to those with no diarrhea 
which raised concerns by the CHMP and are discussed below. 
The results expressed in Odds Ratio did not meet the predefined criteria of non-inferiority. The MAH 
addressing  this  point  has  indicated  that  at  the  time  of  the  study  design,  the  exact  rate  of  IFIs  was 
difficult to estimate, particularly in the GVHD population, since there were no large multicentre trials 
performed on this population. In the medical literature, the rates of IFIs in subjects undergoing HSCT 
(5%  to  35%)  often  reflect  single-centre  experience  and  different  prophylaxis  strategies  in  terms  of 
antifungals and duration of treatment.  
The MAH stated that the statistical strategy using odds ratio was devised to account for the unknown 
overall  expected  IFI  incidence.  This  methodology  allowed  evaluating  if  the  incidence  of  IFI  with 
posaconazole was within 15% of the observed IFI incidence with fluconazole.  
The MAH was also asked to substantiate what would 1.22% represent as a fraction of the efficacy of 
fluconazole based on literature data in patients with GVHD. (Per protocol analysis: -4.25 % with CI 
95.01% (-9.81%; +1.22%). 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
9/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  addressing  this  point  has  indicated  that  because  the  study  included  more  subjects  with 
allogeneic transplant and a longer treatment duration, the Slavin et al. (1995) study2 was selected as 
reference  to  justify  the  non-inferiority  effect  observed  in  study  316.  The  Placebo  and  Fluconazole 
incidence  rates  in  the  reference  study  are  17.6%  and  6.6%,  respectively,  when  the  associated  odds 
ratio for Placebo vs Fluconazole is 3.03 with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of [1.4, 6.5].  Based on 
this result, the non-inferiority margin that would retain 50% of this effect would correspond to an odds 
ratio  of  1.18.  In  study  316,  the  95%  CI  for  the  observed  odds  ratio  of  0.56  for  Posaconazole  vs. 
Fluconazole  was  [0.296,  1.065].    Since  the  upper  limit  of  this  CI  is  less  than  the  margin  of  1.18 
derived from the study comparing Placebo and Fluconazole, it can be concluded that Posaconazole has 
retained  at  least  50%  of  the  effect  of  Fluconazole  vs.  Placebo.    In  fact,  the  actual  effect  retained  is 
more than 80%. 
When expressing the results in terms of difference in incidence rates, the point estimate and 95% CI 
for Placebo minus Fluconazole from the above-mentioned scientific paper, are 10.9%.  Based on this, 
the non-inferiority margin that would retain 50% of this effect would be 1.85%.  The upper limit of the 
per-protocol  analysis  (1.22%),  as  referred  to  by  the  reviewer,  clearly  retains  more  than  50%  of  the 
efficacy.  In fact, the actual effect retained is 67%. The above arguments support the conclusion that 
posaconazole is non-inferior to fluconazole. 
Given  the  significant  food  influence  on  posaconazole  pharmacokinetics  (enhanced  posaconazole 
exposure) the use of the drug in patients with digestive GVHD is of particular concern. Indeed, these 
patients should generally be maintained in the fasted state for a prolonged period (1 month). This is 
especially  critical  since,  conversely  to  the  recommended  posology  in  the  curative  indication,  the 
claimed posology in prophylaxis no longer takes into account the ability of the patient to tolerate food 
or not.  
The  recommended  dosing  of  oral  posaconazole  for  prophylaxis  took  into  account  the  common 
problem  of  anorexia,  nausea,  and  vomiting  associated  with  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  and  with  gut 
dysfunction related to GVHD.  The recommendation to administer posaconazole oral suspension three 
times daily was designed deliberately to optimize the exposure in this high risk population using the 
available  data  from  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  and  in  patients.  Exposure  to  posaconazole  after  a 
single dose was increased by about 2.6-fold when given with a nutrient supplement and by about 4-
fold when given with a high-fat  meal.   In fasted healthy subjects, the bioavailability of a total daily 
dose of posaconazole 800 mg was increased by 1.7-fold when the dose was administered as 400 mg 
BID and by 2.6-fold when the dose administered as 200 mg QID compared to 800 mg administered 
QD.  When  the  POS  dosage  for  prophylaxis  was  selected  in  subjects  who  potentially  might  have 
limited  oral  tolerability  due  to  underlying  disease,  a  strategy  was  devised  to  split  the  dose  to  three 
times  a  day  to  coincide  with  the  timing  of  meals  or  the  administration  of  a  light  diet  with  liquid 
nutritional supplements to attain the maximum exposure and to optimize compliance. 
Analyses to study the impact of gastrointestinal dysfunction could not be performed as requested due 
to limitations in data collection. The presence of gastrointestinal GVHD was not captured specifically 
but was included as part of the score for grading GVHD. The individual signs or symptoms of GVHD 
are recorded in the adverse events module.  Diarrhoea and vomiting were more commonly reported as 
adverse  events  in  subjects  with  acute  GVHD  as  compared  to  those  with  chronic  GVHD  (29  vs  6 
subjects, respectively)  
While on treatment in study 316, those subjects who had diarrhoea reported as an adverse event on the 
day  of  PK  sampling  (n=36)  had  lower  median  Cavg  values  than  subjects  with  no  reported  events  of 
diarrhea (718 vs 1009 ng/mL).  In contrast, vomiting had less impact on posaconazole plasma levels.  
There was no difference in POS exposure with or without vomiting (median Cavg, 872 vs 922 ng/mL, 
respectively), most likely because subjects were instructed to repeat their POS dose after emesis was 
controlled. 
2   Slavin  MA,  Osborne  B,  Adams  R,  Levenstein MJ,  Schoch  HG,  Feldman  AR, et  al.  Efficacy  and  safety  of  fluconazole 
prophylaxis for fungal infections after marrow transplantation--a prospective, randomized, double-blind study. J Infect 
Dis 1995: 171 p1545-52. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
10/23
 
 
                                                      
Overall,  although  lower  levels  were  seen  in  subjects  with  diarrhoea  in  the  setting  of  acute  GVHD, 
fewer breakthrough IFIs were seen in posaconazole subjects when compared with subjects receiving a 
highly  bioavailable  drug  (fluconazole).  Therefore,  even  in  the  presence  of  clinically  significant 
gastrointestinal dysfunction, the oral administration of posaconazole was well tolerated and resulted in 
adequate protection against Aspergillus and Candida infections.  
ii. 
Results of Study 1899 
Patient population /Demographic notes  
Six hundred and two subjects were randomized. 304 subjects were randomised to posaconazole, 240 to 
fluconazole and only 58 to itraconazole.  
The mean age was 49 years in the posaconazole group, and 50 years in the fluconazole/itraconazole 
group. As with study 316, most subjects were Caucasian, but in contrast only 52% were male in the 
posaconazole group (54% in fluconazole/itraconazole group).  The majority of subjects (63%) in both 
treatment arms were neutropenic at baseline; in 24% of subjects, the level of neutropenia was severe 
(≤100  cells/mm3).  In  both  treatment  arms,  the  majority  of  subjects  (70%  posaconazole,  74% 
FLU/ITZ)  had  a  primary  diagnosis  of  new  Acute  Myelogenous  Leukemia  (AML);  the  remaining 
subjects  were  divided  fairly  evenly  between  relapsed  AML  and  (Myelodysplastic  Syndrome)  MDS. 
The  two  treatment  groups  were  also  similar  with  respect  to  the  remaining  baseline  characteristics 
evaluated.  4% subjects in each arm) had an Aspergillus antigen test reporting a galactomannan index 
(GMI)  of  ≥0.5  at  baseline.    Slightly  less  than  half  of  the  study  population  had  a  positive  fungal 
colonization status (assessed from stool/throat culture). Fourteen percent of subjects received systemic 
antifungals as prophylaxis prior to randomization; the mean duration of prophylaxis was 4 days in the 
posaconazole arm and 3 days (SD 5.4) in the fluconazole/itraconazole arm. The type of chemotherapy 
was generally balanced between groups. The use of myeloid growth factors during the treatment phase 
was similar between the treatment groups, being received in around half of patients. 
There were 16 patients aged under 18 in this study, 8 per group.  
Disposition of subjects 
In  study  1899,  52%  subjects 
fluconazole/itraconazole group completed the treatment Phase.  
in 
the  posaconazole  arm  and  42%  subjects 
in 
the 
in 
As  already  stated  a  total  of  602  subjects  (304  POS,  240  FLU,  58  ITZ)  were  randomized,  and  590 
subjects were exposed to study medication. One subject in the POS arm received one dose of IV study 
medication Amphotericin B (AMB) only. This subject was also excluded from the Modified Intent-to-
Treat (MITT) subset, which is comprised of 589 subjects who received at least one dose of oral study 
medication. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
11/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Set Analyzed 
All Randomized (n=602) 
- Not treated with oral study drug 
MITT (n=589) 
- Did not meet entry criteriab 
- Non-compliance with study conductc 
- Unacceptable concomitant medicationd 
- Non-compliance with study treatmente 
Number (%) of Subjectsa 
POS 
304 (100) 
7 (2) 
297 (98) 
0 
17 (6) 
1 (<1) 
18 (6) 
265 (87) 
FLU/ITZ 
298 (100) 
6 (2) 
292 (98) 
1 (<1) 
17 (6) 
1 (<1) 
13 (4) 
263 (88) 
Efficacy Evaluable (n=528) 
a:   Percentage of subjects is based on the All Randomized Subjects population. 
b:   Includes subjects who did not have a diagnosis of AML or MDS, or subjects who did not receive intensive chemotherapy 
expected to result in prolonged neutropenia.  
c:   Includes subjects who did not have at least 7 days of neutropenia (ANC >500 cells/mm3), or subjects who received >3 
consecutive days or >10 cumulative days of IV alternative antifungal study medication. 
d:   Includes subjects who received medications known to lower the serum concentration of azole antifungals for 5 or more 
days concurrently with study drug. 
e:   Includes subjects who received <4 consecutive days of oral study drug. 
Treatment  Phase  has  consisted  of  3  visits  (Visits  2  to  4  up  to  the  end  of  treatment).  Visit  2  was 
conducted on the day the subject began study drug therapy as randomized, before the first dose. For 
each cycle of chemotherapy, a new cycle number was used to designate the first, second, or third cycle 
of prophylaxis. Subjects started the study drug after completing the anthracycline component of each 
cycle.  Subjects  may  have  continued  on  study  drug  with  each  cycle  of  chemotherapy  until  complete 
remission or other protocol-specified endpoints were reached, for up to a maximum of 12 weeks or 84 
calendar days from randomization. 
Then Follow-up Phase has been performed with Visit 5 and Visit 6 (30 days after last dose date for 
safety  and  100  days  after  randomization  date  for  survival  [all  cause  mortality  and  fungal-infection-
related mortality] and IFI occurrence). 
The main difference between the reasons for discontinuing the treatment phase is driven by the more 
important rate of treatment failure in the FLU/ITZ arm (39% versus 26% in the POS arm). 
The  population  mainly  consisted  of  AML  new  diagnosis  (≈70%),  Caucasian  subjects  (≈75%), 
balanced  number  of  male/female,  subjects  weighing  approximately  70-75  kg,  European  patients 
(≈40%).  At  baseline  (date  of  randomization:  D-7  –  D0),  only  24%  of  patients  presented  severe 
neutropenia. However, this percentage greatly increased at post-baseline: 87-88% in both arms due to 
chemotherapy cycle(s) performed for the period of POS administration. 
Overall the population enrolled was representative of the population targeted in clinical practice in this 
indication. The limited population with MDS reflected the more limited resort to prophylaxis in these 
patients as compared to patients with AML.  
The assessment of the comparability of treatment arms (POS vs FLU/ITZ) with respect to certain post-
baseline characteristics that were considered to have an impact potentially on the occurrence of IFIs, 
was performed. 
The  median  total  number  of  days  of  neutropenia  during  the  Treatment  Phase  was  similar  in  both 
treatment  groups  (POS,  21  days;  FLU/ITZ,  20  days),  as  well  as  the  median  number  of  consecutive 
days  of  neutropenia  (POS,  18  days;  FLU/ITZ,  17  days).  The  number  of  subjects  with  prolonged 
neutropenia was also higher in the POS arm (33% vs 26% with FLU/ITZ). This higher incidence of 
cumulative  neutropenia  in  the  POS  arm  may  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  more  POS  subjects 
completed the Treatment Phase than did FLU/ITZ subjects (52% vs 42%, respectively), and as such, 
their days of neutropenia continued to be counted until the end of the Treatment Phase or recovery of 
(absolute neutrophil count, ANC) ANC (>500 cells/mm3), whichever occurred first. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
12/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant Medications 
During the Treatment Phase the number of subjects who received other Systemic Antifungal Therapy 
(SAFs) as empiric treatment for a suspected/proven IFI was higher in the FLU/ITZ arm (38%) than in 
the POS arm (27%). The use of other SAFs as empiric treatment of a suspected/proven IFI during a 
neutropenic episode was  also  more  common in the FLU/ITZ group than the POS group (140.9% vs 
32.9%,  respectively).  Approximately  one-half  of  all  subjects  received  growth  factors  during  the 
Treatment Phase (POS, 48%; FLU/ITZ, 50%). The median duration of use was slightly longer in the 
POS arm than in the FLU/ITZ arm; however, this slight difference in duration of growth factor use is 
not considered to be clinically significant. 
The treatment arms were well balanced with respect to the number of subjects who received steroids 
during the Treatment Phase (POS, 62%; FLU/ITZ, 63%), as well as the duration of steroid use. 
Results on the Primary endpoint of Study 1899 
Results are presented according to time schedule with 4 periods: 
-  Oral Treatment Phase, from randomization to 7 days after end of oral study drug. This time 
period was the focus of the primary efficacy analysis. The distribution of IFIs was the same 
during  the  Treatment  Phase  (randomization  to  7  days  after  last  dose  of  oral  or  IV  study 
medication) as during the Oral Treatment Phase. 
Treatment Phase, from randomization to 7 days after end of treatment (IV or Oral) 
100-Day Phase, from randomization to 100 days after randomization. 
Post-Oral Treatment Phase 
Post 100-Day Phase. 
- 
- 
- 
Oral Treatment Phase 
Thirty-two  subjects  had  DRC-adjudicated  proven/probable  IFIs  during  the  Oral  Treatment  Phase. 
The  incidence  was  significantly  lower  with  POS  than  with  FLU/ITZ  (2%  vs  8%,  respectively  and 
P=0.0009). 
The incidence of proven and probable IFI with POS during the Oral Treatment Phase was lower than 
with either comparator evaluated separately (FLU 8%; ITZ 10%). 
Analysis of the proven/probable IFIs by pathogens: 
The  incidence  of  proven  and  probable  IFIs  due  to  Aspergillus  was  not  a  pre-specified  variable  for 
analysis in this study. Aspergillus was determined to be the causative pathogen in 22 of the 32 subjects 
with  proven  or  probable  IFIs  during  the  Oral  Treatment  Phase.  The  incidence  of  proven/probable 
aspergillosis was also significantly lower with POS vs FLU/ITZ during the 100-Day Phase (1% vs 9%, 
respectively; P<0.0001). 
Contrarily to what happens in the posaconazole arm, IFI due to Aspergillus represents the majority of 
IFI in the FLU/ITZ (80%) as compared to 29% % in the POS arm. This translates the limited activity 
of  FLU  on  Aspergillus.  Therefore  comparison  versus  FLU  was  indeed  optimal  for  the  posaconazole 
arm.  
Analysis on FLU/ITZ resistant IFI: 
FLU/ITZ resistance was assessed by the DRC for each primary pathogen causing a proven or probable 
IFI. Twenty-six of the 32 subjects with proven or probable IFIs during the Oral Treatment Phase were 
infected with pathogens that were considered to be FLU- or ITZ-resistant. 
The  incidence  of  FLU/ITZ-resistant  proven  or  probable  IFIs  with  POS  was  lower  than  with  either 
standard azole agent, evaluated separately (FLU, 8%; ITZ, 9%). 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
13/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher overall incidence of IFIs was observed when assessed by the DRC, regardless of treatment 
arm or study period (see table below). 
Distribution of Proven and Probable IFI by Time Period and Treatment Group determined by DRC 
(All Randomized Subjects) 
Time Perioda 
Oral Treatment Phase 
100-Day Phase 
Post-Oral Treatment Phase 
Post 100-Day Phase 
Number (%) of 
Subjects 
POS 
(n=304) 
7 (2) 
14 (5) 
10 (3) 
1 (0) 
FLU/ITZ 
(n=298) 
25 (8) 
33 (11) 
9 (3) 
1 (0) 
Difference 
-6.09% 
-6.47% 
0.27% 
-0.01% 
95.13% CI for the 
Difference 
-9.68% to -2.50% 
-10.76% to -2.17% 
-2.54% to 3.08% 
-0.93% to 0.92% 
P-Value 
0.0031 
0.8501 
0.9887 
Subjects may have had multiple IFIs occurring in different study periods. The distribution of IFIs was 
the same during the Post-Treatment Phase as during the Post-Oral Treatment Phase. 
The  superiority  of  POS  over  FLU/ITZ  is  consistently  shown  on  the  most  pertinent  analyses;  Oral 
Treatment phase (P-value, 0.0009) and to a lesser extent 100-Day Phase (P-value 0.031). 
Results on the Secondary endpoints of study 1899 
There  were  13  subjects  (7  POS,  6  FLU/ITZ)  who  were  randomized  but  never  treated.  These  were 
regarded  as  treatment  failures.  The  most  common  reason  for  treatment  failure  was  empiric  use  of  a 
systemic  antifungal  (SAF)  agent  for  >3  consecutive  days  during  the  Treatment  Phase  (POS,  20%; 
FLU/ITZ, 26%). 
Fungal Colonization 
Subjects were examined for colonization at Baseline and once weekly while on therapy. The primary 
colonizing organism at Baseline in both treatment arms was C. albicans. The treatment arms showed a 
steady  decline  in  subjects  colonized  with  C.  albicans  through  Week  6  of  therapy.  During  the  same 
time period, there was a slight increase in the number of subjects colonized with C. glabrata while C. 
krusei increased slightly in FLU-treated. 
Neutropenia 
The standard reporting procedure for clinical trials of the treatment and supportive care of leukaemia 
is  to  begin  counting  days  of  neutropenia  from  the  start  of  treatment/study  until  recovery  from 
neutropenia (defined as  a  neutrophil value of > 500  cells/mm3) In this study, approximately 70% of 
subjects  enrolled  had  newly  diagnosed  AML  and  were  undergoing  their  first  cycle  of  standard 
induction chemotherapy. Randomization appropriately balanced the proportion of patients with a new 
diagnosis  of  AML  receiving  posaconazole  (70%)  (POS)  versus  fluconazole  (FLU)  or  itraconazole 
(ITZ)  (74%).    Although  the  numbers  of  subjects  were  smaller,  the  proportion  of  patients with  MDS 
was slightly higher in the POS group (16% POS vs. 13% FLU/ITZ), as was the proportion of patients 
with relapsed AML (14% POS vs. 13% FLU/ITZ) 
The incidence, severity, and duration of neutropenia were also evaluated post-baseline. Approximately 
98% of subjects were neutropenic during treatment in both treatment arms, and of those, nearly 90% 
had  an  ANC  ≤100 cells/mm3  recorded  as  their  worst  value.  The  treatment  arms  were  balanced  for 
maximum  consecutive  days  of  neutropenia  during  treatment  (mean  20  days  POS  vs  18  days 
FLU/ITZ), as well as total number of days of neutropenia (mean 25 days POS vs 23 days FLU/ITZ).  
There were more subjects in the POS arm with >28 consecutive days of neutropenia than the FLU/ITZ 
arm (17% vs 12%, respectively).  It was also anticipated that subjects with MDS/secondary AML or 
relapsed  AML  might  have  prolonged  neutropenia  relative  to  newly  diagnosed  AML  subjects.  A 
specific analysis of those subjects who were not neutropenic at baseline, but developed chemotherapy-
related  neutropenia,  also  demonstrated  that  the  maximum  consecutive  days  of  neutropenia  during 
treatment was balanced between the arms within the strata. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
14/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  number  of  days  of  neutropenia  observed  in  this  study  were  consistent  with  literature  reports  of 
duration of neutropenia with standard AML treatment regimens (median 13-23 days depending upon 
the regimen  and growth factor support).   Growth factor use (G-CSF or GM-CSF), which  affects the 
number of days of neutropenia and may also affect neutrophil function, was also balanced between the 
2 treatment arms, 48% POS vs 50% FLU/ITZ. 
In summary, the MAH considered that randomization adequately controlled for potential imbalances 
related  to  incidence,  severity,  or  duration  of  neutropenia  that  might  have  influenced  the  risk  of 
breakthrough fungal infections in each of the treatment arms. The course of the neutropenia in subjects 
with  acute  myelogenous  leukemia/MDS  undergoing  therapy  was  consistent  with  the  published 
literature.   
3 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
i.  
Study 316 
Study  316  is  a  phase  III  randomized  double  blind,  double  dummy  that  confers  robustness  in  the 
efficacy/safety demonstration.  It  was  aimed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  posaconazole  oral 
suspension vs Fluconazole in the Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections in High-Risk Recipients of 
Allogeneic Progenitor Cell Transplantation With Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD). 
As regards the population enrolled, only 1% of patients were aged between 13 to <18 years in the POS 
arm), this represents a significant limitation to support the MAH’s claim for an extension of indication 
in prophylaxis in patients from 13 years of age. Consequently the MAH withdrew the application for 
the paediatric indication. 
The  most  common  underlying  disease  in  each  treatment  group  was  chronic  myelogenous  leukemia. 
About  two-thirds  of  the  subjects  randomized  had  acute  GVHD,  and  almost  half  of  the  population 
enrolled had acute Grade 2 GVHD.  
The  overall  study  duration  (1459  days)  corresponds  to  a  very  slow  rate  of  inclusion  (mean  of  0.14 
patient/month). While GVHD is the most common source of transplant morbidity, at least two factors 
accounted for the slow enrolment observed in study 316.  An acceptable explanation has been given 
by  the  MAH.  First,  the  protocol  was  overly  conservative  in  the  eligibility  criteria  by  attempting  to 
select a uniform population who received only high dose corticosteroids or anti-thymocyte globulin, at 
a  time  when  the  treatment  of  GVHD  was  undergoing  a  significant  evolution.  Second,  because  this 
study  used  a  double-blind,  double-dummy  design  subjects  were  expected  to  tolerate  two  oral  study 
medications  (capsules  and  suspension).  Subsequent  protocol  amendments  attempted  to  broaden 
enrolment  criteria  to  include  more  immunosuppressive  regimes  while  still  capturing  the  highest  risk 
patients. 
ii. 
Discussion on Study 1899 
Study P01899 is a randomized, open-label, evaluator-blinded, multicenter study to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension (POS) compared with fluconazole (FLU) or itraconazole 
(ITZ) in the prevention of invasive fungal infections (IFI) in subjects with prolonged neutropenia due 
to remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Subjects were to be stratified based on their primary diagnosis or condition: new diagnosis of Acute 
Myelogenous Leukemia (AML); AML in first relapse; or Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) or other 
diagnoses of secondary AML (therapy related, antecedent hematological disorders). 
This  study  was  designed  to  show  statistical  non-inferiority  or  superiority  between  POS  and  the 
standard azole (FLU/ITZ) reference arm. The non-inferiority margin has been justified as representing 
one  third  of  the  activity  of  fluconazole  in  prophylaxis.  Since  itraconazole  could  also  be  used  as  a 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
15/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
comparator,  this  should  also  have  been  justified  as  regards  the  activity  of  itraconazole.  Even  if 
validated  in  the  prophylactic  indication,  fluconazole  is  known  as  having  a  very  poor  activity  on 
Aspergillus sp. Therefore, to some extent, the comparison is optimal for posaconazole, since at least 
for prophylaxis of aspergillosis, this amounts a comparison versus placebo.  
As  a  reassuring  finding  given  the  comparator  used,  a  superiority  of  posaconazole  over  FLU/ITZ  is 
consistently in the analysis of the primary endpoint. As rather expected given the limited activity of 
FLU  on  Aspergillus,  IFI  due  to  Aspergillus  represents  the  majority  of  IFI  in  the  FLU/ITZ  (80%)  as 
compared to 29% % in the POS arm. Of interest, a significant difference (P=0.0209) in favor of POS 
was observed between the treatment groups with respect to the secondary endpoint of time to fungal-
infection-related death. 
The standard reporting procedure for clinical trials of the treatment and supportive care of leukaemia 
is  to  begin  counting  days  of  neutropenia  from  the  start  of  treatment/study  until  recovery  from 
neutropenia (defined as  a  neutrophil value of > 500  cells/mm3) In this study, approximately 70% of 
subjects  enrolled  had  newly  diagnosed  AML  and  were  undergoing  their  first  cycle  of  standard 
induction chemotherapy.  
The MAH considered that randomisation was adequately controlled for potential imbalances related to 
incidence,  severity,  or  duration  of  neutropenia  that  might  have  influenced  the  risk  of  breakthrough 
fungal infections in each of the treatment arms. The course of the neutropenia in subjects with acute 
myelogenous leukemia/MDS undergoing therapy was consistent with the published literature.  
Whilst  for  patients  presenting  with  newly  diagnosed  haematological  malignancy  (70%)  the  prior 
duration of neutropenia cannot be known, for the others the MAH deviated from the CHMP scientific 
advice  (2001)  in  not  collecting  data  on  duration  of  pre-existing  neutropenia  at  baseline.  This 
information would have been helpful to better characterise the risk factors of AML/MDS patients in 
this study.  However, as these data were not available and assurance has been given about incidence, 
severity and duration of neutropenia post-baseline being balanced in both arms, it is considered that 
the efficacy of posaconazole is substantiated.   
4 
Clinical Safety  
For this type II Variation the safety data main emphasis was given to monitor the Adverse Events for 
this class of Azoles. 
i 
Study 316 
Extent of Exposure 
The safety evaluation included all 600 randomized subjects. 
Adverse Events 
The  most  commonly  reported  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  (TEAEs)  were  fever,  diarrhea, 
nausea,  vomiting  and  cytomegalovirus  infection,  hypertension,  hypokalemia,  thrombocytopenia, 
thrombocytopenia aggravated, platelet count decreased. 
The  most  common  Serious  AEs  (SAEs)  were  fever,  aggravated  GVHD,  diarrhoea,  cytomegalovirus 
infection, dyspnoea, sepsis, hypotension, thrombocytopenia, and respiratory insufficiency.  
Examination  of  AEs  possibly  related  to  the  medication  received  revealed  blurred  vision, 
hypocalcemia, GI hemorrhage, hepatic dysfunction, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia.  
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
16/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic Adverse Events 
Within  this  select  AE  category,  bilirubinemia  GGT  (gamma-glutamyl  transferase)  increased,  hepatic 
enzymes  increased,  hepatic  function  abnormal,  jaundice  (8%  vs  5%),  and  SGPT  (serum  glutamic 
pyruvic transaminase) increases, were among the most common AEs reported. 
Hematologic and Lymphatic Adverse Events 
Among  the  subjects  in  the  POS  treatment  group  reporting  treatment-emergent  thrombocytopenia-
associated  AEs  (thrombocytopenia,  thrombocytopenia  aggravated,  or  platelet  count  decreased),  10 
also  reported  an  AE  of  TTP  (thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura),  HUS  (Hemolytic  uremic 
syndrome), or thrombocytopenic purpura aggravated. 
Thrombotic Microangiopathy 
Although the number of subjects with TTP/HUS in the present study was approximately 4%, less than 
the value proposed in the literature, an imbalance exists between the numbers of subjects with these 
disorders  in  the  POS  arm  versus  the  FLU  arm.  An  interaction  of  POS  with  the  immunosuppressant 
could not be ruled out in these cases, since the occurrence of the AEs (particularly thrombocytopenia) 
was temporally related to the administration of study drug. Since it is known that POS interacts with 
(cyclosporine A) CSA via the P450 system, it may be postulated that an elevation in CSA drug levels 
may trigger TTP/HUS in a small number of subjects, thus explaining the low number of excess cases 
in the POS arm. 
Neurologic Adverse Events 
The  most  common  neurologic  AEs  reported  were  tremor,  insomnia,  depression,  anxiety,  and 
paresthesia  
As  a  result  of  the  observation  of  neurophospholipidosis  in  dogs,  neurological  examinations  were 
included in the study procedures to screen for any increase in neurological events that might indicate 
an adverse effect in subjects. Overall, the observed incidence of AEs related to neurological function 
was  similar  between  the  POS  (38%)  and  FLU  (37%)  groups.  This  is  consistent  with  the  results  of 
additional animal studies and other Phase 2/3 studies, which suggest that neurophospholipidosis does 
not occur in species other than dogs. 
Depression 
Depression  was  equally  reported  in  the  POS  and  FLU  groups.  However,  depression  worsened  was 
observed in seven subjects in the POS group and was not observed in any subject treated with FLU. 
All  cases  of  depression  worsened  and  depression  psychotic  were  reported  in  the  first  30  days  after 
starting POS treatment. 
Drug Interactions 
Seven subjects in the POS group and four subjects in the FLU group experienced drug interaction AEs 
that  were  considered  serious.  Nearly  the  entire  drug  interaction-related  SAEs  in  the  POS  and  FLU 
groups involved cyclosporine or tacrolimus with one resulting to death. 
Other Adverse Events of Special/Clinical Interest 
Pulmonary hypertension was observed in two subjects and Pulmonary embolism was observed in six 
subjects in the POS group and were not observed in subjects on FLU The incidence of hypokalemia 
was more frequently reported during treatment with POS than during FLU treatment. The incidence of 
severe/LT hypokalemia was higher in the POS group than in the FLU group. 
Deaths 
Overall, 160 of the 600 randomised subjects died during the course of the study. 
The majority of deaths occurring in this study were determined to be unlikely to be related to study 
drug treatment in both the POS and FLU treatment arms. 
For one death, the events (HUS, impaired renal function, and TTP) and the death were considered to 
be possibly related to POS treatment.  
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
17/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  This  was  a  19-year-old  Caucasian  male  with  a  multiyear  history  of  acute  lymphoblastic 
leukemia.    He  underwent  a  peripheral  blood  stem  cell  transplant  approximately  13  months 
prior to study drug initiation, and developed chronic extensive GVHD. Medically significant 
thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (TTP)  and  hemolytic  uremic  syndrome  (HUS)  were 
noted  with  progressive  thrombocytopenia  and  impaired  renal  function.  Study  drug  was 
discontinued  due  to  HUS/TTP.  Renal  failure  secondary  to  HUS  was  reported  followed  by 
severe respiratory insufficiency. Life threatening multiorgan failure was noted and pulmonary 
fungal  infection  was  suspected.  Blood  cultures  were  positive  for  Enterococcus.  The  subject 
died due to multiple organ failure; HUS and TTP were considered contributory.  
One death was associated with CSA toxicity and considered as probably related to POS treatment. 
•  This  was  a  47-year-old  Caucasian  female  with  a  multiyear  history  of  non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma, underwent peripheral blood stem cell transplant (related, matched) and developed 
Grade 3 GVHD. During the study moderate elevation of creatinine was reported which lead to 
discontinuation  of  study  drug  on  the  same  day.  The  cyclosporine  level  reached  428  UG/L 
which was felt to be life threatening.  
Life  threatening  leukencephalopathy,  cerebellar  herniation,  and  acute  renal  failure  were 
reported.  The  subject  died  of  brainstem  herniation  with  leukoencephalitis  likely  related  to 
cyclosporine followed by hypertensive crisis. 
The  significant  overall  mortality  rate  observed  in  this  study  is  rather  expected  as  regards  the 
underlying disease of the targeted population. 
ii. 
Study 1899 
Extent of Exposure 
The safety evaluation included all 602 randomized subjects.  
Adverse Events 
Given the small number of subjects in the ITZ arm (n=58) compared to the number of subjects treated 
with  POS  (n=304)  or  FLU  (n=240),  subsequent  analyses  and  discussions  related  to  safety  will  be 
limited to distinctions between POS and the standard azole (FLU/ITZ) group. 
The  most  common  TEAEs  were  fever,  diarrhea,  hypokalemia,  nausea,  and  febrile  neutropenia, 
vomiting, and abdominal pain, headache, petechiae. 
Hematologic  and  infectious  events  comprised  the  most  common  SAEs  (thrombocytopenia,  febrile 
neutropenia, anemia, fever, neutropenia, bacteremia, sepsis, and septic shock). 
Cardiovascular Events 
QT/QTc prolongation and torsades de pointes are of special interest due to previous reports noted with 
other  azole  agents  as  well  as  the  potential  seriousness  of  the  events.  “Torsades  de  pointes”  was 
observed in two subjects one in each arm of the study. 
QT/QTc prolongation was considered related to study drug and Syncope was reported more frequently 
in  POS  subjects  than  in  FLU/ITZ  subjects.  Two  subjects  had  treatment-emergent  SAEs  of  syncope 
that were considered possibly related to POS by the Investigator. 
Deaths 
The most common causes of death were AEs and disease-related (AML/MDS) complications. 
Forty-four  deaths  occurred  during  the  Treatment  Phase.  Only  three  subjects  died  due  to  IFI 
progression during this period. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
18/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of deaths were determined to be unlikely related to study drug treatment in both the POS 
and FLU/ITZ treatment groups. One death was considered possibly related to treatment with POS. 
The significant mortality observed in this study as well as in the previous study, is rather expected as 
regards the underlying disease of the targeted population (AML/MDS). 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH has provided a Risk Management Plan, which was assessed.  
This RMP proposal consisting of 2 parts: 
-  Safety specification and Pharmacovigilance Plan 
- 
and Risk minimisation plan. 
Safety specification 
Two  concerns  were  identified  in  the  safety  review  of  the  original  MAA:  drug  interactions  due  to 
inhibition  of  P450  CYP3A4  which  may  cause  adverse  effects,  and  phospholipidosis  in  preclinical 
studies phospholipidosis in several tissues including lung. 
No  additional  concerns  have  been  identified  in  the  new  indication  of  prophylaxis  for  patients  with 
prolonged neutropenia or haematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. 
Pharmacovigilance Plan 
The objectives are the assessment of drug interactions, the evaluation of potential signals associated to 
phospholipidosis, and the continuous assessment of the safety profile of posaconazole by an enhanced 
pharmacovigilance program. 
Phase  IV  studies  will  be  conducted  as  follow-up  measures  in  the  original  application,  to  assess 
potential  drug  interactions  and  to  better  understand  the  impact  of  hepatic  insufficiency  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of posaconazole. 
The postmarketing programme consists of continuous review of individual cases and periodic review 
of reports of other sources including literature. Periodic signalling reviews on events of interest will be 
performed and PSURs will be generated as usual. 
Risk minimisation plan 
The  MAH  considered  that  information  in  section  4.4  Special  warning  and  precautions  for  use  is 
sufficient to inform prescribers about both azole class events such as hypersensitivity, hepatic toxicity 
and QTc prolongation and specific posaconazole adverse events such as drug interactions based on the 
CYP3A4 metabolism. The drug interactions studies have been planned in the context of commitments: 
interaction with midazolam, sirolimus, PI +/- ritonavir and atazanavir. Moreover, pharmacokinetics in 
hepatic insufficiency will be explored. 
Pharmacovigilance  activities  (as  described  below)  will  be  performed  to  further  identify  and  assess 
potential  safety  issues  associated  with  posaconazole  administration.  Review  will  occur  at  the 
individual,  aggregate  and  epidemiological  level  with  the  goal  of  assessing  the  strength  of  an 
association between an event and posaconazole. Particular focus will be placed on pulmonary events 
as a previously agreed follow-up measure. 
In addition to the Summary of Product Characteristics, there is no need of minimization measures. 
However, as requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to provide a revised Risk Management Plan in 
order  to  include  the  monitoring  in  the  ongoing/planned  studies  of  GI  bleeding,  thrombotic 
microangiopathy (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS), 
or  thrombocytopenic  purpura  aggravated)  and  pulmonary  haemorrhage.  Results  of  special  event 
monitoring  for  clinical  trials  will  be  included  in  the  Annual  Safety  Reports  and  the  Periodic  Safety 
Update Reports. 
A  revised  Risk  Management  Plan  will  be  submitted  to  include  the  safety  concerns  raised  by  the 
CHMP.  
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
19/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Safety  
Safety  data  issued  from  the  two  recent  studies  (316  and  1899)  in  high-risk  patients  are  provided  to 
support  the  prophylaxis  of  IFIs  indication.  The  study  316  was  completed  in  a  double  blinded  and 
comparative  way  and  it  allows  the  comparison  of  two  azoles  and  better  description  of  the 
posaconazole safety profile against fluconazole. 
Review  of  the  AEs  data  show  that  diarrhoea,  nausea,  headache,  fever  and  vomiting  are  among  the 
most commonly reported treatment-related, treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). 
The proportion of subjects reporting AEs associated with hepatic dysfunction was similar in the POS 
(30%)  and  FLU  (28%)  treatment  groups  in  the  prophylaxis  population.  In  particular,  bilirubinemia, 
(10%  vs  9%),  gamma-glutamyl  transpeptidase  (GGT)  increased  (7%  vs  7%),  hepatic  enzymes 
increased  (6%  vs  7%),  jaundice  (6%  vs  5%),  and  serum  glutamic  pyruvic  transaminase  (SGPT) 
increased (6% vs 6%) were among the most common AEs observed for subjects in the POS and FLU 
groups, respectively. 
Two  cases  of  torsade  de  pointes  were  reported  in  the  pooled  prophylaxis  population,  both  subjects 
were from Study 1899, with one in each treatment arm.  In general, POS used as prophylaxis treatment 
of  serious  fungal  infection  in  immunocompromised  subjects  appears  to  have  a  low  potential  for 
induction of QTc prolongation, similar to that observed with FLU.   
Eight subjects in the POS group and 4 subjects in the FLU group experienced drug interaction AEs 
that  were  considered  serious.  Nearly  the  entire  drug  interaction-related  SAEs  in  the  POS  and  FLU 
groups involved cyclosporine or tacrolimus. One subject in the POS group experienced cyclosporine 
toxicity that had an outcome of death. 
The  incidence  of  thrombotic  microangiopathy,  defined  as  thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura 
(TTP),  and  hemolytic  uremic  syndrome  (HUS)  was  balanced  between  treatment  groups  in  the 
prophylaxis pool: TTP (POS 1% vs FLU 1%) and HUS (POS 1% vs 1% ) were reported. All subjects 
were from the study 316. 
Overall,  276  of  the  1202  subjects  in  the  prophylaxis  pool  died  during  the  course  of  the  studies.  Of 
these  276  deaths,  125  were  subjects  in  the  POS  treatment  group,  142  were  subjects  in  the  FLU 
treatment group, and 9 were subjects in the ITZ treatment group. In the POS prophylaxis pool, three 
deaths  were  considered  as  possibly  related  to  treatment  with  POS.  The  significant  mortality  rate 
observed in this study is rather expected as regards the underlying disease of the targeted population. 
5. 
Overall Scientific Discussion and Benefit/Risk Assessment 
2  multi-centre,  randomised,  parallel-group,  active  comparator-controlled  studies  were  submitted  in 
support of the proposed prophylaxis indication.   
Both  studies  pre-dated  the  current  CHMP  “Points  to  Consider  on  the  Clinical  Evaluation  of  New 
Agents  for  Invasive  Fungal  Infections”  (CPMP/EWP/1343/01)  when  initiated,  but  the  basic  design 
considerations,  particularly  the  choice  and  evaluation  of  primary  efficacy  endpoints,  diagnostic 
criteria, and the way the study is generally reported, are generally in line with this guidance. 
For both studies, the duration of therapy and the duration of follow-up appeared reasonable. 
A  reasonable  justification  has  also  been  given  for  the  dose  of  posaconazole  selected  in  the  two 
prophylaxis  studies,  based  on  pharmacokinetic  and  in-vitro  considerations.  Given  the  relatively  low 
number  of  breakthrough  infections  in  the  two  prophylaxis  studies  submitted  and  the  size  of  the 
available  population,  it  might  have  been  difficult  to  perform  an  adequately  powered  dose-ranging 
study. The posology for posaconazole used in both studies is as per the proposed SPC. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
20/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The choice of comparators was reasonable, with both fluconazole and itraconazole being licensed in 
several Member States for prophylaxis, at the doses chosen.  
Clinical Efficacy 
As regards the efficacy results, posaconazole failed to achieve the superiority over fluconazole in the 
double blind, double dummy study 316.  
This  study  was  designed  to  show  statistical  non-inferiority  or  superiority  between  POS  and  the 
standard  azole  (FLU/ITZ)  reference  arm.  Only  the  non-inferiority  margin  has  been  justified  as 
representing one third of the activity of fluconazole in prophylaxis. Since itraconazole could also be 
used as a comparator, this should also have been justified as regards the activity of itraconazole. 
It is known that fluconazole has a very poor activity on Aspergillus sp. Therefore, to some extent, the 
comparison is optimal for posaconazole, since at least for prophylaxis of aspergillosis, this amounts a 
comparison  versus  placebo.  Nevertheless,  it  has  to  be  admitted  that  at  this  stage  fluconazole  is  the 
unique oral antifungal agent to be validated in prophylaxis. 
The  initial  proposal  of  the  wording  of  the  Indication  for  prophylaxis  was  very  broad.  After  the 
assessment of the submitted data  and the discussion at the CHMP the MAH  has proposed a revised 
indication to strictly reflect to the population enrolled in these assessed clinical studies for the reason 
that the population studied in both (316 and 1899) was very precisely characterised. 
Furthermore  since  the  clinical  data  were  too  limited  to  enable  a  proper  benefit/risk  assessment  in 
children between 13-18 years (in total only 28 patients were enrolled and in a range of different ages) 
the indication in prophylaxis was restricted in adult patients. 
The  posology  recommended  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  was  in  line  with  the  patient 
population studied in the Clinical Studies (316 and 1899) as well as the justification for administration 
together with food during the treatment. It also takes into account the state of the patients due to the 
underlying illnesses and it is reflected in the frequency and the duration of the administration. 
Clinical Safety 
Overall the safety profile of posaconazole was comparable to the one of fluconazole. 
Trends  for  a  higher  rate  of  hepatic  events,  GI  bleeding  thrombotic  microangiopathy  (thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), or thrombocytopenic purpura 
aggravated),  hypokalaemia  and  worsening  of  depression  are  observed.  The  MAH  has  taken  the 
obligation to closely observe these findings and include them in the revised Risk Management Plan. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  imbalances  in  these  adverse  events  appeared  to  be  due  to  known 
complications  of  pre-existing  conditions  that  were  not  completely  controlled  by  stratification  and 
randomisation  as  well  as  the  contributing  influences  of  additional  therapies  with  known  side  effects 
also could not be controlled through the randomization process. This in many cases could be accepted 
as justification. 
The Risk Management Plan was submitted and will be updated as requested by the CHMP to reflect 
the findings in safety of the clinical studies assessed. 
Benefit/Risk assessment  
Taken into account the clinical data on efficacy and safety presented and the MAH commitment for 
the monitoring regarding safety, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk ratio for the 
proposed  indication  in  prophylaxis  in  the  specific  adult  population  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended  the  proposed  changes  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  the  Package 
Leaflet. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
21/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
• 
Changes To The Product Information 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.1 “Therapeutic indication” 
The MAH’s initial proposed changes to section 4.1 were discussed and not agreeable by the CHMP 
mainly due to the fact that the indication was too broad and included the paediatric populations. 
However, a revised wording was proposed by the MAH for the section 4.1 “Therapeutic Indication” 
and was considered for the assessment of this variation. The following text was agreed with (the new 
text added or amended is underlined): 
“4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Noxafil is indicated for use in the treatment of the following invasive fungal infections in adults (see 
section 5.1): 
-  
-  
-  
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole 
or fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Noxafil is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following patients: 
- 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are at 
high risk of developing invasive fungal infections;  
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections.” 
Section 4.2 “Posology and method of administration” 
The  MAH  initially  had  proposed  a  wording  on  posology  for  children  more  that  13  years  of  age. 
However since this indication was not been accepted by the CHMP for the reason described above, it 
was eventually withdrawn from the SPC. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
22/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the concluded indication of Prophylaxis in adults the wording in this SPC section is as follows: 
“Prophylaxis of Invasive 
Fungal Infections 
200 mg (5 ml) three times a day. Each dose of Noxafil should 
be administered with a meal, or with a nutritional supplement 
in  patients  who  cannot  tolerate  food  to  enhance  the  oral 
absorption and to ensure adequate exposure.  
The duration of therapy is based on recovery from 
neutropenia or immunosuppression. For patients with acute 
myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, 
prophylaxis with Noxafil should start several days before the 
anticipated onset of neutropenia and continue for 7 days after 
the neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per mm3.” 
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as 
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for 
breakthrough fungal infections. 
The oral suspension must be shaken well before use. 
• 
Other changes in the Summary of Product Characteristics 
The  Section  4.8  “Undesirable  effects”  of  the  SPC  was  updated  to  include  the  safety  information 
derived  from  the  two  clinical  studies  assessed.  The  revision  takes  into  account  the  Adverse  Events 
reported and their frequency.  
The revision of the Section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic properties” of the SPC includes the description and 
the results of the studies assessed. 
The  changes  in  the  Section  5.2  “Pharmacokinetic  properties”  of  the  SPC  also  reflects  the  new  data 
presented in support of the new indication. 
Consequential  changes  have  also  been  introduced  in  the  sections  4.4  “Special  warnings  and 
precautions for use” distinguishing between events observed and their frequency, 4.5 “Interaction with 
other medicinal products and other forms of interactions”. 
Noxafil-H-610-II-01 
23/23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
