Changes to Product Information as approved by the CHMP on 23 June 2016, pending 
endorsement by the European Commission 
ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole. 
Excipient with known effect: 
This medicinal product contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral suspension 
White suspension 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Noxafil oral suspension is indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections in 
adults (see section 5.1): 
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole 
or fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe disease or are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor. 
-  
-  
-  
- 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Noxafil oral suspension is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following 
patients: 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) 
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are 
at high risk of developing invasive fungal infections;  
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections. 
- 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Non-Interchangeability between Noxafil Tablets and Noxafil Oral Suspension 
The tablet and oral suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences between these 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
two formulations in frequency of dosing, administration with food and plasma drug concentration 
achieved. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each formulation. 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in 
the supportive care in the high risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis. 
Posology 
Noxafil is also available as 100 mg gastro-resistant tablet and 300 mg concentrate for solution for 
infusion. Noxafil tablets are the preferred formulation to optimize plasma concentrations and 
generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil oral suspension. The tablet and oral 
suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation 
Recommended dose is shown in Table 1. 
Table 1. Recommended dose according to indication 
Indication 
Refractory invasive fungal 
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI 
intolerant to 1st line therapy 
Oropharyngeal candidiasis 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections 
Dose and duration of therapy 
(See section 5.2) 
200 mg (5 mL) four times a day. Alternatively, patients who can 
tolerate food or a nutritional supplement may take 400 mg (10 mL) 
twice a day during or immediately following a meal or nutritional 
supplement. 
Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the 
underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and 
clinical response. 
Loading dose of 200 mg (5 mL) once a day on the first day, then 
100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day for 13 days. 
Each dose of Noxafil should be administered during or 
immediately after a meal, or a nutritional supplement in patients 
who cannot tolerate food to enhance the oral absorption and to 
ensure adequate exposure. 
200 mg (5 mL) three times a day. Each dose of Noxafil should be 
administered during or immediately after a meal, or a nutritional 
supplement in patients who cannot tolerate food to enhance the 
oral absorption and to ensure adequate exposure. The duration of 
therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or 
immunosuppression. For patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, prophylaxis with Noxafil 
should start several days before the anticipated onset of 
neutropenia and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises 
above 500 cells per mm3. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment  
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose 
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment  
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic 
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure 
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is 
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for 
higher plasma exposure. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Noxafil in children aged below 18 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2, but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made. 
Method of administration 
For oral use 
The oral suspension must be shaken well before use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal 
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4 
and 4.5). 
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin 
(see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal 
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing Noxafil to patients with hypersensitivity to other 
azoles. 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin 
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver 
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these 
tests normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal 
outcomes have been reported.  
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical 
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy. 
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during Noxafil therapy must be routinely 
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include 
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin). 
Discontinuation of Noxafil should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent with 
development of liver disease. 
QTc prolongation 
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Noxafil must not be 
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the 
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Noxafil should be administered with caution to patients with 
pro-arrhythmic conditions such as: 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation 
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Sinus bradycardia 
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those 
mentioned in section 4.3). 
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should 
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy. 
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during 
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Gastrointestinal dysfunction 
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as 
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for 
breakthrough fungal infections. 
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, primidone), efavirenz and cimetidine 
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use 
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see 
section 4.5). 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of 
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, 
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines 
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension. Patients 
with glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole 
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for p-
glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine, 
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, 
etc.) of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations, 
respectively. 
Rifabutin 
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area 
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively. 
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be 
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of 
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels.  
Efavirenz 
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to 
the patient outweighs the risk.  
Fosamprenavir 
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma 
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal 
infections is recommended.  Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the 
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %, 
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with 
ritonavir is unknown. 
Phenytoin 
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g. 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient 
outweighs the risk. 
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations (Cmax and AUC) were reduced by 39 % when posaconazole was 
administered with cimetidine (400 mg twice a day) due to reduced absorption possibly secondary to a 
decrease in gastric acid production. Co-administration of posaconazole with H2 receptor antagonists 
should be avoided if possible.  
Similarly, administration of 400 mg posaconazole with esomeprazole (40 mg daily) decreased mean 
Cmax and AUC by 46 % and 32 %, respectively, compared to dosing with 400 mg posaconazole alone. 
Co-administration of posaconazole with proton pump inhibitors should be avoided if possible. 
Food 
The absorption of posaconazole is significantly increased by food (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products 
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the 
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of 
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be 
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate 
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the 
interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole 
occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4 
substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is 
expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The 
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be 
variable within a patient, unless posaconazole is administered in a strictly standardised way with food, 
given the large food effect on posaconazole exposure (see section 5.2). 
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates) 
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or 
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see 
section 4.3). 
Ergot alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot 
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and 
atorvastatin) 
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with 
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3). 
Vinca alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and 
vinblastine), which may lead to neurotoxicity. Therefore, concomitant use of posaconazole and vinca 
alkaloids should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. If co-administered, 
then it is recommended that dose adjustment of vinca alkaloids be considered. 
Rifabutin 
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant 
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these 
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions 
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended. 
Sirolimus 
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days) 
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range 
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients 
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever 
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the 
dose of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that 
there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. 
Sirolimus concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at 
discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be 
noted that the relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-
administration with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the 
usual therapeutic range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore trough concentrations that fall 
in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid 
to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
Ciclosporin 
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once 
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin 
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of 
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with 
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g. 
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be 
monitored carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, 
and the dose of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary. 
Tacrolimus 
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 % 
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or 
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole 
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to 
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored 
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of 
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary. 
HIV Protease inhibitors 
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase 
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral 
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold), 
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with 
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of 
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The 
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated 
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole. 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days) 
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in 
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily 
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average 
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice 
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to 
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg 
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg 
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to 
8-10 hours during co-administration. 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered 
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4). 
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, 
nisoldipine) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is 
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel 
blockers may be required. 
Digoxin 
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore, 
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored 
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment. 
Sulfonylureas 
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered 
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole 
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of 
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with posaconazole. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (1.7 times the 400-mg 
twice daily regimen based on steady-state plasma concentrations in healthy volunteers) or female rats 
at a dose up to 45 mg/kg (2.2 times the 400-mg twice daily regimen). There is no clinical experience 
assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with 
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be 
used. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy 
volunteers enrolled in clinical trials and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently 
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and 
increased bilirubin. 
The safety of posaconazole tablet has been assessed in 336 patients and healthy volunteers enrolled in 
clinical trials. The safety profile of tablets was similar to that of the oral suspension. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the 
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known. 
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency* 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
neutropenia 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia, 
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Endocrine disorders 
Rare: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
allergic reaction 
hypersensitivity reaction  
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased 
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite, 
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia 
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder 
psychotic disorder, depression 
paresthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia 
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia, 
insomnia 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare: 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Ear and labyrinth disorder 
Rare: 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon:  
Rare: 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very Common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon:  
Renal and urinary disorders  
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral 
neuropathy, syncope 
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced  
diplopia, scotoma 
hearing impairment 
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§, 
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, 
tachycardia 
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia, 
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction 
hypertension 
hypotension, vasculitis 
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis 
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain, 
tachypnoea 
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis 
nausea 
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth, 
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort 
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric 
discomfort, eructation, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
oedema mouth 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus  
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased, 
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT 
increased) 
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly, 
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal 
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, 
liver tenderness, asterixis 
rash, pruritis 
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae 
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash 
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity 
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased  
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis  
menstrual disorder 
breast pain 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue 
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug 
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation 
tongue oedema, face oedema 
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest 
x-ray abnormal  
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, and concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
 See section 4.4. 
§
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal 
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
During clinical trials, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day 
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses. 
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice 
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator. 
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of 
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02AC04. 
Mechanism of action 
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential 
step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Microbiology 
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus 
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species 
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, 
C. inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea 
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data 
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus, however the clinical 
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resistance 
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle 
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51. 
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp. 
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with 
acquired resistance have been determined by EUCAST methodology. 
EUCAST ECOFF values: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.25 mg/L 
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L  
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L  
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do 
not equate to clinical breakpoints. 
Breakpoints 
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]: 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species. 
Combination with other antifungal agents 
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole 
or the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will 
provide an added benefit. 
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships 
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical 
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is 
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected 
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens and the effects of food on 
absorption). 
Clinical experience 
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies 
Invasive aspergillosis 
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of 
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal 
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy trial (Study 0041). Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an 
external control group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control 
group included 86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the 
same sites as the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were 
considered to be refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external 
control group (79 %). 
As shown in Table 3, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment 
was seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external 
control group should be viewed with caution. 
Table 3. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive 
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group 
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group 
22/86 (26 %) 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.1 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %) 
(35 %) 
(19 %) 
(15 %) 
(29 %) 
Fusarium spp.  
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole 
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among 
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole, 
seven patients were classed as responders. 
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma  
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis 
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species. 
Coccidioidomycosis  
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of 
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days. 
Treatment of azole-susceptible Oropharyngeal Candidiasis (OPC) 
A randomised, evaluator-blind, controlled study was completed in HIV-infected patients with azole-
susceptible oropharyngeal candidiasis (most patients studied had C. albicans isolated at baseline). The 
primary efficacy variable was the clinical success rate (defined as cure or improvement) after 14 days 
of treatment. Patients were treated with posaconazole or fluconazole oral suspension (both 
posaconazole and fluconazole were given as follows: 100 mg twice a day for 1 day followed by 
100 mg once a day for 13 days). 
The clinical response rates from the above study are shown in the Table 4 below. 
Posaconazole was shown to be non-inferior to fluconazole for clinical success rates at Day 14 as well 
as 4 weeks after the end of treatment. 
Table 4. Clinical success rates in Oropharyngeal Candidiasis 
Endpoint 
Clinical success rate at Day 14 
Clinical success rate 4 weeks after end of treatment 
Clinical success rate was defined as the number of cases assessed as having a clinical response (cure or improvement) divided 
by the total number of cases eligible for analysis. 
91.7 % (155/169)  92.5 % (148/160) 
61.8 % (84/136) 
68.5 % (98/143) 
Fluconazole 
Posaconazole 
1 Includes other less common species or species unknown 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899) 
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high risk for 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind trial of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times 
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomization as determined by an independent, 
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The 
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive 
(195/600, [32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole 
and 77 days for fluconazole. 
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three 
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg 
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute 
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel 
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
at 100 days post-randomization. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most 
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for 
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole. 
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 5 
and 6 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients 
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients. 
Table 5. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
P-Value 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs 
On-treatment periodb 
7/304 (2) 
7/291 (2) 
25/298 (8) 
22/288 (8) 
Fixed-time periodc 
14/304 (5) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009 
0.0038 
0.0031 
0.0740 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis 
On-treatment periodb 
2/304 (1) 
3/291 (1) 
Fixed-time periodc 
4/304 (1) 
20/298 (7) 
17/288 (6) 
26/298 (9) 
21/299 (7) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
7/301 (2) 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed 
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the 
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomization, was significantly higher for posaconazole 
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death 
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209). 
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU 
group (12/299; P= 0.0413). 
Paediatric population 
Sixteen patients 8-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in a 
study for invasive fungal infections. Based on the available data in 16 of these paediatric patients, the 
safety profile appears to be similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Additionally, twelve patients 13-17 years of age received posaconazole oral suspension 600 mg/day 
for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections (Studies 316 and 1899). The safety profile in these 
patients < 18 years of age appears similar to the safety profile observed in adults. Based on 
pharmacokinetic data in 10 of these paediatric patients, the pharmacokinetic profile appears to be 
similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established.  
Electrocardiogram evaluation 
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from 
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the 
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption  
Posaconazole is absorbed with a median tmax of 3 hours (fed patients). The pharmacokinetics of 
posaconazole are linear following single and multiple dose administration of up to 800 mg when taken 
with a high fat meal. No further increases in exposure were observed when doses above 800 mg daily 
were administered to patients and healthy volunteers. In the fasting state, AUC increased less than in 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportion to dose above 200 mg. In healthy volunteers under fasting conditions, dividing the total 
daily dose (800 mg) into 200 mg four times daily compared to 400 mg twice daily, was shown to 
increase posaconazole exposure by 2.6-fold. 
Effect of food on oral absorption in healthy volunteers 
The absorption of posaconazole was significantly increased when posaconazole 400 mg (once daily) 
was administered during and immediately after the consumption of a high fat meal (~ 50 grams fat) 
compared to administration before a meal, with Cmax and AUC increasing by approximately 330 % 
and 360 %, respectively. The AUC of posaconazole is: 4 times greater when administered with a high-
fat meal (~ 50 grams fat) and about 2.6 times greater when administered during a non-fat meal or 
nutritional supplement (14 grams fat) relative to the fasted state (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Distribution 
Posaconazole is slowly absorbed and slowly eliminated with a large apparent volume of distribution 
(1,774 litres) and is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin. 
Biotransformation 
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to 
be altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are 
glucuronide conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) 
metabolites observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % 
of the administered radiolabelled dose. 
Elimination 
Posaconazole is slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 35 hours (range 20 to 66 hours). After 
administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces (77 % of 
the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the radiolabelled 
dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled dose excreted 
in urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state is attained following 
7 to 10 days of multiple-dose administration. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Children (< 18 years) 
Following administration of 800 mg per day of posaconazole as a divided dose for treatment of 
invasive fungal infections, mean trough plasma concentrations from 12 patients 8 - 17 years of age 
(776 ng/mL) were similar to concentrations from 194 patients 18 - 64 years of age (817 ng/mL). No 
pharmacokinetic data are available from paediatric patients less than 8 years of age. Similarly, in the 
prophylaxis studies, the mean steady-state posaconazole average concentration (Cav) was comparable 
among ten adolescents (13-17 years of age) to Cav achieved in adults (≥ 18 years of age). 
Gender 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole are comparable in men and women. 
Elderly (≥ 65 years) 
An increase in Cmax (26 %) and AUC (29 %) was observed in elderly subjects (24 subjects ≥ 65 years 
of age) relative to younger subjects (24 subjects 18 - 45 years of age). However, in clinical efficacy 
trials, the safety profile of posaconazole between the young and elderly patients was similar. 
Race 
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black 
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the 
Black and Caucasian subjects was similar. 
Weight 
Pharmacokinetic modeling with an oral tablet formulation suggests that patients weighing greater than 
120 kg may have lower posaconazole exposure. It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing more than 120 kg. Patients with a low body 
weight (< 60 kg) are more likely to experience higher plasma concentrations of posaconazole and 
should be closely monitored for adverse events. 
Renal impairment 
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild 
and moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics; 
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr 
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of 
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not 
significantly renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of 
posaconazole is not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed 
by haemodialysis. 
Hepatic impairment 
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh 
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per 
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with 
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that 
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total 
AUC. The elimination half-life (t1/2) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in 
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic 
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone 
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects 
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained 
at therapeutic doses in humans.  
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for ≥ 3 months at lower systemic exposures than 
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one 
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed 
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved 
therapeutically. 
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the 
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes 
in humans. 
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety 
pharmacology study in monkeys at systemic exposures 4.6-fold greater than the concentrations 
obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of cardiac 
decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 1.4-fold 
greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up to 
29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 1.4-fold and 4.6-fold greater, 
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses. 
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower 
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and 
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal 
viability. In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at 
therapeutic doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were 
considered to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal 
special hazards for humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Polysorbate 80 
Simeticone 
Sodium benzoate (E211) 
Sodium citrate dihydrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Glycerol 
Xanthan gum 
Liquid glucose 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Artificial cherry flavour containing benzyl alcohol and propylene glycol 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened container: 3 years 
After first opening the container: 4 weeks 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not freeze. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
105 mL of oral suspension in a bottle (glass amber type IV) closed with a plastic child-resistant cap 
(polypropylene) and a measuring spoon (polystyrene) with 2 graduations: 2.5 mL and 5 mL. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/05/320/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005 
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant tablet (tablet) 
Yellow-coated, capsule-shaped tablet of 17.5 mm length debossed with “100” on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections 
in adults (see section 5.1): 
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole 
or fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the 
following patients: 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) 
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are 
at high risk of developing invasive fungal infections;  
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections. 
- 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil oral suspension for use in 
oropharyngeal candidiasis. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Non-Interchangeability between Noxafil Tablets and Noxafil Oral Suspension 
The tablet and oral suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences between these 
two formulations in frequency of dosing, administration with food and plasma drug concentration 
achieved. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each formulation. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in 
the supportive care in the high risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis. 
Posology 
Noxafil is also available as 40 mg/mL oral suspension and 300 mg concentrate for solution for 
infusion. Noxafil tablets are the preferred formulation to optimize plasma concentrations and 
generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil oral suspension. The tablet and oral 
suspension are not to be used interchangeably due to the differences in the dosing of each 
formulation. 
Recommended dose is shown in Table 1. 
Table 1. Recommended dose according to indication 
Indication 
Refractory invasive fungal 
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI 
intolerant to 1st line therapy 
Dose and duration of therapy 
(See section 5.2) 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the 
first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a day thereafter. 
Each dose may be taken without regard to food intake. Duration of 
therapy should be based on the severity of the underlying disease, 
recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response.  
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the 
first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a day thereafter. 
Each dose may be taken without regard to food intake. Duration of 
therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or 
immunosuppression. For patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, prophylaxis with Noxafil 
should start several days before the anticipated onset of 
neutropenia and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises 
above 500 cells per mm3. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment  
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose 
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment  
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic 
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure 
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is 
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for 
higher plasma exposure. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Noxafil in children aged below 18 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2, but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made. 
No data are available for the tablet formulation. 
Method of administration 
For oral use 
21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets may be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). The tablets should 
be swallowed whole with water and should not be crushed, chewed, or broken. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal 
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4 
and 4.5). 
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin 
(see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal 
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing Noxafil to patients with hypersensitivity to other 
azoles. 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin 
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver 
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these 
tests normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal 
outcomes have been reported.  
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical 
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy. 
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during Noxafil therapy must be routinely 
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include 
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin). 
Discontinuation of Noxafil should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent with 
development of liver disease. 
QTc prolongation 
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Noxafil must not be 
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the 
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Noxafil should be administered with caution to patients with 
pro-arrhythmic conditions such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation 
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure 
Sinus bradycardia 
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those 
mentioned in section 4.3). 
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should 
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during 
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Gastrointestinal dysfunction 
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as 
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for 
breakthrough fungal infections. 
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz. 
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use 
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see 
section 4.5). 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of 
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, 
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines 
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5). 
Plasma exposure 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets are generally 
higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. Posaconazole plasma concentrations 
following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase over time in some patients (see 
section 5.2). Safety data at higher exposure levels achieved with posaconazole tablets are at present 
limited. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole 
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for p-
glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine, 
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, 
etc.) of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations, 
respectively. 
Rifabutin 
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area 
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively. 
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be 
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of 
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels.  
Efavirenz 
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to 
the patient outweighs the risk.  
Fosamprenavir 
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma 
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal 
infections is recommended.  Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x 
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the 
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %, 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with 
ritonavir is unknown. 
Phenytoin 
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g. 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient 
outweighs the risk. 
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors 
No clinically relevant effects were observed when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with 
antacids, H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole 
tablets is required when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H2-receptor 
antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. 
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products 
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the 
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of 
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be 
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate 
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the 
interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole 
occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4 
substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is 
expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The 
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be 
variable within a patient. 
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates)  
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or 
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see 
section 4.3). 
Ergot alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot 
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and 
atorvastatin) 
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be 
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with 
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3). 
Vinca alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and 
vinblastine), which may lead to neurotoxicity. Therefore, concomitant use of posaconazole and vinca 
alkaloids should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. If co-administered, 
then it is recommended that dose adjustment of vinca alkaloids be considered. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rifabutin 
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant 
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these 
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions 
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended. 
Sirolimus 
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days) 
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range 
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients 
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever 
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the 
dose of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that 
there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. 
Sirolimus concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at 
discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be 
noted that the relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-
administration with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the 
usual therapeutic range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore, trough concentrations that fall 
in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid 
to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies.  
Ciclosporin 
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once 
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin 
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of 
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with 
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g. 
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be 
monitored carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, 
and the dose of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary. 
Tacrolimus 
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 % 
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or 
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole 
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to 
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored 
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of 
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary. 
HIV Protease inhibitors 
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase 
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral 
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects 
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold), 
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with 
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of 
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The 
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated 
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days) 
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in 
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily 
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average 
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice 
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to 
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg 
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg 
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to 
8-10 hours during co-administration. 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered 
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4). 
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, 
nisoldipine) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is 
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel 
blockers may be required. 
Digoxin 
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore, 
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored 
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment. 
Sulfonylureas 
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered 
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole 
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of 
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with posaconazole. 
Fertility 
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (3.4 times the 300-mg 
tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg 
(2.6 times the 300-mg tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients). There is no 
clinical experience assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with 
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be 
used. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension. 
The tablet formulation was investigated in AML and MDS patients and those after HSCT with or at 
risk for Graft versus Host Disease (GvHD) only. Maximum duration of exposure to the tablet 
formulation was shorter than with the oral suspension. Plasma exposure resulting from the tablet 
formulation was higher than observed with the oral suspension. A higher incidence of adverse 
reactions cannot be ruled out. 
Summary of the safety profile 
Posaconazole tablets  
The safety of posaconazole tablets has been assessed in 230 patients enrolled in the pivotal clinical 
study. Patients were enrolled in a non-comparative pharmacokinetic and safety trial of posaconazole 
tablets when given as antifungal prophylaxis. Patients were immunocompromised with underlying 
conditions including haematological malignancy, neutropenia post-chemotherapy, GVHD, and post 
HSCT. Posaconazole therapy was given for a median duration of 28 days. Twenty patients received 
200 mg daily dose and 210 patients received 300 mg daily dose (following twice daily dosing on Day 
1 in each cohort). 
Posaconazole tablet and oral suspension safety 
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy 
volunteers enrolled in clinical trials and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently 
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and 
increased bilirubin. 
The safety of posaconazole tablet has been assessed in 336 patients and healthy volunteers enrolled in 
clinical trials. The safety profile of tablets was similar to that of the oral suspension. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the 
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known. 
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency* 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
neutropenia 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia, 
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
allergic reaction 
hypersensitivity reaction  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endocrine disorders 
Rare: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Ear and labyrinth disorder 
Rare: 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon:  
Rare: 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very Common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased 
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite, 
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia 
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder  
psychotic disorder, depression 
paresthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia 
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia, 
insomnia 
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral 
neuropathy, syncope 
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced  
diplopia, scotoma 
hearing impairment 
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§, 
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, 
tachycardia 
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia, 
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction 
hypertension 
hypotension, vasculitis 
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis 
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain, 
tachypnoea 
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis 
nausea 
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth, 
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort 
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric 
discomfort, eructation, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
oedema mouth 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus  
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased, 
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT 
increased) 
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly, 
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal 
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, 
liver tenderness, asterixis 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon:  
Renal and urinary disorders  
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
rash, pruritis 
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae 
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash 
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity 
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased  
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis  
menstrual disorder 
breast pain 
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue 
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug 
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation 
tongue oedema, face oedema 
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest x-
ray abnormal  
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, and concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
 See section 4.4. 
§
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal 
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole tablets. 
During clinical trials, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day 
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses. 
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice 
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator. 
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of 
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02AC04. 
Mechanism of action 
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential 
step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Microbiology 
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus 
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species 
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, 
C. inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea 
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data 
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus, however the clinical 
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents. 
Resistance 
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle 
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51. 
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp. 
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with 
acquired resistance have been determined by EUCAST methodology. 
EUCAST ECOFF values: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.25 mg/L 
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do 
not equate to clinical breakpoints. 
Breakpoints 
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]: 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species. 
Combination with other antifungal agents 
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole 
or the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will 
provide an added benefit. 
Clinical experience 
Summary of posaconazole tablet bridging study 
Study 5615 was a non-comparative multi-center study performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic 
properties, safety, and tolerability of posaconazole tablet.  Study 5615 was conducted in a similar 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient population to that previously studied in the pivotal posaconazole oral suspension clinical 
program. The pharmacokinetics and safety data from Study 5615 were bridged to the existing data 
(including efficacy data) with the oral suspension.  
The subject population included: 1) patients with AML or MDS who had recently received 
chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia, or 2) patients 
who had undergone a HSCT and were receiving immunosuppressive therapy for prevention or 
treatment of GVHD. Two different dosing groups were evaluated: 200 mg twice daily on Day 1, 
followed by 200 mg once daily thereafter (Part IA) and 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 
300 mg once daily thereafter (Part 1B and Part 2). 
Serial PK samples were collected on Day 1 and at steady-state on Day 8 for all Part 1 subjects and a 
subset of Part 2 subjects. Moreover, sparse PK samples were collected at several days during steady 
state before the next dose (Cmin) for a larger subject population. Based on average Cmin concentrations, 
a predicted average concentration (Cav) could be calculated for 186 subjects dosed with 300 mg. PK 
analysis in patients of Cav found that 81 % of the subjects treated with the 300 mg once daily dose 
attained steady state predicted Cav between 500-2,500 ng/mL. One subject (<1 %) had a predicted 
Cav below 500 ng/mL and 19 % of the subjects had a predicted Cav above 2,500 ng/mL. Subjects 
achieved a mean predicted Cav at steady state of 1,970 ng/mL. 
In Table 3 a comparison is shown of exposure (Cav) after administration of posaconazole tablet and 
posaconazole oral suspension at therapeutic doses in patients depicted as quartile analysis. Exposures 
after tablet administration are generally higher than, but overlapping with, exposures after 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension. 
Table 3. Cav quartile analyses of pivotal patient studies with posaconazole tablet and oral suspension 
Posaconazole oral suspension 
Posaconazole 
tablet 
Prophylaxis in 
AML and HSCT 
Study 5615 
300 mg once daily  
(Day 1 300 mg 
twice daily)* 
Prophylaxis in 
GVHD 
Study 316 
Prophylaxis in 
Neutropenia 
Study 1899 
200 mg three 
times daily 
200 mg three 
times daily 
Quartile 
pCav Range 
(ng/mL) 
442 – 1,223 
1,240 – 1,710 
1,719 – 2,291 
2,304 – 9,523 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
pCav: predicted Cav 
Cav = the average concentration when measured at steady state 
*20 patients received 200 mg once daily (Day 1 200 mg twice daily) 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
22 – 557 
557 – 915 
915 – 1,563 
1,563 – 3,650 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
90 – 322 
322 – 490 
490 – 734 
734 – 2,200 
Treatment  - 
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Study 0041 
200 mg four times 
daily 
(hospitalized) then 
400 mg twice daily 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
55 – 277 
290 – 544 
550 – 861 
877 – 2,010 
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies 
Invasive aspergillosis 
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of 
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal 
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy trial (Study 0041). Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an 
external control group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control 
group included 86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the 
same sites as the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considered to be refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external 
control group (79 %). 
As shown in Table 4, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment 
was seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, 
this was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external 
control group should be viewed with caution. 
Table 4. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive 
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group  
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group 
22/86 (26 %) 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.2 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %) 
(35 %) 
(19 %) 
(15 %) 
(29 %) 
Fusarium spp.  
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole 
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among 
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole, 
seven patients were classed as responders. 
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma  
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis 
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species. 
Coccidioidomycosis  
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of 
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days. 
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899) 
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high risk for 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind trial of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times 
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomization as determined by an independent, 
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The 
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive 
(195/600, [32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole 
and 77 days for fluconazole. 
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three 
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg 
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute 
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
2 Includes other less common species or species unknown 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel 
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
at 100 days post-randomization. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most 
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for 
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole. 
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 5 
and 6 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients 
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients. 
Table 5. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
P-Value 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs 
On-treatment periodb 
7/304 (2) 
7/291 (2) 
25/298 (8) 
22/288 (8) 
Fixed-time periodc 
14/304 (5) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009 
0.0038 
0.0031 
0.0740 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
Table 6. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis 
On-treatment periodb 
2/304 (1) 
3/291 (1) 
Fixed-time periodc 
4/304 (1) 
20/298 (7) 
17/288 (6) 
26/298 (9) 
21/299 (7) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
7/301 (2) 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed 
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the 
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomization, was significantly higher for posaconazole 
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death 
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209). 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU 
group (12/299; P= 0.0413). 
Paediatric population 
There is no paediatric experience for posaconazole tablets. 
Sixteen patients 8-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in a 
study for invasive fungal infections. Based on the available data in 16 of these paediatric patients, the 
safety profile appears to be similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Additionally, twelve patients 13-17 years of age received posaconazole oral suspension 600 mg/day 
for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections (Studies 316 and 1899). The safety profile in these 
patients < 18 years of age appears similar to the safety profile observed in adults. Based on 
pharmacokinetic data in 10 of these paediatric patients, the pharmacokinetic profile appears to be 
similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established. 
Electrocardiogram evaluation 
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from 
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the 
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships 
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical 
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is 
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected 
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens). 
Absorption 
Posaconazole tablets are absorbed with a median Tmax of 4 to 5 hours and exhibits dose proportional 
pharmacokinetics after single and multiple dosing up to 300 mg.  
Following a single dose administration of 300 mg posaconazole tablets after a high fat meal to healthy 
volunteers, the AUC0-72 hours and Cmax were higher compared to administration under fasted condition 
(51 % and 16 % for AUC0-72 hours and Cmax respectively). 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase 
over time in some patients. The reason for this time-dependency is not completely understood. 
Distribution 
Posaconazole, after administration of the tablet, has a mean apparent volume of distribution of 394 L 
(42 %), ranging between 294-583 L among the studies in healthy volunteers. 
Posaconazole is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin. 
Biotransformation 
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to 
be altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are 
glucuronide conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) 
metabolites observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % 
of the administered radiolabelled dose. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Posaconazole after administration of the tablets, is slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 
29 hours (range 26 to 31 hours) and a mean apparent clearance ranging from 7.5 to 11 L/hr. After 
administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces (77 % of 
the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the radiolabelled 
dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled dose excreted 
in urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state plasma concentrations 
are attained by Day 6 at the 300 mg dose (once daily after twice daily loading dose at Day 1). 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Children (< 18 years) 
There is no paediatric experience with posaconazole tablets. 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole oral suspension have been evaluated in paediatric patients. 
Following administration of 800 mg per day of posaconazole oral suspension as a divided dose for 
treatment of invasive fungal infections, mean trough plasma concentrations from 12 patients 8 - 
17 years of age (776 ng/mL) were similar to concentrations from 194 patients 18 - 64 years of age 
(817 ng/mL). No pharmacokinetic data are available from paediatric patients less than 8 years of age. 
Similarly, in the prophylaxis studies, the mean steady-state posaconazole average concentration (Cav) 
was comparable among ten adolescents (13-17 years of age) to Cav achieved in adults (≥ 18 years of 
age). 
Gender 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in men and women. 
Elderly 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in young and elderly subjects. No 
overall differences in safety were observed between the geriatric patients and younger patients; 
therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended for geriatric patients. 
Race 
There is insufficient data among different races with posaconazole tablets. 
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black 
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the 
Black and Caucasian subjects was similar. 
Weight 
Pharmacokinetic modeling with an oral tablet formulation suggests that patients weighing greater than 
120 kg may have lower posaconazole exposure. It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for 
breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing more than 120 kg. 
Patients, in particular those receiving posaconazole after HSCT, who have a low body weight 
(< 60 kg) are more likely to experience higher plasma concentrations of posaconazole and should be 
closely monitored for adverse events. 
Renal impairment 
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild 
and moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics; 
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr 
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of 
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not 
significantly renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of 
posaconazole is not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed 
by haemodialysis. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been 
conducted with the posaconazole tablets. 
Hepatic impairment 
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh 
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per 
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with 
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that 
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total 
AUC. The elimination half-life (t1/2) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in 
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic 
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure. 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been 
conducted with the posaconazole tablets. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone 
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects 
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained 
at therapeutic doses in humans.  
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for ≥ 3 months at lower systemic exposures than 
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one 
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed 
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved 
therapeutically. 
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the 
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes 
in humans. 
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety 
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.5-fold greater than the 
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of 
cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 
2.1-fold greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up 
to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 2.1-fold and 8.5-fold greater, 
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses. 
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower 
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and 
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal 
viability. In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at 
therapeutic doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were 
considered to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis. 
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal 
special hazards for humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Hypromellose acetate succinate 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463) 
Silica dental type 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
polyvinyl alcohol 
macrogol 3350 
titanium dioxide (E171) 
talc 
iron oxide yellow (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets are packaged in a PVC/ polychlorotrifluoroethylene laminate 
blister with push-through aluminium lidding. 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are packaged in a blister in cartons of 24 (2x12) or 96 (8x12) tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/05/320/002   
EU/1/05/320/003   
24 tablets 
96 tablets 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005 
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole. 
Each mL contains 18 mg of posaconazole. 
Excipient with known effect: 
Each vial contains 462 mg sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless to yellow liquid.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is indicated for use in the treatment of the following 
fungal infections in adults (see section 5.1): 
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole 
or fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections in the following patients: 
- 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) 
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are 
at high risk of developing invasive fungal infections;  
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease (GVHD) and who are at high risk of 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Noxafil oral suspension for use in 
oropharyngeal candidiasis. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in 
the supportive care in the high risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis. 
Posology 
Noxafil is also available for oral administration (Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets and 
40 mg/mL oral suspension). A switch to oral administration is recommended as soon as the patients’ 
condition allows (see section 4.4). 
Recommended dose is shown in Table 1. 
Table 1. Recommended dose according to indication 
Indication 
Refractory invasive fungal 
infections (IFI)/patients with IFI 
intolerant to 1st line therapy 
Dose and duration of therapy 
(See section 5.2) 
Loading dose of 300 mg Noxafil twice a day on the first day, then 
300 mg once a day thereafter. Duration of therapy should be based 
on the severity of the underlying disease, recovery from 
immunosuppression, and clinical response.  
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections 
Loading dose of 300 mg Noxafil twice a day on the first day, then 
300 mg once a day thereafter. Duration of therapy is based on 
recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. For patients 
with AML or MDS, prophylaxis with Noxafil should start several 
days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia and continue for 
7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per mm3. 
Noxafil should be administered via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or 
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 
90 minutes. Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration. 
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a 
peripheral venous catheter. When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion 
should be administered over approximately 30 minutes (see section 4.8 and 6.6). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min), 
accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), is expected to 
occur. Oral formulations of Noxafil should be used in these patients unless an assessment of the 
benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion. Serum 
creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic 
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure 
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is 
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for 
higher plasma exposure. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion in children aged below 
18 years have not been established. 
No data are available. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be used in children aged below 18 years 
because of pre-clinical safety concerns (see section 5.3). 
Method of administration 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion requires dilution (see section 6.6) prior to administration.  
Noxafil should be administered via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or 
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous (IV) infusion over approximately 
90 minutes (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8). 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration. 
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a 
peripheral venous catheter. When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion 
should be administered over approximately 30 minutes to reduce the likelihood of infusion site 
reactions (see section 4.8). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal 
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4 
and 4.5). 
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin 
(see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal 
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing Noxafil to patients with hypersensitivity to other 
azoles. 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic reactions (e.g. elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin and/or clinical 
hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver function tests were 
generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests normalised 
without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes have been 
reported.  
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical 
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Monitoring of patients with severe renal impairment 
Due to the variability in exposure, patients with severe renal impairment should be monitored closely 
for breakthrough fungal infections (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy. 
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during Noxafil therapy must be routinely 
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include 
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation of Noxafil should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent with 
development of liver disease. 
QTc prolongation 
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Noxafil must not be 
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the 
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Noxafil should be administered with caution to patients with 
pro-arrhythmic conditions such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation 
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure 
Sinus bradycardia 
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those 
mentioned in section 4.3). 
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should 
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy. 
In patients, mean maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) after posaconazole concentrate for solution 
for infusion are 4-fold increased compared to administration of oral suspension. An increased effect 
on the QTc interval cannot be ruled out. Particular caution is advised in such cases where 
posaconazole is administered peripherally, as the recommended infusion time of 30 minutes may 
further increase Cmax. 
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during 
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz 
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use 
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see 
section 4.5). 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of 
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, 
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines 
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5). 
Plasma exposure 
Plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole intravenous concentrate for solution 
for infusion are generally higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole may increase over time 
in some patients (see section 5.2). Safety data at higher exposure levels achieved with posaconazole 
concentrate for solution for infusion are at present limited. 
Thromboembolic events 
Thromboembolic events have been identified as a potential risk for posaconazole intravenous 
concentrate for solution for infusion but were not observed in the clinical studies. Thrombophlebitis 
was observed in clinical trials. Caution is warranted on any sign or symptom of thromboembolic 
events (see sections 4.8 and 5.3). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The following information was derived from data with posaconazole oral suspension or early tablet 
formulation. All drug interactions with posaconazole oral suspension, except for those that affect the 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility) are considered relevant to posaconazole 
concentrate for solution for infusion as well. 
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole 
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for p-
glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine, 
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, 
etc.) of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations, 
respectively. 
Rifabutin 
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area 
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively. 
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be 
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of 
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels.  
Efavirenz 
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to 
the patient outweighs the risk.  
Fosamprenavir 
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma 
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal 
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x 
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the 
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %, 
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with 
ritonavir is unknown. 
Phenytoin 
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g. 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient 
outweighs the risk. 
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products 
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the 
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co-
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of 
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be 
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate 
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed.  
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates) 
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or 
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see 
section 4.3). 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ergot alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot 
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and 
atorvastatin) 
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be 
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with 
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3). 
Vinca alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine and 
vinblastine), which may lead to neurotoxicity. Therefore, concomitant use of posaconazole and vinca 
alkaloids should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. If co-administered, 
then it is recommended that dose adjustment of vinca alkaloids be considered. 
Rifabutin 
After oral administration, posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to 
the patient outweighs the risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of 
posaconazole). If these medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood 
counts and adverse reactions related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended. 
Sirolimus 
Repeat dose administration of oral posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days) 
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range 
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients 
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co-
administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided whenever 
possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the 
dose of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that 
there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole blood. 
Sirolimus concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at 
discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be 
noted that the relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during co-
administration with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the 
usual therapeutic range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore trough concentrations that fall 
in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid 
to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies.  
Ciclosporin 
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once 
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin 
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of 
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with 
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g. 
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be 
monitored carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, 
and the dose of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary. 
Tacrolimus 
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 % 
and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or 
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to 
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored 
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of 
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary. 
HIV Protease inhibitors 
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase 
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral 
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects 
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold), 
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with 
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of 
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The 
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated 
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-
administration with posaconazole. 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days) 
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in 
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily 
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average 
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice 
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to 
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg 
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg 
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to 8-
10 hours during co-administration. 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered 
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4). 
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, 
nisoldipine) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is 
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel 
blockers may be required. 
Digoxin 
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore, 
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored 
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment. 
Sulfonylureas 
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered 
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole 
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential 
risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of 
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with posaconazole. 
Fertility 
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (2.8 times the exposure 
achieved from a 300 mg intravenous dose in human) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg (3.4 times 
the exposure from a 300 mg intravenous dose in patients). There is no clinical experience assessing 
the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with 
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be 
used. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion was investigated in AML and MDS patients and those 
after HSCT with or at risk for GVHD only. Maximum duration of exposure to the concentrate for 
solution for infusion was shorter than with the oral suspension. Plasma exposure resulting from the 
solution for infusion was higher than observed with the oral suspension. A higher incidence of 
adverse reactions cannot be ruled out. 
Summary of the safety profile 
Posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion safety 
In initial studies of healthy volunteers, administration of a single dose of posaconazole infused over 
30 minutes via a peripheral venous catheter was associated with a 12 % incidence of infusion site 
reactions (4 % incidence of thrombophlebitis). Multiple doses of posaconazole administered via a 
peripheral venous catheter were associated with thrombophlebitis (60 % incidence). Therefore, in 
subsequent studies posaconazole was administered via central venous catheter. If a central venous 
catheter was not readily available, patients could receive a single infusion over 30 minutes via a 
peripheral venous catheter. Peripheral infusion time longer than 30 minutes, leads to a higher 
incidence of infusion site reactions and thrombophlebitis. 
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion has been assessed in 268 patients in 
clinical trials. Patients were enrolled in a non-comparative pharmacokinetic and safety trial of 
posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion when given as antifungal prophylaxis 
(Study 5520). Eleven patients received a single dose of 200 mg posaconazole concentrate for solution 
for infusion, 21 patients received 200 mg daily dose for a median of 14 days, and 237 patients 
received 300 mg daily dose for a median of 9 days. No safety data are available for administration 
> 28 days. Safety data in the elderly are limited. 
The most frequently reported adverse reaction (>25 %) with an onset during the posaconazole 
intravenous phase of dosing with 300 mg once daily was diarrhoea (32 %). 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse reaction (>1 %) leading to discontinuation of posaconazole concentrate for 
solution for infusion 300 mg once daily was AML (1 %).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the 
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known. 
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency* 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
neutropenia 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia, 
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, haemorrhage 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Endocrine disorders 
Rare: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Ear and labyrinth disorder 
Rare: 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon:  
Rare: 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
allergic reaction 
hypersensitivity reaction  
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased 
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite, 
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
Hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia 
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder 
psychotic disorder, depression 
paresthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia 
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia, 
insomnia 
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral 
neuropathy, syncope 
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced  
diplopia, scotoma 
hearing impairment 
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§, 
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, 
tachycardia 
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia, 
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction 
hypertension 
hypotension, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis 
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very Common 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon:  
Renal and urinary disorders  
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare:  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain, 
tachypnoea 
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, pneumonitis 
nausea 
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth, 
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort  
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric 
discomfort, eructation, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
oedema mouth 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus  
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased, 
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT 
increased) 
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly, 
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal  
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, 
liver tenderness, asterixis  
rash, pruritis 
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae 
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash 
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in extremity 
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased  
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis  
menstrual disorder 
breast pain 
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue 
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug 
intolerance, feeling jittery, infusion site pain, infusion site 
phlebitis, infusion site thrombosis, mucosal inflammation 
tongue oedema, face oedema 
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest x-
ray abnormal  
* Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, and concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
§ See section 4.4. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
During post-marketing surveillance severe hepatic injury with fatal outcome has been reported (see 
section 4.4). 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion. 
During clinical trials, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day 
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses. 
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice 
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator. 
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of 
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives, ATC code: J02A 
C04. 
Mechanism of action 
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential 
step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Microbiology 
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus 
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species 
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, 
C. inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea 
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data 
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus, however the clinical 
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents. 
Resistance 
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle 
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51. 
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) values for Aspergillus spp. 
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with 
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology. 
EUCAST ECOFF values: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.25 mg/L 
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do 
not equate to clinical breakpoints. 
Breakpoints 
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]: 
• 
• 
• 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species. 
Combination with other antifungal agents 
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole 
or the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will 
provide an added benefit. 
Clinical experience 
Summary of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion bridging study 
Study 5520 was a non-comparative multi-center study performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic 
properties, safety, and tolerability of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion.  
Study 5520 enrolled a total of 279 subjects, including 268 receiving at least one dose of posaconazole 
concentrate for solution for infusion. Cohort 0 was designed to evaluate the tolerability of a single 
dose of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion when administered via a central line.  
The subject population for Cohorts 1 and 2 included subjects with AML or MDS who had recently 
received chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia. 
Two different dosing groups were evaluated in Cohorts 1 and 2: 200 mg twice daily on Day 1, 
followed by 200 mg once daily thereafter (Cohort 1) and 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 
300 mg once daily thereafter (Cohort 2). 
The subject population in Cohort 3 included: 1) patients with AML or MDS who had recently 
received chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia, or 
2) patients who had undergone a HSCT and were receiving immunosuppressive therapy for 
prevention or treatment of GVHD. These types of patients had been previously studied in a pivotal 
controlled trial of posaconazole oral suspension. Based on the pharmacokinetics and safety results of 
Cohorts 1 and 2, all subjects in Cohort 3 received 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 300 mg 
once daily thereafter. 
The total subject population had a mean age of 51 years (range = 18-82 years), 95 % were White, the 
major ethnicity was not Hispanic or Latino (92 %), and 55 % were male. The study treated 155 
(65 %) subjects with AML or MDS, and 82 (35 %) subjects with HSCT, as the primary diseases at 
study entry. 
Serial pharmacokinetic samples were collected on Day 1 and at steady-state on Day 14 for all Cohort 
1 and 2 subjects and on Day 10 for a subset of Cohort 3 subjects. This serial pharmacokinetic analysis 
demonstrated that 94 % of the subjects treated with the 300 mg once daily dose attained steady state 
Cav between 500-2500 ng/mL [Cav was the average concentration of posaconazole at steady state, 
calculated as AUC/dosing interval (24 hours).]. This exposure was selected based on 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodymanic considerations with posaconazole oral suspension. Subjects who 
received 300 mg once daily achieved a mean Cav at steady state of 1500 ng/mL. 
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies 
Invasive aspergillosis 
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of 
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non-
comparative salvage therapy trial. Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an external control 
group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control group included 
86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the same sites as 
the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered to be 
refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external control group 
(79 %). 
As shown in Table 3, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment 
was seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, 
this was not a prospective, randomised controlled study and so all comparisons with the external 
control group should be viewed with caution. 
Table 3. Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive 
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group 
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
45/107 (42 %) 
External control group 
22/86 (26 %) 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp.3 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %) 
(35 %) 
(19 %) 
(15 %) 
(29 %) 
Fusarium spp. 
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole 
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among 
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole, 
seven patients were classed as responders. 
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma 
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis 
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species. 
Coccidioidomycosis 
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of 
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days. 
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899) 
Two randomised, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high risk for 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Study 316 was a randomised, double-blind trial of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times 
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomization as determined by an independent, 
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The 
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive 
3 Includes other less common species or species unknown 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
(195/600, [32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole 
and 77 days for fluconazole. 
Study 1899 was a randomised, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three 
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg 
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute 
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel 
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
at 100 days post-randomization. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most 
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for 
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole. 
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 4 
and 5 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients 
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients. 
Table 4. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
P-Value 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs 
On-treatment periodb 
7/304 (2) 
7/291 (2) 
25/298 (8) 
22/288 (8) 
Fixed-time periodc 
14/304 (5) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009 
0.0038 
0.0031 
0.0740 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
Table 5. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral suspension 
Controla 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis 
On-treatment periodb 
1899d 
316e 
2/304 (1) 
3/291 (1) 
Fixed-time periodc 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole; ITZ = itraconazole; POS = posaconazole. 
a:  FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
4/304 (1) 
7/301 (2) 
d:  All randomized  
e:  All treated  
52 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 it was the 
period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period from the 
baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
20/298 (7) 
17/288 (6) 
26/298 (9) 
21/299 (7) 
 
 
 
 
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed 
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the 
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomization, was significantly higher for posaconazole 
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death 
(P= 0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209). 
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of IFI-
related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU 
group (12/299; P= 0.0413). 
Paediatric population 
There is no paediatric experience for posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Sixteen patients 8-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in a 
study for invasive fungal infections. Based on the available data in 16 of these paediatric patients, the 
safety profile appears to be similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Additionally, twelve patients 13-17 years of age received posaconazole oral suspension 600 mg/day 
for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections (Studies 316 and 1899). The safety profile in these 
patients < 18 years of age appears similar to the safety profile observed in adults. Based on 
pharmacokinetic data in 10 of these paediatric patients, the pharmacokinetic profile appears to be 
similar to patients ≥ 18 years of age. 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric patients below the age of 18 years have not been established.  
Electrocardiogram evaluation 
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from 
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the 
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships 
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical 
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is 
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected 
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens). 
Distribution 
Following administration of 300 mg posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion over 
90 minutes, mean peak plasma concentration at the end of infusion was 3280 ng/mL (74 % CV). 
Posaconazole exhibits dose proportional pharmacokinetics after single and multiple dosing in the 
therapeutic dose range (200-300 mg). Posaconazole has a distribution volume of 261 L, indicating 
extravascular distribution. 
Posaconazole is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin. 
Biotransformation 
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites. Of the circulating metabolites, the 
majority are glucuronide conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 
mediated) metabolites observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for 
approximately 17 % of the administered radiolabelled dose of posaconazole oral suspension. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Posaconazole, after administration of 300 mg of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion, is 
slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 27 hours and a mean clearance of 7.3 L/hr. After 
administration of 14C-posaconazole as oral suspension, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in 
the faeces (77 % of the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % 
of the radiolabelled dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the 
radiolabelled dose excreted in urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-
state plasma concentrations are attained by Day 6 at the 300 mg dose (once daily after twice daily 
loading dose at Day 1). 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole concentrate for 
solution for infusion single dose increased in a greater than dose proportional manner over the range 
of 50-200 mg; by comparison, dose-dependent increases were observed over a range of 200-300 mg. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Children (< 18 years) 
There is no paediatric experience with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.3). 
Gender 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole concentration for solution for infusion are comparable in men 
and women. 
Elderly 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion are comparable in young 
and elderly subjects. No overall differences in safety were observed between the geriatric patients and 
younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended for geriatric patients. 
Race 
There is insufficient data among different races with posaconazole concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black 
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the 
Black and Caucasian subjects was similar. 
Weight 
Pharmacokinetic modeling with an oral tablet formulation suggests that patients weighing greater than 
120 kg may have lower posaconazole exposure. It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor for 
breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing more than 120 kg. Patients with a low body 
weight (< 60 kg) are more likely to experience higher plasma concentrations of posaconazole and 
should be closely monitored for adverse events. 
Renal impairment  
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild 
and moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics; 
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, Cl cr 
< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of 
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not 
significantly renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of 
posaconazole is not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed 
by haemodialysis. Due to the variability in exposure, patients with severe renal impairment should be 
monitored closely for breakthrough fungal infections (see section 4.2). 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion; however, a 
specific study has not been conducted with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh 
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per 
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with 
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that 
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total 
AUC. The elimination half-life (t1/2) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in 
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic 
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure. 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion; however, a 
specific study has not been conducted with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone 
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects 
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained 
at therapeutic doses in humans.  
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for ≥ 3 months at lower systemic exposures than 
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one 
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed 
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved 
therapeutically. 
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the 
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes 
in humans. 
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety 
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.9-fold greater than the 
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans with 300 mg intravenous infusion 
administration. Echocardiography revealed no indication of cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose 
safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 2.2-fold greater than that achieved 
therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats 
and monkeys at systemic exposures 2.2-fold and 8.9-fold greater, respectively, than those achieved 
with the human therapeutic doses. 
A non-dose related incidence of thrombus/emboli in the lung was seen in the 1 month repeated dose 
study in the monkey. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. 
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower 
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and 
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal 
viability. In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at 
therapeutic doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were 
considered to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis. 
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal 
special hazards for humans. 
In a nonclinical study using intravenous administration of posaconazole in very young dogs (dosed 
from 2-8 weeks of age) an increase in the incidence of brain ventricle enlargement was observed in 
treated animals as compared with concurrent control animals. No difference in the incidence of brain 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ventricle enlargement between control and treated animals was observed following the subsequent 
5-month treatment-free period. There were no neurologic, behavioural or developmental abnormalities 
in the dogs with this finding, and a similar brain finding was not seen with oral posaconazole 
administration to juvenile dogs (4 days to 9 months of age). The clinical significance of this finding is 
unknown; therefore, the use of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion to patients under 
18 years of age is not recommended (see section 4.2). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD) 
Disodium edetate  
Hydrochloric acid [for pH adjustment] 
Sodium hydroxide [for pH adjustment] 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Noxafil must not be diluted with: 
Lactated Ringer’s solution 
5 % dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 
4.2 % sodium bicarbonate 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
From a microbiological point of view, once admixed, the product should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, the solution can be stored up to 24 hours refrigerated 2°C-8°C. This medicinal 
product is for single use only. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator at 2°C-8°C.  
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I glass vial closed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal containing 16.7 mL of 
solution. 
Pack size: 1 vial 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Administration instructions for Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion 
• 
• 
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of Noxafil to room temperature. 
Aseptically transfer 16.7 mL of posaconazole to an intravenous bag (or bottle) containing a 
compatible admixture diluent (see below for list of diluents) using the volume ranging from 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150 mL to 283 mL depending on the final concentration to be achieved (not less than 1 mg/mL 
and not greater than 2 mg/mL). 
Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally 
inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration. 
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a 
peripheral venous catheter with a volume to achieve a dilution of approximately 2 mg/mL. 
When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be administered 
over approximately 30 minutes. 
Note: In clinical trials, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein resulted 
in infusion site reactions (see section 4.8). 
Noxafil is for single use. 
• 
• 
• 
The following medicinal products can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line 
(or cannula) as Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion: 
Amikacin sulfate 
Caspofungin 
Ciprofloxacin 
Daptomycin 
Dobutamine hydrochloride 
Famotidine 
Filgrastim 
Gentamicin sulfate 
Hydromorphone hydrochloride 
Levofloxacin 
Lorazepam 
Meropenem 
Micafungin 
Morphine sulphate 
Norepinephrine bitartrate 
Potassium chloride 
Vancomycin hydrochloride 
Any products not listed in the table above should not be coadministered with Noxafil through the 
same intravenous line (or cannula). 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior 
to administration. The solution of Noxafil ranges from colourless to pale yellow. Variations of colour 
within this range do not affect the quality of the product. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Noxafil must not be diluted with: 
Lactated Ringer’s solution 
5 % dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 
4.2 % sodium bicarbonate 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned 
below: 
5 % dextrose in water 
0.9 % sodium chloride 
0.45 % sodium chloride 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 % dextrose and 0.45 % sodium chloride 
5 % dextrose and 0.9 % sodium chloride 
5 % dextrose and 20 mEq KCl 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/004   
1 vial 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 October 2005 
Date of latest renewal: 25 October 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Schering-Plough S.A., 2, rue Louis Pasteur; 14200 Hérouville St Clair, France 
Schering-Plough Labo N.V., Industriepark 30, Zone A, BE-2220 Heist-op-den-Berg, Belgium 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C 
• 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.The 
marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension 
posaconazole 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains also liquid glucose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
One bottle of 105 mL of oral suspension. 
Measuring spoon 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake well before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Noxafil oral suspension and tablets are NOT interchangeable. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
Any product remaining four weeks after opening the bottle should be discarded. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Noxafil 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension 
posaconazole 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of oral suspension contains 40 mg of posaconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains also liquid glucose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
105 mL 
oral suspension 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake well before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
Any product remaining four weeks after opening the bottle should be discarded. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
posaconazole 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
24 gastro-resistant tablets 
96 gastro-resistant tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Noxafil oral suspension and tablets are NOT interchangeable. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/002   
EU/1/05/320/003   
24 tablets 
96 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
noxafil tablets 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
posaconazole 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
MSD 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
posaconazole 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole. 
Each mL contains 18 mg of posaconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), disodium edetate, hydrochloric acid and 
sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Single use vial. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/05/320/004   
1 vial 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Noxafil 300 mg sterile concentrate 
posaconazole 
Intravenous use after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
See leaflet 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension 
posaconazole 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Noxafil 
Possible side effects 
How to store Noxafil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called 
“antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections. 
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause 
infections.  
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat the following types of fungal infections when other antifungal 
medicines have not worked or you have had to stop taking them: 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment 
with the anti-fungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have 
had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with 
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and 
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole 
has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with 
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had 
to be stopped. 
Infections in the mouth or throat area (known as “thrush”) caused by fungi called Candida, 
which were not previously treated. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults who are at high risk of getting a 
fungal infection, such as: 
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous 
leukemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS)  
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant” (HSCT). 
• 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil 
Do not take Noxafil if: 
• 
you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any 
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin” 
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin. 
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Noxafil. 
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for more information including information on other 
medicines which may interact with Noxafil. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you:  
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another  antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole, 
itraconazole or voriconazole.  
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking 
this medicine. 
develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this 
medicine. 
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval 
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure 
have a very slow heartbeat 
have heart rhythm disturbance 
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking Noxafil. 
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Noxafil, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See Section 4 for more 
information. 
Children 
Noxafil should not be used in children (17 years of age and younger). 
Other medicines and Noxafil 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
terfenadine (used to treat allergies) 
astemizole (used to treat allergies) 
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems) 
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness)  
halofantrine (used to treat malaria) 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms). 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious 
changes to your heart rhythm: 
• 
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to 
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may 
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them. 
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol. 
• 
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Other medicines 
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In 
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems 
that may be greater when they are taken with Noxafil. Please make sure you tell your doctor about all 
the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed). 
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil 
in the blood.  
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of 
Noxafil in the blood: 
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you 
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin. 
some medicines used to treat or prevent fits including; phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital 
or primidone). 
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection. 
medicines used to decrease stomach acid such as cimetidine and ranitidine or omeprazole and 
similar medicines that are called proton pump inhibitors. 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the 
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer) 
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery) 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used  during or after transplant surgery) 
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections) 
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir, 
which are given with ritonavir)  
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle 
relaxants) 
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat 
high blood pressure) 
digoxin (used to treat heart failure) 
Glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to you doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Noxafil. 
Noxafil with food and drink 
To improve absorption of posaconazole, whenever possible it should be taken during or immediately 
after food or a nutritional drink (see section 3 “How to take Noxafil”). There is no information on the 
effect of alcohol on posaconazole. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil. 
Do not take Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor.  
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are 
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Noxafil, contact your doctor 
straight away. 
Do not breast-feed while taking Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk.  
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability 
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and 
contact your doctor.  
Noxafil contains glucose 
Noxafil contains approximately 1.75 g of glucose per 5 mL of suspension. You should not take this 
medicine if you have a condition called glucose-galactose malabsorption and should take note of this 
amount of glucose if you need to watch your sugar intake for any reason. 
3. 
How to take Noxafil 
Do not switch between taking Noxafil tablets and Noxafil oral suspension without talking to your 
doctor or pharmacist because it may result in a lack of efficacy or an increased risk of adverse 
reactions. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. Your doctor will monitor your response and condition to determine 
how long Noxafil needs to be given and whether any change is needed to your daily dose.  
The table below shows the recommended dose and length of treatment which depend on the type of 
infection that you have and may be individually adapted for you by your doctor. Do not adapt your 
dose yourself before consulting your doctor or change your treatment regime. 
Whenever possible you should take posaconazole during or immediately after food or a nutritional 
drink. 
Indication 
Treatment of refractory Fungal 
Infections (Invasive aspergillosis, 
Fusariosis, 
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma, 
Coccidioidomycosis) 
First time treatment of Thrush 
Prevention of serious Fungal 
Infections 
Recommended dose and length of treatment 
The recommended dose is 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful) taken 
four times daily. 
Alternatively, if recommended by your doctor, you may take 
400 mg (two 5 mL spoonfuls) twice a day provided that you are 
able to take both doses during or after food or a nutritional 
drink.  
On the first day of treatment take 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful) 
once. After the first day, take 100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day. 
Take 200 mg (one 5 mL spoonful) three times a day. 
If you take more Noxafil than you should 
If you are concerned that you may have taken too much, contact your doctor or healthcare 
professional immediately. 
If you forget to take Noxafil 
If you have missed a dose, take it as soon as you remember and then carry on as before. However, if it 
is almost time for your next dose, take your dose when it is due. Do not take a double dose to make up 
for a forgotten dose.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious 
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment: 
• 
• 
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually 
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or 
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests 
allergic reaction 
• 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or 
weak 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning 
headache 
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests 
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests 
high blood pressure 
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste 
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat) 
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) –this can make you more 
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests 
fever 
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy 
rash 
itching 
constipation 
rectal discomfort 
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale 
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests 
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding 
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this 
can make you more likely to get infections  
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you 
have inflammation 
inflammation of the blood vessels  
heart rhythm problems  
fits (convulsions)  
nerve damage (neuropathy) 
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat, 
high or low blood pressure 
low blood pressure 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach 
pain 
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour 
than usual  
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests 
cough, hiccups 
nose bleeds 
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleurritic pain) 
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy) 
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin 
tremor 
high or low blood sugar levels 
blurred vision, sensitivity to light 
hair loss (alopecia) 
mouth ulcers 
shivering, feeling generally unwell 
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs 
water retention (oedema) 
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding) 
inability to sleep (insomnia) 
being completely or partially unable to talk  
swelling of the mouth  
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping 
problems with co-ordination or balance 
mucosal inflammation 
stuffy nose 
difficulty breathing 
chest discomfort 
feeling bloated 
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain 
belching 
feeling jittery 
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause 
serious damage to your lungs and heart 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding 
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling 
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there  
fainting 
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that 
you cannot control 
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs 
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision 
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart 
rhythm problems, with sudden death 
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the 
legs  
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain 
while breathing 
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
79 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will 
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel signs include 
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps 
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (hemolysis) which may happen 
with or without kidney failure  
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in 
blood tests 
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura)  
swelling of the face or tongue 
depression 
double vision 
breast pain 
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause  weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, 
skin discolouration 
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that 
affect the function of the male or female sex organs 
hearing problems 
Some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Noxafil, the frequency of this is not 
known. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Noxafil 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not freeze. 
If you have any suspension left in a bottle more than four weeks after it was first opened, you 
should not use this medicine. Please return the bottle containing any left over suspension to 
your pharmacist. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Noxafil contains 
- 
- 
The active substance in Noxafil is posaconazole. Each millilitre of oral suspension contains 40 
milligrams of posaconazole. 
The other ingredients in the suspension are polysorbate 80, simeticone, sodium benzoate 
(E211), sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, glycerol, xanthan gum, liquid 
glucose, titanium dioxide (E171), artificial cherry flavour containing benzyl alcohol and 
propylene glycol, and purified water. 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack 
Noxafil is a white, cherry flavoured, 105 mL oral suspension packaged in amber glass bottles. A 
measuring spoon is provided with each bottle for measuring 2.5 and 5 mL doses of the oral 
suspension. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
Manufacturer 
SP S.A. 
2, rue Louis Pasteur 
F-14200 Hérouville St Clair 
France 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : 0800 38 693 (+32 (0)2 776 62 11) 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737 
info-msdbg@merck.com 
Česká republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 233 010 111  
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Danmark 
MSD Danmark ApS 
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000 
dkmail@merck.com 
Lietuva 
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47 
msd_lietuva@merck.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
Magyarország 
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300 
hungary_msd@merck.com 
Malta 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558) 
malta_info@merck.com 
Deutschland 
MSD SHARP & DOHME GMBH 
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 2612) 
e-mail@msd.de 
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme BV 
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153) 
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com 
Eesti 
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ 
Tel.: + 372 6144 200 
msdeesti@merck.com 
Norge 
MSD (Norge) AS 
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00 
msdnorge@msd.no 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300 
dpoc_greece@merck.com 
España 
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00 
msd_info@merck.com 
France 
MSD France 
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40 
Hrvatska 
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333 
croatia_info@merck.com 
Österreich 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044 
msd-medizin@merck.com 
Polska 
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00 
msdpolska@merck.com 
Portugal 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 446 5700 
clic@merck.com 
România 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L. 
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900 
msdromania@merck.com 
Ireland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) 
Limited 
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700 
medinfo_ireland@merck.com 
Slovenija 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila 
d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 5204 201 
msd.slovenia@merck.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: + 354 535 7000 
Italia 
MSD Italia S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 361911 
medicalinformation.it@merck.com 
Κύπρος 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700) 
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Latvija 
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija 
Tel: + 371-67364224 
msd_lv@merck.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Slovenská republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o. 
Tel: +421 2 58282010 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com  
Suomi/Finland 
MSD Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650 
info@msd.fi 
Sverige 
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB 
Tel: +46 77 5700488 
medicinskinfo@merck.com 
United Kingdom 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1992 467272 
medicalinformationuk@merck.com 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Noxafil 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
posaconazole 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Noxafil 
Possible side effects 
How to store Noxafil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called 
“antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections. 
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause 
infections.  
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat the following types of fungal infections when other antifungal 
medicines have not worked or you have had to stop taking them: 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment 
with the anti-fungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have 
had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with 
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and 
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole 
has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with 
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had 
to be stopped. 
• 
• 
• 
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults who are at high risk of getting a 
fungal infection, such as: 
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous 
leukemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS)  
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant” (HSCT). 
• 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Noxafil 
Do not take Noxafil if: 
• 
you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any 
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin” 
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin. 
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Noxafil. 
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for more information including information on other 
medicines which may interact with Noxafil. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you:  
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another  antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole, 
itraconazole or voriconazole.  
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking 
this medicine. 
develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this 
medicine. 
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval 
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure 
have a very slow heartbeat 
have heart rhythm disturbance 
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking Noxafil. 
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Noxafil, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See Section 4 for more 
information. 
Children 
Noxafil should not be used in children (17 years of age and younger). 
Other medicines and Noxafil 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
terfenadine (used to treat allergies) 
astemizole (used to treat allergies) 
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems) 
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness)  
halofantrine (used to treat malaria) 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms). 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious 
changes to your heart rhythm: 
• 
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to 
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may 
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them. 
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol. 
• 
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Other medicines 
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In 
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems 
that may be greater when they are taken with Noxafil. Please make sure you tell your doctor about all 
the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed). 
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil 
in the blood.  
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of 
Noxafil in the blood: 
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you 
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin. 
some medicines used to treat or prevent fits including; phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital 
or primidone). 
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection. 
• 
• 
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the 
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer) 
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery) 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used  during or after transplant surgery) 
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections) 
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir, 
which are given with ritonavir)  
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle 
relaxants) 
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat 
high blood pressure) 
digoxin (used to treat heart failure) 
Glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to you doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Noxafil. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are or think you pregnant before you start to take Noxafil. 
Do not take Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor.  
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are 
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Noxafil, contact your doctor 
straight away. 
Do not breast-feed while taking Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk.  
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability 
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and 
contact your doctor. 
3. 
How to take Noxafil 
Do not switch between taking Noxafil tablets and Noxafil oral suspension without talking to your 
doctor or pharmacist because it may result in a lack of efficacy or an increased risk of adverse 
reactions. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
The usual dose is 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the first day, then 300 mg (three 
100 mg tablets) once a day, thereafter. 
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection that you have and may be individually 
adapted for you by your doctor. Do not adapt your dose yourself before consulting your doctor or 
change your treatment regimen. 
Taking this medicine 
• 
• 
• 
Swallow the tablet whole with some water. 
Do not crush, chew, break or dissolve the tablet. 
Tablets may be taken with or without food. 
If you take more Noxafil than you should 
If you think that you may have taken too much Noxafil, talk to a doctor or go to the hospital straight 
away. 
If you forget to take Noxafil 
• 
• 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember it.  
However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your 
regular schedule.  
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.  
• 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious 
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment: 
• 
• 
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually 
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or 
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests 
allergic reaction 
• 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or 
weak 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning 
headache 
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests 
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests 
high blood pressure 
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste 
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat) 
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) –this can make you more 
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests 
fever 
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy 
rash 
itching 
constipation 
rectal discomfort 
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale 
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests 
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding 
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this 
can make you more likely to get infections  
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you 
have inflammation 
inflammation of the blood vessels  
heart rhythm problems  
fits (convulsions)  
nerve damage (neuropathy) 
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat, 
high or low blood pressure 
low blood pressure 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain 
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach 
pain 
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour 
than usual  
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests 
cough, hiccups 
nose bleeds 
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleurritic pain) 
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy) 
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin 
tremor 
high or low blood sugar levels 
blurred vision, sensitivity to light 
hair loss (alopecia) 
mouth ulcers 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
87 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
shivering, feeling generally unwell 
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs 
water retention (oedema) 
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding) 
inability to sleep (insomnia) 
being completely or partially unable to talk  
swelling of the mouth  
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping 
problems with co-ordination or balance 
mucosal inflammation 
stuffy nose 
difficulty breathing 
chest discomfort 
feeling bloated 
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain 
belching 
feeling jittery 
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause 
serious damage to your lungs and heart 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding 
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling 
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there  
fainting 
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that 
you cannot control 
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs 
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision 
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart 
rhythm problems, with sudden death 
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the 
legs  
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain 
while breathing 
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool  
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will 
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel signs include 
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps 
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (hemolysis) which may happen 
with or without kidney failure  
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in 
blood tests 
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura)  
swelling of the face or tongue 
depression 
double vision 
breast pain 
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause  weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, 
skin discolouration 
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that 
affect the function of the male or female sex organs 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
88 
 
• 
hearing problems 
Some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Noxafil, the frequency of this is not 
known. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Noxafil 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Noxafil contains 
The active substance in Noxafil is posaconazole. Each tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
The other ingredients are: hypromellose acetate succinate; cellulose, microcrystalline; 
hydroxypropylcellulose (E463); silica dental type; croscarmellose sodium; magnesium stearate, 
polyvinyl alcohol, macrogol 3350 , titanium dioxide (E171), talc, iron oxide yellow (E172). 
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are yellow-coated and capsule-shaped, debossed “100” on one side 
packaged in a blister in cartons of 24 (2x12) or 96 (8x12) tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
Manufacturer 
SP Labo N.V. 
Industriepark 30 
B-2220 Heist-op-den-Berg 
Belgium 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : 0800 38 693 (+32 (0)2 776 62 11) 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737 
info-msdbg@merck.com 
Česká republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 233 010 111  
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Danmark 
MSD Danmark ApS 
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000 
dkmail@merck.com 
Lietuva 
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47 
msd_lietuva@merck.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
Magyarország 
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300 
hungary_msd@merck.com 
Malta 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558) 
malta_info@merck.com 
Deutschland 
MSD SHARP & DOHME GMBH 
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 2612) 
e-mail@msd.de 
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme BV 
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153) 
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com 
Eesti 
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ 
Tel.: + 372 6144 200 
msdeesti@merck.com 
Ελλάδα 
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300 
dpoc_greece@merck.com 
España 
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00 
msd_info@merck.com 
France 
MSD France 
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40 
Hrvatska 
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333 
croatia_info@merck.com 
Norge 
MSD (Norge) AS 
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00 
msdnorge@msd.no 
Österreich 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044 
msd-medizin@merck.com 
Polska 
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00 
msdpolska@merck.com 
Portugal 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 446 5700 
clic@merck.com 
România 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L. 
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900 
msdromania@merck.com 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) 
Limited 
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700 
medinfo_ireland@merck.com 
Slovenija 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila 
d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 5204 201 
msd.slovenia@merck.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: + 354 535 7000 
Italia 
MSD Italia S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 361911 
medicalinformation.it@merck.com 
Κύπρος 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700) 
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Latvija 
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija 
Tel: + 371-67364224 
msd_lv@merck.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Slovenská republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o. 
Tel: +421 2 58282010 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com  
Suomi/Finland 
MSD Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650 
info@msd.fi 
Sverige 
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB 
Tel: +46 77 5700488 
medicinskinfo@merck.com 
United Kingdom 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1992 467272 
medicalinformationuk@merck.com 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the European Medicines Agency web 
site: http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Noxafil 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
posaconazole 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Noxafil 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Noxafil 
Possible side effects 
How to store Noxafil 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Noxafil is and what it is used for 
Noxafil contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines called 
“antifungals”. Noxafil is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections. 
Noxafil works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause infections.  
Noxafil can be used in adults to treat the following types of fungal infections when other antifungal 
medicines have not worked or you have had to stop taking them: 
• 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family that have not improved during treatment 
with the anti-fungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines have 
had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with 
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and 
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole 
has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides. that have not improved during treatment 
with one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have 
had to be stopped. 
• 
• 
• 
Noxafil can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults who are at high risk of getting a fungal 
infection, such as: 
• 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous 
leukemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS)  
patients having “high-dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant” (HSCT). 
• 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Noxafil 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not use Noxafil if: 
• 
you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any 
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin” 
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin. 
Do not use Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Noxafil. 
See “Other medicines and Noxafil” below for information on other medicines which may interact 
with Noxafil. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Noxafil if you:  
• 
have had an allergic reaction to another  antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole, 
itraconazole or voriconazole.  
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking 
Noxafil. 
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval 
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure 
have a very slow heartbeat 
have heart rhythm disturbance 
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
using Noxafil. 
Children  
Noxafil should not be used in children (17 years of age and younger). 
Other medicines and Noxafil 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Do not take Noxafil if you are taking any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
terfenadine (used to treat allergies) 
astemizole (used to treat allergies) 
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems) 
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's disorder) 
halofantrine (used to treat malaria) 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms). 
Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very serious 
changes to your heart rhythm: 
• 
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to 
treat migraines. Noxafil can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may 
lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause damage to them. 
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol. 
• 
Do not take Noxafil if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Noxafil. 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines 
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Noxafil. In 
addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm problems 
that may be greater when they are taken with posaconazole. Please make sure you tell your doctor 
about all the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed). 
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Noxafil by increasing the amount of Noxafil 
in the blood. 
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Noxafil by decreasing the amount of 
Noxafil in the blood: 
• 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, 
you will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of 
rifabutin. 
some medicines used to treat or prevent fits including: phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital 
or primidone. 
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection. 
• 
• 
Noxafil may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by increasing the 
amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer) 
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery) 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used  during or after transplant surgery) 
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections) 
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir, 
which are given with ritonavir) 
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle 
relaxants) 
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat 
high blood pressure) 
digoxin (used to treat heart failure) 
Glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to you doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Noxafil. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Noxafil. 
Do not use Noxafil if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are 
using Noxafil. If you become pregnant while you are using Noxafil, contact your doctor straight away. 
Do not breast-feed while using Noxafil. This is because small amounts may pass into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Noxafil, which may affect your ability 
to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or machines and 
contact your doctor. 
Noxafil contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains 462 mg sodium per dose. To This should be taken into consideration 
by patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to use Noxafil 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 300 mg twice a day on the first day, then 300 mg once a day, thereafter. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion will be diluted to the correct concentration by your 
pharmacist or nurse. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion will always be prepared and given to you by a healthcare 
professional. 
You will be given Noxafil: 
• 
• 
through a plastic tube placed in your vein (intravenous infusion) 
usually over 90 minutes 
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection that you have or the length of time your 
immune system is not working properly and may be individually adapted for you by your doctor. Do 
not adapt your dose yourself before consulting your doctor or change your treatment regimen. 
If a dose of Noxafil has been forgotten 
As you will be given this medicine under close medical supervision, it is unlikely that a dose would be 
missed. However, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you think that a dose has been forgotten. 
When Noxafil treatment is stopped by your doctor you should not experience any effects. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious 
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment: 
• 
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea, 
• 
signs of liver problems, these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually 
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or 
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests 
allergic reaction 
• 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests signs include feeling confused or 
weak 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking, or burning 
swelling, redness, and tenderness along the vein in which Noxafil was given 
headache 
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests 
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests 
high blood pressure 
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat) 
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) – this can make you more 
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests 
fever 
feeling weak, dizzy, tired, or sleepy 
rash 
itching 
constipation 
rectal discomfort 
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
anaemia- signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale 
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests 
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding 
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this 
can make you more likely to get infections  
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you 
have inflammation 
inflammation of the blood vessels 
heart rhythm problems 
fits (convulsions) 
nerve damage (neuropathy) 
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat, 
high or low blood pressure 
low blood pressure 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain 
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach 
pain 
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less  urine that is a different colour 
than usual  
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests 
cough, hiccups 
nose bleeds 
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleurritic pain) 
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy) 
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin  
tremor 
high or low blood sugar levels  
blurred vision, sensitivity to light 
hair loss (alopecia)  
mouth ulcers 
shivering, feeling generally unwell 
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs 
water retention (oedema) 
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding) 
inability to sleep (insomnia) 
being completely or partially unable to talk 
swelling of the mouth 
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping 
problems with co-ordination or balance 
mucosal inflammation 
stuffy nose 
difficulty breathing 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
96 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
chest discomfort 
feeling bloated 
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain 
belching 
feeling jittery 
inflammation or pain at injection site 
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause 
serious damage to your lungs and heart 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding 
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling 
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there  
fainting 
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that 
you cannot control 
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs 
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision 
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart 
rhythm problems, with sudden death 
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the 
legs 
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain 
while breathing 
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool 
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will 
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel signs include 
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps 
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (hemolysis) which may happen 
with or without kidney failure 
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in 
blood tests 
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) 
swelling of the face or tongue 
depression 
double vision 
breast pain 
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin 
discolouration 
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that 
affect the function of the male or female sex organs 
hearing problems 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Some patients have also reported feeling confused after using Noxafil, the frequency of this is not 
known. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
97 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Noxafil 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C–8°C). 
Once prepared, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, the solution 
can be stored up to 24 hours at 2°C-8°C (in a refrigerator). This medicinal product is for single 
use only and any unused solution should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Noxafil contains 
The active substance is posaconazole. Each vial contains 300 mg of posaconazole. 
The other ingredients are: Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), disodium edetate, 
hydrochloric acid (concentrated), sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
What Noxafil looks like and contents of the pack 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion is a clear, colourless to yellow liquid. Variations of 
colour within this range do not affect the quality of the product. 
This medicine is available in a single use glass vial closed with bromobutyl rubber stopper and 
aluminium seal. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd 
Hertford Road, Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
Manufacturer 
SP Labo N.V. 
Industriepark 30 
B-2220 Heist-op-den-Berg 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : 0800 38 693 (+32 (0)2 776 62 11) 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
Lietuva 
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47 
msd_lietuva@merck.com 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737 
info-msdbg@merck.com 
Česká republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 233 010 111  
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
MSD Belgium BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel : +32 (0)2 776 62 11 
dpoc_belux@merck.com 
Magyarország 
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300 
hungary_msd@merck.com 
Danmark 
MSD Danmark ApS 
Tlf: + 45 44 82 4000 
dkmail@merck.com 
Malta 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558) 
malta_info@merck.com 
Deutschland 
MSD SHARP & DOHME GMBH 
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+ 49 (0) 89 4561 2612) 
e-mail@msd.de 
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme BV 
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153) 
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com 
Eesti 
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ 
Tel.: + 372 6144 200 
msdeesti@merck.com 
Ελλάδα 
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300 
dpoc_greece@merck.com 
Norge 
MSD (Norge) AS 
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00 
msdnorge@msd.no 
Österreich 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044 
msd-medizin@merck.com 
España 
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00 
msd_info@merck.com 
Polska 
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00 
msdpolska@merck.com 
France 
MSD France 
Tél. +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40 
Hrvatska 
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333 
croatia_info@merck.com 
Portugal 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 446 5700 
clic@merck.com 
România 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L. 
Tel.: + 40 21 529 2900 
msdromania@merck.com 
Ireland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health) 
Limited 
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700 
medinfo_ireland@merck.com 
Slovenija 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila 
d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 5204 201 
msd.slovenia@merck.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: + 354 535 7000 
Slovenská republika 
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o. 
Tel: +421 2 58282010 
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com  
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
MSD Italia S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 06 361911 
medicalinformation.it@merck.com 
Suomi/Finland 
MSD Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650 
info@msd.fi 
Κύπρος 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited 
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700) 
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Sverige 
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB 
Tel: +46 77 5700488 
medicinskinfo@merck.com 
Latvija 
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija 
Tel: + 371-67364224 
msd_lv@merck.com 
United Kingdom 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1992 467272 
medicalinformationuk@merck.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
Administration instructions for Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of Noxafil to room temperature. 
Aseptically transfer 16.7 mL of posaconazole to an intravenous bag (or bottle) containing a 
compatible admixture diluent (see below for list of diluents) using the volume ranging from 
150 mL to 283 mL depending on the final concentration to be achieved (not less than 1 mg/mL 
and not greater than 2 mg/mL). 
Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally 
inserted central catheter (PICC) by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes. 
Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion should not be given by bolus administration. 
If a central venous catheter is not available, a single infusion may be administered through a 
peripheral venous catheter with a volume to achieve a dilution of approximately 2 mg/mL. 
When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be administered 
over approximately 30 minutes. 
Note: In clinical trials, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein resulted 
in infusion site reactions (see section 4.8). 
Noxafil is for single use. 
The following medicinal products can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line 
(or cannula) as Noxafil concentrate for solution for infusion: 
Amikacin sulfate 
Caspofungin 
Ciprofloxacin 
Daptomycin 
Dobutamine hydrochloride 
Famotidine 
Filgrastim 
Gentamicin sulfate 
Hydromorphone hydrochloride 
Levofloxacin 
Lorazepam 
Meropenem 
Micafungin 
Morphine sulphate 
Norepinephrine bitartrate 
Potassium chloride 
Vancomycin hydrochloride 
Any products not listed in the table above should not be coadministered with Noxafil through the 
same intravenous line (or cannula). 
The infusion solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. The 
solution of Noxafil ranges from colourless to pale yellow. Variations of colour within this range do 
not affect the quality of the product. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noxafil must not be diluted with: 
Lactated Ringer’s solution 
5 % dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 
4.2 % sodium bicarbonate 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned 
below: 
5 % dextrose in water 
0.9 % sodium chloride 
0.45 % sodium chloride 
5 % dextrose and 0.45 % sodium chloride 
5 % dextrose and 0.9 % sodium chloride 
5 % dextrose and 20 mEq KCl 
102 
 
 
 
 
