EMA/709842/2021 
EMEA/H/C/000610 
Noxafil (posaconazole) 
An overview of Noxafil and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Noxafil and what is it used for? 
Noxafil is an antifungal medicine that is used to treat adults and children from 2 years of age with the 
following fungal diseases, when treatments with other antifungal medicines (amphotericin B, 
itraconazole or fluconazole) have not worked or are not suitable:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
invasive aspergillosis (fungal infection caused by Aspergillus); 
fusariosis (fungal infection caused by Fusarium); 
chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma (long-term fungal infections of the skin or the tissue just 
below the skin, usually caused by fungal spores infecting wounds due to thorns or splinters); 
coccidioidomycosis (fungal infection of the lungs caused by breathing in spores).  
In adults, Noxafil is also used as a first treatment for invasive aspergillosis and for fungal infections of 
the mouth and throat caused by Candida (thrush). It is used in patients whose thrush infection is 
severe or who have weakened immune systems, when medicines applied topically (directly on the 
thrush) are unlikely to work. 
Noxafil is also used to prevent invasive fungal infections in patients from 2 years of age whose immune 
system is weakened because of treatments they are receiving for blood or bone marrow cancers or 
medicines used in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (a transplant of cells that make blood 
cells). 
Noxafil contains the active substance posaconazole. 
How is Noxafil used? 
Noxafil can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started by a doctor who has 
experience in managing fungal infections or in treating patients at high risk of invasive fungal 
infections.  
Noxafil is available as an oral suspension (a liquid to be taken by mouth), as a concentrate for solution 
for infusion (drip) into a vein, as gastro-resistant tablets, and as a gastro-resistant powder and solvent 
for oral suspension. Gastro-resistant means that the medicine passes through the stomach without 
being broken down until it reaches the intestine.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The choice of dosage form and the dose and duration of treatment depend on the condition being 
treated and the patient’s age, weight and response to treatment. Noxafil oral suspension, tablets, and 
powder and solvent for oral suspension have different dosages and should not be used 
interchangeably.  
Patients given the solution for infusion should be switched to Noxafil tablets, oral suspension, or 
powder and solvent for oral suspension as soon as the patient’s condition allows it. 
For additional information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Noxafil work? 
The active substance in Noxafil, posaconazole, is an antifungal medicine that belongs to the triazole 
group. It works by preventing the formation of ergosterol, which is an important part of fungal cell 
walls. Without ergosterol, the fungus dies or cannot spread. The list of fungi against which Noxafil is 
active can be found in the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
What benefits of Noxafil have been shown in studies? 
Treatment of infection 
One main study involved 238 patients with invasive fungal infections that did not respond to standard 
antifungal treatment and who were treated with Noxafil oral suspension. These results obtained with 
Noxafil were compared with those for other antifungal medicines from records of 218 patients. In this 
study, 42% of the patients with invasive aspergillosis taking Noxafil oral suspension had a successful 
response compared with 26% of patients receiving other antifungal medicines. Noxafil also successfully 
treated 11 of 18 patients (61%) who had proven or probable fusariosis, 9 of 11 patients (82%) with 
chromoblastomycosis or mycetoma, and 11 of 16 patients (69%) with coccidioidomycosis. 
In the second main study involving 350 HIV-positive patients with oropharyngeal candidiasis, Noxafil 
oral suspension was as effective as the antifungal medicine fluconazole. For both medicines, after 14 
days of treatment, oropharyngeal candidiasis either improved or was successfully cured in 92% of 
patients. 
A third study involving 575 patients with proven, probable or possible invasive aspergillosis found that 
Noxafil given as an infusion into the vein or as tablets was at least as effective as the antifungal 
medicine voriconazole in reducing the risk of death. The results showed that 44 of 288 (15%) patients 
who received initial treatment with Noxafil died within 42 days of starting treatment compared with 59 
of 287 (21%) of those who received initial treatment with voriconazole. 
Prevention of infection 
Two additional main studies investigated the ability of Noxafil oral suspension to prevent infections. In 
one of the studies, involving 600 stem cell transplant patients, Noxafil oral suspension was as effective 
as fluconazole in preventing an invasive fungal infection, with 5% of patients who took Noxafil 
developing an infection compared with 9% of those treated with fluconazole or itraconazole.  
In the other study, involving 602 cancer patients, Noxafil was more effective than fluconazole or 
itraconazole, with 2% of patients developing an infection in the Noxafil group, and 8% in patients 
treated with fluconazole or itraconazole. 
Children 
The effectiveness of Noxafil in children is based on a study establishing whether the medicine is 
processed similarly to adults (pharmacokinetic bridging). The study involved 115 children from 2 years 
of age with a weakened immune system who were given either the tablet or the powder form of 
Noxafil. In these children, the level of Noxafil in the blood was similar to that considered safe and 
effective in adults.  
What are the risks associated with Noxafil? 
The most common side effect with Noxafil, seen in more than 1 in 10 people, is nausea (feeling sick). 
The most common serious side effects include vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia (fever) and increased 
bilirubin in the blood (a sign of liver problems).  
For the full list of all side effects reported with Noxafil, see the package leaflet.  
Noxafil must not be used in patients who are taking any of the following medicines: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
ergotamine or dihydroergotamine (used to treat migraine), 
terfenadine, astemizole (used for allergy), 
cisapride (used for stomach problems), 
pimozide (used for treating mental illness), 
quinidine (used for irregular heartbeat), 
•  halofantrine (used to treat malaria), 
• 
simvastatin, lovastatin or atorvastatin (used to lower cholesterol). 
Caution is also needed when Noxafil is taken at the same time as other medicines. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Noxafil authorised in the EU? 
Noxafil is effective at treating fungal infections in patients for whom therapeutic options are limited; it 
can also prevent certain infections in patients with a weakened immune system. The infections it can 
be used to treat or prevent can have serious outcomes, including death. Its side effects are considered 
manageable. The European Medicines Agency, therefore, decided that Noxafil’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Noxafil? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Noxafil have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Noxafil are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Noxafil are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Noxafil 
Noxafil received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 October 2005.  
Further information on Noxafil can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/noxafil.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2021. 
