1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Fungal  infections  have  increased  in  recent  decades  due  to  the  increasing  use  of  iatrogenic 
immunosuppression in connection with treatment of cancer and organ transplantation, widespread use of 
broad-spectrum antibiotics and the increasing number of patients with HIV infection. 
Two systemically available triazoles - fluconazole and itraconazole – have been marketed for more than 
a decade and have made a major contribution to the management of both superficial and invasive fungal 
infections.  Most  recently,  voriconazole  has  been  approved  in  the  EU  for  the  treatment  of  aspergillus, 
candida  and  some  other  fungal  infections  as  specified  in  the  current  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics  (SPC).  Whereas  there  is  now  very  considerable  clinical  experience  with  the  triazoles, 
their use does carry some considerable potential for interactions with other medicinal products and has 
sometimes  been  associated  with  hepatotoxicity,  QTc  prolongation  and  Torsades  de  Pointes  and 
resistance.  
The echinocandin class of antifungal agents currently includes only one authorised agent. Caspofungin 
has been authorised in the EU for the treatment of fungal infections as specified in the current SPC. 
Posaconazole is a novel broad-spectrum antifungal agent of the triazole class that has been developed 
for the treatment of invasive fungal infections. 
Noxafil  is  available  as  an  oral  suspension  containing  40  mg/ml  posaconazole  to  be  administered  at  a 
dose  of  400  mg  twice  a  day  with  a  meal  or  with  240 ml of a nutritional supplement. In patients who 
cannot tolerate a meal or a nutritional supplement, posaconazole can be administered at a dose of 200 
mg four times a day. 
-  
The approved indication is for use in the treatment of the following invasive fungal infections in adults: 
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole 
-  
or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to  amphotericin  B  or  in  patients  who  are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or 
in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Noxafil  is  formulated  as  a  multidose  oral  suspension  containing  40  mg/ml  of  posaconazole  as  active 
substance. 
The  other  ingredients  include  polysorbate  80,  simeticone,  sodium  benzoate,  sodium citrate,  citric acid 
monohydrate,  glycerol,  xanthan  gum,  liquid  glucose,  titanium  dioxide,  artificial  cherry  flavour  and 
purified water. 
It is presented in an amber glass  bottle closed with a polypropylene child-resistant cap. A polystyrene 
measuring spoon with a 2.5 and a 5 ml graduation is provided.  
1/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
Posaconazole  is  a  triazole  antifungal  agent  containing  4  chiral  centres.  It  is  synthesised  solely  as  the 
(R,R,S,S)  enantiomer.  Three  polymorphic  forms  of  posaconazole  have  been  observed  during 
development, but the synthetic process is designed to constantly produce form I. Moreover, the crystal 
form  is  controlled  as  part  of  the  drug  substance  specification  and  there  has  been  no  evidence  of 
polymorphic  transition  on  storage  as  micronised  powder,  during  manufacture  or  as  formulated  in  the 
finished  product.  Posaconazole  is  lipophilic,  highly  permeable,  and  practically  insoluble  in  water. 
Therefore, the rate of drug dissolution is likely to be important to the rate and possibly to the extent of 
absorption.  
• 
Manufacture 
Posaconazole is prepared from commercially available starting materials via a three-step synthesis 
followed by a micronisation step.  
Satisfactory  specification  and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials,  key 
intermediates, reagents and solvents. 
During  development,  different  variants  of  the  commercial  synthesis  have  been  used  to  produce 
posaconazole  batches  used  in  non-clinical  and  clinical  studies.  Batch  analytical  data  provided  for 
posaconazole obtained from all routes of synthesis show a comparable quality.  
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identity (IR and chiral HPLC), optical 
rotation  (PhEur),  assay  (chiral  HPLC),  impurity  (chiral  and  achiral  HPLC),  residual  solvents,  heavy 
metals (PhEur), sulphated ash (PhEur), loss on drying and particle size.   
Batch analysis data provided for lots manufactured according to the commercial synthesis process at the 
commercial site confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  primary  stability  batches  synthesised  using  the  commercial 
process  at  the  commercial  site.  Samples  were  tested  in  line  with  shelf-life  specification  including  all 
parameters liable to change during storage.  
Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  -  commercial  packaging)  6-month  data  have  been 
provided.  Under  long-term  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH  -  commercial  packaging),  3-year  data  are 
available for 1 batch and 2-year data for the two other batches. The photostability study performed did 
not show any significant change in all stability indicating parameters.  
The proposed retest period is supported by the presented data when pozaconazole is stored in double 
polyethylene bags in a sealed fiber drum. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  rationale  for  formulating  the  finished  product  considered  principally  the  low  solubility  of 
posaconazole in aqueous media and the acceptability for the patient population of an oral dosage form 
containing  a  relatively  high  dosage  (400  mg  twice  a  day).  Based  on  superior  bioavailability  an  oral 
suspension  has  been  selected  as  commercial formulation over prototype tablets/capsules formulations. 
Posaconazole dissolution rate is enhanced by micronisation at the end of synthesis and the particle size 
is further reduced during manufacture of the finished product. 
2/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The excipients were chosen based on their compatibility with posaconazole. A non-ionic surfactant was 
found  to  be  necessary  to  wet  the  hydrophobic  poorly  soluble  active  substance  and  to  stabilise  the 
suspension.  Development  studies  have  confirmed  that  xanthan  gum  is  an  effective  suspending  agent 
providing good product uniformity for extended periods of time on standing, and permitting redispersion 
of active substance that may have sedimented during long-term storage. The selected and maintained by 
a citrate buffer system is satisfactory for the stability of posaconazole and maintains the antimicrobial 
efficacy  of  sodium  benzoate,  which  has  been  demonstrated  according  to  PhEur.  Acceptable  taste  and 
organoleptic properties are ensured by the incorporation of liquid glucose as sweetener, titanium dioxide 
as opacifier and artificial cherry flavour 
.  All  the  excipients  comply  with  the  PhEur  requirements  except  the  flavour,  which  is  adequately 
controlled  according  to  a  different  standard  and  is  in  compliance  with  the  European  legislation. 
Regarding the TSE risk, the oral suspension. does not include any components of ruminant origin. 
Physical  characterisation  of  the  suspension  included  studies  of  rheology,  settling  rate,  redispersibility 
and  minimum  and  maximum  fill  volume  tolerances.  The  product  settles  very  slowly,  remains 
homogeneous  for  extended  period  of  time  and  is  readily  redispersed  by  shaking  the  bottle  for  a  few 
seconds. 
The  amber  glass  bottle  and  the  high-density  polyethylene  closure  liner  coming  in  contact  with  the 
suspension  are  of  PhEur  quality.  Satisfactory  testing  was  performed  in  order  to  define  any  potential 
extractable  from  the  liner  and  no  leachable  was  identified  during  stability  studies  when  storing  the 
bottles in inverted position. The compatibility of the container/closure system was verified through the 
primary  stability  program.  The  polystyrene  measuring  spoon  is  suitable  for  contact  with  food,  CE 
marked and it has been approved for its intended use. The accuracy of the dose delivered by this medical 
device has been demonstrated according to PhEur.  
The oral suspension formulation used in the pivotal clinical study (P00041) was slightly different of the 
commercial  formulation.  However,  comparative  in  vitro  dissolution  data  indicate  that  posaconazole 
dissolution and the product performance are comparable.  
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  involves  the  following  steps:  preparation  of  an  aqueous  dispersion  of 
posaconazole, homogenization, final compounding, and primary packaging. 
Satisfactory  operating  parameters  and  in-process  controls  have  been  defined  at  each  stage  of 
manufacture.  Holding  times  for  the  posaconazole  manufacturing  process    have  been  adequately 
justified.  
The process will be validated prior to commercialization 
• 
Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests for appearance, identity (achiral HPLC and TLC), identity of 
sodium benzoate (HPLC), identity of titanium dioxide, assay (achiral HPLC), sodium benzoate content 
(HPLC),  degradation  products,  particle  size,  pH,  microbial  quality  (PhEur  –  skip  testing),  viscosity, 
deliverable volume, homogeneity, simeticone particles and dissolution.  
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  batches  made  at  the  commercial  manufacturing  scale  and .  batches 
manufactured  at  the  commercial  site  comply  with  the  specifications  and  indicate  consistent  and 
reproducible manufacture. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been conducted on 3 batches using the commercial process.  
Stability of the Product before first opening 
3/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chemical and physical stability-indicating parameters were tested. 
Under long-term conditions (25ºC/60% R.H. - packaging intended for commercialisation – upright and 
inverted  position),  2-year  data  are  available.  Up  to  6-month  data  under  accelerated  conditions  are 
available for these batches (40ºC/75% R.H. - packaging intended for commercialisation – upright and 
inverted position).  
A photostability study performed has shown that the finished product is not light sensitive.  
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the SPC. 
In-use stability of the suspension 
The  product  has  been  shown  to  be  chemically,  physically  and  microbiogically  stable  during  the 
proposed in-use shelf life and under the storage conditions defined in the SPC.  
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All pivotal studies were performed in compliance with the principles of international Good Laboratory 
Practice  (GLP)  regulations  and  were  consistent  with  the  International  Committee  on  Harmonisation 
(ICH) guidelines for conduct of toxicology studies. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Mechanism of action 
Posaconazole,  like  other  azoles,  inhibits  the  enzyme  lanosterol  14α-demethylase  that  is  necessary  for 
ergosterol  biosynthesis  in  yeasts  and  filamentous  fungi.    This  enzyme  is  also  known  as  CYP51A  or 
Erg11p and is encoded by the ERG11 gene. 
In-vitro  studies  showed  a  direct  correlation  between  the  ability  of  posaconazole  to  inhibit  the  enzyme 
and the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of substance for an organism.  
Homology  models  of  the  A.  fumigatus  and  C.  albicans  CYP51  proteins  predicted  that  the  long  side 
chain of posaconazole occupies a specific  channel within CYP51 that is not utilised by fluconazole or 
voriconazole. This additional interaction may stabilise binding of posaconazole to CYP51 proteins that 
have amino acid substitutions near the haem binding site and so may account for some aspects of the 
spectrum of susceptible fungi and for some activity against certain azole-resistant strains.  
Antifungal activity in vitro 
In-vitro studies of antifungal activity were performed in 45 laboratories using National Committee for 
Clinical Laboratory Standards (NCCLS) methodology. Approximately 18,000 unique strains collected 
from around the world have been tested, including organisms from 66 genera and 157 species of moulds 
and yeasts, as well as one algal and six protozoan species.  
In  these  tests,  posaconazole  showed  activity  against  some  organisms  with  reduced  susceptibility  to 
alternative  anti-fungal  agents  (see  table  1  for  a  summary).  In-vitro  studies  with  posaconazole  in 
combination  with amphotericin B, caspofungin or voriconazole against 30 Candida and Cryptococcus 
isolates  and  75 Aspergillus  and  Fusarium  isolates  revealed  no  antagonism  of  activity  for  any  of  the 
antifungal combinations tested.  
4/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Activity against isolates resistant to other anti-fungals 
N 
Posaconazole 
Fluconazole 
Itraconazole 
Voriconazole 
Amphothericin 
   MIC50  MIC90  MIC50  MIC90  MIC50  MIC90  MIC50  MIC90  MIC50  MIC90 
Aspergillus fumigatus 
   AMB resistant 
ITZ resistant 
   VOR resistant 
Candida species 
   Candida glabrata 
   Candida krusei 
   Candida guilliermondii 
   Candida dubliniensis 
Zygomycetes 
   All zygomycetes 
   Rhizopus 
   Mucor 
   Absidia 
15 
25 
12 
12
18 
18
9 
26 
16
4 
86 
32 
18 
16 
Antifungal activity in vivo 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1 
0.5 
0.25 
0.25 
0.5 
0.5 
2 
1 
1 
NA 
NA 
NA 
8 
32 
4 
64 
64 
32 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1 
1 
0.5 
0.5 
16 
0.5 
4 
1 
4 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1 
1 
8 
0.25 
2 
0.25 
0.063 
0.5 
8 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1 
1 
0.5 
0.031 
0.125 
0.25 
32 
0.063 
0.5 
0.016 
0.125 
0.5 
0.5 
1 
1 
4 
8 
16 
0.125 
0.25 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1 
4 
2 
0.125 
32 
32 
32 
0.5 
16 
16 
64 
16 
128 
128 
128 
128 
0.25 
1 
0.25 
0.25 
8 
0.5 
0.5 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
0.5 
In 41 different animal  models (immunocompetent or immunosuppressed mice, guinea pigs or rabbits), 
posaconazole  was  compared  to  other  antifungal  agents  (amphotericin,  fluconazole,  itraconazole, 
voriconazole  or  caspofungin)  against  one  or  more  of  Absidia,  Aspergillus,  Blastomyces,  Candida, 
Cladophialophora,  Coccidioides,  Cryptococcus,  Fusarium,  Histoplasma,  Mucor,  Pseudallescheria, 
Ramichloridium, Rhizopus, Wangiella, Leishmania, and Trypanosoma.  
In vivo studies in mice using posaconazole in combination with either amphotericin B or caspofungin 
against C. albicans, A. flavus, and A. fumigatus confirmed that there was no antagonism of activity or 
efficacy.  
In pre-clinical studies, the posaconazole 24-hr AUC/MIC and free drug AUC/MIC were predictive of 
efficacy in neutropenic mice infected with Candida albicans. Posaconazole free-drug AUC/MIC values 
associated with ED50 were similar (p-value 0.42) for 12 C. albicans isolates with posaconazole MICs in 
the range 0.015 – 0.12 µ g/ml. The posaconazole free drug AUC/MIC ratio was approximately 17. 
Non-clinical  PK/PD  studies  investigated  the  dose-response  relationship  for  posaconazole  against 
Aspergillus  flavus  in  immunocompromised  mice  infected  by  inhalation  of  conidia  and  against  C. 
albicans  in  immunocompetent  mice  infected  systemically.  Survival  increased  with  posaconazole  dose 
and  both  AUC/MIC  and  dose  showed  a  sigmoidal  relationship  with  survival.  In  the  A.  flavus  study, 
maximum  survival  was  achieved  at 5 mg/kg posaconazole, with best results on splitting the dose into 
four rather than two or on administration as a single dose. 
In a neutropenic rabbit model of pulmonary A. fumigatus, the maximum concentration of posaconazole 
in serum greatly exceeded the MIC at doses of 6 and 20 mg/kg/day and the t1/2 of 7-10 hours maintained 
plasma levels above MIC. A sustained level of 1000 ng/ml posaconazole correlated with high activity in 
plasma. 
Resistance 
Resistance to posaconazole in laboratory and clinical strains of A. fumigatus and C. albicans appeared 
to  be  rare.  In  the  laboratory,  spontaneous  A.  fumigatus  mutants  with  decreased  susceptibility  to 
5/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
posaconazole arose at a frequency of approximately 1 in 108.  This decrease in susceptibility was due to 
a single amino acid substitution in CYP51 (Gly54). In C. albicans, multiple amino acid substitutions in 
CYP51 were required to confer major reductions in susceptibility to posaconazole.  In addition to amino 
acid substitutions, a second mechanism of resistance involved increased expression of efflux pumps and 
resulted in a decreased intracellular concentration of the drug.   
A  third  mechanism  of  resistance  was  identified  in  clinical  C.  albicans  isolates  that  exhibited  reduced 
susceptibility to all azoles but did not have amino acid substitutions in CYP51 or increased expression 
of the efflux pump genes.  These isolates had nonsense mutations in the ERG3 gene resulting in a non-
functional ∆5,6-sterol desaturase, thereby abrogating the toxicity of the methylated sterol intermediates.  
This mechanism of resistance was rarely observed. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  with  posaconazole  were  conducted  which  was  considered 
acceptable. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rats  (oral  doses  up  to  30  mg/kg  posaconazole)  did  not  reveal  any 
specific  findings  regarding,  gastrointestinal,  central  nervous  system  and  renal  function.  .    In  a 
respiratory safety pharmacology study in rats (intravenous doses of a lipid containing formulation up to 
60 mg/kg) there were no effects on respiratory function.  
The effects of posaconazole on ventricular repolarisation were evaluated in vitro by measuring both the 
action potential and the recombinant hERG channel current.  In isolated Purkinje fibre system, exposure 
≥
to  posaconazole  at  measured  concentrations  of 
25  ng/ml  (36  nM)  induced  a  small  (<10%),  but 
statistically  significant,  increase  in  action  potential  duration  at  60%  (APD60)  and/or  90%  (APD90) 
repolarisation.  There were no effects regarding the other action potential parameters. 
In the recombinant hERG channel, posaconazole at a concentration of 770 ng/ml (1100 nM) induced a 
decrease  in  hERG  current  of  7%.  When  taking  into  account  the  protein  binding  (98.5%),  the 
concentration  in  the  hERG  assay  was  approximately  18-times  the  free  posaconazole  Cmax  value  in 
healthy  volunteers.    The  magnitude  of  these  changes  was  considered  unlikely  to  elicit  QT  interval 
prolongation in vivo.  
Cardiovascular parameters were investigated in rats and monkeys. Rats administered an oral dose of 90 
mg/kg/day  for  4  weeks  had  a  minimal  increase  in  systolic  and  mean  arterial  blood  pressures,  a 
decreased  intraventricular  systolic  diameter  and  increased  fractional  shortening.  No  changes  in  heart 
rate and stroke volume were observed.  The blood pressure change was considered to be a response to 
increased  vascular  resistance.  In  monkeys,  2  safety  pharmacology  studies  with  a  lipid-containing  iv 
formulation  of  posaconazole  (with  doses  up  to  40  mg/kg/day)  showed  no  treatment-related  effects  on 
heart rate, diastolic blood pressure, ECG intervals (RR, PR, QRS, QT, QTc), or ECG morphology and 
rhythm 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  posaconazole  was  assessed  following  administration  of  single  and 
repeated  oral  dose  to  mice,  rats,  pregnant  rats  and  rabbits,  dogs  and  monkeys.  Additional 
pharmacokinetics data were obtained after intravenously administration of single dose to mice, rats, and 
dogs. 
6/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  most  studies,  oral  administration  of  posaconazole  was  as  a  suspension  in  0.4%  aqueous 
methylcellulose or by dietary admixture. Intravenous administration used posaconazole as a solution in 
40% hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin. 
Sensitive  and  selective  HPLC  and  LC-MS/MS  bioanalytical  methods  were  used  to  determine  plasma 
and urine concentrations. 
• 
Absorption 
Posaconazole was slowly absorbed and slowly eliminated in all species including humans. Tmax ranged 
from 6 to 8 h in fed mouse, 3 to 12 h in fed rat, 6 to 28 hour in fed dog, 3 to 8 h in fed monkey and 5-24 
in  human.  In  mice,  following  iv  administration  of  10 mg/kg,  posaconazole  was  eliminated  with 
clearance  (CL)  and  t½  values  of  0.097 l/hr-/kg  and  6.86 hr,  respectively.  In  rats,  following  iv 
administration  of  20 mg/kg,  posaconazole  was  slowly  eliminated  with  clearance  values  of  0.207  and 
0.123 l/hr/kg  in  males  and  females,  respectively.   Values for t½ were 10.8 and 20.1 hr for males and 
females, respectively.  
Absolute  bioavailability accounted  for  44  to  49 % in fed mouse,  6.7 % in fasted male rat, 11.8 % in 
fasted female rat, 11 % and 27 % respectively in fasted and fed dog.  
The difference of exposure between sexes in rats was due to greater bioavailability and slower clearance 
of posaconazole in female. 
Bioavailability of posaconazole following oral administration exhibited a very high food effect. 
Exposure increased after oral administration to rats fed ad libitum (4- to 7-fold greater than fasted rats) 
and fed dogs (4-fold greater than fasted dogs).  Dietary administration of posaconazole to rats increased 
exposure by about 2.5 times that of fed rats dosed by gavage.   
Exposure to posaconazole increased with the dose but in a less than proportional manner. 
Exposure to posaconazole in pregnant rats was lower than that observed in non gravid rats. The reason 
for  this  difference  is  unknown  at  the  present  time.  Exposure  to  posaconazole  in  pregnant  rabbits 
increased with increasing dose and was dose proportional. 
• 
Distribution 
After administration of a single oral dose of 14C-posaconazole to fed, fasted albinos and pigmented rats 
and  fed  pregnant  rats,  radiocarbon  was  widely  distributed  and  the  pattern  of  tissue  distribution  of 
radiocarbon  was  the  same  in  pregnant  and  non  pregnant  rats.  The  combined  contents  of  the 
gastrointestinal  tract  in  the  first 8  to  12 hr  contained  up  to  ~81%  (females) and ~86% (males) of the 
total dose. The maximum concentration of radiocarbon in all tissues was observed between 4 and 12 hr 
postdose.    By  168 hr  after  a  single  oral  dose,  radiocarbon  was  below  the  limit  of  detection  in  most 
tissues.  
The same pattern was observed after once daily administration for 21 day, however, radiocarbon was 
still present in most tissues 240 hr after the final dose.  
Posaconazole was transferred across the placental barrier and is secreted to milk. 
Posaconazole  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  human  ranging  from 
97.9 % to 99.2 %, primary to HSA, and independently of posaconazole concentration over the range of 
0.05 to 20 µg/ml.  In addition there was no difference between serum and plasma protein binding of 3H-
posaconazole. 
7/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Metabolism and excretion 
In vitro human microsomal enzyme studies showed that posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 with a 
Ki  of  290 ng/ml,  which  is  within  the  human  plasma  concentration  range.  However,  there  was  no 
induction  of  any  CYP450  enzymes  and  no inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or 
CYP2D6 at concentrations less than 210 µg/ml.  
In-vivo metabolism studies have been conducted in mice, rats, dogs and humans with 14C-posaconazole. 
Posaconazole  undergoes  direct  glucuronidation,  oxidation,  cleavage  (N-  and  O-dealkylation),  and 
conjugation  (glucuronidation  and  sulfonation)  of  cleavage  and  oxidative  products.    In  all  species,  the 
majority (53.0 to 100%) of the radiocarbon observed circulating in plasma was associated with parent 
compound. No chiral inversion was observed in rat and dog serum or monkey and human plasma after 
single oral administration. 
Single  oral  dosing  in  all  species  revealed  that  80.3%  to  100%  of  the  radiocarbon  in  faeces  co-eluted 
with posaconazole. In contrast, 1.85% or less of the radiocarbon in urine co-eluted with posaconazole. 
Two minor human metabolites, called “M11” and“M10”, were identified in human urine and faeces that 
did not appear to be found in rats and dogs.  However, the radio chromatograms of urine and faeces of 
both  rats  and  dogs  had  small  peaks  that  eluted  in  a  region  of  the  chromatogram  consistent  with  the 
location of M10 and M11.  Thus, it is likely that these species were exposed to small amounts of both 
of these metabolites, but due to differences in the limit of detection of the different instruments used for 
analysis they were not identified in the earlier animal studies. 
After iv administration, the metabolite profiles in faeces were similar to those observed after oral, but in 
contrast  the  profiles  of  urine  samples  collected  after  iv  administration  appeared  to  be  significantly 
different  to  that  seen  after oral dosing.  Although the reason for these differences has not been firmly 
established, possible reasons include a facilitation of posaconazole renal clearance when administered iv 
as  a  solution  in  hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin  (HPβCD),  or  that  iv  administration  of  posaconazole 
circumvents first pass metabolism that might occur after oral administration. 
After  intraduodenal  (ID)  administration  of  5 ml  bile  from  male  iv-dosed  donor  rats  to  male  recipient 
rats, approximately 40% of the administered radiocarbon was in the bile and urine combined, indicating 
enterohepatic  circulation  of  posaconazole.  In  contrast,  clearance  and  t½  values  were  not  different  in 
dogs  with  and  without  bile  collection  after  iv  dosing,  suggesting  that  enterohepatic  circulation  of 
posaconazole or its metabolites is not significant in dogs. 
Fed  male  rats  treated  with  oral  doses  of  80  mg/kg/day-  posaconazole  for  8  days  had  significant 
decreases in hepatic benzphetamine N-demethylase and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activities. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
The  single  dose  toxicity  studies  have  been  carried  out  in  mice, rats and dogs by oral and intravenous 
route. 
After  oral  administration,  posaconazole  showed  low  acute  toxicity  in  all  tested  species.  The  no-effect 
oral  doses  were  2000 and  1500  mg/kg  in  male  and  females  mice,  respectively  and  were  >5000  and 
<4000 mg/kg in males and female rats, respectively.  
After intravenous administration as a solution in hydroxypropyl-
22.5 and 15 mg/kg for male and female mice, respectively and 20 mg/kg in rats.  
The non-lethal oral dose in dogs was 2000 mg/kg, with the no-effect doses being 480 and 240 mg/kg for 
males and females, respectively.  
β
-cyclodextrin, the no-effect doses were 
8/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated-dose toxicity studies have been conducted in mice for up to 3 months with oral doses up to 90 
mg/kg, in rats for up to 6 months with oral doses up to 45 mg/kg and in dogs for up to 1 year with oral 
doses up to 30 mg/kg. Results of a 1-year neuropathology study in cynomolgus monkeys have also been 
submitted. 
Posaconazole  caused  several  toxicological  effects  that  are  also  observed  with  other  antifungal 
substances in the azole class. 
Phospholipidosis,  defined  as vacuolisation of cells of monocyte/ macrophage lineage, was observed in 
all species studied. The main findings were foamy alveolar macrophages or accumulation of vacuolated 
macrophages in lungs, vacuolated histiocytes in spleen, thymus, lymph nodes and other lymphoid tissues 
and  vacuolated  Kupffer  cells  in  the  liver.    Posaconazole-induced  phospholipidosis  occurred  without 
apparent functional effects, with the exception of pulmonary phospholipidosis seen in rats in the 2-year 
carcinogenicity  study.    In  contrast  to  the  other  species  tested,  the  rat  had  the  greatest  severity  of 
pulmonary  phospholipidosis  to  the  degree  that  the  phospholipid-filled  macrophages  occupying  the 
alveoli obstructed the alveoli and resulted in effects on respiration.   
The lungs of mice, dogs and monkeys exposed to posaconazole at exposures comparable to or greater 
than those achieved in rats in the 2-year carcinogenicity study, also had accumulations of vacuolated or 
foamy macrophages typical of phospholipidosis.  However, in mice, dogs and monkeys, the pulmonary 
phospholipidosis  seen  was  less  severe  and  there  were  no  clinical  observations,  necropsy  or 
histopathological findings suggestive of overt functional changes related to pulmonary phospholipidosis.  
The no effect dose levels for phospholipidosis in cells of monocyte/ macrophage lineage in dogs, rats, 
mice  and  monkeys  were  1,  <5  (dietary  administration),  <10  (dietary  administration)  and  <15  mg/kg 
respectively.  
Acute  coagulopathy  syndrome  was  recorded  in  1  and  6  month  studies  in  dogs.  In  a  19-day 
investigational study, most of treated dogs had increased plasma von Willebrand Factor (vWf).  
Posaconazole also caused hypertrophy or hyperplasia of the adrenal glands in mice (at 
(all doses) and dogs (
 30 mg/kg), a well-known effect of azoles on adrenal cortical steroidogenesis.  
≥
≥
 30 mg/kg), rats 
In  dogs,  but  not  in the other species, phospholipidosis in neural tissue, as indicated by vacuolation of 
neurones  in  the  brain  and  Auerbach’s  plexus  of  the  intestine,  and  swelling  of  axons  in  the  brain  and 
spinal cord, was observed in the 6 and 12 months repeated-dose toxicity studies. Neuronal and axonal 
changes occurred at 10 and 30 mg/kg. At 3 mg/kg, only neurones of Auerbach’s plexus were affected.    
A 12 months neurotoxicity study, designed to specifically investigate posaconazole effects, did not show 
functional changes in the central and peripheral nervous system based on neurologic examinations and 
electrophysiological  measurements.  The  highest  dose  at  which  neuronal  phospholipidosis  without 
functional  effects  were  observed  in  dogs  was  30  mg/kg,  which  represents  animal  to  human  exposure 
multiples of approximately 3 fold. The lack of functional changes in the central and peripheral nervous 
system in the parameters examined in both dogs and monkeys indicates that neuronal phospholipidosis 
observed in dogs is, therefore, unlikely to be of clinical significance in humans. 
In the one-month repeated dose toxicity study in dogs, doses of 45 and 90 mg/kg-/day- resulted in minor 
increased QT intervals, reversal of T waves, STj point depression, deep negative T waves and increased 
U  wave  amplitude  in  precordial  leads.  All  these  findings  were  reversible  at  the  end  of  an  8-week 
recovery  period.  These  electrocardiographical  changes  correlated  with  moderate  decreases  in  serum 
potassium at the same doses.   
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
9/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posaconazole was not mutagenic in in vitro studies (gene mutation in bacteria, hamster ovary cells and 
human peripheral blood lymphocytes assays) nor clastogenic in vivo (micronuclei bone marrow assay in 
mice with doses up to 180 mg/kg). 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The carcinogenic potential of posaconazole has been investigated in long term oral studies in rats with 
doses up to 30 mg/kg/day and in mice with doses up to 90 mg/kg/day.  
In  rats,  the  incidence  of  adrenal  cortical  (cortical  cell  adenoma  or  carcinoma)  and  adrenal  medullary 
tumours  (benign  and  malignant  pheochromocytomas)  was  increased  in  the  high-dose  in  males 
(30 mg/kg/day)  and  females  (20 mg/kg/day).  Adrenal  cortical  tumours  are  attributed  to  the 
posaconazole-induced  interruption  of  steroidogenesis,  with  consequent  increased  secretion  of  ACTH, 
leading  to  chronic  proliferation  of  cortical  cells.    Adrenal  medullary  tumours  were  considered 
consequence  of  altered  calcium  homeostasis.    The  effect  on  the  adrenal  glands  in  the  rat  is  a  known 
class effect of azole antifungals. 
In mice, histiocytic hyperplasia was observed in the lymph nodes. This finding was a hyperplastic (non-
neoplastic)  change  due  to  proliferation  of  fixed  macrophages  (histiocytes)  in  several  organs  including 
lymph nodes.  The affected cells stained for lysozyme immunohistochemically, indicating that they were 
of  histiocytic  origin.    Ultrastructurally,  they  were  large  interdigitating  cells  containing  primary  and 
secondary  lysosomes  consistent  with  cells  of  histiocytic  origin.    There  was  no  evidence  of 
phospholipidosis  (membranous  lamellar  inclusions)  within  the  proliferative  cell  population  as 
demonstrated  by  transmission  electron  microscopy.    The  no  effect  dose  for  histiocytic  hyperplasia  in 
lymph nodes in mice was 10 mg/kg.  The animal-to-human exposure multiple at this dose is 1.51-fold 
and 5.17-fold for healthy subjects and patients, respectively.  The animal-to-human exposure multiples 
for  30  mg/kg,  a  dose  at  which  histiocytic  hyperplasia  in  lymph  nodes  was  seen,  were  3.69-fold  and 
12.7-fold in healthy subjects and patients, respectively.   
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Posaconazole had no effects on male fertility (doses up to 180 mg/kg) or on female fertility in rats (up 
to 45 mg/kg).   
In embryo-foetal development studies in rats, doses of 27 mg/kg led to foetuses with skeletal variations 
and  malformations. 
  In  rabbits,  there  were  increases  in  resorptions  and  skeletal  variations 
(predominantly reduced ossification of the sternebrae and an extra pair of thoracic ribs).  These effects 
are, however, known to correlate with treatment related effects on steroidogenesis.  The NOEL was > 
80 mg/kg for maternal toxicity and 20 mg/kg for embryo-foetal toxicity. 
In  the  peri-  and  post-natal  development  study  in  rats,  deaths  occurred  in  females  treated  at 
  18 
mg/kg/day, due to drug-related dystocia.  Increased length of gestation and dystocia occurred at doses of 
≥
≥
  18 
mg/kg/day.  Foetal abnormalities, consistent with those seen in the embryo-foetal development studies, 
were observed at 36 mg/kg/day.   
  18  mg/kg/day.    Reduced  F1  mean  live  litter  size  and  F1  postnatal  viability  also  occurred  at 
≥
• 
Local tolerance (if applicable) 
The  acute  dermal  toxicity  was  evaluated  in  male  and  female  rats  administered  a  single  topical 
application at 2000 mg/kg.  Only slight dermal irritation was observed and this cleared in all animals by 
Day 4.  Posaconazole was not considered a dermal sensitiser in guinea pigs. 
Posaconazole did not cause any irritation to the skin in rabbits. Posaconazole was slightly irritating to 
the rinsed eyes of rabbits and practically not irritating to the unrinsed eyes of rabbits.  
• 
Other toxicity studies 
A series of immunotoxicology  studies in mice indicated minimal changes in immune function at 30 or 
90 mg/kg/day after one and 3 months of dosing.  The changes in the immune system parameters in the 
10/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunotoxicity studies were minimal and reversible, indicating that administration of posaconazole had 
no permanent effect on the function of the immune system.  The no effect level was between 10 and 30 
mg/kg/day. 
There were no posaconazole-related neurotoxicity or neuropathology findings in monkeys administered 
daily doses of 180 mg/kg/day for 12 months. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use of 
posaconazole is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The pharmacology programme consisted of 23 studies involving 531 subjects.  
The  clinical  programme  in  refractory  invasive  fungal  infections  (rIFI)  comprised  one  main  study 
(P00041) and a control study (P02387) to be used as external control to the main study. An overview of 
these studies is displayed in table 2. 
Table 2: Overview of the clinical studies in rIFIs 
Study number  Design  
P00041 
P02387 
P02952 
P01893 
Regimen 
Open label, multicentre Phase III study 
 n  =  330  patients  (>  13  years)  with  proven/probable  invasive  fungal  infections 
refractory to or intolerant of standard antifungal therapy 
Posaconazole  200  mg  x  4/day  while  hospitalised,  followed  by  400  mg  x  2/day  as 
outpatient for up to 12 months  
Retrospective chart review to provide external control study, 
 n=279  patients  (>  13  years)  with  proven/probable  invasive  fungal  infections 
refractory to or intolerant of standard antifungal therapy 
Review committee analysis for the comparison of data from P00041 & P02387 
Open Phase II study, n=98 from 18 to 74 years 
 Loading  dose  (800  mg/day  or  1600  mg/day  given  in  divided  doses)  for  2  days 
followed by 800 mg/day (as a single dose or in divided doses) or 1200 mg/day.  
In addition the results of an open label pilot study (C/I97-280) in first line treatment of non-meningeal 
coccidiodomycosis were submitted.  
All clinical studies were claimed to have been performed according to Good Clinical Practice. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The studies are listed in table 3. Several formulations of posaconazole were used as shown below.  
11/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Overview of the pharmacology studies 
Bioavailability/Bioequivalence Studies 
N=21 
I95-099 
N=20 
I96-099 
N=24 
I96-172 
P02812 
N=23 
Pharmacokinetic Characteristics 
N=54 
N=48 
N=8/8 
I95-098 
I96-089 
C96-104, 
P02418 
C97-444 
N=18 
Intrinsic Factors 
I97-195 
N=16 
P01940 
N=24 
P02810 
N=64 
P02811 
N=56 
Drug Interaction 
N=12 
N=12 
N=12 
N=24 
N=36 
N=4 
N=17 
I97-016 
C96-120 
C96-173 
I96-207 
C96-201 
C96-247 
C96-190 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
P02862 
N=34 
N=12 
P02489 
Pharmacokinetics in Patients 
C96-421 
N=31 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Capsule / 100 mg 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Tablet / 100 mg 
Capsule / 100 mg 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Relative  bioavailability  (RBA)  of  Tablet/Capsule  in  Fed 
and Fasted Conditions  
High-Fat/Non  fat  and  Fasted  conditions  and  RBA  of 
Suspension vs Tablet  
RBA of Two Optimised Tablet and Capsule Formulations 
RBA With/Without Oral Nutritional Supplement 
Tablet / 50 mg-100 mg 
Tablet / 50 mg-100 mg 
14C-Suspension / 40 mg/ml  Radiolabeled 14C-AME Studies 
Rising Single-Dose Safety/Tolerance 
Rising Multiple-Dose Safety/Tolerance 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Compared BA of 3 Dose Regimens 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Suspension / 40 mg/ml 
Effect of Hepatic Disease on PK 
Effect of Renal Disease on PK 
Effect of Age and Gender on PK 
Effect of Race on PK 
Effect on Drug Metabolizing Enzymes 
PK Interaction with Antacid 
PK Interaction with Cimetidine 
PK Interaction with Rifabutin 
PK Interaction with Phenytoin 
PK Interaction with Ciclosporin 
PK  Interaction  with  Nucleoside  Analogues  (zidovudine  or 
lamivudine) and Protease Inhibitors (ritonavir or indinavir) 
PK Interaction with Tacrolimus 
PK and PD Interaction with Glipizide 
PK  in  Neutropenic  Autologous  Bone  Marrow  Transplant 
Patients  
• 
Absorption  
Following  oral  administration,  peak  plasma  concentrations  were  reached  within  3-4  hours  and  4-10 
hours in fasted and fed states, respectively.  
Due  to  the  absence  of  an  intravenous  formulation,  the  absolute  oral  bioavailability  could  not  be 
determined. 
With the oral suspension, it was shown in a 3-way crossover study in the fasting state that the AUC of 
posaconazole  could  be  increased in healthy volunteers by dividing the total daily dose of 800 mg into 
either 400 mg twice daily (x 1.7) or 200 mg four times daily (x  2.6) (table 4).  
Table 4: Compared bioavailability of 3 dose regimens (C97-444) 
Parameter 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
Relative Bioavailability (%) 
174 
275 
158 
Ratioa 
B/A 
C/A 
C/B 
AUC(0-48 hr) 
(ng⋅hr/ml) 
B/A 
C/A 
C/B 
a:  A = 800 mg posaconazole administered QD. 
B = 400 mg posaconazole administered Q12 hr. 
C = 200 mg posaconazole administered Q6 hr. 
165 
261 
159 
90% Confidence Interval 
129 - 234 
204 - 370 
118 - 213 
127 - 214 
201 - 339 
122 - 206 
12/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When posaconazole was administered as the suspension with a non-fat meal or nutritional supplement, 
the  AUC  was  2.6  times  that  seen  in  the  fasted  state.  When  administered  with  a  high  fat  meal  the 
posaconazole exposure is approximately 3.4 to 3.9 higher than in fasted state.  
Bioequivalence 
Bioequivalence  was  not  demonstrated  between  the  co-precipitate  tablet  vs  research  capsule,  research 
capsule  vs  the  size-optimised  tablets,  research  vs  size-optimised  capsules  or  co-precipitate  tablet  vs 
suspension when administered with a high-fat meal. In a post hoc evaluation of the cumulative dataset 
the  point  estimates  for  AUC  and  Cmax  under  fed  conditions  for  the comparison  of  the  suspension to 
research  capsule  AUC[I]  were  estimated  at  109.7%  and  96.9%,  respectively,  which  should  not  be 
clinically significant. 
In  another  bioequivalence  study,  oral  suspensions  with  particle  sizes  of  1.7  and  2.3  µ m  were  not 
bioequivalent. The median particle size for the suspension used in the main study of efficacy (P00041) 
was  in  the  range  of  1.6  -  1.8 µm.  Further  investigations  did  not  show  any  clear  relationship  between 
steady  state  AUC  and  particle  size.  The  original  proposed  specifications  for  particle  size  were  wider 
than those used for the production of clinical batches. Because of the uncertain clinical implication, the 
applicant  was  requested  to  tighten  the  specifications.  In  addition  the  applicant  undertook  to  further 
investigate pharmacokinetic variability of posaconazole with the intention of development of optimised 
method  that  would  be  suitable  for  further  investigation  of  the  effect  of  particle  size  distribution  on 
posaconazole bioavailability. 
• 
Distribution 
Posaconazole  had  a  large  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (mean  1744  l  and  range  774  to  5845  l), 
indicating high tissue penetration. Posaconazole is highly protein bound (98.2%), mainly to albumin and 
binding is concentration-independent. Posaconazole is a substrate for and an inhibitor of p-glycoprotein 
(P-gp) mediated efflux from cells. 
• 
Excretion 
In vitro human microsomal enzyme studies showed that posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 with a 
Ki  of  290 ng/ml,  which  is  within  the  human  plasma  concentration  range.  However,  there  was  no 
induction  of  any  CYP450  enzymes  and  no inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or 
CYP2D6 at concentrations greater than 210 µg/ml.  
Posaconazole is mainly metabolised via UDP-glucuronidation. 
In a mass balance study, 77% and 14% of a  14C labelled oral dose were recovered in faeces and urine 
respectively  (total  91%).  The  major  component  in  plasma  was  associated  with posaconazole (50% of 
profiled  radioactivity).  The  major  plasma  metabolite  was  monoglucuronide  of  posaconazole  which 
constituted  18-28%  of  the  profiled  radioactivity.  In  addition,  at  24  hours  post-dose, a  di-glucuronide 
and an oxidative metabolite of posaconazole constituted 9% and 8% of the percent of radiocarbon in the 
profiled plasma, respectively.  
The urine contained two mono-glucuronide conjugates and a di-glucuronide conjugate of posaconazole 
but  these  metabolites  together  accounted  for  no  more  than  4%  of  the  dose.  The  remaining  urinary 
radioactivity was present as trace amounts of oxidative metabolites. Faecal radioactivity was composed 
mainly  of parent compound (93.8% of the radioactive profile; 66.3% of the dose) and minor oxidative 
metabolites.  The  presence  of  parent  drug  in  the  faeces  was  consistent  with  unabsorbed  drug,  non-
metabolised  drug,  drug  actively  secreted  into  the  gut  or  glucuronide  conjugates  hydrolysed  to  the 
aglycone by gut flora. 
13/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  mean  half-life  was  approximately  25  hours  following  administration of single doses of 200-1200 
mg,  indicating  that  the  metabolism  of  posaconazole  is  not  saturable  across  this  dose  range.  After 
multiple dosing for 14 days in the fed state in study I96-089, the mean steady-state elimination t½ was 
long 19 to 31 hours and Vd/F was 343 to 486 l indicating extensive tissue penetration.  
14/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In  a  single  dose  study  (after  a  high  fat  meal),  plasma  concentrations  increased  approximately  in 
proportion  to  doses  from  50  mg  to  800  mg.  The  1200 mg  dose  yielded  slightly  lower  plasma 
concentrations than the 800 mg dose.  
On  dosing  at  up  to  400  mg  twice  daily  with  standardised  high-fat  meals  for  14  days  in  healthy 
volunteers,  an  approximate  dose  proportional  increase  in  exposure  was  observed  on  day  14.  Steady-
state  concentrations  were  achieved  by  day  10  of  dosing.  The  accumulation  ratio  of  6.6  to  8.3  was 
greater than would be expected based on the half-life value of 19-31 hours. 
• 
Intra- and inter-variability 
The variability in AUC and Cmax values between subjects was higher in patient studies (71% - 86%) 
relative  to  healthy  volunteer  studies  (~35%  -  50%).  In  addition,  exposure  to  posaconazole  in  the 
majority  of  healthy  volunteers  was  ∼3  times  higher  than  in  patients  administered  the same dose. This 
was  thought  likely  due  to  reliable  consumption  with  food  in  healthy  subjects  and  more  variable 
conditions of dosing in patients.  
At present there is no explanation for the inter-individual variability seen in posaconazole exposures and 
there is no indication that the dose of posaconazole should be tailored according to gender, age, P-gp, 
MDR-1 genotype or weight. 
Due  to  the  inter-individual  variability  and  effect  of  food  on  posaconazole  exposures,  the  applicant 
committed to further evaluate the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole in various types of patients under 
various dosing conditions.  
• 
Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
Following a single 400 mg dose of posaconazole suspension with a high fat meal, there was no effect of 
mild and moderate renal insufficiency on posaconazole pharmacokinetics (n = 18; 6 per group Clcr > 20 
ml/min/1.73  m2).  In  subjects  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  on  haemodialysis  (n  =  6;  Clcr  <  20 
ml/min/1.73 m2) no definitive conclusion could be drawn due to the high variability exposure (> 81 %) 
compared to the exposure in other groups (< 49 %).  
No effect of mild renal insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is expected and therefore 
no  dose  adjustment  is  necessary.  As  posaconazole  is  not  significantly  renally  eliminated,  an  effect  of 
severe renal insufficiency is not expected and therefore no dose adjustment is warranted. Posaconazole 
is not removed by haemodialysis.  
Impaired liver function 
In  a  study  of  single  200 mg  dose  of  posaconazole  oral  suspension  with  a  standardised  high-fat  meal, 
there  was  a  trend  towards  decreased  Cmax  and  increased  AUC  values  with  the  increased  severity  of 
hepatic  dysfunction  (table  5).  There  was  also  an  increase  in  half-life  associated  with  a  decrease  in 
hepatic function. 
15/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Mean (%CV) Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Posaconazole Following a Single 200 mg Oral Dose to 
Subjects With Normal Liver Function and With Mild, Moderate, and Severe Chronic Liver Disease 
Mean (%CV) 
Parameter 
Normal (n=4) 
Mild (n=4) 
Moderate (n=4) 
Severe (n=4) 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Tmax (hr)c 
·
AUC(tf) (ng
hr/ml) 
·
hr/ml) 
AUC(I) (ng
CL/F (l/hr) 
Vdarea/F (l) 
t½ (hr) 
508 (35) 
7.5 (5-12) 
18220 (50) 
18944 (51) 
12.5 (42) 
381 (39) 
22.1 (22) 
545 (34) 
5 (5-6) 
26490 (45) 
25805a (60) 
9.61a (50) 
334a (31) 
26.6a (32) 
414 (16) 
11 (10-24) 
23497 (35) 
23535a (41) 
9.65a (45) 
431a (26) 
35.3a (55) 
347 (28) 
18 (5-36) 
24238 (45) 
30521b (NC) 
6.91b (NC) 
473b (NC) 
46.1b (NC) 
a: 
n=3; t½, CL/F, AUC(I), and Vd/F could not be determined for some subjects as the number of samples collected 
during the terminal elimination phase were not sufficient. 
b:  n=2, CV not calculated; t½, CL/F, AUC(I) and Vd/F could not be determined for some subjects as the number of 
samples collected during the terminal elimination phase were not sufficient. 
A  pharmacokinetic  model  similar  to  the  one  used  for  renal  impairment  suggested  higher  mean  and 
geometric mean Cmax and AUC(τ) values (by 2-fold or more) in severe hepatic  insufficiency for 200 
mg qid or 400 mg bid regimens and regardless of food. Although clear dose recommendations cannot be 
given,  the  SPC  describes  the  findings  and  advises  caution  on  the  use  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
impairment.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  acquire  more  data  on  use  in  individuals  with  hepatic 
insufficiency. 
Gender, Race, Age and Weight 
There  were  no  clinically  relevant  effects  of  gender,  weight  and  race  (Caucasians  and  African-
Americans) on the pharmacokinetics parameters. A significant increase in Cmax and AUC up to 49 % 
was found in the elderly, nonetheless it was not considered necessary to require any dose adjustment. 
No specific pharmacokinetics study was conducted in children. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
The results from study P00041 in which patients were to be dosed with food (but may not always have 
complied  with  this  recommendation)  suggested  that  responders  tended  to  have  greater  mean  plasma 
posaconazole  concentrations  than  non-responders,  although  the  range  of  plasma  concentrations  was 
large (table 6). 
Table 6: Summary Statistics of Posaconazole Concentration vs Global Response – DRC, mITT subset 
Response Status 
Respondera 
Non-responder 
Respondera 
Non-responder 
n 
93 
65 
34 
32 
Median 
Mean 
SD 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Concentration (ng/ml) 
All Subjects (n=158) 
804 
480 
927 
637 
655 
605 
Subjects With Aspergillus Infection (n=66) 
704 
398 
746 
500 
454 
406 
0 
14 
60 
57 
2990 
3490 
2010 
1880 
a:  Subjects with a global response of "complete response" or "partial response," as adjudicated by the DRC. 
The relationship between positive clinical response and the plasma concentration natural logarithm was 
statistically  significant  according  to  this  model  for  all  subjects  combined  (n=158;  p  = 0.01),  and  for 
subjects  with  Aspergillus  infection  (n=66;  p  = 0.02).  Even  when  baseline  MIC  was  included  in  the 
analysis,  with  a  smaller  sample  size,  the  association  of  plasma  concentration  with  global  response 
16/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
remained  statistically  significant  for  all  subjects  combined  (n=78;  p  = 0.021),  and  for  subjects  with 
Aspergillus infection (n=33; p = 0.012). 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The  majority  of  the  interaction  studies  were  carried  out  in  healthy  volunteers  with  a  multiple  dose 
regimen that was most often 200 mg (as tablets) once daily to steady state administered with a meal or 
nutritional  supplement.  Since it  has been shown that data obtained in healthy volunteers with 200 mg 
daily as tablets taken with a high fat meal are likely to be close to those that will be achieved in patients 
with suspension at 400 mg bid, the findings of these studies were considered relevant. 
Posaconazole administered at 200 mg once daily with food increased the midazolam AUC by 83% after 
intravenous  administration  to  healthy  volunteers.  Due  to  the  potential  for  inhibition  of  intestinal 
CYP3A4  by  posaconazole,  an  even  greater  effect  on  the  AUC  midazolam  is  expected  following  oral 
administration  of  posaconazole.  Therefore  a  recommendation  has  been  added  in  the  Summary  of 
Product  Characteristics  to  consider  dose  adjustments  for  all  benzodiazepines  that  are  metabolised 
through  CYP3A4  during  co-administration  with  posaconazole.  In  addition  the  applicant  agreed  to 
undertake to conduct an interaction study with oral midazolam, the results of which will be submitted as 
part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Antacid (Mylanta Double-Strength Liquid with 25.4 mEq acid neutralising capacity per 5 ml) was given 
with  posaconazole  under  either  fed (high-fat meal; 54 g fat) or fasted conditions. The antacid slightly 
increased  the  relative  oral  bioavailability  of  posaconazole  in  the  fasted  state  (by  15%)  but  decreased 
bioavailability in the fed state (by 12%). 
Concomitant  administration  with  cimetidine  400  mg  twice  daily  decreased  the  Cmax  and  AUC(τ)  of 
posaconazole  by  ∼40%  but  posaconazole  Tmax  and  t1/2  did  not  change.  The  effect  on  posaconazole 
exposure  is  most  likely  due  a  pH-mediated  decrease  in  absorption  and  so  the  SPC  also  mentions  co-
administration with proton pump inhibitors. 
Rifabutin 300 mg once daily for 7 days reduced posaconazole AUC and Cmax values by 51% and 57% 
with  a  doubling  in  clearance.  Rifabutin  Cmax  and AUC(τ)  increased  by  31%  and  72%,  respectively, 
with a 40% decrease in rifabutin CL/F. Three  subjects discontinued this study  due to leukopenia (one 
after rifabutin but prior to posaconazole and two after combination dosing). Therefore a statement has 
been  included  in  the  SPC  to  avoid  the  co-administration  of  posaconazole  and  rifabutin  and  similar 
inducers such as rifampicin. 
At  steady  state,  co-administration  of  posaconazole  with  phenytoin  resulted  in  reductions  of 
approximately 50% in posaconazole Cmax and AUC(0-24 hr) values with a 99% increase in clearance 
of posaconazole. Mean steady state phenytoin Cmax and AUC(0-24 hr) values were both increased by 
15.5%  on  co-administration.  Therefore  a  statement  has  been  included  in  the  SPC  to  avoid  the  co-
administration  of  posaconazole  and  phenytoin  and  similar  inducers  such  as  carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital and primidone. 
Four male heart transplant recipients on ciclosporin for at least 15 months with a stable dose for at least 
6 weeks received 200 mg posaconazole (tablets) once daily for 10 days with a high-fat meal.  Doses had 
to be lowered based on ciclosporin blood levels in 3/4 subjects by 14%-29%. Based on the findings and 
on a model to extrapolate the data to 400 mg bid, the increase in ciclosporin AUC on co-administration 
with  the  recommended  doses  for  invasive  fungal  infections  is  likely  to  be  in  the  range  1.5  to  2-fold 
depending on whether posaconazole is taken with food, particularly with a high fat food. Monitoring of 
ciclosporin  levels  is  recommended  and  dose  adjustment  should  be  based  on  individual  ciclosporin 
concentrations. 
Single doses of tacrolimus 0.05 mg/kg on Days 1 and 14 with posaconazole 400 mg suspension twice 
daily on Days 7 through 14 gave increases in tacrolimus AUC(I) and Cmax values of 458% and 221%, 
17/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively,  but  Tmax  did  not  change.  The  t½  of  tacrolimus  increased  by  ∼7 hours  and  the  CL/F 
decreased  80%  on  co-administration.  Therefore  a  statement  has  been  included  in  the  SPC 
recommending dose adjustment (e.g. a reduction in the tacrolimus dose to about one third of the current 
dose) and close monitoring of blood levels during treatment. The applicant committed to obtain data on 
sirolimus.  
In 17 HIV-infected patients already on treatment with zidovudine and lamivudine or another NRTI plus 
ritonavir or indinavir and receiving 200 mg posaconazole (tablets) once daily for 14 days with a non-fat 
breakfast, the posaconazole mean AUC value was consistent with that  observed previously in a study 
where 200 mg QD was given with a non-fat meal, suggesting no  significant metabolism by CYP3A4. 
Posaconazole did not notably affect the pharmacokinetics of indinavir, zidovudine, or lamivudine (AUC 
changes by 7%-16%). There was a 30% increase in exposure to ritonavir (30%). A statement has been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics to draw the attention of the prescribers that because 
protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase plasma levels 
of  these  anti-retroviral agents. The applicant committed to perform a study to evaluate the interaction 
between posaconazole and a boosted PI (atazanavir) as well as efavirenz (CYP3A4 inducer), the results 
of which will be submitted as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
When  10  mg  glipizide  was  given  on  Days  1  and  11  and  400  mg  posaconazole  suspension  was  given 
twice daily from Days 2-11 with a high-fat meal, glipizide had a small effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
posaconazole that was not thought to be clinically significant. Co-administration had a small effect on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  glipizide  but  there  was  a  mean  decrease  in  glucose  concentrations  with 
statistically  significant  differences  in  the  log-transformed  glucose  AUC(0-24  hr),  Cmin,  and  Cmax 
values. Also, 6 of the 11 evaluable subjects in this study had a decrease in Cmin glucose values on co-
administration.  However,  there  was  no  definitive  correlation  between  individual  glipizide  and  glucose 
concentrations.  Because  the  effects  on  glipizide  and  glucose  levels  might  be  significant  in  diabetics, 
monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetics taking sulphonylureas. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
See the preclinical part of this document. The applicant committed to continue to support programmes 
of  surveillance  of  resistance  and  to  provide  regular  updates  on  the  occurrence  of  resistance  to 
posaconazole. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Data from 6 Phase 2/3 clinical studies with orally administered posaconazole were analysed to explore 
the  correlation  between  susceptibility  (MIC),  pharmacokinetics  (PK),  pharmacodynamics  (PD),  and 
clinical  outcome.    Data  were  available  for  924 isolates  from  810  posaconazole-treated  subjects, 
including  many  strains  with  MICs  greater  than  2 µg/ml  posaconazole  but  it  has  not  been  possible  to 
determine susceptibility testing breakpoints.  
In animal studies the PK/PD parameter that was found to correlate best with triazole efficacy was the 
AUC  of  free  unbound  drug/MIC.  An  analysis  of  clinical  cases  for  which  there  were  PK,  MIC  and 
clinical  outcome  data  (n=189)  showed  a  correlation  between  susceptibility,  total  drug  AUC/MIC  and 
clinical  outcome.  The  AUC/MIC  ratio  associated  with  a  successful  clinical  outcome  (complete  or 
partial clinical response) in subjects infected with Aspergillus (n=33) was higher (~200) than that (~15) 
observed for Candida (n=45). Most of the patients with Candida had refractory OPC while all of the 
patients with Aspergillus had invasive disease. For those subjects achieving these respective ratios, 88% 
(15/17)  of  the  Aspergillus-infected  subjects  and  90%  (26/29)  of  the  Candida-infected  subjects  had  a 
successful outcome. Although numbers are small, the results suggest that it is important to ensure that 
the maximal plasma levels are achieved, especially for patients infected with Aspergillus. 
18/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due  to  the  inter-individual  variability  and  effect  of  food  on  posaconazole  exposures,  the  applicant 
committed to further explore whether there is a discernible relationship between exposure and outcome.    
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Some potential for prolongation of the QTc interval might be anticipated as for other azoles, although 
the data in healthy subjects  did not suggest that taking 400 mg bid of the suspension with food would 
produce notable changes in conduction. Since plasma concentrations achieved by this dose regimen are 
higher  in  volunteers  than  in  patients,  there  seemed  to  be  little  potential  for  clinically  significant  QTc 
prolongation during routine clinical use (see also clinical safety for further discussion on QTc). 
With respect to liver function, approximately 1% of healthy volunteers had elevations greater than 2.5 
times the upper limit of normal (CTC Grade 2) for alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase 
(AST)  and/or  gamma-glutamyl  transferase  (GGT).  The  relationship  between  LFT  elevation  by  CTC 
grade  and  posaconazole  AUC  was  evaluated  using  AUC[τ]  for  multiple-dose  studies  and  AUC[I]  for 
single-dose  studies  assuming  linear  kinetics.  Where  there  were  multiple  LFT  elevations,  the  highest 
single value was included and crossover periods were counted separately. Although, the majority of the 
LFT  elevations  (CTC  Grade  1)  were  observed  in  the  400  mg  twice  daily  group  (gives  highest  mean 
exposure), there was no clear association between CTC grade elevations in any of ALT, AST, or GGT 
and exposure to posaconazole in these studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response  
The choice of the dose is mainly based on pharmacokinetics data which showed that increasing the dose 
above 800 mg does not further enhance exposure to posaconazole.  
The  data  clearly  indicated  a  major  food  effect  that  was  seen  with  all  formulations  tested  and  which 
reduced the degree of inter-subject variability (coefficient of variation 26-43 % compared to 31-75 % in 
the fasted state). In the fasting state, splitting the dose into 200 mg four times a day increased plasma 
concentrations in healthy volunteers (58 % over 48 hours) and it is expected that the effect would occur 
in patients.  
Although  the  exact  dosing  conditions  employed  in  P00041  are  not  known,  the  analyses  of  patient 
samples  from  this  study  did  demonstrate  a  correlation  between  mean  plasma  levels  and  outcomes  for 
Aspergillus  and  for  other  infections.  In  addition  the  results  support  a  benefit  over  other  therapies,  as 
elaborated  below  including  injected  therapies,  in  the  treatment  of  Aspergillus.  What  the  patient 
pharmacokinetic data cannot determine, due to the design of the study, is whether the two regimens (400 
mg  BID or 200 mg QID) would or would not result in similar plasma profiles in patients with similar 
food  intakes,  disease  features  and  other  potentially  important  variables  affecting  exposure.  Also,  the 
clinical data cannot determine if the BID regimen is more or less efficacious than the QID regimen. 
Overall there seem to be sufficient data to suggest that recommending 200 mg QID for those unable to 
take the suspension with food is a reasonable reflection of the data thus far. Also, recommending 400 
mg BID when it is possible to take posaconazole with food, even if not a high fat meal, should provide 
satisfactory blood levels. 
• 
Main Studies 
Study P00041 was an open-label, multicentre and non-comparative study primarily intended to evaluate 
posaconazole oral suspension for treating patients with invasive fungal infections that were refractory or 
resistant to standard antifungal therapies. 
19/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study P02387 was a retrospective study based on medical chart review of patients with invasive fungal 
infections  either  refractory  or  intolerant  to  standard  therapy.  These  patients  constituted  an  external 
control group that was mainly contemporary P00041.   
An independent Data Review Committee (DRC) composed of 15 experts in the diagnosis and treatment 
of  fungal  infections  and  2  expert  radiologists  was  assembled  to  review  the  cases  from  P00041  and 
P02387 in a simultaneous, blinded fashion. The DRC assessed patient eligibility and global responses.   
Study Participants  
Study P00041  
This study enrolled adults (> 18 years of age) and children (> 13 years of age) with: 
- proven or probable invasive fungal infection which was refractory (according to prespecified criteria, 
see below) to standard antifungal therapies   
- or a proven invasive Aspergillus species infection diagnosed by a brain biopsy  
- or a proven invasive Aspergillus terreus infection  
-  or  a  positive  blood  culture  for  Fusarium  within  7  days  prior  to  start  of  study  drug  and  temporally 
related clinical symptoms compatible with a Fusarium infection  
- or a tissue histopathology within 7 days prior to start of study drug showing dichotomously branching 
septate  hyphae  in  tissue  specimens  obtained  by  a  needle  aspiration  or  biopsy  (excluding  mucous 
membranes) and with isolation of Fusarium species from the same site  
or 
-  a  proven  or  probable  IFI  with  a  prior  history  of  serious,  severe,  or  life-threatening  toxicity  while 
receiving standard antifungal therapy  
or 
- a proven or probable IFI with preexisting organ dysfunction (such as renal dysfunction) that precludes 
the administration of standard antifungal therapy. 
There are no standardised guidelines to define refractoriness, but the criteria used by the DRC were: 
- 
Patients must have had treatment for an appropriate duration (> 7 days for Aspergillus and 
fusariosis, > 90 days for chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma and CNS coccidioidomycosis, and 
> 180 days for non-CNS coccidioidomycosis) with an effective (DRC opinion) antifungal agent 
prior to entry into the study.  
and 
- 
accompanied by 
- 
Require a change in mycological therapy (in agent, regimen, route or an additional agent) 
Failure to improve or progression of disease (with detailed definitions supplied). 
Study P02387 
To be considered as eligible, all following criteria were to be met: 
- Adult (age > 18 years) and children (age > 13 years) 
- Treatment of IFI between April 30, 1996 and April 30, 2001 at one of the centres participating in 
P00041 or at other centres 
- Diagnosis of proven or probable IFI based on MSG/EORTC criteria 
- Refractory IFI or intolerance to standard therapy 
- The case must have enough post baseline information to assess global response 
Several valid reasons have been provided to explain why patients identified from medical records as 
being eligible for P02387 had not been enrolled into P00041 itself in the sites that participated in both 
studies.  
20/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Study P00041 
Patients who began treatment in hospital received 200 mg of posaconazole oral suspension (40 mg/ml) 4 
times  daily  (q.i.d.)  followed  by  400 mg  of  posaconazole  oral  suspension  b.i.d.  from  the  time  of 
discharge from the hospital.  Those not hospitalised at the beginning of treatment received posaconazole 
400 mg b.i.d. throughout. All dosing was to be with food or nutritional supplement.  
The  maximum  total  duration  of treatment was to be 12 months. Also, if the investigator, subject, and 
sponsor  agreed,  maintenance  therapy  with  posaconazole  could  be  continued  under  a  separate  study 
protocol (P02095). 
Study P02387 
The treatments that had been given were recorded. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Study P00041 
The  primary  efficacy  end-point  was  the  subject’s  global  response  status  at  the  end  of  treatment  as 
assessed by the Data Review Committee. 
The  end  of  treatment  was  defined  as  7 days  after  either  day  365 day  on  study,  the  last  dose  of 
posaconazole or the last dose before the first interruption in dosing of at least 14 days. 
The  definitions  of  responder/non  responder  as  determined  by  the  DRC  based  on  clinical  signs  and 
symptoms attributable to IFI, radiographic assessment and mycology testing were: 
Responders 
•  Complete Response: resolution of all attributable symptoms, signs, and radiographic, mycological, 
or bronchoscopic abnormalities, if present at baseline 
•  Partial Response: clinically meaningful improvement in attributable symptoms, signs, and 
radiographic, mycological, or bronchoscopic abnormalities, if present at baseline 
Non responders 
•  Stable Disease:  no improvement in attributable symptoms, signs, and radiographic, mycological, 
or bronchoscopic abnormalities, if present at baseline 
•  Failure:  deterioration in attributable clinical or radiographic abnormalities necessitating alternative 
antifungal therapy or resulting in death 
•  Unable to Determine:  If for any reason the global response cannot be assessed (e.g., insufficient 
medical records to determine outcome) 
When applicable, the cause of death was also assessed. 
There  were  a  number  of  secondary  endpoints  including  time  to  death  from  the  beginning  of 
posaconazole. 
Since  the  data  collection  for  the  external  controls in P02387 was retrospective, it was not possible to 
collect follow-up information in any sort of standardised fashion as it was done in P00041. Therefore, 
the  global  response  rate  at  the  end  of  treatment  was  chosen  as  the  primary  endpoint  that  could  be 
assessed blindly and compared between P00041 and P02387 patient populations by the DRC. 
Statistical methods 
Study P00041 
21/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For this uncontrolled study, the global response rate was estimated and a 95% confidence interval was 
provided. 
The final analysis plan referred to the following subsets of patients: 
Intent  to  treat  (ITT): All patients who received at least one dose of posaconazole between April 30, 
1996 and April 30, 2001. 
Modified  Intention  to  Treat  Subset  (=  “eligible  patients”  mITT):  Subset  of  ITT  with  a  proven  or 
probable  IFI  as  determined  by  the  DRC based on 2001 MSG/EORTC criteria [Ascioglu et al. 2002] 
and evidence of a refractory IFI or intolerance to standard antifungal agents as determined by the DRC. 
The primary analysis is based on this subset. 
Efficacy  Evaluable  Subset  (=  evaluable  patients):  Subset  of  mITT  patients  who  have  at  least  one 
assessment of global response that is not “Unable to Determine” as determined by the DRC.   
Per  Protocol  Efficacy  Subset:  Subset  of  efficacy  evaluable  who  has  not  received  any  prohibited 
medications  or  any  concomitant  systemic  antifungal  therapy  for  more  than  5  consecutive  days  or  for 
more than 20% of the total duration of the Treatment Period. Patients received ≥ 80% of the scheduled 
days of dosing during the Treatment Phase. 
Report P02952 
This  report  on  the  comparison  of  the  results  between  P00041  and  P02387  must  be  viewed  with 
considerable  caution  since  P02387  constituted  an  external  control  group.  However,  the  applicant 
performed  a  primary  analysis  that  was  based  on  the  MITT subset (“eligible” subjects with proven or 
probable invasive aspergillosis). 
A logistic regression model was used to compare posaconazole-treated and control groups with respect 
to the global response rate at the end of treatment in subjects with IFI due to Aspergillosis. 
The  odds  ratio  for  the  treatment  effects  based  on  this  model  provides  an  estimate  of  the  efficacy  of 
posaconazole relative to control, and a two-sided test (alpha=0.05) was used to assess the significance 
of the treatment effect. 
Clinical outcomes 
Table 7: Patient disposition 
Number (%) of subjects 
P00041 (N=330) 
P02387 (N=279) 
Disposition of subjects during the treatment phase - ITT subset 
193 (58) 
Discontinued 
Adverse events 
Treatment failure 
Lost of follow-up 
Did not wish to continue 
Non-compliance with protocol 
Did not meet protocol eligibility 
Administrative 
Death  
Completed treatment phase 
* death reported separately. 
102 (31)  
47 (14) 
2 (1) 
17 (5) 
17 (5) 
3 (1) 
5 (2) 
* 
109 (39)  
5 (2) 
8 (3)  
96 (34)  
137 (42) 
170 (61) 
With  respect  to  baseline  data,  the  overall  major  characteristics  of  the  study  (P00041)  and  control 
(P02387) populations are shown below.  
For the majority of characteristics, the groups were well matched, including proportions of patients with 
malignancy and bone marrow transplant (BMT) as well as sites of infections.  
22/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table 8: Baseline data 
ALL PATHOGENS 
Baseline Characteristic or Subgroup 
ALL PATIENTS HAVING A PRIMARY PATHOGEN 
DEMOGRAPHY 
Age (y) 
<18 y 
18 to 64 y 
≥65 y 
Mean (SD) 
Female 
Male 
Caucasian 
non Caucasian 
<65 kg 
≥65 kg 
Missing 
N 
Mean (SD) 
Time Interval of Enrollment 
30 APR 1996 to 31 DEC 1998 
01 JAN to 31 DEC 1999 
01 JAN to 31 DEC 2000 
01 JAN to 30 APR 2001 
P00041 and P02387 
P00041 only 
P02387 only 
Large Site  
Other Sites Combined 
USA 
non USA 
Global response 
Posaconazole  
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
N 
238 
11 
202 
25 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(5) 
(85) 
(11) 
N 
218 
6 
190 
22 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(3) 
(87) 
(10) 
44.1 (16.1) y 
42.4 (15.9) y 
77 
161 
143 
95 
106 
114 
18 
(32) 
(68) 
(60) 
(40) 
(45) 
(48) 
(8) 
68 
150 
96 
122a 
71 
77 
70 
(31) 
(69) 
(44) 
(56) 
(33) 
(35) 
(32) 
220 
66.48 (15.96) kg 
148 
67.81 (16.24) kg 
NA 
33 
151 
54 
170 
68 
NA 
60 
178 
165 
73 
(14) 
(63) 
(23) 
(71) 
(29) 
(25) 
(75) 
(69) 
(31) 
57 
57 
79 
25 
192 
NA 
26 
38 
180 
117 
101 
(26) 
(26) 
(36) 
(11) 
(88) 
(12) 
(17) 
(83) 
(54) 
(46) 
Analysis of the global response at the end of treatment for patients with refractory /intolerant fungal 
infection is presented in table 9. 
Table 9: Global Response at End of Treatment mITT 
ALL PATHOGENS 
Total Number (%) of Patients 
Responders 
Non-responders 
Treatment versus Controla 
P Value 
Odds Ratio 
95% Confidence Interval for the Odds Ratio 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
N 
238 
119 
119 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(50.0) 
(50.0) 
N 
218 
96 
122 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(44.0) 
(56.0) 
0.0459 
1.75 
(1.01, 3.02) 
Outcome by pathogens 
Aspergillus  
The  majority  of  the  patients  were  refractory  (88%  of  107  in  the  posaconazole  group  and  79%  of  86 
controls)  or  refractory  and  intolerant  to  standard  therapy  (36%  and  23%.  respectively).  Few  patients 
were  intolerant  only  and  most  patients  who  were  intolerant  had  renal  dysfunction  as  a  result  of 
amphotericin B  therapy.  There  were  more  control  group  patients  who  received  less  than  30 days  of 
previous  therapy  than  in the posaconazole group (83% versus 64%) and the median duration of prior 
therapy  among  mITT  patients  with  refractory  disease  was  23 days  in  the  posaconazole  group  and 
23/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 days  in  the  control  group.  More  than  90%  of  the  patients  in  both  groups  had  received  some 
formulation  of  amphotericin  B  and  itraconazole  had  been  administered  to  40%  to  50%.  The  median 
number  of  days  of  prior  amphotericin B  for  the  entire  mITT  population  was  17 days  for  the 
posaconazole group and 11.5 days for the control group. 
Table 10:  Response according to prior antifungal therapy 
Prior Effective 
Antifungal Therapya 
n  Mean 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
SD 
Median 
Range 
n  Mean 
Control 
(P02387) 
SD  Median 
Range 
Amphotericin B 
Lipid Amphotericin 
Any Amphotericin 
Itraconazole 
Voriconazole 
Any Azole 
Echinocandins 
Any Antifungal (Days) 
Any Antifungal 
(Duration) 
Amphotericin B 
Lipid Amphotericin 
Any Amphotericin 
Itraconazole 
Any Azole 
Any Antifungal (Days) 
Any Antifungal 
(Duration) 
Refractory (With or Without Intolerance) 
(N=94) 
33 
71 
86 
48 
5 
53 
5 
92b 
92b 
4 
12 
12 
3 
3 
12 
12 
19.8 
27.6 
28.6 
30.4 
33.2 
30.7 
73.2 
36.3 
41.3 
4.0 
23.6 
23.9 
8.3 
8.3 
24.4 
29.3 
23.5 
36.1 
35.3 
40.9 
25.4 
39.6 
74.2 
42.3 
69.1 
12.0 
16.0 
17.0 
17.0 
30.0 
17.0 
74.0 
23.0 
23.0 
1 to 109 
1 to 193 
1 to 193 
1 to 190 
3 to 65 
1 to 190 
7 to 187 
1 to 203 
1 to 583 
Intolerant Only 
(N=13) 
2.2 
26.1 
25.8 
4.0 
4.0 
26.0 
33.3 
3.5 
10.5 
10.5 
9.0 
9.0 
12.0 
12.0 
2 to 7 
2 to 83 
4 to 83 
4 to 12 
4 to 12 
4 to 83 
4 to 97 
31 
41 
64 
31 
0 
31 
0 
68 
68 
14 
3 
16 
3 
3 
17 
17 
(N=68) 
11.3 
23.0 
20.1 
23.6 
7.1 
26.3 
22.8 
25.4 
10.0 
12.0 
12.5 
14.0 
1 to 33 
1 to 141 
1 to 141 
1 to 106 
23.6 
25.4 
14.0 
1 to 106 
25.7 
26.1 
29.0 
29.9 
16.0 
16.0 
4 to 141 
4 to 151 
(N=18) 
10.1 
6.0 
9.9 
4.7 
4.7 
9.8 
9.8 
12.0 
4.4 
11.2 
1.5 
1.5 
10.8 
10.8 
4.0 
8.0 
5.5 
5.0 
5.0 
5.0 
6.0 
1 to 42 
1 to 9 
1 to 42 
3 to 6 
3 to 6 
2 to 42 
2 to 42 
The primary analysis controlled for pre-determined prognostic variables, of which race, enrollment time, 
non-malignant  haematological  disorder,  renal  disease,  and  hepatic  disease  were  imbalanced  between 
study  groups.  A  logistic  regression  analysis  that  adjusted  for  imbalances  in  these  variables  gave  an 
estimate  of  the  adjusted  odds  ratio  for  the  treatment  effect  of  posaconazole  relative  to  the  control 
regimens of 4.06 (p = 0.006).  
Table 11: Primary Efficacy Analysis Aspergillus: mITT 
ASPERGILLUS 
Analysis 
ALL PATIENTS HAVING ASPERGILLUS 
AS A PRIMARY PATHOGEN 
Treatment versus Control 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
Unadjusted Efficacy Analysis 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
Total 
N 
Responders 
n 
(%) 
Total 
N 
Responders 
n 
(%) 
107 
45 
(42.1) 
86 
22 
(25.6) 
Estimated 
Odds Ratio 
4.06 
2.11 
95% CI 
for the Odds Ratio 
(1.50, 11.04) 
(1.14, 3.92) 
P Value 
0.006 
0.018 
Most of the patients had partial responses, which can be expected with this disease (table 12). 
24/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Global Response by Sub-category at EOT Aspergillus: mITT 
ASPERGILLUS 
Response Category 
Total Number (%) of Patients 
Responder 
Complete Response 
Partial Response 
Non-responder 
Stable Disease 
Failure 
Unable to Determine 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
N 
107 
45 
7 
38 
62 
10 
39 
13 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(42.1) 
(6.5) 
(35.5) 
(57.9) 
(9.3) 
(36.4) 
(12.1) 
N 
86 
22 
8 
14 
64 
7 
52 
5 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(25.6) 
(9.3) 
(16.3) 
(74.4) 
(8.1) 
(60.5) 
(5.8) 
Global response rates by species were numerically higher in the posaconazole group regardless of 
species (table 13). 
Table 13 Overall response by Aspergillus species: mITT 
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
All mycologically confirmed 
Aspergillus spp. 
A. fumigatus 
A. flavus 
A. terreus 
A. niger 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
45/107 (42 %) 
External Control Group 
(P02387) 
22/86 (26 %) 
34/76 
12/29 
10/19 
4/14 
3/5 
(45 %) 
(41 %) 
(53 %) 
(29 %) 
(60 %) 
19/74 
12/34 
3/16 
2/13 
2/7 
(26 %) 
(35 %) 
(19 %) 
(15 %) 
(29 %) 
The table 14 present the global response by baseline characteristics or clinically relevant groups. 
Table 14: Global Response at EOT Aspergillus: mITT 
ASPERGILLUS 
Posaconazole 
Control 
Baseline Characteristic or Subgroup 
ALL PATIENTS HAVING ASPERGILLUS AS A 
PRIMARY PATHOGEN 
DEMOGRAPHY 
Neutropenia (Baseline ANC < 500/mm3) 
Bone Marrow Transplant 
Allogeneic 
Autologous 
Solid Organ Transplant 
Duration of Prior Effective Antifungal Therapy 
≤30 days 
31 to 60 days 
61 to 90 days 
91 to 180 days 
>180 days 
Enrolment Reason 
Refractory 
Intolerant 
Refractory and Intolerant 
All Refractory 
All Refractory With Proven Infection 
General Site of Infection 
Pulmonary 
Extrapulmonary 
Disseminated With Pulmonary Involvement 
Disseminated Without Confirmed Pulmonary 
Involvement 
Haematological Malignancy 
Non-haematological Malignancy 
Total 
N 
107 
21 
55 
48 
7 
12 
69 
21 
7 
7 
3 
55 
13 
39 
94 
62 
79 
19 
3 
6 
79 
13 
Responders 
n 
(%) 
Total 
N 
Responders 
n 
(%) 
45 
5 
21 
15 
6 
7 
31 
8 
2 
3 
1 
24 
5 
16 
40 
27 
31 
10 
1 
3 
29 
6 
(42.1) 
(23.8) 
(38.2) 
(31.3) 
(85.7) 
(58.3) 
(44.9) 
(38.1) 
(28.6) 
(42.9) 
(33.3) 
(43.6) 
(38.5) 
(41.0) 
(42.6) 
(43.5) 
(39.2) 
(52.6) 
(33.3) 
(50.0) 
(36.7) 
(46.2) 
86 
26 
38 
34 
4 
7 
71 
8 
3 
4 
0 
48 
18 
20 
68 
36 
67 
11 
3 
5 
70 
5 
22 
(25.6) 
2 
7 
7 
0 
5 
17 
4 
1 
0 
10 
9 
3 
13 
10 
17 
5 
0 
0 
16 
1 
(7.7) 
(18.4) 
(20.6) 
(0.0) 
(71.4) 
(23.9) 
(50.0) 
(33.3) 
(0.0) 
(20.8) 
(50.0) 
(15.0) 
(19.1) 
(27.8) 
(25.4) 
(45.5) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(22.9) 
(20.0) 
25/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASPERGILLUS 
Posaconazole 
Control 
Baseline Characteristic or Subgroup 
Non-malignant haematological Disorder 
Aplastic Anemia 
Myelodysplastic Syndrome 
Immunocompromised - Acquired 
Renal Disease 
Hepatic Disease 
Study Center Location 
USA 
non USA 
Time Interval of Enrollment 
30 APR 1996 to 31 DEC 1998 
01 JAN to 31 DEC 1999 
01 JAN to 31 DEC 2000 
01 JAN to 30 APR 2001 
Centers Contributing Data to 
P00041 and P02387 
P00041 only 
Study Center Size 
Large Site  
Other Sites Combined 
P02387 only 
Total 
N 
91 
2 
7 
28 
68 
43 
94 
13 
NA 
20 
64 
23 
73 
34 
42 
65 
NA 
Responders 
n 
36 
0 
1 
13 
27 
16 
(%) 
(39.6) 
(0.0) 
(14.3) 
(46.4) 
(39.7) 
(37.2) 
38 
7 
8 
26 
11 
30 
15 
13 
32 
(40.4) 
(53.8) 
(40.0) 
(40.6) 
(47.8) 
(41.1) 
(44.1) 
(31.0) 
(49.2) 
Total 
N 
52 
3 
9 
19 
21 
6 
68 
18 
26 
23 
29 
8 
76 
NA 
36 
50 
10 
Responders 
n 
11 
1 
1 
6 
5 
0 
(%) 
(21.2) 
(33.3) 
(11.1) 
(31.6) 
(23.8) 
(0.0) 
16 
6 
7 
6 
7 
2 
(23.5) 
(33.3) 
(26.9) 
(26.1) 
(24.1) 
(25.0) 
19 
(25.0) 
6 
16 
3 
(16.7) 
(32.0) 
(30.0) 
Success rates were lower in the neutropenic and allogeneic bone marrow transplant subgroups although 
still  numerically  higher  for  posaconazole  than  for  comparators.  There  was  no  obvious  difference  for 
outcomes  by  age  between  treatments  but  females  did  worse  than  males  irrespective  of  treatment. 
However, the treatment difference was greater in females than males.  
Most patients were from centres that contributed patients to both studies (68% in P00041 and 88% in 
P02387).  Centres  that  enrolled  into  P02387  only  had a higher percentage of global responders (30%) 
than those that contributed patients to both studies (25%).  One centre enrolled > 10% of mITT patients 
-  39%  (42/107) posaconazole and 42% (36/86) controls. Response rates were lower for this centre  in 
both  studies  probably  because  it  had  about  three  times  as  many  patients  with  haematological 
malignancies and about twice as many patients with a history of BMT as the other centres.   
In addition, successful response rates at US sites for posaconazole and other treatments were lower by 
about  10%  than  at  non-US  centres.  However,  non-US  patients  were  relatively  few  in  number 
(13/107 posaconazole  and  18/86 controls).  The  wider  use  of  the  Aspergillus  antigen  assay  in  Europe 
may have led to earlier institution of therapy and a higher rate of success.   
Patients in the control group could have had several additional agents added as salvage therapy either 
concomitantly or sequentially prior to being declared a success or a failure. The overall success rate for 
the different treatments used in the external control study ranged from 20% to 31% compared with 42% 
for  posaconazole  (80/86  (93%)  in  the  control  group  received  some  formulation  of  amphotericin  B  as 
salvage and that 45/86 (52%) received both an amphotericin B formulation and itraconazole. 
26/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Global Response by Salvage Therapy at EOT Aspergillus: mITT 
ASPERGILLUS 
Responders 
Salvage Therapy 
Posaconazole 
Control:  All Salvage Therapies 
Control:  Amphotericin Ba 
Control:  Itraconazoleb 
Control:  Amphotericin B and Itraconazolec 
Control:  Other Therapiesd 
N 
107 
86 
80 
49 
45 
36 
n 
45 
22 
16 
14 
10 
11 
(%) 
(42.1) 
(25.6) 
(20.0) 
(28.6) 
(22.2) 
(30.6) 
a:  Patients who received any amphotericin B, including lipid formulations (regardless of any other salvage therapy they 
may have received). 
b:  Patients who received itraconazole (regardless of any other salvage therapy they may have received). 
c:  Patients who received any amphotericin B, including lipid formulations, and itraconazole (regardless of any other 
salvage therapy they may have received). 
d:  Patients who received other therapies which included:  terbinafine, nystatin, fluconazole, caspofungin and 
unspecified investigational agents.  All patients, except two, who received other therapies also received 
amphotericin B and/or itraconazole. 
It  appeared  that  the  overall  results  were  driven  by  those  for  the  sub-group  with  infections  already 
refractory  to  amphotericin  although  they  suggested  that  posaconazole  could  also  be  active  against 
itraconazole-refractory  infections.  There  were  too  few  data  for  any  conclusions  regarding  activity  in 
voriconazole-refractory infections.   
The DRC-assigned response rates for the other defined populations were very similar as shown in table 
16. The Efficacy Evaluable patients accounted for 94-95% of the MITT subset. 
Table 16: Global Responses at EOT Aspergillus: Other Subject Subsets (P00041) 
Subject Analysis Subset 
Intent-to-Treat 
Modified Intent-to-Treat 
Efficacy Evaluable 
Per Protocol 
Total 
N  
141 
107 
101 
89 
Responses  
n 
% 
39.7 
56 
42.1 
45 
44.6 
45 
46.1 
41 
Survival  curves  suggested  an  advantage  for  posaconazole  compared  to  the  retrospectively  collected 
external  control  group.  However,  the CHMP viewed these results with caution due to the comparison 
against a retrospectively identified external control group.  
Fusariosis 
In  P00041,  18  cases  of  invasive  fusariosis  were  included  in the mITT population whereas there were 
only 4 in the control study. Most in the posaconazole group had haematological malignancies (13/18), 
6/18 were neutropenic at baseline, 6/18 had a history of BMT (three had graft versus host disease) and 
9/18  had  disseminated  disease.  Most  (14/18)  had  refractory  disease,  with  or  without  intolerance,  to 
previously treatment with amphotericin B.  
The global response rate as assessed by the DRC at the end of treatment in the mITT subset was 39 % 
(7/18, 95 % CI 17-64 %) in the posaconazole group and 50 % (2/4, 95 % CI 7-93 %) in control group. 
Out  of  the  7  responders,  3  had  a  complete  response  (16.7  %),  including  one  with  fusariosis  and 
phaeohyphomycosis  of  the  eye.  However,  only  1/6  with  neutropenia,  1/6  BMT  patients  and  2/9  with 
disseminated disease responded.  
27/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18: Global Response at EOT Fusarium: mITT 
FUSARIUM 
Baseline Characteristic or Subgroup 
ALL PATIENTS HAVING FUSARIUM AS 
A PRIMARY PATHOGEN 
Enrollment Reason 
Refractory 
Intolerant 
Refractory and Intolerant 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
Total 
N 
Responders 
% 
n 
Total 
N 
Responders 
% 
n 
18 
7 
(38.9) 
4 
12 
4 
2 
13 
2 
16 
4 
2 
1 
4 
0 
5 
(33.3) 
(50.0) 
(50.0) 
(30.8) 
(0.0) 
(31.3) 
4 
0 
0 
2 
1 
4 
2 
2 
(50.0) 
(50.0) 
(50.0) 
(100.0) 
(50.0) 
Haematological Malignancy 
Non-haematological Malignancy 
Non-malignant Haematological Disorder 
a:  For each type of fungal infection, a set of potentially effective antifungal medications was specified. 
b:  Other Disease subgroups were summarised from the medical history data. 
1 
1 
2 
In the ITT population there were 24 Fusarium infections treated, of which 11/24 completely or partially 
responded,  for  an  overall  positive  global  response  of  45.8%.  Of  these  11,  most  had  localised  disease 
while most of the 13 non-responders had disseminated disease.. 
Chromoblastomycosis or mycetoma 
In  P00041  there  were  11  patients with proven or probable chromoblastomycosis (6) or mycetoma (5) 
compared  to  2  patients  in  the  control  study  (mITT  subset).  All  of  them  were  refractory  to  standard 
therapy and had extrapulmonary infections. Patients were middle-aged Hispanic men without significant 
underlying medical conditions who were treated in Latin America for refractory invasive disease of the 
skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue.  Previous  antifungal  treatments  included  azoles  for  all  patients,  with 
treatment periods of several months to several years, and additional antifungal agents for six. Of the 11, 
9 had received itraconazole.  
The  global  response  to  posaconazole  was  82  %  (9/11,  95  %  CI  48-98  %).  Of  the  9/11  deemed 
responders, 4/9 had complete resolution of disease and the two non-responders had stable disease. 
Coccidioidomycosis 
There  were  16  patients  with  proven  coccidioidomycosis  in P00041  and  7  in  the  control  study  (mITT 
subset). These patients were aged 17 to 65 years, about half were Hispanic and slightly more than half 
female. Most had no predisposing immunocompromising condition.   
Eight of the 15 with refractory infections had been treated with an amphotericin B-based regimen for a 
median  of  29 days  and  14  had  received  an  azole  for  a  median  of  335 days.  The  patient  judged  to  be 
intolerant of standard therapy (only) received fluconazole for 11 days followed by a lipid formulation of 
amphotericin B for 16 days after diagnosis of the current episode. 
The global response rate to posaconazole was 69 % (11/16, 95 % CI 41-89 %). Of the 11 responders, 
4/9 had complete resolution of disease.  
28/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: Global Response at EOT Coccidioides: mITT 
COCCIDIOIDES 
Baseline Characteristic or Subgroup 
ALL PATIENTS HAVING COCCIDIOIDES 
AS A PRIMARY PATHOGEN 
History of Bone Marrow Transplant 
Allogeneic 
Duration of Prior Effective Antifungal Therapy 
≤30 days 
31 to 60 days 
61 to 90 days 
91 to 180 days 
>180 days 
Enrolment Reason 
Refractory 
Intolerant 
Refractory and Intolerant 
General Site of Infection 
Pulmonary 
Extrapulmonary 
Disseminated Without Confirmed 
Pulmonary Involvement 
Posaconazole 
(P00041) 
Control 
(P02387) 
Total 
N 
Responders 
% 
n 
Total 
N 
Responders 
% 
n 
16 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 
10 
13 
1 
2 
8 
4 
4 
11 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
2 
7 
10 
0 
1 
5 
2 
4 
(68.8) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(50.0) 
(100.0) 
(100.0) 
(70.0) 
(76.9) 
(0.0) 
(50.0) 
(62.5) 
(50.0) 
(100.0) 
7 
0 
0 
3 
2 
0 
1 
1 
3 
4 
0 
6 
0 
1 
3 
1 
1 
1 
0 
2 
1 
3 
0 
(42.9) 
(33.3) 
(50.0) 
(100.0) 
(0.0) 
(66.7) 
(25.0) 
(50.0) 
(0.0) 
All  four  patients  with  disseminated  disease  responded  to  posaconazole,  as  did  5/8  with  pulmonary 
disease and the one case with CNS infection.  
In  the  ITT  population,  19  Coccidioides  infections  were  treated  with  posaconazole,  of  which  12/19 
completely  or  partially responded, for an overall positive  global response of 63.2%. The investigators 
judged that 81.3% (13/16) of the MITT patients infected with Coccidioides infection were responders.  
Additional  data  were  provided  from  a  pilot  study  (study  C/197-280)  in  which  patients  with  chronic 
active  pulmonary  or  non-meningeal  but  disseminated  primary  coccidioidomycosis  received  400  mg 
posaconazole once daily as capsules taken with food with treatment limited to 6 months. Before closure 
of  the  study,  20  patients  had  been  enrolled  at  nine  sites  in  the  US  and  Mexico.  The  mean 
coccidioidomycosis score at baseline was 11 (range 5-27) and responders were to have at least a 50% 
reduction  in  score  at  month  6.  Of  the  20  patients,  15  (75%)  were  responders  and  5  failed.  Among 
evaluable  patients  12/15  (80%)  were  responders,  of  which  3 had chronic active pulmonary disease  at 
baseline, 3 skeletal disease, 5 soft tissue disease and 1 had both the latter.  
Zygomycosis 
There were 11 patients with proven or probable zygomycetes infection (8 in the control group) aged 14 
to  74 years  and  all  except one was treated  in  the US. Overall the data were considered insufficient to 
support an indication for use. 
Candidiasis 
There were 23 patients with proven or probable Candida infections refractory or intolerant to standard 
therapy treated with posaconazole in P00041 and 30 in the control study. 
The  number  of  cases  was  considered  too  low  and  the  patients  studied too heterogeneous to support a 
clear indication for use. 
Cryptococcosis 
There were 31 patients treated with posaconazole in P00041 and 64 in the control study that had DRC-
determined proven or probable cryptococcal infection and nearly all the infections were proven.  
29/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The DRC global success rates at the end of treatment for cryptococcal infections were 48% (15/31) for 
posaconazole and  58%  (37/64) for in the control  group. There was also a higher declared failure rate 
with  posaconazole  (8/31  25.8  %  versus  12/64,  18.8  %).  The  data  did  not  support  the  use  of 
posaconazole against cryptococcal infections.  
Use in children 
There were only 16 patients less than 18 years (range 8-17) enrolled into study P00041. The data were 
too limited to establish the efficacy of posaconazole in children. 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
As of 1 September 2003, posaconazole had been administered to over 2300 subjects in completed and 
ongoing  studies.  Out  of  this  number,  952  subjects,  including  225  healthy  volunteers,  received 
posaconazole oral suspension at 800 mg/day in divided doses.  
The  numbers  included  several  studies  in  oropharyngeal  candidiasis,  but  as  this  was  not  a  sought 
indication, the following sections will concentrated on the 428 IFI patients treated with 800 mg/day. 
More males than females were included in the studies (~ 65 %) and the mean age was 44 years. Patient 
population  was  severely  immunocompromised  at  risk  for  invasive  fungal  infections  and  had  severe 
underlying diseases. The treatment duration is presented in table 21. 
Table 21: Treatment Duration with Posaconazole (rIFI Pool) 
Number (%) of Subjects:  POS All Doses 
Treatment Duration 
0-<3 months 
≤7 days 
0-1 month 
3-<6 months 
6-<9 months 
9-<12 months 
≥12 months 
BMT: Bone marrow transplant  
Adverse events 
BMT 
(n=124) 
84 (68) 
20 (16) 
65 (52) 
17 (14) 
14 (11) 
4 (3) 
4 (3) 
Non-BMT 
(n=304) 
154 (51) 
30 (10) 
96 (32) 
59 (19) 
44 (14) 
20 (7) 
23 (8) 
Overall rIFI Pool 
(n=428) 
238 (56) 
50 (12) 
161 (38) 
76 (18) 
58 (14) 
24 (6) 
27 (6) 
At least 1 treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) was reported by 96% of subjects in the IFI Pool. 
Analyses of TEAEs by age, sex, and race revealed no significant trends related to these characteristics. 
Fever was most frequently reported (36%) followed by nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting and abdominal pain 
in  20%-29%  and  headache  in  26%  (latter  influenced  by  HIV-infected  subjects  with  cryptococcal 
meningitis).  
Treatment-related  TEAEs  were  reported  for  38  %  of  patients  in  the  overall  rIFI  pool  with  the  most 
common related to gastro-intestinal disorders (table 22).  
30/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22: Treatment-Related TEAEs Reported by 
≥
 2% IFI Pool 
Adverse Events 
Subjects Reporting any Adverse Eventa 
Body as a Whole - General Disorders 
Anorexia 
Dizziness 
Drug Level Altered 
Fatigue 
Headache 
Central and Peripheral Nervous System Disorders 
Convulsions 
Paresthesia 
Disorders of the Reproductive System and Breast 
Menstrual Disorder 
Gastrointestinal System Disorders 
Abdominal Pain 
Diarrhoea 
Mouth Dry 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders 
QTc/QT Prolongation 
Liver and Biliary System Disorders 
Hepatic Enzymes Increased 
SGOT Increased 
SGPT Increased 
Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders 
Phosphatase Alkaline Increased 
Renal & Urinary System Disorders 
Blood Creatinine Increased 
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders 
Rash 
Number (%) of Subjects:  Posaconazole All Doses 
BMT (n=124)  Non-BMT (n=304)  Overall rIFI Pool (n=428) 
(42) 
(30) 
(38) 
127 
164 
37 
2 
1 
2 
4 
3 
2 
1 
0 
3 
3 
0 
10 
7 
0 
2 
1 
2 
1 
0 
2 
(2) 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(2) 
(2) 
(1) 
(2) 
(2) 
(8) 
(6) 
(2) 
(1) 
(2) 
(1) 
(2) 
6 
6 
5 
3 
17 
0 
5 
2 
15 
12 
6 
25 
18 
6 
5 
8 
9 
5 
5 
8 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(1) 
(6) 
(2) 
(2) 
(5) 
(4) 
(2) 
(8) 
(6) 
(2) 
(2) 
(3) 
(3) 
(2) 
(2) 
(3) 
8 
7 
7 
7 
20 
2 
6 
2 
18 
15 
6 
35 
25 
6 
7 
9 
11 
6 
5 
10 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(5) 
(<1) 
(1) 
(1) 
(4) 
(4) 
(1) 
(8) 
(6) 
(1) 
(2) 
(2) 
(3) 
(1) 
(1) 
(2) 
No clear relationship has been established between plasma levels and adverse events. 
Serious adverse events (SAEs) 
In the IFI Pool, 68% of patients reported SAEs, most commonly fever (20%), respiratory insufficiency 
and dyspnoea (both 10%). Hypotension, acute myelogenous leukaemia aggravated, sepsis, pneumonia, 
diarrhoea and vomiting were reported in 6%-8%.  
Treatment-related  SAEs occurred in only 8% of patients; those reported by more than 2 patients (1%) 
were  altered  drug  level  (increased  levels  of  cyclosporin,  tacrolimus  and  digitalis,)  increased  hepatic 
enzymes, nausea, rash and vomiting.  
Deaths 
In the IFI Pool, 157 subjects (37%) died. Most deaths were attributed to complications or progression 
of the underlying diseases (table 23).  
31/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23: Summary of Deaths (IFI Pool) 
Cause of Death 
Number (%) of Subjects:  POS All Doses 
BMT (n=124)  Non-BMT (n=304)  Overall rIFI Pool (n=428) 
Total Number of Deaths 
Adverse Event 
Related 
Unrelated 
65 
29 
1 
28 
19 
17 
0 
(52) 
(23) 
(1) 
(23) 
(15) 
(14) 
92 
48 
1 
47 
20 
21 
3 
(30) 
(16) 
(<1) 
(15) 
(7) 
(7) 
(1) 
157 
77 
2 
75 
39 
38 
3 
(37) 
(18) 
(<1) 
(18) 
(9) 
(9) 
(1) 
Complications Related to Disease Under Investigation 
Progression of Disease Under Investigation 
Othera 
a:  Other=“AIDS complications” (P00041-02/0203); “unknown cause” of death, as subject discharged to inpatient hospice 
(P00041-06/0639); “end-stage COPD” (P00041-41/4106). 
Discontinuation due to AEs 
In  the  IFI  Pool,  46%  had  AEs  that  led  to  drug  discontinuation,  study  discontinuation  or  death. 
Treatment-related  AEs  that  led  to  study-drug  discontinuation,  study  discontinuation,  or  death  were 
reported  in  6%  and  included  nausea  and  vomiting (5 subjects each), increased LFTs, rash (3 subjects 
each),  convulsions,  dizziness,  and  increased  gamma-GT  (2  subjects  each).  Most  others  involved  only 
one patient. 
Specific AEs 
Cardiac events 
In  the  IFI  Pool,  158  subjects  (37%)  had  any  cardiovascular  TEAE,  mainly  hypotension  (15%), 
hypertension (12%), cardio-respiratory arrest (4%), cardiac failure (4%), hypertension aggravated (3%) 
and  pericardial  effusion (3%).  These  and  the  Grade  3  or  Grade 4  events  seen in 8%-9% were mostly 
considered  unlikely  related  to  posaconazole.  Atrial  fibrillation,  QTc/QT  prolongation  and  SVT  were 
reported in 3%-4% but other ECG abnormalities occurred in <1%-2%.  
Data  pooled  from  the  five  studies  in  173  healthy  volunteers  that  employed  multiple,  time-matched 
centrally  read  ECGs  collected  over  a  12  hour  period  obtained  before  and  during  administration  of 
posaconazole (400 mg bid with high fat meals) did not reveal any clinically relevant change in the mean 
QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline. 
In  the  IFI  Pool,  there  were  11/428  patients  (3%)  with  an  adverse  event  of  QTc/QT  prolongation 
reported  by  the  investigator  and  6  cases  were  considered  possibly  related  to  treatment  although  none 
resulted in discontinuation. There were predisposing reasons for cardiac conduction disturbances seen in 
all  of  these  subjects  and  most  had  reasons  to  be  predisposed  to  QTc  prolongation.  There  were  6  % 
(17/265)  of  patients  with  baseline  and  post-baseline  recordings  with  >  60  ms  change  in  QTcF  from 
baseline but only 2/265 (1 %) had a change > 500 ms. 
There was one case of Torsade de Pointes in which the contribution of posaconazole to this arrhythmia 
could not be excluded. 
Overall  the  data  point  a  low  potential  for  posaconazole  to  prolong  the  QT  prolongation.  However, 
appropriate warnings have been included in the SPC. 
Neurological effects 
Detailed  neurological  examinations  were  incorporated  in  four  clinical  studies  (P01893,  P00041, 
P00298, and C/I97-280). In the IFI Pool, treatment-related neurological AEs reported in more than two 
subjects were paraesthesiae, confusion and somnolence (1% each). Frequencies were generally higher in 
the  BMT  group  than  in  the  non-BMT  group,  probably  mainly  due  to  concomitant  medications, 
psychological effects of long-term/ICU hospitalisation and the complications and morbidity. Of the 17 
patients  who  reported  convulsions,  (7  in  BMT  patients  and  10  in  non-BMT  patients)  only  2  were 
considered  to  be  posaconazole  related.  Of  the  10 non BMT patients, 5 were infected with  HIV and 3 
subjects had IFI affecting the CNS.  Of the remaining 2, 1 had a history of convulsions prior to starting 
posaconazole  and  1  had  severe  hypoxia  due  to  pulmonary  haemorrhage.  Although  the  causality  is 
32/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difficult  to  determine,  the  data  do  not  seem  to  indicate  any  major  safety  concern  with  respect  to 
neurological effects of posaconazole. 
Hepatobiliary function 
In the IFI pool, 113 subjects (26%) reported TEAEs of the liver and biliary system, mainly increased 
enzymes  (7%),  hyperbilirubinaemia  and  increased  SGPT  (6%  each).  Increased  alkaline  phosphatase 
was  noted  in  6%  of  subjects.  Grade 3  events  were  reported  by  6%  (n=25)  and  Grade 4  events  were 
reported  by  1%  (n=5).  Hepatic  necrosis  was  reported  in  two  subjects  (<1%)  as  Grade 3  events  but 
neither  case  was  considered to be  related to posaconazole or resulted in discontinuation or death. The 
rate of hepatobiliary AEs was higher for BMT (33%) than non-BMT patients (24%) but, as expected 
from  clinical  experience,  more in the BMT group had a history of hepatobiliary conditions relative to 
the non-BMT group.  
Hepatic  failure  was  reported  in  8  subjects  (1  BMT  and 6  non-BMT),  of  which  6  had  an  outcome  of 
death  and  1  was  lost to  follow-up.  All  had  a  history  of conditions related to the hepatobiliary system 
that  could  be  fatal.  One  of  the  6  deaths  was  considered  to  be  possibly  related  to  treatment.  It  is  not 
possible to rule out a contribution from posaconazole to hepatocellular damage and failure. Appropriate 
warnings have been added in the SPC. 
Haematological effects 
In the IFI studies, 144 (34%) had TEAEs classified as disorders of the blood and lymphatic system and 
117  (27%)  had  TEAEs  classified  as  platelet,  bleeding and  clotting disorders. The most  frequent were 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia (6%-13%). Treatment-related TEAEs occurred in 1% and 
included  anaemia  (n=4),  thrombocytopenia  (n=2),  eosinophilia,  pancytopenia,  haematoma  and 
decreased  platelet  count  (one  case  each).  Many  had  a  variety  of  haematological  and  other  types  of 
malignancy  and  were  undergoing  intensive  chemotherapy.  The  contributing  factor  of  posaconazole 
cannot be excluded.  
Hypocalcaemia 
In  the  preclinical  studies,  there  were  findings  of  bone  thinning/fractures  in  rats  as  well  as  adrenal 
medullary  tumours.  In  the  IFI  Pool,  hypocalcaemia  was  reported  in  28  patients  (7%),  fractures  in  4 
(1%) and renal calculi were reported in 2 (<1%) but none was considered treatment-related. 
Although the data do not indicate any association between posaconazole and decreased calcium levels a 
warning has been  included on the need to monitor electrolytes disturbances, especially those involving 
potassium, magnesium or calcium levels and correct them as necessary before and during posaconazole 
therapy. 
Others  
In the IFI Pool, 6% of subjects had reports of blurred vision and 2% had reports of abnormal vision but 
there were no Grade 3 or Grade 4 events and most were of relatively short duration. There is therefore 
no evidence for an effect of posaconazole on vision. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders were reported by 192 subjects (45%), with similar proportions 
in BMT and non-BMT groups. These were mainly rash (14%) and pruritus (8%). As with other azoles 
posaconazole can lead to the occurrence of skin reactions such as rash. There were 2 cases of Stevens-
Johnson  syndrome  (SJS),  both  considered  to  be  unlikely  to  be  treatment  related  and  neither  patient 
discontinued posaconazole. 
Safety in special populations 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
33/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  data  are  limited  but  it  appears  that  pre-existing  elevations  in  transaminases  might  be  associated 
with a greater risk of severe hepatic problems while on posaconazole therapy. Patients who have some 
degree of renal insufficiency before starting treatment related or unrelated to prior therapy might also be 
more at risk of adverse events. Appropriate warnings have been included in the SPC. 
Children 
There were only 16 patients aged 8 to 17 years enrolled in P00041 and 8 completed treatment. The very 
limited  data  would  suggest  that  similar  proportions  had  SAEs  or  other  clinically  significant  AEs 
compared with the overall IFI population. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In study P00041, drug interactions were reported as adverse events in 21 (5%) patients of which 9 were 
considered  treatment-related  and  6  were  SAEs.    The  most  clinically  relevant  interactions  were  those 
with tacrolimus and ciclosporin. Adequate warnings have been included in the SPC.  
Safety data from study P02095 
As of 18 March 2005, data were available on 420 patients from this extended use protocol. Overall the 
safety  profile  has  been  similar to that reported in the IFI population with fever, nausea, vomiting and 
headache  being  the  most  commonly  reported  AEs.  The  applicant  undertook  to  provide  further  safety 
data from this study as a follow-up measure to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  was  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological  aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Posaconazole  is  an  antifungal  agent  from  the  triazoles  class.  It  inhibits  the  enzyme  lanosterol  14
demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Posaconazole  has  been  shown  in  vitro  to  have  an  antifungal  activity  against  Aspergillus  species 
(Aspergillus  fumigatus,  A.  flavus,  A.  terreus,  A.  nidulans,  A. niger, A. ustus), Coccidioides immitis, 
Fonsecaea  pedrosoi,  and  species  of  Fusarium.  In  vitro  there  was  no  antagonist  activity  when  use  in 
combination  with  other  antifungal  agents,  however,  there  is  currently  no  clinical  evidence  that 
combination therapy will provide an added benefit. 
α
-
With respect to pharmacokinetics, the bioavailability of posaconazole exhibited a high food effect.  
Protein  binding  was  high.  Posaconazole  underwent  direct  glucuronidation  and  also  oxidation  and 
cleavage  followed  by  conjugation.  Posaconazole  was  mainly  eliminated  via  faeces  as  unchanged 
compound.  
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower than 
those  obtained  at  therapeutic  doses  in  humans,  posaconazole  caused  skeletal  variations  and 
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability. 
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic doses. 
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered related to 
a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis. Posaconazole must therefore not be used during pregnancy 
34/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as indicated  in  the  SPC.  It  is  excreted  in  the  milk  of  lactating  rats.  In  the  absence  of  data  in  human, 
women should not breast-feed while taking posaconazole.  
Posaconazole  was  not  genotoxic in in-vitro and in-vivo  studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal 
special hazards for humans. 
Clinical 
Food has a marked effect on the AUC of posaconazole and the suspension should be administered with 
food or a nutritional supplement whenever possible as recommended in the SPC. If the patient cannot 
take the suspension with food, based on data from healthy volunteers dosed under fasting conditions, the 
dose  should  be  divided  into  200 mg  four  times  daily  since  this  increased  the  AUC  of  posaconazole 
compared  to  400 mg  twice  daily.  In view of the high inter-individual variability and effect of food on 
posaconazole exposures, the applicant undertook to further evaluate the pharmacokinetics specific to the 
marketed  formulation  in  patients  under  various  dosing  conditions.  In  particular,  the  applicant  will 
further  explore  the  effect  of  different  dosing  conditions,  such  as  timing of meals, meal characteristics 
and pH, on the absorption of posaconazole. 
Renal impairment does not affect the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole. Limited pharmacokinetic data 
showed that hepatic impairment increases exposure associated with prolonged half-life. The influence of 
hepatic  impairment  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  posaconazole  will  be  further  evaluated  in  the  post-
authorisation  phase.  In  the  meantime,  the  SPC  recommends  that  posaconazole  should  be  used  with 
caution  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  There  are  very  limited  pharmacokinetic  data 
available  from  children  aged  at  least  8  years  and  there  are  insufficient  data  on  safety  or  efficacy  in 
children to recommend the use of posaconazole in persons aged less than 18 years.  
Posaconazole  is  an  inhibitor  of  CYPA3A4,  is  metabolised  through  UDP  glucuronidation  and  is  an 
inhibitor  and  substrate  for  P-gp.  A  number  of  potential  interactions  between  posaconazole  and  other 
medicinal products has been identified and reflected in the SPC. Results from further interaction studies 
with  oral  midazolam,  anti-retroviral  protease  inhibitors,  efavirenz  and  sirolimus  are  expected  to  be 
submitted post-authorisation. 
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified.  The principle 
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51. The applicant 
undertook to provide regular updates on the occurrence of resistance to posaconazole as part of the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
The demonstration of the efficacy of posaconazole in the treatment of invasive fungal infections that had 
not responded  to specific licensed antifungal therapies or which occurred in patients intolerant of such 
antifungal  agents  (as  detailed  in  the  indications  for  use)  is  based  on  the  results  of  the  study  P00041. 
This  was  an  open-label,  multi-centre  and  non-comparative  study involving 330 patients with different 
type of infections receiving 800 mg posaconazole daily in divided doses.    
A  retrospective  chart-review  study  (P02387)  in  a  similar  patient  population  as  in  P00041  but treated 
with  a  salvage  regimen  other  than  posaconazole  was  conducted  to  provide  external  control  data.  A 
blinded external committee (DRC) reviewed the data from these two studies. Nevertheless, the lack of a 
prospective  randomised  control  group  means  that  all  comparisons  between  the  posaconazole-treated 
patients and external controls must be viewed with caution.  
In  the  treatment  of  aspergillosis,  a  successful  response  (complete  or  partial  resolution)  at  the  end  of 
treatment was seen in 42% (45/107) of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26% (22/86) of the 
external group. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered to be refractory to prior therapy in 
both the posaconazole group (88%) and in the external control group (79%). 
Fusariosis 
35/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was seen 39 % (7/18) 
patients treated with posaconazole group.  
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma:  
A successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was seen in 9 /11 patients 
treated with posaconazole..  
Coccidioidomycosis 
A satisfactory response (complete or partial resolution of signs and symptoms present at baseline) was 
achieved for 69 % (11/1) of patients in posaconazole group. Data from a pilot study supported the 
efficacy of posaconazole against this fungus.  
Safety 
The safety database pertaining to dosing at 800 mg daily in divided doses is currently limited and is 
derived from the invasive fungal infections pool of 428 patients, most of whom were treated for up to 3 
months. The severity of the invasive fungal infections, the underlying diseases and multiple concomitant 
medications may confound the safety profile. The most commonly reported adverse events with 
posaconazole were gastrointestinal disorders such as nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting and abdominal pain, 
fever and headache. 
Posaconazole appears to have a low potential to prolong QTc interval. However warnings against use in 
highly predisposed patients, as well as use with other compounds known to prolong QTc have been 
included in the SPC. As with other azoles cases of hepatic disorders, such as elevated transaminases, 
and cutaneous reactions have been reported.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall the efficacy data were considered sufficient to support an indication for use in aspergillosis 
refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole or in patients intolerant of these alternative antifungal 
agents. The study was initiated prior to the release of the CHMP Points to Consider document on the 
Evaluation of New Antifungal agents for invasive fungal infections. In addition, the timing of the study 
precluded direct comparison against voriconazole and/or caspofungin or the evaluation of posaconazole 
in patients who had not responded to or were intolerant of these agents due to the timing of the 
marketing authorisations. However, the lack of a prospective randomised comparative study in patients 
with invasive aspergillosis limited the reliability of the assessment of the risk benefit relationship. 
Therefore, the applicant has agreed to undertake a prospective randomised and controlled study against 
caspofungin in aspergillosis refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole and in patients with 
aspergillosis who are intolerant of these antifungal agents.  
Due  to  the  recognised  difficulties  in  treating  fusariosis  and  chromoblastomycosis  and  mycetoma,  the 
CHMP considered that the efficacy data were sufficient to support an indication in these infections as 
well as in Coccidioidomycosis. These indications are limited to use in patients who have not responded 
to  or  are  intolerant  of  the  anti-fungal  agents  specified  for  each  type  of  fungus  in  the  SPC.  The 
indications closely reflect the treatment histories of the patients that were enrolled into P00041. 
The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  duration  of  therapy  should  be  based  on  the  severity  of  the  patient’s 
underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression and clinical response.  
In  view  of  the  indications,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  treatment  with  posaconazole  should  be 
initiated only by physicians experienced in the management of invasive fungal infections. 
With respect to safety, further data with the use of posaconazole will be provided as part of the follow-
up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation.  In  the  forthcoming  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports, 
36/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
several  reactions  reported  in  the  clinical  studies  will  particularly  be  monitored  such  as  QTc 
prolongation/torsades  de  pointes,  hepatic  failure,  coagulation  abnormalities,  thrombotic  events, 
convulsions and drug interactions. Also, due to concerns raised by the pre-clinical findings, events that 
might represent pulmonary phospholipidosis will be especially monitored.   
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Noxafil  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation for the following indications. 
“treatment of the following invasive fungal infections in adults: 
-  
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or 
in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
-  
-  
-  
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.” 
37/37 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
