European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
EMEA/654269/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT  
FOR  
Nplate 
International Nonproprietary Name:  
Romiplostim 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/942 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE
........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier
........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION
................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction
.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects
......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects
............................................................................................................... 10 
Clinical aspects
...................................................................................................................... 22 
Pharmacovigilance
................................................................................................................. 54 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation
...................................... 57 
Page 2 of 59 
 
 
1  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Amgen  Europe  B.V.  submitted  on  02  November  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
romiplostim,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/05/283  on  27  May  2005. 
Romiplostim was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: treatment of 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.  
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura was considered to affect about 46,000 persons in the European 
Union. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier,  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: ‘Treatment of thrombocytopenia in adult patients 
with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)’: 
  who  are  nonsplenectomized  and  have  had  an  inadequate  response  or  are  intolerant  to 
corticosteroids and/or immunoglobulins; 
  who are splenectomized and have had an inadequate response to splenectomy. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The  applicant  received  Protocol  Assistance  from  the  CHMP  on  15  December  2005.  The  Protocol 
Assistance  pertained  to  clinical  aspects  of  the  dossier.  The  applicant  received  Follow-on  Protocol 
Assistance  from  the  CHMP  on  14  December  2006.  The  Follow-on  Protocol  Assistance  pertained  to 
pharmacovigilance aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
Romiplostim has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Australia on 31 July 2008 and in The 
United States of America on 22 August 2008. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:   Gonzalo Calvo Rojas  Co-Rapporteur:  
Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 02 November 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 November 2007  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 February 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 
February  2008.  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (RC)  No  726/2004,  the 
Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in less 
than 80 days.   
Page 3 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During  the  meeting  on  17-19  March  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 March 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 May 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 09 July 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 July 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 22 September 
2008. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  list  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 08 October 2008. 
The  summary  report  of  the  GMP  inspection  the  active  substance  manufacturing  sites  Amgen 
Inc,  Boulder  (CO)  and  Longmont  (CO),  USA  with  a  positive  outcome  was  circulated  to  the 
Rapporteurs on 18 November 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  November  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  romiplostim  on  20  November  2008.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 19 November 2008. 
Page 4 of 59 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Immune  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP)  is  an  autoimmune  disorder  characterized  by  platelet 
destruction caused by antiplatelet auto-antibodies. The estimated incidence is 100 cases per 1 million 
people per year, and about half of these cases occur in children. 72 percent of patients over 10 years 
old are women, and 70 percent of these women are less than 40 years old. ITP is classified as acute (of 
six month or less in duration) or chronic. In addition it can be primary or secondary to an underlying 
disorder. 
The  diagnosis  of  ITP  can  be  difficult  because  of  the  variety  of  presentations  and  lack  of  specific 
criteria. The only consistent abnormalities are microangiopathic haemolytic anemia, characterized by 
red-cell  fragmentation,  and  thrombocytopenia,  features  that  can  also  occur  in  other  conditions. 
Neurologic  and  renal  abnormalities  and  fever  can  also  occur.  The  onset  of  the  disease  is  often 
insidious because history and physical examination are normal except for symptoms that accompany 
platelet disorders (purpura, epistaxis, and gingival bleeding are common). In general ITP is defined by 
a low platelet count, normal bone marrow, and the absence of other causes of thrombocytopenia. 
Currently  available  treatments  for  chronic  ITP  act  by  decreasing  platelet  destruction  including 
corticosterosteroids,  intravenous  gamma  globulin  (IVIG),  intravenous  ant-Rho(D)  or  suppressing  the 
production of antiplatelet antibodies. Relapse is common when these agents are discontinued. Surgical 
splenectomy is generally considered second-line therapy for adults with ITP after the use of steroids 
and  usually  results  in  a  remission.  A  small  percentage  of  patients  is  severely  affected  and  does  not 
respond  to  treatment.  Patients  who  fail  to  maintain  a  platelet  count  above  30  x  109/L  after  6  to  12 
months of standard therapy are often defined as refractory to therapy. 
The applicant submitted a full application under Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC. This medicinal 
product  was  granted  an  orphan  designation  on  27  May  2005  (EU/3/05/283).  The  claimed  indication 
for romiplostim is: 
Treatment of thrombocytopenia in adult patients with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic 
purpura (ITP): 
  who are nonsplenectomized and have had an inadequate response or are intolerant to 
corticosteroids and/or immunoglobulins; 
  who are splenectomized and have had an inadequate response to splenectomy. 
The approved indication for romiplostim is: 
Romiplostim  is  indicated  for  adult  chronic  immune  (idiopathic)  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP) 
splenectomised patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). 
Romiplostim may be considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomised patients where 
surgery is contra-indicated. 
The recommended initial dose for romiplostim is 1 μg/kg bodyweight, administered once weekly as a 
subcutaneous  injection.  A  subject’s  actual  body  weight  at  initiation  of  therapy  should  be  used  to 
calculate dose.  The once weekly dose of romiplostim should be increased by increments of 1 μg/kg 
until the patient achieves a platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/l.  Platelet counts should be assessed weekly until 
a stable platelet count (≥ 50 x 109/l for at least 4 weeks without dose adjustment) has been achieved. 
Platelet counts should be assessed monthly thereafter and a maximum once weekly dose of 10 μg/kg 
should not be exceeded. Treatment with romiplostim should be discontinued if the platelet count does 
not increase to a level sufficient to avoid clinically important bleeding after four weeks of romiplostim 
therapy at the highest weekly dose of 10 μg/kg. No adjustment of the dosing regimen is required for 
older patients. 
Nplate has romiplostim as active ingredient. Romiplostim is a recombinant protein that is expressed in 
Escherichia coli. It is a dimer of a human immunoglobulin IgG1 Fc domain linked to a peptide chain. 
Page 5 of 59 
 
 
Each peptide chain within the dimer contains two thrombopoietin receptor-binding domains (TRBD). 
Romiplostim increases platelet production through activation of the thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor c-
Mpl, and thus mimicking the action of endogenous thrombopoietin (eTPO).  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Romiplostim is a recombinant non-glycosylated Fc-peptide fusion protein (peptibody) produced in E 
coli and purified by a series of chromatography steps and ultrafiltration/diafiltration steps.  
The  finished  product,  Nplate,  is  formulated  as  500  or  250 µg  powder  for  solution  for  injection 
intended for subcutaneous administration and chronic use. 
Active Substance 
Description of the active substance 
Romiplostim  is  a  recombinant  non-glycosylated  Fc-peptide  59  KDa  fusion  protein  (peptibody) 
produced  in  E. coli.  The  peptibody  molecule  contains  two  identical  269  amino  acid  single-chain 
subunits,  each  consisting  of  a  human  immunoglobulin  IgG1  Fc  domain  covalently  linked  at  the  C-
terminus to a peptide containing two thrombopoetin receptor binding domains, of which each binding 
domain  consists  of  a  14-amino  acid  sequence.  This  type  of  recombinant  protein  is  referred  as  a 
“peptibody” since it contains an active peptide region and an antibody Fc region.   
  Manufacture 
The active substance manufacturing process comprises 2 major stages: fermentation and purification. 
Fermentation 
The  romiplostim  protein  is  expressed  intracellularly  in  E  coli  as  inclusion  bodies  using  high  cell 
density  fed  batch  fermentation.    The  fermentation  process  begins  with  thaw  and  expansion  of  the 
working  cell  bank  vial  in  a  seed  flask.    This  is  followed  by  further  cell  expansion  and  induction  of 
product synthesis in a production fermentor.  After completion of production fermentation, the broth is 
chilled  and  cell  processing  is  initiated.  The  cells  are  harvested  and  lysed  to  release  the  inclusion 
bodies. These are recovered by centrifugation, washed and recovered as a slurry which can be stored 
frozen prior to further purification. 
Purification 
The  purification  process  begins  with  thawing  the  slurry  which  is  then  solubilized.    Romiplostim  is 
purified  using  a  series  of  chromatography,  concentration  and  diafiltration  steps  to  produce  purified 
bulk active substance.   
  Control of Materials 
Raw Materials and Reagents  
All raw materials are tested according to the specified compendial or non-compendial specifications. 
Compendial materials are tested to one or more of the following: European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur.), 
United  States  Pharmacopoeia  (USP),  National  Formulary  (NF),  Japanese  Pharmacopoeia  (JP), 
American Chemical Society (ACS), or the Food Chemical Codex (FCC). Specifications for the non-
compendial materials including test methods and acceptance criteria are described.  
Also the materials of animal origin used during development and production are adequately controlled.  
Source, history, and generation of the cell substrate 
The  romiplostim  gene  was  constructed  by  combining  the  sequence  of  the  Fc  portion  of  the  human 
IgG1  heavy  chain  from  the  first  amino  acid  of  the  hinge  domain  to  the  carboxyl  terminus  with  the 
sequence encoding a peptide chain containing two TRBD.   
Page 6 of 59 
 
 
Cell banking system, characterisation and testing 
A two-tiered cell banking system of master cell bank (MCB) and working cell bank (WCB) has been 
developed and characterized according to ICH guidelines and is maintained in accordance with cGMP. 
The  cell  banks  are  well  characterized  and  the  specifications  established  are  satisfactory.  They  are 
monitored  to  ensure  their  stability  during  long  term  storage.  The  procedure  to  be  followed  for 
establishment of future cell banks is described and it is considered satisfactory. 
Genetic Stability  
The  approach  used  to  study  genetic  stability  is  considered  adequate.  Moreover,  all  lots  met  the 
acceptance criteria, demonstrating the genetic stability of the production strain. 
  Controls of critical steps and intermediates 
All  the  in-process  controls  for  critical  and  key  performance  parameters  have  been  described.  The 
manufacturing process is properly controlled and works in a consistent manner. Key parameters have 
been identified and action and rejection limits established.  
  Process Validation and/or Evaluation  
The validation studies were carried out satisfactorily. 
Fermentation and Cell processing 
The data presented provides evidence that the romiplostim fermentation and cell processing process at 
commercial  scale  is  successfully  validated,  as  demonstrated  through  evaluation  of  the  seed  flask, 
production fermentation, and cell processing steps. 
Purification 
The contribution of each step to the purification of romiplostim has been analyzed. The integrity and 
purity of romiplostim measured at each purification stage was consistent from lot to lot. The process 
has been shown to be reproducible, robust and effective in removing impurities and contaminants.  
  Manufacturing Process Development  
During  development  a  second  generation  active  substance  manufacturing  process  was  developed  to 
optimize  the  process  for  commercial  production  without  changing  the  manufacturing  scale.  The 
fermentation process utilized the same basal media and overall production scheme. The purification 
process  used  the  same  sequence  of  chromatography  steps  and  process  chemistry.  Additionally,  an 
unnecessary  ultrafiltration  step  was  removed  from  the  process.    These  changes  in  manufacturing 
process  are  considered  minor,  and  were  made  to  improve  manufacturability  and  maintain  product 
quality.  Extensive  comparability  studies  have  been  carried  out  showing  a  good  consistency  of 
production through the different sites and scales. No significant differences among active substance 
lots across processes and sites were found. 
  Characterization 
Characterization of the structure and identity of romiplostim was carried out in depth. The structure of 
romiplostim  was  elucidated  from  a  variety  of  biochemical,  biophysical,  and  biological  techniques 
using material from the second generation commercial process.  
The  resulting  amino  acid  sequence  was  found  to  be  consistent  with  that  predicted  from  the  genetic 
sequence. The predominant disulfide structure was confirmed to be consistent with that expected for 
IgG1  Fc.  Molecular  weight  of  native  and  reduced  romiplostim  has  been  verified  using  whole  mass 
analysis  by  MS.  Charge  heterogeneity  of  romiplostim  was  assessed  from  Cation  Exchange  HPLC 
(CEX-HPLC).  All  observed  contributions  to  charge  heterogeneity  were  due  to  modifications  within 
the Fc region. Evaluation of size heterogeneity was conducted using a wide variety of techniques (size 
exclusion  HPLC  (SE-HPLC),  sedimentation  velocity  analytical  ultracentrifugation  (SV-AUC),  SDS-
PAGE, and size exclusion HPLC with static light scattering detection (SE-HPLC-SLS)).  
Page 7 of 59 
The  biophysical  properties  of  romiplostim  were  assessed  by  far  and  near  UV  and  CD  spectroscopy, 
FTIR,  fluorescence,  and  DSC  (differential  scanning  calorimetry)  to  ascertain  the  secondary  and 
tertiary  structural  conformations  and  relative  thermodynamic  stability.  The  biophysical  evaluation 
confirmed  the  romiplostim  structure  is  consistent  with  the  Fc  region  of  IgG.  Also  the  biological 
activity assay is considered adequate as a lot release assay. In summary, a comprehensive evaluation 
of the biochemical and biophysical structure and the biological characterization of romiplostim have 
been conducted. 
Impurities 
Assessment  of  product  related  impurities  was  accomplished  through  forced  degradation  studies.  
Specifically romiplostim active substance was subjected to stress conditions, such as high temperature 
or  various  chemical  conditions,  and  then  analyzed  by  various  analytical  methods  including 
determination  of  bioactivity.    The  results  of  these  studies  identified  product-  and  process-related 
impurities  and  shown  consistency  in  their  removal  though  the  purification  process.  Results  from  a 
large number of batches have been presented covering the development history of the manufacturing 
process. The information provided is considered satisfactory.  
  Specification 
Control of active substance 
The  romiplostim  active  substance  is  routinely  controlled  by  a  range  of  chemical-physical  and 
biological  tests  (covering  appearance/color,  pH,  identity,  purity,  potency,  quantity  and  microbial 
content)  to  assure  consistent  production.  In  general,  the  analytical  assays  and  their  validation  are 
deemed acceptable.  
  Stability  
The stability programme, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, has been 
designed in accordance with the relevant guidelines.  The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the 
release specifications selected for stability-indicating properties. 
Stability  of  the  active  substance  was  evaluated  at  the  recommended  storage  temperature  and  under 
other  conditions.  The  stability  program  consisted  of  clinical  lots,  commercial  lots  and  data  from  the 
initial  generation  process.    The  stability  data  provided  are  within  the  specifications  and  the  storage 
period at the recommended storage temperature is accepted. 
Medicinal Product  
Romiplostim  medicinal  product,  Nplate,  is  supplied  as  a  sterile,  preservative  free  lyophilized  white 
powder ready for reconstitution. It is supplied for single use in 5 ml Type I glass vials containing 250 
or  500 μg  deliverable  romiplostim,  respectively.  When  reconstituted  with  the  appropriate  volume  of 
sterile water for injections (WFI), romiplostim is at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL. The reconstituted 
product  is  a  clear  colourless  solution  practically  free  from  particles.  The  container  closure  system 
consists of a Type I glass vial, elastomeric stopper, and aluminium seal with flip-off cap.  
Prior to administration, Nplate is reconstituted in the vial to 0.5 mg/mL (0.72 mL or 1.2 ml of sterile 
WFI  is  added  to  vials  containing  250  μg  or  500  μg  of  romiplostim  respectively),  and  drawn  into  a 
syringe for subcutaneous injection.  
  Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development 
Medicinal product formulation consists of a dilution of the active substance in a formulation buffer. 
The excipients used are commonly used in lyophilised products, and the concentrations employed are 
in the ranges commonly used.  
Page 8 of 59 
The  development  history  includes  both  frozen  liquid  and  lyophilised  formulations.  For  the  early 
clinical  trials  a  frozen  liquid  formulation  was  developed.  Based  on  clinical  dosing  requirements  and 
because  of  the  instability  trends  in  the  frozen  liquid  formulation  at  low  protein  concentrations  a 
lyophilised formulation was developed. L-histidine was used to maintain pH control at a target of 5.0. 
Dilute hydrochloric acid was added to adjust the pH to the acceptable range. Sucrose was incorporated 
as  a  stabilizer  and  mannitol  was  included  as  a  bulking  agent.  Several  formulations  were  tested. 
Polysorbate  20  was  chosen  as  a  stabilising  agent  to  minimise  aggregation  at  the  required  protein 
concentration  and  pH.  Moreover,  the  robustness  of  the  chosen  formulation  was  verified  Several 
experiments  were  performed  to  show  that  lyophilisation  did  not  alter  the  bioactivity  or  structural 
properties of the protein.  
Manufacturing Process Development  
The medicinal product manufacturing process consists of thawing the active substance, a formulation 
step, followed by aseptic filtration, filling of the vials, partial stoppering, lyophilization and capping.   
The  medicinal  product  was  initially  manufactured  as  a  frozen  liquid  formulation.    Subsequently,  a 
lyophilized  formulation  was  developed  and  manufactured.    As  part  of  further  development,  the 
lyophilization  process  and  the  active  substance  process  (second  generation)  were  concurrently 
optimized for commercial production.  The process was transferred to the commercial site and scaled 
up with minor changes made to accommodate facility differences. 
Medicinal product comparability studies have been performed to support the process and site changes. 
The medicinal product assessment concluded that the medicinal product produced from the optimized 
process was comparable to the medicinal product produced from the initial process. 
  Adventitious Agents 
Starting materials and reagents used in the production process of romiplostim made by using material 
of animal origin have been identified. It is concluded that the associated TSE risk of romiplostim is 
negligible.  
The  measures  taken  to  prevent  microbiological  contamination  of  active  substance  and  medicinal 
product  during  the  production  process  include  sterilisation  or  filtration  of  fermentation  media  and 
other buffers used during manufacturing of the active substance and medicinal product. Additionally, 
excipients used in the formulation are controlled for microbiological contamination.  
The MCB, WCB, and a sample after production fermentation, are routinely tested for contamination, 
including a bacteriophage test. Moreover, at several steps in the production process tests for bioburden 
and/or  bacterial  endotoxins  are  carried  out.  Validation  of  viral  clearance  is  not  applicable  for 
romiplostim since it is produced by microbial fermentation in E. coli. 
  Manufacture of the Product 
Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Control  
The  manufacturing  process  of  Nplate  is  straight-forward  and  includes  preparation  of  a  formulation 
buffer,  thawing  of  the  active  substance,  a  two-step  formulation  of  the  medicinal  product,  sterile 
filtration, aseptic filling, lyophilisation, stoppering, capping, inspection, labelling and packaging.  
In  general,  the  validation  studies  provided  have  confirmed  that  the  romiplostim  medicinal  product 
manufacturing process is robust and suitable for commercial, routine use and that a medicinal product 
(250 and 500 g) of an appropriate quality can be consistently produced at the commercial site.  
Control of Excipients 
All excipients in the formulation comply with the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.), United States 
Pharmacopeia/National  Formulary  (USP/NF),  and  where  applicable  Japanese  Pharmacopoeia  (JP) 
standards.    The  medicinal  product  contains  no  excipients  of  human  or  animal  origin  and  no  novel 
excipients are used.  
Page 9 of 59 
  Product Specification 
The routine tests and corresponding specifications include a range of chemical-physical and biological 
tests,  covering  appearance/color  and  moisture  content 
lyophilised  product  and 
appearance/color, identity, purity, sterility, potency, quantity, pH, polysorbate 20, sub-visible particles, 
and osmolality for the reconstituted medicinal product. The control of the medicinal product relies to a 
large extent on the same analytical methods as those used to control the active substance.  The tests 
and rationale for the acceptance criteria for the finished product were considered acceptable.  
the 
for 
Characterization of Impurities 
The medicinal product was sufficiently evaluated for product-related and process-related impurities. In 
the medicinal product, the same product-related impurities were observed as in the active substance. It 
can  be  concluded  that  only  small  levels  of  product-related  impurities  are  found  in  the  medicinal 
product.  
  Stability of the Product 
Long-term,  accelerated,  photo-stability,  and  in-use  (reconstituted  medicinal  product)  stability  of  the 
medicinal product have been performed in accordance with the ICH stability guideline.  
As  for  the  active  substance,  stability  data  from  samples  stored  at  the  recommended  temperature  of 
storage and under different stress conditions showed that the medicinal product is quite stable. A shelf-
life of 36 months at 2-8ºC has been accepted. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and medicinal product 
has been presented in a satisfactory  manner. The quality of this product can  be recommended when 
used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SPC. The results of the tests carried out indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics and these in turn 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the 
clinic.  
At the time of CHMP opinion, all the minor issues raised during the procedure have been clarified and 
additional post-authorisation commitments have been agreed by the Company. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Safety studies and pharmacokinetic assay validation studies have been performed in accordance with 
GLP regulations. Pivotal toxicology studies, toxicokinetic studies, and most of the toxicology studies 
were conducted under GLP standards. 
Pharmacology 
  Primary pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
Affinity of romiplostim for c-Mpl (thrombopoietin receptor) has been assessed in different species and 
in  comparison  with  different  c-Mpl  ligands.  In  studies  R2006118  and  R20070018  direct  assessment 
methods  using  Biacore  2000  and  Biacore  3000  analysis  were  used  respectively.  The  KD  of 
romiplostim to human c-Mpl was in a range between 0.51-14 nM, while affinity of thrombopoietin for 
the same receptor was calculated to be 33 nM. KD of romiplostim to murine c-Mpl was calculated to 
be 3.5 nM, while affinity of thrombopoietin for the same receptor was calculated to be 66 nM. 
Study  102177  was  an  indirect  analysis  by  displacement  of  radiolabelled  ligands  in  platelets. 
Romiplostim  affinity  was  tested  for  human,  non-human  primate,  rabbit  and  rat  c-Mpl.  Romiplostim 
Page 10 of 59 
 
 
showed  a  17-59  fold  lower  affinity  than  TPO  in  the  different  responding  species  tested.  There  was 
observed no or very low binding for rabbit platelets. 
Platelets  exposure  to  romiplostim  (1μg/mL)  was  assessed  in  study  00-111  and  resulted  in  a  similar 
response  (phosphorylation  of  c-Mpl  and  JAK2)  to  that  measured  in  response  to  the  megakaryocyte 
growth  and  development  factor  (MGDF).  This  intracellular  signalling  is  consistent  with  the  known 
effects  of  thrombopoietin  binding  to  the  same  receptor.  In  this  study  the  effect  of  romiplostim  on 
platelet  functionality  was  measured  as  platelet  response  to  a  range  of  ADP  concentration  in  the 
presence of romiplostim in final concentrations of 1, 10 and 100 ng/mL (see figure 2): 
Figure 2. Effects of romiplostim on Human Platelet Function In Vitro. 
Studies PP01103 and PP01104 were carried out to observe the capability of romiplostim to stimulate 
CFC-MK (colony-forming cells-megakaryocytes) to form colonies of mature megakaryocytes. These 
studies  were  conducted  using  LDBM  (low  density  bone  marrow)  cell  preparations  and  purified 
(CD34+)  cells.  Romiplostim  stimulated  the  growth  of  megakaryocyte-colony  forming  cells  from 
human, cynomolgus monkey, rhesus monkey and baboon bone marrow in a dose dependent way and 
with a lower maximum response compared to MGDF. Romiplostim ED50 in cynomolgus and human 
LDBM were 76.67 ng/mL (1.3 nM) and 14.86 ng/ml (0.25 nM) respectively, and in cynomolgus and 
human  CD  34+  CFU-MK  0.18  and  0.52  nM  respectively.  If  MGDF  and  romiplostim  were  given 
together, no evidence was found of addition or synergism. 
In vivo studies 
Study PP01197 was a dose-titration study with romiplostim in female BDF1 mice. Groups of 20 mice 
received  a  single  subcutaneous  injection  of  vehicle  or  0.1,  0.3,  1,  3,  5,  10  μg/kg  romiplostim 
(experiment 2) and vehicle or 100 μg/kg romiplostim (experiment 1). A dose related and consistently 
statistically significant increase of platelets was seen at dose levels of 3 μg/kg romiplostim and higher. 
A peak platelet count was seen on day 5 and 6 for experiments 1 and 2 respectively. The dose group at 
100  μg/kg  romiplostim  showed  a  decrease  of  red  blood  cell  parameters  (RBC,  hemoglobin, 
hematocrit) up to day 9, followed by a recovery thereafter. 
Study PP01114 compares subcutaneous and intravenous injection route in female BDF1 mice. Groups 
of 20 mice received a single subcutaneous injection of vehicle or 10, 30, 100 or 300 μg/kg romiplostim 
or  a  single  intravenous  injection  of  10,  30,  100  or  300  μg/kg  romiplostim.  Platelets  increased  dose-
dependently  in  all  dose  groups,  without  difference  between  the  two  routes  of  administration  (see 
Figure 3). Decreased red cell parameters (RBC, Hb, Hct) were found at 300 μg/kg (both routes) and 
for some of the parameters at 100 μg/kg (both routes) and 10-30 μg/kg (only SC). Elevated levels of 
neutrophils,  monocytes,  eosinophils  and  basophils  were  found  at  the  highest  doses  for  both  routes. 
Lymphocytes remained within the normal range. 
Page 11 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  3.  Platelet  levels  in  female  mice  treated  with  romiplostim  given  intravenously  or 
subcutaneously. 
The effect of romiplostim on platelets in splenectomised and intact (control) mice was investigated in 
study PP01126. Female BDF1 mice were injected subcutaneously with vehicle, or 10, 50 or 100 μg/kg 
romiplostim.  The  baseline  platelet  numbers  of  splenectomised  mice  were  higher  than  those  of  the 
intact animals. The effect of romiplostim on platelets expressed as % change, was similar for all three 
dose levels in both splenectomised and normal mice. 
In study PP01122 groups of 4 female CD rats received single doses of romiplostim at 10, 30, 100 or 
300 μg/kg via the subcutaneous or intravenous route. Negative control groups received buffered saline 
and 0.1% rat serum. Dose-related increase of platelets was found at all tested dose levels, with no clear 
difference between the two administration routes. The maximum platelet count was found at 6 -9 days, 
after which the count declined back to baseline at 21 days. 
In  study  100860  three  male  rhesus  monkeys  and  three  male  cynomolgus  monkeys  received  a  single 
subcutaneous  injection  of  1  mg/kg  romiplostim.  Platelet  counts  started  to  increase  at  5-7  days  after 
treatment, peaked (200% of pre-study values in cynomolgus, 177% in rhesus monkeys) on days 7-11 
after the injection, and returned to pre-treatment levels by day 17 (rhesus monkeys) or 21 (cynomolgus 
monkeys).  Morphologically,  large  platelets  and  clumping  platelets  were  seen  on  all  days  (including 
pre-treatment) in one or more cynomolgus monkeys, but only on days 5 -9 in rhesus monkeys. Indices 
of circulating erythrocyte mass (CEM), RBC, Hematocrit and hemoglobin decreased gradually up to 
day 7-9 and increased again gradually from day 11 to day 21. Reticulocyte counts increased at day 7, 
peaked on day 11 and decreased thereafter. Slight polychromasia was seen starting in some animals on 
day 5, in most animals on days 7-11 and decreasing thereafter. An increase of megakaryoblasts was 
seen on day 3. The lineage-specific effect was confirmed by immunostaining of bone marrow smears. 
The response of both species of monkeys was similar. 
Study  PP01116  examined  the  effect  of  romiplostim  in  an  ITP  model  in  W/BF1  mice  using 
subcutaneous  doses  of  50,  500  or  1000  μg/kg.  The  onset  of  thrombocytopenia,  the  effect  of 
splenectomy  and  the  effect  of  romiplostim  treatment  was  investigated.  Male  mice  showed  a 
progressive  thrombocytopenia  associated  with  aging  while  female  littermates  did  not.  Splenectomy 
Page 12 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  an  effective  treatment  strategy  in  a  proportion  of  animals,  although  many  did  not  benefit.  The 
majority of mice that did show benefit from surgery would relapse into a thrombocytopenic state or 
die  prematurely  from  unknown  causes.  Splenectomy  non-responders  and  animals  that  relapsed  both 
showed  a  significant  increase  in  platelet  counts  in  response  to  romiplostim  injections.  Over  time 
romiplostim  responders  occasionally  became  less  sensitive  to  the  drug,  and  in  these  animals  dose 
escalation  was  an  effective  strategy  without  any  discernable  side  effects.  Overall  treatment  with 
romiplostim  increased  platelet  counts  in  both  pre-and  post-splenectomy  settings.  No  survival 
advantage was offered by romiplostim treatment in this model. 
  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In  study  100882  romiplostim  was  screened  in  vitro  (NOVA  Screen)  for  receptor  binding  affinity  to 
assess selectivity to sixty-three different receptors, enzymes, or ion channel targets. Romiplostim was 
tested at concentrations of 0.2 and 2 µM being the highest concentration least 10 fold higher than the 
highest concentrations found in monkey plasma following administration of romiplostim at a dose of 
5.0  mg/kg.  Using  the  criterion  that  inhibition  of  >  50%  constitutes  activity  at  a  give  receptor, 
romiplostim did not show activity for any of the receptors or enzymes tested. There were a few targets 
that  had  greater  than  20%  negative  inhibition  (e.g.  muscarinic  M1,  estrogen,  thromboxane  A2,  and 
neurokinin NK1) at 2.0 µM concentration. 
  Safety pharmacology programme 
Study  101497  on  cynomolgus  monkeys  investigated  effects  on  the  cardiovascular  system.  A 
single IV bolus dose of romiplostim was administered to 12 cynomolgus monkeys at doses of 0, 500, 
1000  and  5000  µg/kg.  All  evaluations  were  performed  in  conscious  telemetered  monkeys. 
Hemodynamic, electrocardiographic and body temperature data collection began on Days –6 or –5 and 
ended  on  Days  10  or  11.  There  was  no  effect  of  romiplostim  on  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  body 
temperature,  QT  interval  as  well  as  other  ECG  parameters,  at  any  dose  level  either  acutely  or 
throughout  the  study.    Pharmacological  response  to  romiplostim  was  observed  as  a  1.8,  1.6  and  2.5 
platelet count increase from baseline to study day 10 for the 500, 1000 and 5000 µg/kg dose groups 
respectively. 
Effects  on  the  central  nervous  system  were  investigated  in  study  101954  on  Sprague-Dawley  rats. 
Following  single  subcutaneous  doses  of  0,  10,  30,  100  µg/kg  romiplostim  a  functional  observation 
battery (FOB) was performed in 8 rats of each sex per group. There were no deaths during the study 
and  no  behavioural  changes  related  to  drug  administration  were  noted.  No  effect  was  seen  on  body 
temperature neither on motor activity. 
  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have not been conducted for romiplostim. 
Pharmacokinetics 
PK  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  pregnant  rats  and  rabbits,  and  rhesus  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys  following  single  or  multiple  IV  or  SC  dosing.  A  single  SC  dose  study  in  rats  was  also 
conducted  to  compare  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  two  formulations  tested  along  romiplostim 
development program. 
Methods of analysis 
ELISA  methods  were  developed  and  validated  to  quantify  romiplostim  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and 
monkey sera. Two additional validated assays were used to test for antibodies in animals. The first was 
a  surface  plasmon  resonance-based  immunoassay  using  the  Biacore  3000  to  detect  and  confirm  the 
presence of binding antibodies. The second was an in vitro cell-based bioassay to detect neutralizing 
antibodies.  Species-specific  assays  were  developed  for  the  studies.  For  distribution  and  excretion 
balance studies in rats radiolabelled romiplostim (125I) was used. 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  using  standard  non-compartmental  methods 
WinNonlin (Pharsight, Mountain View, California). 
in 
Page 13 of 59 
in  rats  and 
To  investigate  the  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  (PK/PD)  relationship  using  single  dose  data 
in  monkeys,  compartmental  modelling  was  employed.  The  general 
obtained 
pharmacokinetic  model  comprised  a  depot  compartment  for  SC  dose  administration,  a  central 
compartment,  a  peripheral  tissue  compartment  and  a  receptor  binding  compartment.  Two  possible 
elimination  mechanisms  were  included  in  the  general  model,  a  linear  elimination  from  the  central 
compartment and a receptor mediated elimination by internalization of the receptor-drug complex. The 
PD model was composed of 20 transit compartments which depicted the progression of the platelets 
and the precursor cells through their lifespan. The final PK model for each species was adapted to fit 
the observed data from each individual species. 
Validation of romiplostim quantification methods was conducted in GLP-compliant studies. 
  Absorption 
Single-dose  pharmacokinetics  was  studied  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats  (Study  100909),  Rhesus  (Study 
100998) and Cynomolgus monkeys (101604) over a dose range of 30 to 300 μg/kg in rats and 500 to 
5000  μg/kg  in  monkeys.  The  bioavailability  of  romiplostim  after  a  single  SC  dose  showed  similar 
values  in  rats  (21  to  28%;  dose  range  of  30  to  300  μg/kg)  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  (19%  at  5000 
μg/kg), whereas in rhesus monkeys it decreased from 74% at 500 μg/kg to 45% at 5000 μg/kg. The 
maximum concentration was achieved at a median tmax of 8-16 hours post-dose in rats and at 4 to 8 
hours post-dose in monkeys. The apparent terminal elimination t1/2 was 19 to 21 hours, 296 hours and 
110  to  195  hours  in  rats,  cynomolgus  and  rhesus  monkeys  respectively.  After  a  single  IV  dose 
administration the estimated systemic clearance (CL) was approximately 6.3 to 8.4 in rats, 17.3 to 20.1 
in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  7.4  to  7.8  mL/h/kg  in  rhesus  monkeys.  The  estimated  steady-state 
volume  of  distribution  was  approximately  114  to  139,  110  to  198  and  184  to  196  mL/kg  for  rats, 
cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys, respectively. The terminal elimination t1/2  was approximately 17 to 
19 hours in rats, 68 to 96 hours in cynomolgus monkeys, and 102 to 143 hours in rhesus monkeys. 
Repeated-dose pharmacokinetics were studied in Sprague Dawley rats (Study 100876), Rhesus (Study 
101158) and Cynomolgus monkeys (Study 100877). Doses ranged from 10 to 100 μg/kg in rats and 
from  100  to  5000  μg/kg  in  monkeys  for  4-weeks.  The  increase  in  exposure  was  greater  than  dose  
proportional in rats and was approximately dose proportional in cynomolgus monkeys. An overview 
on absorption data after romiplostim multiple administrations (IV or SC) in Cynomolgus monkeys is 
provided in Table 2. 
Table 2. Romiplostim absorption after repeated doses in monkeys. 
Page 14 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Distribution 
A  quantitative  whole  body  autoradiography  and  tissue  radioactivity  distribution  study  after  IV 
administration of  125I-AMP2 was performed in 16 female Sprague Dawley rats (Study 101995). The 
TCA  precipitated  radioactivity  accounted  for  84  –  95%  of  the  total  radioactivity  within  30  minutes 
after dosing. In the animals used for the tissue analysis, the percentage of the dose present in a number 
of  tissues  0.5  hour  post-dose  was  64.6  (blood),  15.8  (liver),  6.7  (muscle,  thigh),  4.74  (bone,  both 
femurs),  1.32  (bone  marrow  from  both  femurs),  3.57  (kidneys),  0.16  (thyroid).  At  12  hrs  post  dose 
25.2% was found in blood, at 72 hrs, 5.14% and at 168 hrs 1.72. In thyroid, the percentage at 12, 72 
and 168 hrs was 0. In all tissues tested no accumulation was observed over time. 
  Metabolism 
Metabolism studies have not been conducted for romiplostim. 
  Excretion 
Excretion of romiplostim was evaluated in female rats following a single IV dose of 125I-romiplostim 
at 300 μg/kg. The major route of excretion of radioactivity was via the urine. At 168 hours post-dose, 
urine accounted for a mean value of 87.7% of the dosed radioactivity, and faeces accounted for 6.56%. 
Approximately 50% of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in the first 24 hours. The overall 
recovery of dosed radioactivity was 95.9%. TCA precipitation of urine showed approximately 9.5% of 
the total dosed radioactivity. The faeces showed a range of 45.9 to 49.2% precipitated radioactivity. 
Results  of  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in  splenectomised  rats  (Study  100995,  non-GLP  exploratory 
PKPD  study)  show  only  very  little  difference  with  regard  to  AMP2  exposure  and  platelet  response 
with intact or sham operated animals and only at the lowest tested dose (100 μg/kg IV). 
  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction studies have been conducted for romiplostim. 
  Other pharmacokinetic studies 
A single SC  dose study in rats was performed to compare the pharmacokinetics of the frozen liquid 
formulation used in the preclinical program and early clinical studies and the lyophilized formulation 
used in the pivotal clinical studies. Forty-eight male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a single 
subcutaneous dose of romiplostim 30 μg/kg. The pharmacokinetic profiles of both formulations were 
similar in rats. From the non-compartimental analysis based on composite mean serum concentration-
time  profiles,  Cmax  values  of  the  two  formulations  were  similar  while  AUC0-inf  of  the  lyophilized 
romiplostim  was  approximately  10%  lower  than  of  the  frozen  liquid  formulation.  The  maximum 
concentration following administration of the frozen liquid formulation was achieved at 24 hours. 
Toxicology 
The toxicological profile of romiplostim was evaluated in single and repeated-dose toxicity studies (up 
to  6  months)  and  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies.  Mice,  rats,  rabbits,  and  monkeys 
(cynomolgus and rhesus) were used. In the in vivo studies romiplostim was administered by SC route, 
except  for  the  one  month  repeated-dose  studies  in  rat  and  rhesus  monkey  where  it  was  also 
administered intravenously.  
  Single dose toxicity 
Subcutaneous  acute  toxicity  of  romiplostim  was  evaluated  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats  in  study  No. 
103974. Animals were administered 0, 100, 300 and 1000 μg/kg /SC and were kept under observation 
for 16 days. One out of forty animals was found dead on day 9 after administration of 100 μg/kg of 
romiplostim.  It  was  an  isolated  case  and  there  were  no  microscopic  or  macroscopic  findings  during 
Page 15 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
examination. The study did not reveal high acute toxicity and the subcutaneous LD50 was greater than 
1000 μg/kg in rats. 
  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
An overview of the repeated-dose toxicity studies are showed in T
able 3. 
Table 3. Overview of repeat
Study   Species/ Number /
Sex /Group 
oxi
ed-dose t
Dose 
(μg/kg)/Route/ 
Duration 
100876 
ley 
Sprague  Daw
/ 10 and 
rats/10 /sex
30μg/kg;  15/sex/  0 
and 100 μg/kg 
 +
Recovery: 
5/sex/0  and  100 
μg/kg (SC & IV) 
(TK  analysis  in  12 
animals/sex/group) 
  weekly; 
,  100/ 
3
  times
0,  10,  30
 SC
100/ IV 
4 weeks
+ 
4 weeks recovery 
city studies performed with romiplostim. 
Major findings 
Fourteen  deaths  (9  probably  rela
collection and thrombocytosis) (mainly at 100 μg/kg) 
ted  to  the  treatment:  recent  blood 
Haematology 
↑ platelet counts at all dose levels 
 (mildly to moderate) platelet volume at all dose levels 
↑
↓ red blood cell 
↑ leukocytes at 30 and 100 μg/kg  
(all haematologic effects were reverted after the recovery
parameters in all dose levels 
 period) 
Antibodies 
Anti-TMP antibodies (54.3% of the treated animals) 
Anti-human Fc antibodies (40% of the
A
nti-romiplostim  antibodies  (whole 
animals) 
Anti-romiplostim neutralizing antibodies (49% of the treated animals)  
None of them cross react with eTPO 
 treated animals) 
molecule)  (36%  of  the  treated 
Organ findings and histopathology 
↑ spleen weights, (minimal to moderate) megakariocytosis, (minimal to 
slight)  extramedullary  haematopoiesis,  (minimal  to  moderately  severe) 
megakaryocyte hyperplasia and lymphocytic depletion in the lun
gs liver 
nd spleen 
a
(Minimal  to  moderately  severe)  femoral  and  sternal  bone  marrow 
hyperostosis, myelofibrosis and megakaryocytic hyperplasia 
(dose-related increased incidences and/or severity in both sexes) 
Injection site lesions: dermal chronic inflammation (ma
m
uscle  and  subcutis  chronic  inflammation  and  myofib
(treated males and females)  (SC) 
les) (SC & IV), 
er  regeneration 
All drug-related changes revert
ed after recovery period. 
NOEL/ NOAEL (μg/kg/dose): Not determined (red blood cell findings 
and myelofibrosis at 10μg/kg). 
Page 16 of 59 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study   Species/ Number /
Sex /Group 
Dose 
(μg/kg)/Route/ 
Duration 
Major findings 
Biochemistry 
↑ LDH (5000 μg/kg)  
100877 
Rhesus  monkey/5 
/sex/ 0 (SC/IV) and 
5000μg/kg 
(SC); 
3/sex/  500,  1000 
(SC),  5000 
(IV) 
μg/kg 
+ 
Recovery: 
2/sex/0 
and 
μg/kg 
(SC/IV) 
(IV) 
5000 
3  times  weekly;  
1000 
500, 
0, 
5000/ SC 
5000/ IV 
4 weeks 
+ 
4 weeks recovery 
Haematology  
Dose-dependent  ↑  platelet  counts  *dose  dependent  but  at  higher  doses 
than required for humans or rats. 
↓ mean platelet volume (non dose-dependent) (5000 μg/kg SC) 
↑ platelet aggregation (all doses) 
↓ red blood cell parameters (5000 μg/kg SC & IV) (revertible) 
Antibodies 
Antibodies  capable  of  binding  romiplostim  and  TMP  (60%  of  the 
treated animals) 
Anti-romiplostim  neutralizing  antibodies  (18%  of  the  treated  animals) 
(Biological response affected in one animal 500 μg/kg) 
Anti-TPO antibodies (36% of animals; pre-treatment) 
Anti-TPO neutralizing antibodies (14% of animals; pre-treatment) 
Anti-TPO neutralizing antibodies (0% of animals; post-dose) 
Organ findings and histopathology 
Enlargement of ovaries (2/3 1000 μg/kg and 1/3 5000 μg/kg (SC & IV)) 
↑ spleen weight (all doses) (remaining in the 5000 μg/kg after recovery 
period) 
Dose-related  megakaryocytic  hyperplasia  in  the  bone  marrow  (females 
> males) (markedly reduced after recovery period) 
SC  injection  site  reactions:  cell  infiltrates,  hemorrhage  and  myofiber 
degeneration.  (incidence  ands  severity  non-dose-related)  (reduced 
severity after recovery period) 
Myelofibrosis was not seen in monkeys up to 6 months exposure. 
NOEL/  NOAEL  (μg/kg/dose):  5000  IV  or  SC  (toxicological  findings 
starting ant 500 μg/kg) 
Haematology 
Dose dependent ↑ platelet counts (all treated animals) 
↑PT and APT (5000 μg/kg, rhesus) 
↓platelet volume (5000 μg/kg, rhesus and cynomolgus) 
↓ RBC parameters (rhesus) 
↑ reticulocytes (rhesus and cynomolgus) 
↑ leukocytes (rhesus and cynomolgus) 
101158 
Rhesus 
monkey/female/8/ 
group  
+ 
Recovery: 
3/group 
3  times  weekly;  
0, 5000/SC 
4 weeks 
+ 
4 weeks recovery 
Organ findings and histopathology 
Grafiaan  follicles,  secondary  follicles,  corpus  luteum  and  vacuolated 
corpus luteum (controls and treated animals) 
Erythropoiesis in the bone marrow (5000 μg/kg, rhesus) Extramedullary 
haematopoiesis  in  spleen,  uterus,  submandibular  lymph  node  (5000 
μg/kg, rhesus and cynomolgus) 
Teratoma in ovary (1 cynomolgus monkey at 100 μg/kg) 
Biochemistry 
↑ LDH (5000 μg/kg, rhesus and cynomolgus)  
↑ CPK (5000 μg/kg, rhesus) 
↑ A/G ratio (5000 μg/kg, rhesus) 
NOEL/ NOAEL (μg/kg/dose): 500 
Page 17 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study   Species/ Number /
Sex /Group 
Dose 
(μg/kg)/Route/ 
Duration 
Cynomolgus 
monkey/female/ 
6/0,  100,  300  and 
500 μg/kg 
8/5000 μg/kg 
+ 
Recovery: 
2/0,  100,  300  and 
500 μg/kg 
3/5000 μg/kg 
3  times  weekly; 
0,  100,  300,  500 
5000/SC 
4 weeks 
+ 
4 weeks recovery 
Major findings 
Urianalysis 
↑ β2-microglobulin (5000 μg/kg, rhesus and cynomolgus)  
↑ NAG  (5000 μg/kg, rhesus) 
Antibodies 
Antibodies  capable  of  binding  romiplostim  and  TMP  (47%  of  the 
treated animals) 
Anti-romiplostim antibodies (rhesus: 100%; cynomolgus: 30.8%) 
Anti-romiplostim neutralizing antibodies (0% rhesus and cynomolgus) 
None of them cross react with eTPO 
NOEL/ NOAEL (μg/kg/dose): 500 
  Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity studies have not been conducted with romiplostim. 
  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with romiplostim. 
  Reproduction Toxicity 
Studies  on  reproduction  toxicity  are  summarised  in  Tables  4-6.  Studies  in  which  offspring  (juvenile 
animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated have not been conducted with romiplostim. 
Table 4. Fertility and early embryonic development studies.  
Study type/ 
Study ID / GLP 
Species; 
Number 
Female/ 
group 
Route & dose  Dosing period  Major findings 
Male fertility 
102970 
Sprague 
Dawley Rats; 
30/ group 
3 times weekly 
SC; 0, 10, 30, 
100 μg/kg 
Female fertility 
102970 
Sprague 
Dawley  Rats; 
30/ group 
3 times weekly 
SC; 0, 10, 30, 
100 μg/kg 
Beginning 4 
weeks prior to 
cohabitation 
until the day 
prior to 
necropsy 
Beginning 
2 
weeks  prior  to 
cohabitation 
until  the  day 
to 
prior 
necropsy 
↓ mean body 
weight, body 
weight gains and 
food consumption 
(30 and 100 
μg/kg) 
↑ platelet counts 
(all dosage 
groups) Spleen 
enlargement (30 
and 100 μg/kg) 
body 
↓  mean 
weight, 
body 
weight  gains  and 
food  consumption 
(30 
100 
and 
μg/kg) 
↑  platelet  counts 
100 
and 
(30 
μg/kg) 
Spleen 
enlargement 
and 100 μg/kg) 
(30 
Pre-treatment: 
antibodies anti-romiplostim: 
1.6% of animals 
antibodies anti-TMP: 0% 
anti-TPO antibodies: 6.7% of 
animals 
After treatment: 
antibodies anti-romiplostim: 
52.8% of animals 
antibodies anti-TMP: 56.8% 
of animals 
anti-TPO antibodies: 5.6% of 
animals 
Neutralizing antibodies anti-
romiplostim: 56% of animals 
Neutralizing antibodies anti-
TPO: 0% of animals 
LOAEL: 30 μg/kg 
NOAEL: 
F0 males: 100  μg/kg for 
fertility 
F0 females: 100  μg/kg for 
fertility, 10  μg/kg for toxicity 
Table 5. Embryo-foetal development studies. 
Study ID  
Species; Number 
Female/ group 
103322  
Mouse/Crl: CD-
1® (ICR) BR; 8 
Female/group 
Route & dose 
3 times 
weekly 
SC; 0, 3, 10, 
30, 100 μg/kg 
Dosing 
period 
Gestation 
days: 
6, 9, 12, 15. 
Major findings 
Spleen enlargement (1 animal, 100 μg/kg) 
↓body weight gains and gestation periods (100 μg/kg) 
Dose dependent ↑ platelet counts ( 3, 10, 30, 100 
Page 18 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID  
Species; Number 
Female/ group 
Route & dose 
Dosing 
period 
Major findings 
101948 
Non-
pivotal 
Sprague Dawley 
Rats; 5 
Female/group 
SC; 0, 10, 30, 
60, 100 μg/kg 
Gestation 
days: 
7, 9, 11, 13, 
15, 17, 19  
101949 
Non-
pivotal 
New Zealand 
White Rabbit; 5 
Female/group 
SC; 0, 10, 30, 
60, 100 μg/kg 
Gestation 
days: 
7, 9, 11, 13, 
15, 17, 19 
μg/kg) 
↑ % resorptions, dead or resorbed conceptuses per litter 
(100 μg/kg) 
↓ No. live fetuses (100 μg/kg) 
One dead fetus (3 μg/kg) 
NOAEL: 
F0 females: 30 μg/kg 
F1 litters: 30 μg/kg 
Neutralizing antibodies at 10, 30 and 100 μg/kg 
↑ platelet counts ( 30, 60, 100 μg/kg) 
↑ mean % preimplantation loss/animal 
↑ mean % postimplantation loss/animal 
↑ mean No. early and late resorptions 
↑ platelet counts (100 μg/kg) in litters. 
NOAEL: 
F0 females: 100 μg/kg  
F1 litters: 100 μg/kg 
Maternal data 
↓ total body weight change adjusted for gravid uterine 
weight (100 μg/kg) 
Antibodies anti-romiplostim: 44.4% of animals 
Neutralizing anti-romiplostim antibodies: 0% 
romiplostim treatment had no effect on platelet 
counts 
Foetal data 
one malformed fetus (100 μg/kg) (it was considered to 
be incidental ). 
NOAEL  
F0 females: 60  μg/kg 
F1 litters: 100μg/kg 
Maternal data 
Enlarged spleen (30 and 100 μg/kg) 
102273 
Sprague Dawley 
Rat; 25 
Female/group 
SC; 0, 10, 30, 
100 μg/kg 
Gestation 
days: 
7, 9, 11, 13, 
15, 17, 19 
Foetal data 
3 malformations: situs inversus (1/ 10 μg/kg), 
unossified vertebra (1/ 10 μg/kg) and retinal fold (1/ 
100 μg/kg). Not considered treatment related. 
LOAEL: not established 
NOAEL  
F0 females: 100  μg/kg 
F1 litters: 100μg/kg 
Table 6. Prenatal and postnatal development studies, including maternal function.  
Study ID 
Major findings 
Species; 
Number 
Female/ group 
Route & 
dose 
102969 
Sprague 
Dawley Rat; 24 
females/group 
(replicate 1: Ab 
-); 20 
females/group 
(replicate 2: 
Ab+) 
SC; 0, 10, 
30, 100 
μg/kg  
Every other 
day from 
gestation D6 
to post-natal 
D20 or 21 
Maternal data (F0): 
4 deaths: 3 dams (30 μg/kg; Ab-) and 1 dam (100μg/kg; Ab-) Cause of 
death: “possibly” stroke induced by increased blood viscosity resulting 
from ↑↑ platelet count. 
Slight prolongation of the gestation period in all treated groups (except 10 
μg/kg; Ab- group). 
Slight ↑ stillborn pups (100 μg/kg; Ab +/-) 
Enlarged spleen (30 (1 dam) and 100  μg/kg; Ab-) 
Neutralizing anti-romiplostim antibodies: 70-80% of dams (10, 30 and 100  
Page 19 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Species; 
Number 
Female/ group 
Route & 
dose 
Major findings 
μg/kg) 
Platelet counts: 
1.3-fold increase in Ab+ animals 
3-fold increase in Ab- animals 
↑ mean platelet volume (30 and 100  μg/kg; Ab-) 
Offspring Data (F1): 
No treatment-related findings 
NOAEL  
F0 females: none determined 
F1 males: 30 μg/kg 
F1 females: 30 μg/kg 
F2 litters: none determined 
  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance studies have not been conducted with romiplostim. 
  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
Romiplostim was immunogenic in mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys (rhesus and cynomolgus). Binding 
antibodies  to  romiplostim  and  neutralizing  antibodies  were  observed  in  all  species  tested.  Some 
animals  developed  anti-TPO  binding  antibodies  post-dose  although  none  of  them  was  able  of 
neutralizing  the  biological  effect  of  TPO  in  the  cell  based  assay.  No  evidence  of  thrombocytopenia 
was  observed  in  the  animals  that  developed  anti-TPO  antibodies.  The  development  of  neutralizing 
antibodies in rats turned into a clear decrease of the platelet response. 
Treated animals serum samples were tested for the presence of antibodies by Biacore analysis (Studies 
PP01113 and PP01108). Mice administered romiplostim subcutaneously at doses of 50 or 100 μg/kg 
every 21 days for 4 cycles generated antibodies that bound romiplostim in 60 and 80% of the animals 
respectively. This development was first detected within 1-2 weeks of a single exposure to the drug. 
The strongest serum interactions were to TMP. From studies of subsequent exposure to romiplostim, 
efficacy  to  lower  doses  (50  or  100  μg/kg)  of  romiplostim  was  reduced.  Mice  did  not  develop 
thrombocytopenia. Dose-escalation to 500 and 1000 μg/kg was an effective strategy to overcoming the 
antibody response. 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicity studies have not been performed. 
Dependence 
Studies on dependence have not been performed. 
Metabolites 
No specific studies on metabolites were performed. 
Studies on impurities 
A  toxicological  assessment  of  HMF  and  F  was  provided.  Romiplostim  medicinal  product  was 
evaluated for product related and process-related impurities. HMF and F were found as buffer matrix 
decomposition impurities after the lyophilisation process. HMF and F were quantified in the medicinal 
product being present below the limits established by the Applicant, even in heat-stressed material. 
Page 20 of 59 
 
 
 
Tissue Cross-Reactivity Study 
The potential cross-reactivity of romiplostim for selected human and cynomolgus monkey tissues and 
a human megakaryoblastic cell line was evaluated in Study 101815. Cryosections of selected human 
and cynomolgus monkey tissues, human buffy coat, and human megakaryoblastic leukemia MEG-01 
cells,  as  well  as  human  peripheral  blood  smears  were  used.  Various  concentrations  of  romiplostim 
were  examined,  ranging  from  1  to  50  μg/mL.  Indirect  immunoperoxidase  procedures  were  used  to 
demonstrate  reactivity  of  the  unconjugated  or  fluoresceinated  forms  of  the  test  article  with  the 
cryosections or blood smears. No specific reactivity for romiplostim was observed.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment has not been submitted. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In  1-month  rat  and  monkey  toxicology  studies,  a  mild  decrease  in  red  blood  cell  count, haematocrit 
and  haemoglobin  was  observed.    There  was  also  a  stimulatory  effect  on  leukocyte  production,  as 
peripheral  blood  counts  for  neutrophils,  lymphocytes,  monocytes,  and  eosinophils  were  mildly 
increased.    In  the  longer  duration  chronic  monkey  study,  there  was  no  effect  on  the  erythroid  and 
leukocytic  lineages  when  romiplostim  was  administered  for  6  months  where  the  administration  of 
romiplostim was decreased from thrice weekly to once weekly. 
It  is  unlikely  that  other  biological  effects  other  than  the  intended  action  results  from  romiplostim 
binding.  The  Applicant  provided  a  justified  discussion  on  thrombopoitein  receptor  expression  on 
different  cell  lines  including  myeloid  leukemia  cells,  and  also  justified  the  lack  of  an  adequate 
validated in vivo model to address this concern in a chronic study. Nevertheless, at least two cases of 
tumour  development  were  observed  in  humans,  one  case  of  myeloma  and  one  case  of  B-cell 
lymphoma.  Considering  these  findings,  the  risk  of  potential  carcinogenicity  of  romiplostim  remains 
unknown  and  should  be  further  studied.  To  address  this  concern  the  Applicant  has  committed  to 
provide experimental (in vitro) data on the potential of romiplostim to stimulate proliferation of solid 
tumour  cells  expressing  c-MPL.  This  commitment  has  been  included  as  a  follow-up  measure  to  be 
submitted post-approval. 
Myelofibrosis has been observed in the bone marrow of rats at all tested dose levels. In these studies, 
myelofibrosis was not observed in animals after a 4-week post-treatment recovery period, indicating 
reversibility. 
Metabolism  studies  have  not  been  conducted  for  romiplostim.  Its  expected  metabolism  is  the 
degradation  to  small  peptides  and  individual  amino  acids  mediated  by  proteases  and  according  to 
Guideline on Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-Derived Pharmaceuticals (ICH topic S6), 
classical biotransformation studies are not needed for biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals. 
No  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  The  potential  interactions  of  romiplostim  with  co-
administered  drugs  due  to  binding  to  plasma  proteins  remain  unknown  and  a  warning  has  been 
included in section 4.5 of the SPC. 
Due  to  romiplostim  protein-based  nature  and  in  accordance  with  ICH  topic  6  guideline,  neither 
genotoxicity nor carcinogenicity studies were performed. A warning has been included in section 5.3 
of the SPC. 
Due to the formation of neutralising antibodies pharmacodynamic effects of romiplostim in rats were 
often decreasing at prolonged duration of administration. Toxicokinetic studies showed no interaction 
of  the  antibodies  with  the  measured  concentrations.  Although  high  doses  were  tested  in  the  animal 
studies, due to differences between the laboratory species and humans with regard to the sensitivity for 
the pharmacodynamic effect of romiplostim and the effect of neutralising antibodies, safety margins 
cannot be reliably estimated.  
In  all  developmental  studies  neutralising  antibodies  were  formed,  which  may  have  inhibited 
romiplostim  effects.  In  embryo-foetal  development  studies  in  mice  and  rats,  reductions  in  maternal 
body weight were found only in mice. In mice there was evidence of increased post-implantation loss. 
In  a  prenatal  and  postnatal  development  study  in  rats  an  increase  of  the  duration  of  gestation  and  a 
Page 21 of 59 
slight increase in the incidence of peri-natal pup mortality was found. Romiplostim is known to cross 
the  placental  barrier  in  rats  and  may  be  transmitted  from  the  mother  to  the  developing  foetus  and 
stimulate foetal platelet production. Romiplostim had no observed effect on the fertility of rats. 
The Applicant has not performed specific local tolerance studies. Despite of it, effects of romiplostim 
administration  in  the  injection  site  were  evaluated  in  all  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  conducted. 
Most of the findings were reverted after the recovery period or its severity was reduced. 
On the basis of the Guideline CHMP/SWP/4447/00, proteins are exempted of ERA because they are 
unlikely  to  result  in  significant  risk  to  the  environment.  Romiplostim  is  an  Fc  fusion  protein  and 
therefore  this  assessment  is  not  provided.  The  excipients  used  have  an  extensive  history  of  use  in 
medicinal products and are not considered hazardous to the patient or the environment. Romiplostim 
medicinal  product is considered to be a non-hazardous, biodegradable product. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  clinical  development  program  included  9  clinical  studies  in  subjects  with  ITP,  2  pharmacology 
studies  in  healthy  subjects  and  2  studies  in  other  indications.  In  total  294  subjects  received 
romiplostim.  Two  pivotal  phase  3  efficacy  and  safety  studies  were  performed:  Study  20030105  on 
splenectomised  subjects  (42  romiplostim,  21  placebo)  and  Study  20030212  on  not  splenectomised 
subjects (41 romiplostim, 21 placebo). 
On 14 September 2005 the Company requested scientific advice for their product. A follow-up advice 
was requested on August 2006. The main issues dealt with in these advice procedures were: 
  Definition  of  the  target  population  to  be  included  in  pivotal  clinical  trials.  The  CHMP 
proposed  to  complement  the  inclusion  criteria  with  additional  features  in  order  to  better 
delineate  a  population  in  real  need  of  further  line  therapies.  This  applied  to  both 
splenectomised  and  non-splenectomised  patients.  Apparently,  this  recommendation  was  not 
taken on board by the Applicant. 
  The CHMP also advised to consider the evaluation of the primary endpoint (durable response) 
both on-therapy and off-therapy. 
  The importance of presenting a sufficient set of patients treated at least during 12 months was 
also highlighted. This should include data on BM biopsies after long-term therapy. 
  The MAH proposed plans to assess inmunogenicity of romiplostim and the potential for cross-
reactivity with eTPO was deemed acceptable. 
  The preliminary outline of the RMP in order to manage the main identified and potential risks 
associated to romiplostim use was also deemed acceptable. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Two  Phase  1,  single-dose  studies  were  conducted  to  characterize  the  PK  profiles  of  romiplostim  in 
healthy  subjects,  including  a  study  in  predominantly  white  or  Caucasian  subjects  (Study  20000109) 
and a study in Japanese subjects (Study 20040134). The PK of romiplostim with once-weekly, weight-
based  dosing  in  subjects  with  ITP  were  evaluated  in  1  additional  dose-finding  study  in  a 
predominantly white (Study 20000137B) population. Limited trough PK samples were collected from 
2  pivotal  trials  (Study  20030105  and  Study  20030212)  and  an  open-label  extension  study  (Study 
20030213)  in  subjects  with  ITP  to  support  safety  assessment.  One  subset  study  was  conducted  in 
Page 22 of 59 
 
Subject 
Numbe
r 
32 
8 
17 
18 
10 
14 
41e 
20 
subjects  with  ITP  participating  in  the  open-label  study  to  assess  the  comparability  of  PK  (Study 
20030213-Subset B) of the P1 and P2 materials. For a summary of the studies see Table 7. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Table 7. Romiplostim Clinical Pharmacokinetic Studies 
Study 
Number 
Phase 
Subjects  Material 
Dosea; Schedule 
Subjects 
Enrolled 
20000109 
20040134 
1 
1 
Healthy 
Healthy, 
Japanese 
20000137B 
1/2 
ITP 
20030105 
20030212 
3 
3 
ITP, 
splenectomi
sed 
ITP, non-
splenectomi
sed 
P1 
P1 
P1 
P1 
P1 
0.3, 1.0, 10.0; SD (IV)a 
0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 2.0; SD 
0.3, 1.0, 2.0c; SD 
1.0, 3.0, 6.0; QW 
1.0 to 15.0 (dose adjustment); QW 
1.0 to 15.0 (dose adjustment); QW 
48 
30 
21 
63 
62 
Sampling 
Schedule
b 
Intensive 
Intensive 
Intensive 
Sparse 
Sparse 
20030213 
OLE 
ITP 
P1/P2 
1.0 to 10.0d (dose adjustment); QW 
137 
Sparse 
20030213 
Subset A 
20030213 
Subset B 
41e 
20 
Sparse 
Intensive 
a  The  dose  unit  is  µg/kg,  except  for  µg  unit  dosing  in  Study  20010218;  all  doses  were  given  by  the  SC  route 
except for three cohorts in study 20000109 that had romiplostim given by the IV route  
b Intensive samples were collected to provide PK or PD profiles; sparse samples were collected once weekly or 
less frequently  
c A planned maximum planned dose of 3.0 µg/kg in Study 20040134 was not reached because stopping rules for 
excess elevation of platelet count were reached at the next lower planned dose.  
d Subjects on previous studies could carry their doses forward into this study; the maximum dose across previous 
studies was 30 µg/kg. Subjects who were receiving a dose > 10 µg/kg prior to the amendment were allowed to 
remain  on  that  dose;  however,  the  subject’s  dose  could  not  be  further  increased.  If  the  subject’s  dose  was 
decreased after enrolment, the dose could not be subsequently increased to > 10 µg/kg.  
e 22 of 41 subjects were qualified for inclusion in the analysis 
Analytical Methods 
Serum  concentrations  of  romiplostim  were  measured  using  an  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay 
(ELISA). The assay was used and validated at two sites. In the validation report for Study 101903, the 
calibration curve ranged from 15-500 pg/ml. Accuracy and precision ranged from 96-104% and 2-9%, 
respectively.  The  LLOQ  was  defined  as  18  pg/ml.  In  the  second  method  validation  report  (Study 
108854) the calibration curve ranged from 15 to 1500 pg/ml. Accuracy and precision ranged from 93-
108% and 2-13%, respectively. The LLOQ was defined as 15 pg/ml. 
Pharmacokinetics data analysis 
The estimated initial concentration at time zero (C0) for the IV groups was calculated by linear back-
extrapolation to time zero using the first two observed concentration values. The maximum observed 
concentration (Cmax) after SC dosing and the time of Cmax (tmax) were reported as observed values from 
the concentration vs. time data. The area under the serum concentration time curve (AUC) from time 0 
to  the  last  time  point  with  quantifiable  concentration  (AUC0-t)  was  calculated  by  the  linear/log 
trapezoidal method. Linear regression was used to estimate the rate constant for the terminal log-linear 
phase  of  the  concentration-time  curve  (  λz).  The  terminal  half-life  (t½,z)  was  calculated  as  ln2/λz. 
Systemic clearance (CL) and the clearance after subcutaneous administration (CL/F) were calculated 
as dose divided by AUCinf,  IV and AUCinf,  SC, respectively. The volume of distribution at steady state 
(Vss) was calculated as mean residence time multiplied by the clearance (MRT*CL).The distribution 
volume of the central compartment after IV dosing (Vc) was calculated as the nominal IV dose divided 
by C0.  
Page 23 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
Routinely, descriptive statistics were provided. In the comparability exercise in Study 20030213, 90% 
confidence intervals were estimated. 
  Absorption  
In  Study  20000109,  healthy  subjects  were  administered  0.1,  0.3,  1.0  or  2.0  µg/kg  romiplostim  as  a 
single  SC  injection.  After  SC  administration  of  2  µg/kg  to  healthy  subjects,  romiplostim  tmax  was 
observed between 24 and 36 hours after dosing. In Study 20040134, healthy Japanese subjects were 
administered 0.3, 1.0 or 2.0 µg/kg romiplostim as a single SC injection. For the 2 µg/kg blood samples 
were  taken  for  PK  analysis.  Serum  concentrations  above  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (LLOQ) 
were observed in 2 out of 8 subjects dosed at the 2 µg/kg dose level. 
In Study 20000137B, ITP patients were administered 1.0 (n=8), 3.0 (n=5) or 6.0 (n=1) µg/kg SC once 
weekly for 6 weeks. Serum exposure to romiplostim was highly variable among subjects. Most of the 
serum  romiplostim  concentrations  were  below  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (LLOQ  =  18  pg/ml) 
and  non-compartmental  analysis  was  not  performed.  At  3.0  µg/kg,  the  serum  romiplostim 
concentrations were lower and the platelet counts were higher at week 6 than at week 1. 
In  the  open-label  extension  study  (Study  20030213  Subset  B)  in  subjects  with  ITP,  romiplostim 
maintenance doses were administered from 3 to 15 µg/kg SC. Combining data for all patients and dose 
levels, maximum serum romiplostim concentrations were observed at a median tmax of 14 hours (range 
= 6.9 to 50 hours). Mean individual serum concentration-time profiles of romiplostim are presented in 
Figure  4.  Serum  exposure  to  romiplostim  was  highly  variable  among  subjects  and  within  the  same 
dose,  higher  exposure  was  observed  in  subjects  with  lower  platelet  counts.  Maximum  steady  state 
romiplostim  serum  Cmax  of  2574  pg/ml  and  AUC  of  117  hr.ng/ml  was  observed  in  a  single  patient 
after a 5 µg/kg dose. At a 10 µg/kg dose Cmax ranged from 119 to 1443 pg/ml, and AUC from 10.3 to 
66.3 hr.ng/ml. 
Figure 4. Mean (SD) romiplostim concentration-time profiles for Study 20030213-Subset B 
during week 1. 
In Study 20000137B, 4 of 8 ITP patients at 1.0 µg/kg had measurable concentrations for one or more 
time  points.  In  comparison,  no  measurable  concentrations  were  observed  in  healthy  subjects 
administered  a  single  1.0  µg/kg  SC  dose  of  romiplostim  in  Study  20000109.  These  results 
qualitatively  suggest  serum  exposure  to  romiplostim  may  be  higher  in  subjects  with  ITP  than  in 
healthy  subjects.  As  circulating  platelets  play  an  important  role  in  the  elimination  of  romiplostim 
(target-mediated  clearance),  the  difference  could  potentially  be  attributable  to  differences  in  platelet 
Page 24 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
counts between these 2 populations; the baseline platelet counts were much lower in subjects with ITP 
(< 30 x 109/L) than in healthy subjects (201 to 259 x 109/L).  
Bioavailability 
In  Study  20000109,  romiplostim  was  administered  to  healthy  subjects  both  via  IV  and  SC 
administration.  Only  partial  PK  profiles  were  observed  following  SC  administration  and  absolute 
bioavailability  could  not  be  estimated.  Serum  exposure  to  romiplostim  after  SC  administration  was 
lower than that after IV administration. 
Comparability  of  the  clinical  process  material  (P1)  and  commercial  process  material  (P2)  was 
conducted  in  ITP  patients  (Study  20030213-Subset  B).  In  total  20  ITP  patients  completed  the 
treatment  phase  and  received  both  the  P1  and  P2  materials.  Nineteen  of  the  20  subjects  received  a 
stable dose throughout the study period. One patient changed dose, and data from this subject as well 
as  those  for  another  subject  (due  to  sample  mishandling  during  the  study)  were  excluded  from  the 
comparability  evaluation.  The  doses  of  romiplostim  ranged  from  3  to  15  µg/kg.  After  SC 
administration of the P1 and P2 materials, maximum serum romiplostim concentrations were observed 
at  a  median  tmax  of  14  hours  (range  =  6.9  to  50  hours).  No  clear  relationship  between  the  serum 
concentration  profile  and  level  of  romiplostim  Cmax  of  AUC  was  observed.  Results  of  the  statistical 
analyses  showed  that  the  point  estimate  of  the  mean  AUC  ratio  (P2  to  P1)  was  1.41  with  the  90% 
confidence interval of 1.13 to 1.76, and the point estimate of the mean Cmax ratio (P2 to P1) was 1.75 
with  the  90%  confidence  interval  of  1.25  to  2.46.  Results  of  the  statistical  analyses  using  platelet 
corrected  values  for  Cmax  and  AUC  (mixed  effect  modelling)  showed  that  the  point  estimate  of  the 
mean AUC ratio (P2 to P1) was 1.17 with the 90% confidence interval of 0.98 to 1.41, and the point 
estimate of the mean Cmax ratio (P2 to P1) was 1.33 with the 90% confidence interval of 1.01 to 1.74. 
  Distribution 
In  healthy  volunteers  study  20000109  showed  that  the  volume  of  distribution  (Vd)  was  assessed 
following IV administration of romiplostim. Vd was 122, 78.8, and 48.2 ml/kg for IV doses of 0.3, 1.0 
and 10 µg/kg, respectively. 
  Elimination 
Maintenance doses of romiplostim ranging from 3 to 15 µg/kg were applied in subjects with ITP in 
study 20030213-Subset B. The median t1/2 was 85 h (range 24-826 h), i.e., 3.5 days (range 1-34 days). 
  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Results  from  IV  administration  of  romiplostim  in  healthy  volunteers  (Study  20000109)  demonstrate 
that the PK of romiplostim is nonlinear in a dose range of 0.3 to 10 µg/kg and exposure increases more 
than proportionally with increased dose (see Table 8). 
Table 8. Non-compartmental PK parameter values of romiplostim after single IV or SC administration 
of romiplostim in healthy subjects (Study 20000109). Data are presented as mean (SD) except for tmax, 
which is shown as median (range)  
Parameter  
C0 or Cmax (pg/mL)  
tmax (h)  
AUC0-t (pg·h/mL)  
Vc (mL/kg)  
t1/2 (h) 
0.3 µg/kg  
(n = 4) 
2810  
(1170) 
0.0  
(0.0-0.0) 
669  
(732) 
122  
(50.6) 
1.50  
(2.83) 
IV 
1.0 µg/kg  
(n = 4) 
12900  
(1760) 
0.0  
(0.0-0.0) 
26500  
(19000) 
78.8  
(10.7) 
2.41  
(1.56) 
Page 25 of 59 
10.0 µg/kg  
(n = 4) 
211000  
(32000) 
0.0  
(0.0-0.25) 
1520000  
(260000) 
48.2  
(7.42) 
13.8  
(3.89) 
SC 
2.0 µg/kga  
(n = 8) 
29.9  
(29.0) 
24.0  
(24.0-36.0) 
1350  
(1710) 
NA 
NC 
SC 
report 
2.0 µg/kgb  
(n = 4) 
54.0  
(16.4) 
24.0  
(24.0-36.0) 
2540  
(1730) 
NA 
56.2 
(59.5) 
 
 
aIndividual AUC and Cmax were assigned a value of zero for 3 subjects in this cohort who had no measurable 
serum concentrations to compute the mean (SD). 
bData from one cohort only. Other data were not analyzed since most PK observations were BLQ. 
Time dependency was analysed in study 20000137B, where it was shown that after repeated weekly 
administration  of  romiplostim  for  6  weeks  at  3.0  µg/kg  in  ITP  patients,  the  serum  romiplostim 
concentrations appeared to be lower and the platelet counts were higher at week 6 than at week 1. In 
addition,  data  from  study  20030213-Subset  B  showed  a  correlation  between  serum  exposure  (AUC 
and  Cmax)  and  pre-dose  platelet  counts.  Romiplostim  exposure  was  low  when  the  pre-dose  platelet 
counts were high, and vice versa. 
  Special populations 
Clinical  studies  of  romiplostim  did  not  include  a  sufficient  number  of  healthy  subjects  and  subjects 
with  ITP  for  each  dose  level  to  determine  the  effects  of  renal  or  hepatic  impairment.  In  addition, 
studies  did  not  include  a  sufficient  number  of  subjects  to  determine  the  effects  of  gender,  age  or 
weight. 
Pharmacokinetics of romiplostim following SC administration were assessed in non-Japanese (Study 
20000109) and Japanese subjects (Study 20040134). However, due to the limited amount of PK data 
no comparison was possible. 
Romiplostim pharmacokinetics have not been investigated in children and adolescents. 
  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted. 
  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No studies using human biomaterials were performed. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Two  phase  1,  single-dose  studies  were  conducted  to  characterize  the  PD  profiles  of  romiplostim  in 
healthy  subjects,  including  a  study  in  predominantly  white  or  Caucasian  subjects  (Study  20000109) 
and  a  study  in  Japanese  subjects  (Study 20040134).  Two  dose-finding  studies,  each  with  2  doses  of 
romiplostim  given  2  or  3  weeks  apart,  were  conducted  in  subjects  with  ITP  to  explore  dosing 
frequency  and  to  evaluate  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  romiplostim  with  weight-based  dosing 
(Study20000137A) and unit-dose administration (Study 20010218). The PD of romiplostim with once-
weekly, weight-based dosing in subjects with ITP were evaluated in 2 additional dose-finding studies 
in predominantly white (Study 20000137B) and Japanese (Study 20050162) populations. See table 9 
for a summary of the studies performed. 
Table 9. Romiplostim Clinical Pharmacodynamic Studies 
Study Number 
Phase 
Subjects 
Material 
Dosea; Schedule 
20000109  
20040134  
1  
1  
20000137A  
1/2  
Healthy  
Healthy, 
Japanese  
ITP  
20000137B  
20010218  
1/2  
1/2  
ITP  
ITP  
20050162  
20030105  
2  
3  
ITP, 
Japanese  
ITP, 
splenectomis
ed  
P1  
P1  
P1  
P1  
P1  
P1  
P1  
0.3, 1.0, 10.0; SD 
(IV)a 
0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 2.0; SD  
0.3, 1.0, 2.0c; SD  
0.2, 0.5, 1.0, 3.0, 6.0,  
10.0; ≤ two doses  
1.0, 3.0, 6.0; QW  
30, 100, 300, 500a;  
≤ two doses  
1.0, 3.0, 6.0; QW  
1.0 to 15.0 (dose 
adjustment); QW  
Page 26 of 59 
Subjects 
Enrolled 
Pharmacodynamics 
Sampling 
Scheduleb 
Subject 
Number 
48 
30 
24 
21 
16 
12 
63 
Intensive  
Intensive  
Intensive  
Sparse  
Intensive  
Sparse  
Sparse  
48  
30  
24  
21  
16  
12  
63  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20030212  
3  
ITP, non-
splenectomis
ed  
P1  
20030213  
OLE  
ITP  
P1/P2  
1.0 to 15.0 (dose 
adjustment); QW  
1.0 to 10.0d (dose 
adjustment); QW  
20030213 
Subset A  
20030213 
Subset B  
Pharmacodynamics 
62 
Sparse  
62  
137 
Sparse  
41e 
20 
Sparse  
Sparse  
137  
41e  
20  
a  The  dose  unit  is  µg/kg,  except  for  µg  unit  dosing  in  Study  20010218;  all  doses  were  given  by  the  SC  route 
except for three cohorts in study 20000109 that had romiplostim given by the IV route  
b Intensive samples were collected to provide PK or PD profiles; sparse samples were collected once weekly or 
less frequently  
c A planned maximum planned dose of 3.0 µg/kg in Study 20040134 was not reached because stopping rules for 
excess elevation of platelet count were reached at the next lower planned dose.  
d Subjects on previous studies could carry their doses forward into this study; the maximum dose across previous 
studies was 30 µg/kg. Subjects who were receiving a dose > 10 µg/kg prior to the amendment were allowed to 
remain  on  that  dose;  however,  the  subject’s  dose  could  not  be  further  increased.  If  the  subject’s  dose  was 
decreased after enrolment, the dose could not be subsequently increased to > 10 µg/kg.  
e 22 of 41 subjects were qualified for inclusion in the analysis  
  Mechanism of action 
No clinical studies investigating the mechanism of action have been conducted. 
  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Platelet counts in healthy volunteers 
In  healthy  volunteer  Studies  20000109  (non-Japanese  volunteers)  and  20040134  (Japanese 
volunteers), romiplostim induced a dose-dependent increase in platelet counts in healthy subjects after 
a single IV dose ranging from 0.3 to 10 µg/kg or a single SC dose ranging from 0.1 to 2.0 µg/kg. At 
the same dose level, platelet responses were similar after IV and SC administration, although exposure 
to  romiplostim  was  markedly  lower  (or  not  measurable)  after  SC  administration  relative  to  that 
observed after IV administration (see Figure 10). Results also demonstrated no apparent difference in 
the platelet response between non-Japanese and Japanese populations.  
Figure  10.  Mean  (SD)  serum  romiplostim  concentration-  and  platelet-time  profiles  in  healthy 
subjects after a single 1 µg/kg IV or SC dose of romiplostim (Study 20000109) 
Pharmacodynamics in ITP patients 
Romiplostim stimulates the production of platelets in subjects with ITP apparently through the same 
mechanism as in healthy subjects by binding to c-Mpl. Large intersubject variability was observed, as 
some subjects did not respond to the romiplostim treatment. 
Page 27 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Romiplostim  caused  a  dose-dependent  increase  in  platelet  count  in  ITP  patients.  Individual  platelet 
count-time  profiles  for  the  1.0,  3.0,  6.0  and  10.0  µg/kg  cohorts  in  Study  20000137A  are  shown  in 
Figure 6. 
Figure  6.  Individual  platelet  count-time  profiles  after  1  or  2  doses  of  romiplostim  in  subjects 
with ITP (Study 20000137A) 
Dashed lines represent platelet count levels of 50 x 109/L and 450 x 109/L. 
a Subject received only one dose. 
b Subject received 2nd dose 2 weeks after the 1st dose. 
c Subject received 2nd dose 3 weeks after the 1st dose. 
Comparing data from Study 20000137B (non-Japanese ITP patients) and Study 20050162 (Japanese 
ITP  patients)  administered  1.0,  3.0,  and  6.0  μg/kg  romiplostim,  platelet  responses  were  similar 
between Japanese and non-Japanese populations who had ITP.  
Comparability on the clinical formulation P1 and commercial formulation P2 (Study 20030213-Subset 
A) 
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of long-term dosing of romiplostim subjects with ITP, doses were 
individually  adjusted  as  needed  for  each  subject  to  keep  platelet  counts  within  the  target  range.  A 
subset of subjects was evaluated to compare the clinical process material (P1) and commercial process 
material (P2) with respect to the PD properties of romiplostim. A total of 22 subjects were included. 
Subjects  received  once-weekly  treatment  with  the  P1  material  for  three  months,  followed  by 
continuous  once-weekly  SC  treatment  of  the  P2  material  for  three  subsequent  months.  PD  was 
assessed during the last 30 days of the first (P1) period and the adjacent first 30 days of the second 
(P2) period. 
Mean platelet counts over 30 days pre-switch and 30 days post switch were 111.1 x 109/L and 113.9 x 
109/L for the P1 and P2 materials, respectively. The mean difference in platelet counts in the 30-day 
Page 28 of 59 
 
 
 
 
periods before and after the switch was -2.8 x 109/L and the 90% confidence interval for the difference 
was -19.2 to 13.7 x 109/L. The average weekly doses, the proportion of subjects reporting the use of 
any  rescue  medications  and  the  proportion  of  subjects  requiring  more  than  1  dose  change  were  all 
comparable  between  treatment  with  the  P1  material  and  the  P2  material.  Comparison  of  the  post 
treatment  romiplostim  serum  levels  was  made  using  data  from  11  out  of  22  patients  (serum  levels 
BLQ in the rest of the patients). The mean P2-to-P1 ratio for romiplostim post treatment trough levels 
was 0.91. The 90% confidence interval was 0.67-1.24. 
No specific secondary pharmacology studies have been conducted with romiplostim. 
  PK/PD model 
The  PK/PD  relationship  between  serum  romiplostim  concentrations  and  platelet  counts  have  been 
described in study 108644 using a linked PK/PD model. This PK/PD modelling approach is supported 
by published data on eTPO, the endogenous ligand of c-Mpl receptor, and the proposed mechanism of 
action of romiplostim.  
The  PK/PD  model  (see  Figure  6)  contained  PK  and  PD  models  that  were  linked  by  a  stimulatory 
function.  The  PK  model  comprised  a  depot  compartment  for  SC  dose  administration,  a  central 
compartment,  a  peripheral-tissue  compartment,  and  a  drug-receptor  complex  compartment  to  which 
the circulating pool of platelets also contribute. Three elimination mechanisms were included: a linear 
elimination  process,  a  Michaelis-Menten  process  operated  in  parallel  from  the  central  compartment, 
and  a  receptor-mediated  internalization  of  the  drug-receptor  complex  from  the  drug-receptor 
compartment.  The  PD  model  described  the  distribution  of  romiplostim  to  the  highly  perfused  bone 
marrow and the stimulation of proliferation and maturation of megakaryocyte progenitors, leading to a 
series of  signal transduction and cell turnover rate processes and resulting in the increase in  platelet 
counts of the subjects. This cascade of pharmacologically induced biologic events was mimicked by a 
series of transit compartments that represented the proliferation and progression of precursor cells and 
platelets through their lifespan.  
The  PK/PD  model  was  implemented  in  NONMEM  version  V;  PK/PD  analysis  was  conduced  using 
first order conditional estimation method (FOCE). The minimisation was performed according to the 
first order conditional estimation method up to 3 significant digits. 
Figure 7. romiplostim PK/PD compartmental model 
A1 depot compartment 
A2 central compartment,  
A3 peripheral compartment 
DR is the drug-receptor complex compartment;  
P1, P2, … PNp are the compartments for various stages of the precursor cells (megakaryocyte);  
PLT1, PLT2, … PLTNp are the compartments for various stages of the platelets and ξPLT-DR stands for the 
amount of receptors not bound to drug.  
kon and koff stand for the on- and off-rate of drug binding to the receptor;  
Page 29 of 59 
 
 
 
kint represents the internalization rate constant for the drug-receptor complex;  
kel is the first-order elimination rate constant;  
kin is the rate of production of the precursor cells;  
Smax represents the maximum extent of stimulation;  
SC50 is the concentration required for 50% maximum stimulation;  
TP and TPLT stand for the lifespan of precursor cells and platelets;  
Np and N stand for the number of transit compartment for the precursor cells and platelet:  
F represents the bioavailability;  
Km and Vmax represent the Michaelis-Menten constant and the maximum rate of elimination;  
K23 and K32 stand for the inter-compartmental transfer rate constant;  
Ka is the subcutaneous absorption rate constant. 
This PK/PD model adequately described the romiplostim concentration vs. time data and platelet 
count vs. time data from healthy subjects (Study 20000109) with simultaneous fitting of the averaged 
data. Selected PK/PD parameter estimates are summarized in Table 10.  
Table 10. Compartmental model parameter estimate (%RSE) for healthy subjects (Study 
108644) 
Parameter, unit  
Estimate (%RSE) 
Vmax, μg/kg/hr 
Km, ng/mL  
Kel, hr-1 
V, L/kg  
K23, hr-1 
K32, hr-1 
Ka, hr-1 
F 
Kint, hr-1 
ξ, fg/cell  
TP, hr  
TPLT, hr  
SC50, ng/mL  
Smax 
0.0991 
0.0202 
0.0245 
0.0565 
0.103 
0.0246 
0.0236 
0.350 
0.178 
0.0467 
142 
257 
0.0467 
10.9 
(169) 
(218) 
(81.2) 
(19.5) 
(11.1) 
(38.3) 
(34.5) 
(11.4) 
(27.8) 
(50.3) 
(6.92) 
(5.95) 
(60.0) 
(28.3) 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  romiplostim  involved  target-mediated  disposition,  which  is  presumably 
mediated  by  TPO  receptors  on  platelets  and  other  cells  of  the  thrombopoietic  lineage  such  as 
megakaryocytes.  Romiplostim  is  expected  to be  cleared  for  a  major  part  by proteolysis.  In  addition, 
plasma protein binding studies have not been performed as romiplostim is expected to predominantly 
bind to the target receptors on platelets in circulation. 
No formal clinical studies have been performed in special populations. Patients with renal and hepatic 
impairment and elderly should be cautious when using this product. In addition, no studies have been 
performed  in  children  and  its  use  in  this  population  is  not  recommended.  Adequate  warnings  have 
been included in section 4.2 and 5.2 of the SPC.  
No  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  and  the  potential  interactions  of  romiplostim  with  co-
administered  drugs  due  to  binding  to  plasma  proteins  remain  unknown.  Pharmacokinetic  drug-drug 
interactions  are  unlikely  for  proteins  like  romiplostim  and  the  absence  of  these  studies  is  therefore 
acceptable. 
Medicinal products used in the treatment of ITP in combination with romiplostim in clinical studies 
included  corticosteroids,  danazol,  and/or  azathioprine,  intravenous  immunoglobulin  (IVIG),  and 
anti-D  immunoglobulin.  Corticosteroids,  danazol,  and  azathioprine  use  may  be  reduced  or 
Page 30 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinued when given in combination with romiplostim. Platelet counts should be monitored when 
combining  romiplostim  with  other  medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  ITP  in  order  to  avoid 
platelet counts outside of the recommended range. A warning addressing this risk has been included in 
section 4.5 of the SPC. 
No  specific  secondary  pharmacology  studies  have  been  conducted  with  romiplostim  due  to  the 
specificity  of  the  molecule  for  a  single  receptor,  however,  it  was  considered  necessary  to  perform 
proliferation assays to assess the effect on the hepatocellular carcinoma cells line Hep 3B that has been 
shown  to  express  c-Mpl  at  the  mRNA  level.  The  Applicant  will  submit  such  studies  as  a  follow-up 
measure. 
Clinical efficacy 
  Dose response studies 
The  dose  selected  for  the  main  studies  was  based  on  results  of  2  completed  dose-finding  studies  in 
healthy  subjects  (i.e.,  20000109  (N=48)  and  20040134  in  Japanese  subjects  (N=30)  and  4  in  ITP 
subjects  (20000137  part  A  (N=24),  20000137  part  B  (N=21),  study  20010218  (N=16),  and  study 
20050162  in  Japanese  subjects  with  ITP  (N=12).  In  these  studies  PK  and  platelet  profiles  were 
evaluated for doses that would increase the platelet counts to a target level, which was defined as the 
peak  platelet  count  achieving  a  doubling  of  baseline  platelet  counts  and  within  the  range  of   
50 x 109/L and  450 x 109/L, in the absence of rescue  medication. Based on these studies a starting 
dose of 1 μg/kg, administered subcutaneously once weekly was selected (see summary of the design 
and outcome of these studies is provided in Table 11). 
Table 11: Summary of design and results of dose response studies in subjects with ITP 
Study ID 
Summary of outcome 
Dosing regimen 
Objective 
Number of 
subjects 
20000109 
48 
20040134 
30 
20000137 
part A 
24 
cohorts of six (four 
receiving 
romiplostim, 2 
placebo) at AMG-531 
doses of 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 
or 2.0 μg/kg SC and 
0.3, 1.0, or 10 μg/kg 
IV 
cohorts of eight (six 
receiving 
romiplostim, 2 
placebo) at AMG-531 
doses of 0.3, 1.0, or 
2.0 μg/kg SC 
cohorts of four 
patients each at doses 
of romiplostim of 0.2, 
0.5, 1, 3, 6, and 10 
µg/kg body weight 
SC on day 1, 
followed by 14 days 
of observation 
Safety, tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics, 
and efficacy in 
healthy subjects 
Safety, tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics, 
and efficacy in 
healthy Japanese 
subjects 
Safety and tolerability 
of two injections of 
romiplostim in 
patients with ITP 
PK IV non linear in 0.3-10 µg/kg range. 
At 10 µg/kg IV, minimum active dose 
was exceeded. Protocol amended to use 
lower SC doses.  
Platelet counts in healthy subjects 
increased after an IV or SC dose at ≥ 1.0 
µg/kg.  
Platelet counts in Japanese healthy 
subjects increased after a SC dose at ≥ 
1.0 µg/kg. 
The median time to the targeted 
response ranged from 5 to 8 days. Dose 
dependent increase in platelet counts 
Mean peak platelet counts after the first 
romiplostim injection were 163 x 109/L 
for 3 µg/kg, 309 x 109/L for 6 µg/kg, and 
746 x 109/L for 10 µg/kg 
Page 31 of 59 
 
  
20000137 
part B 
21 
romiplostim (1, 3, or 
6 µg/kg) or placebo 
SC once a week for 6 
weeks, (ratio of 
romiplostim to 
placebo of 4:1). 
20010218 
16 
20050162 
12 
cohorts of four 
patients each at doses 
of romiplostim of 30, 
100, 300 or 500 µg 
SC 
1, 3 and 6 µg/kg 
romiplostim 
  Main studies 
Two pivotal studies have been performed: 
Safety of romiplostim 
and determination of 
a weekly dose that 
would result in a 
platelet count that 
was within the 
targeted range used in 
phase 1 (50 to 450 x 
109/L) and that was at 
least twice the 
baseline count 
Efficacy and safety of 
unit dose in subjects 
with ITP 
The targeted platelet range was reached 
in 7/8 patients receiving 1 µg per 
kilogram and in 3/8 patients receiving 3 
µg per kilogram; the targeted range was 
exceeded in an additional two patients 
receiving the 3 µg/kg dose. Overall, in 
12 of 16 patients treated with 
romiplostim at a weekly dose of 1 or 3 
µg/kg, the targeted range was reached 
(in 10 patients) or exceeded (in 2 
patients), and in 9 of these patients, the 
platelet response had occurred by the 
first assessment on day 8.  
Increase of platelets in dose dependent 
manner; target platelet counts were 
achieved by one or more subjects in all 
dose cohorts 
Identification of 
appropriate starting 
dose in 
thrombocytopenic 
Japanese subjects 
with ITP  
Proportion of patients achieving a 
platelet response was greater in cohorts 
receiving higher doses of romiplostim. 
One patient in the 6 µg/kg cohort had an 
excessively high platelet count (980 x 
109/L) 
Study  20030105:  “A  Randomized,  Placebo  Controlled  Study  Evaluating  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of 
romiplostim  Treatment  of  Thrombocytopenic  Subjects  with  Immune  (Idiopathic)  Thrombocytopenic 
Purpura (ITP) Refractory to Splenectomy” 
Study  20030212:  “A  Randomized,  Placebo  Controlled  Study  Evaluating  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of 
romiplostim  Treatment  of  Thrombocytopenic  Subjects  with  Immune  (Idiopathic)  Thrombocytopenic 
Purpura (ITP) Prior to Splenectomy”. A summary of these studies is included in Table 12: 
Table 12: Summary of design of pivotal clinical efficacy and safety studies. 
Study ID 
Primary endpoint 
Dosing regimen 
 Design 
Number 
randomized/treat
ment 
Incidence of durable 
platelet response* 
63 subjects 
42 romiplostim 
21 placebo 
Age range 
Gender M/F 
26 to 88 
(25 M, 38 F) 
20030105 
20030212 
Phase 3, double-blind, 
randomised, placebo control 
(2:1 romiplostim: placebo), 
safety and efficacy in subjection 
 18 years old, refractory to 
splenectomy, stratified by 
concurrent ITP therapy 
Phase 3, double-blind, 
randomised, placebo control 
(2:1 romiplostim: placebo), 
safety and efficacy in subjection 
 18 years old, who have not 
undergone splenectomy, 
stratified by concurrent ITP 
therapy 
1.0 to 15 g/kg 
SC weekly 
adjusted by 
platelet count, for 
24 weeks 
1.0 to 15 g/kg 
SC weekly 
adjusted by 
platelet count, for 
24 weeks 
*: achieving  6 weekly responses during last 8 weeks of treatment with no rescue medication 
Page 32 of 59 
Incidence of durable 
platelet response* 
62 subjects 
41 romiplostim 
21 placebo 
21 to 88 
(19 M, 43 F) 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study plan 
The study plan is shown in Figure 8. 
Figure 8: Study plan for studies 20030105 and 20030212 
End of study:  when platelet count reached ≤ 50 x 109/L or week 36, whichever occurred first. 
a 2:1 (romiplostim : Placebo) 
Study Participants 
Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  the  same  in  both  pivotal  studies  (Study  20030105  and  Study 
20030212) except that subjects in Study 20030105 were refractory to splenectomy: 
Inclusion criteria 
Disease-related: 
- Diagnosis of ITP according to American Society of Hematology (ASH) guidelines. 
- Study 20030105 only: Must have had a splenectomy for the treatment for ITP ≥ 4 weeks before study 
entry. 
- Have completed at least one previous treatment for ITP (e.g prednisone) 
- Subjects > 60 years of age must have had a documented history of chronic ITP with a bone marrow 
report to confirm the diagnosis. 
- The mean of the three platelet counts taken during the screening and pretreatment periods must have 
been ≤ 30 x 109/L, with no individual count > 35 x 109/L. 
Demographic/laboratory: 
- Subjects must have been ≥ 18 years of age at the time of providing informed consent. 
Page 33 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- A serum creatinine concentration ≤ 2 mg/dL (≤ 176.8 μmol/L). 
- Adequate liver function, as evidenced by a serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 times the laboratory normal range 
- Haemoglobin ≥ 9.0 g/dL. 
Exclusion criteria (if they fulfilled any of the following criteria) 
Disease Related: 
- Any known history of bone marrow  stem  cell disorder (any abnormal bone  marrow findings other 
than  those  typical  of  ITP  had  to  be  approved  by  Amgen  before  a  subject  could  be  enrolled  in  the 
study). 
-  Any  active  malignancy;  if  prior  history  of  cancer  other  than  basal  cell  carcinoma  or  cervical 
carcinoma in situ, no treatment or active disease within 5 years before randomization. 
- Protocol 20030212 only: have had a splenectomy. 
Medications: 
-  Currently  receiving  any  treatment  for  ITP  except  corticosteroids,  azathioprine,  and/or  danazol 
administered at a constant dose and schedule. 
- IVIg or anti-D Ig within 2 weeks before the screening visit. 
- Rituximab (for any indication) within 14 weeks before the screening visit or anticipated use during 
the time of the proposed study. 
-  Received  haematopoietic  growth  factors,  including  IL-11  (oprelvekin)  within  4  weeks  before  the 
screening visit. 
- Received any alkylating agents within 8 weeks before the screening visit or anticipated use during 
the time of the proposed study. 
Other  more  general  exclusion  criteria  were  the  following:  currently  enrolled  in  or  had  not  yet 
completed at least 4 weeks since ending other investigational device or drug trial(s), or receiving other 
investigational  agent(s);  past  or  present  participation  in  any  study  evaluating  PEG-rHuMGDF, 
recombinant  human  thrombopoietin  (rHuTPO),  romiplostim,  or  related  platelet  product;  Subject  of 
child-bearing potential evidently pregnant (e.g., positive HCG test) or breast-feeding Subject not using 
adequate  contraceptive  precautions,  known  hypersensitivity  to  any  recombinant  E  coli  -derived 
product;  any  kind  of  disorder  that  compromised  the  ability  of  the  subject  to  give  written  informed 
consent and/or to comply with all study procedures. 
Treatments 
Both pivotal studies used a starting dose of 1 μg/kg, administered subcutaneously once weekly (based 
on data from dose finding studies 20000137A, 20000137B and 20010218). Concurrent ITP therapies 
were permitted if at constant dose and schedule; reductions in these could occur once platelet counts 
were > 100 x 109/L. 
Dose  adjustments  were  made  throughout  the  treatment  period  according  to  rules  for  the  2  pivotal 
studies (see Table 13). The desired platelet range in which a constant dose was to be maintained was 
50  x  109/L  to  200  x  109/L.  In  the  phase  3  pivotal  studies  the  maximum  dose  was  15  μg/kg.  The 
maximum  dose  of  romiplostim  in  the  open-label  extension  study  was  initially  30  μg/kg,  which  was 
reduced  to  15  μg/kg,  and  further  to  10  μg/kg  because  of  the  lack  of  additional  clinical  benefit  to 
incremental  doses  above  10  μg/kg.  Dosing  was  to  be  stopped  at  any  time  during  the  study  if 
neutralizing antibodies to romiplostim or eTPO were detected. Rescue medication was permitted for 
bleeding or wet purpura, or if the investigator felt the study was at immediate risk. However, subjects 
who received rescue medications at any time during the treatment period were considered not to have 
had a durable platelet response. In addition, platelet counts within 8 weeks of rescue medication were 
excluded for other response analyses.  
After 24 weeks of treatment, study medication was discontinued and platelet counts were monitored 
during weeks 26 through 36. Subjects completed the study when their platelet counts below 50 x 109/L 
or at week 36, whichever occurred first.  
Page 34 of 59 
 
Table 13: Dose adjustment rules for pivotal studies (studies 200301005 and 20030212) 
Platelet count (x 109/L)  
Start-up (to a platelet count of > 50 x 109/L): 
 10 
> 10 to  50 
> 50 
Maintenance (once platelet count > 50 x 109/L):  
 10 
Action 
Dose increase by 2 µg/kg every week in which count  10 x 109/L; can be 
increased every week 
Dose increase by 2 µg/kg after 2 consecutive weeks of counts  50 x 109/L; can be 
increased every 2 weeks 
Dose remains constant on weekly schedule; maintenance rules below 
Dose increase by 1 µg/kg every week in which counts in this range; can be 
increased every 2 weeks 
Dose increase by 1 µg/kg after 2 consecutive weeks of counts in this range; dose 
can be increased every 2 weeks 
Dose constant 
Dose reduced by 1 µg/kg after 2 consecutive weeks of platelet counts in this 
range. Dose can be reduced every 2 weeks 
Next scheduled dose held, and dose reduced by 1 µg/kg on next scheduled dosing 
day on which platelet count  200 x 109/L 
> 10 to  50 
> 50 to  200 
> 200 to  400 
> 400 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the pivotal trials was to evaluate the efficacy of romiplostim in the treatment 
of thrombocytopenia in adult subjects with ITP, as measured by durable platelet response during the 
last 8 weeks of treatment.  
The secondary objectives were: 
- To evaluate the overall safety of romiplostim. 
- To evaluate possible reductions in concurrent ITP therapies while receiving romiplostim. 
-  To  evaluate  changes  in  Patient  Reported  Outcomes  (PRO)  and  Health  Resource  Utilization  due  to 
treatment with romiplostim.   
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint in the pivotal studies was the incidence of durable platelet response, defined as 
achieving at least 6 weekly platelet responses (platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L) during the last 8 weeks of 
treatment with no rescue medications administered at any time during the treatment period. 
Key secondary endpoints included were: 
- Incidence of Overall Platelet Response (Durable and Transient Responders) 
-  Number  of  Weekly  Platelet  Responses  (defined  as  a  platelet  count  of    50  x  109/L  on  the  weekly 
scheduled dose day from week 2 to week 25 inclusive)  
- Proportion of Subjects Requiring Rescue Medications 
- Incidence of Achieving Durable Platelet Response With Stable Dose (defined as a dose maintained 
within ± 1 µg/kg during the last 8 weeks of treatment)  
In addition the following efficacy endpoints were included: 
- Incidence of > 25% reduction from baseline or discontinuation of concurrent ITP therapy 
- Incidence of ≥ 20 x 109/L increase from baseline in platelet count 
- Total number of weekly platelet counts increased by ≥ 20 x 109/L from baseline 
- Time to first weekly platelet count increased by ≥ 20 x 109/L from baseline 
- Incidence of platelet response 
- Time to first weekly platelet response 
- Weekly platelet counts 
Page 35 of 59 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
A  sample  size  of  60  subjects  (40  romiplostim,  20  placebo)  was  chosen  to  provide  a  87%  power  to 
detect  the  difference  in  the  incidence  of  durable  platelet  response  between  romiplostim  and  placebo 
using a 2-sided Fisher’s exact test at a significance level of 0.05. The probability of achieving durable 
platelet response with romiplostim and placebo was estimated at 50% and 10%, respectively.  
Randomisation 
Randomization  was  stratified  by  baseline  concurrent  ITP  therapy  (yes  or  no)  within  each  study 
following a 2:1 treatment ratio. Subjects entering the screening period (defined as the point at which 
the subject signs the informed consent) received a unique 5-digit subject identification number from 
the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS).  
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double-blinded. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  statistical  inferences  were  based  on  the  analysis  of  results  from  the  Cochran  –Mantel-
Haenszel test for the odds ratio of the 2 treatment groups, including p-values and 95% confidence (CI) 
and adjusting for prior splenectomy status and baseline concurrent therapy.  
The  randomization  was  stratified  to  balance  the  treatment  groups  within  the  concurrent  ITP  therapy 
(yes or no). Efficacy was primarily assessed by comparing the incidence of durable platelet response 
between  the  romiplostim  and  placebo  groups.  The  null  hypothesis  was  that  there  would  be  no 
difference  between  the  groups  when  individual  dose  adjustment  based  on  platelet  counts  was 
permitted. 
Descriptive  statistics  for  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were  summarized  for  all 
randomized  subjects.  For  categorical  variables,  the  number  and  percentage  of  subjects  in  each 
category were summarized. Continuous variables were summarized by n, mean, SD, median, Q1 (25th 
percentile), Q3 (75th percentile), minimum, and maximum values. 
Page 36 of 59 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Study 20030105 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=70) 
Study 20030212 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=70) 
Randomised (n=63) 
Randomised (n=62) 
Romisplotim (n=42) 
Placebo (n=21) 
Romisplotim (n=41) 
Placebo (n=21) 
Analysed (n=42) 
Analysed (n=21)
Analysed (n=42) 
Analysed (n=21) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Recruitment 
In  study  20030105  a  total  of  63  subjects  (21  placebo  and  42  romiplostim)  were  enrolled.  In  study 
20030212  a  total  of  62  subjects  were  enrolled  (21  placebo  and  41  romiplostim).  The  duration  of 
treatment was 24 weeks and the follow-up was until week 36 or until patient had a platelet count <50. 
10 9/L. 
Conduct of the study 
In study 20030105 all randomized subjects received at least 1 dose of investigational product.  More 
than  half  of  the  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  (57.1%)  discontinued  investigational  product 
prematurely,  compared  with  4.8%  subjects  in  the  romiplostim  group.    Many  of  these  subjects 
continued on study with regard to tests and observations.  Similar proportions of subjects completed 
the study (90.5% vs 95.2% for placebo and romiplostim, respectively). 
In  study  20030212  all  randomized  subjects  received  at  least  1  dose  of  investigational  product.  
Subject 3651  randomized  to  placebo  inadvertently  received  3  doses  of  romiplostim.    Subjects  were 
analyzed  according  to  their  randomized  treatment  group  –  therefore,  the  1  subject  randomized  to 
placebo  who  inadvertently  received  3  doses  of  romiplostim  is  counted  in  the  placebo  group.    Thus, 
these  analysis  sets  included  62  subjects  (21  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  and  41  subjects  in  the 
romiplostim group). 
Baseline data 
Demographic characteristics were well balanced between the placebo and romiplostim groups within 
both pivotal studies (see Tables 14-16). 
Page 37 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: Demographics (pivotal phase III studies 20030105 and 20030212). 
Table 15: Baseline platelet counts and red blood cell count (pivotal phase III studies 20030105 
and 20030212). 
Baseline platelet count = Mean of platelet counts at Days -8, -2 and pre-dose Day 1. 
For others, baseline = pre-treatment value closest to the first dosing  
Table 16: ITP treatment history (phase 3 study subjects) 
Page 38 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
All subjects were included in the full, efficacy, and safety analysis datasets. A summary of the 
numbers analysed for studies 20030105 and 20030212 is shown in Table 17. 
Table 17.  Subject Disposition in Studies 20030105 and 20030212 
Study 20030105 
Study 20030212 
Placebo 
n (%) 
romiplosti
m 
n (%) 
Placebo 
n (%) 
romiplosti
m 
n (%) 
Randomized 
21 (100.0) 42 (100.0) 21 (100.0)  41 (100.0)
Received Investigational Product 
Completed Study 
Discontinued Study 
    Protocol deviation 
    Noncompliance 
    Adverse event 
    Consent withdrawn 
    Requirement for alternative therapy 
    Administrative decision 
    Lost to follow-up 
    Death 
    Protocol-specified criteria 
    Subject request 
    Pregnancy 
    Other 
21 (100.0) 42 (100.0) 21 (100.0)  41 (100.0)
39 (95.1) 
19 (90.5) 
2 (4.9) 
2 (9.5) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (4.9) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (9.5) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
17 (81.0) 
4 (19.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (4.8) 
2 (9.5) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (4.8) 
0 (0.0) 
40 (95.2) 
2 (4.8) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (2.4) 
1 (2.4) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
Outcomes and estimation 
Results for the primary efficacy endpoint and for the key secondary endpoints for studies 20030105 
and 20030212 are summarised in Tables 18 and 19. 
Table 18: Key Efficacy Endpoints in Study 20030105 (ITP patients refractory to splenectomy) 
p value 
Placebo (N=21) 
Endpoint 
romiplostim 
(N=42) 
0.0013 
0 (0%) 
(0%; 16.1%) 
16 (38.1%) 
(23.6; 54.4%) 
Primary endpoint 
Durable platelet responsea 
Incidence rate (95% CI) 
Key secondary endpoints  
 Overall platelet responsea  
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
Number of weeks with platelet responseb 
Mean 
SD 
Proportion of subjects requiring rescue medicationa 
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
Durable platelet response with stable dosea 
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
a: From Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel controlling for baseline concurrent ITP therapy. b: From analysis of variance, or CMH 
based on rank.  
13 (31.0%) 
(17.6%; 47.1%) 
33 (78.6%) 
(63.2%; 89.7%) 
0 (0%) 
(0.0%; 16.1%) 
12 (57.1%) 
(34.0; 78.2%) 
11 (26.2%) 
(13.9; 42.0%) 
0 (0%) 
(0%; 16.1%) 
12.3 weeks 
7.9 weeks 
0.2 weeks 
0.5 weeks 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
0.0175 
0.0046 
Page 39 of 59 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: Key Efficacy Results in Study 20030212 (ITP patients who have not undergone 
splenectomy)  
endpoint 
Placebo (N=21) 
romiplostim 
(N=41) 
p value 
< 0.0001 
1 (4.8%) 
(0.1%, 23.8%) 
25 (61.0%) 
(44.5%; 75.8%) 
Primary endpoint 
Durable platelet responsea 
Incidence rate (95% CI) 
Key secondary endpoints  
 Overall platelet responsea  
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
Number of weeks with platelet responseb 
Mean 
SD 
Proportion of subjects requiring rescue medicationa 
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
Durable platelet response with stable dosea 
Incidence rate 
95% CI 
a: From Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel controlling for baseline concurrent ITP therapy. b: From analysis of variance, or CMH 
based on rank.  
21 (51.2%) 
(35.1%; 67.1%) 
13 (61.9%) 
(38.4%; 81.9%) 
36 (87.8%) 
(73.8%; 95.5%) 
0 (0%) 
(0.0%; 16.1%) 
3 (14.3%) 
(3.0%; 36.3%) 
7 (17.1%) 
(7.2; 32.1%) 
15.2 weeks 
7.5 weeks 
1.3 weeks 
3.5 weeks 
0.0001 
0.0004 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No studies have been submitted. 
  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies have been submitted. 
  Supportive studies 
Study 20030213: “An Open Label Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of Long-Term Dosing of 
romiplostim in Thrombocytopenic Subjects with Immune (Idiopathic) Thrombocytopenic 
Purpura (ITP)” 
The study was designed to assess the safety and durability of platelet count increases with romiplostim 
treatment over an extended period. Subjects who had completed a prior romiplostim treatment study 
and whose platelet count subsequently fell below 50 x 109/L could receive romiplostim. Subjects from 
Studies 20000137 or 20010218 entered at the initial weekly dose of 1 μg/kg. Subjects entering from a 
blinded  study  (20030105  and  20030212)  were  un-blinded,  and  if  previously  receiving  romiplostim, 
entered the study on the same weekly dose as in the prior study. Placebo subjects began at the initial 
weekly dose of 1 μg/kg and were adjusted accordingly. Dose adjustment rules for this study are shown 
in Table 20. 
A total of 137 subjects were enrolled: 91 women (66.4%) and 46 men (33.6%). The median age was 
53.0 years (range 42 to 63 years). Of the 137 subjects enrolled, 136 subjects received at least 1 dose of 
romiplostim. As of the data cut-off date (28 November 2006), 120 subjects (87.6%) are continuing the 
study and 17 (12.4%) have discontinued (7 due to withdrawn consent, 5 due to an adverse event, 3 due 
to death, 1 due to protocol-specified, and 1 due to other criterion). 
Table 20: Dose adjustment rules for long-term extension study 20030213 
Platelet count (x 109/L)  
 10 
Action 
Dose increase by 2 µg/kg every week when platelet counts are  10 x 109/L; Dose 
can be increased every week 
Dose increased by 2 µg/kg after 2 consecutive weeks of platelet counts < 50 x 
109/L; Dose can be increased every 2 weeks 
Dose may be adjusted by 1 µg/kg (increased or decreased) at the investigator’s 
discretion, no more frequently than every two weeks. The maximum dose in 10 
> 10 to  50 
50 to 200 
Page 40 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> 250 to < 400 
 400 
µg/kg weekly.  
Dose reduced by 1 µg/kg after two consecutive weeks of platelet counts in this 
range. Dose can be reduced every two weeks.  
Next schedules dose held, and the dose will be reduced by 1 µg/kg on the next 
scheduled dosing day that the platelet count is < 250 x 109/L 
At the time of data cut-off platelet response (doubling of baseline platelet count and platelet count ≥ 
50 x 109/L at any time on study in the absence of rescue medication within 8 weeks) was achieved in 
82%  of  subjects  (95%  CI:  75%,  88%).  Platelet  count  increase  of  ≥  20  x  109/L  from  baseline  was 
reached in 86% of subjects; platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L was reached in 82% of subjects; platelet count 
≥ 100 x 109/L was reached in 75% of subjects; and platelet count ≥ 150 x 109/L was reached in 64% of 
subjects. 
One week after the first dose of romiplostim (i.e., at week 2), the proportion of subjects with platelet 
responses was 31%. Kaplan-Meier analysis of time to first platelet response was 2 weeks (95% CI: 2, 
3) for the 50th percentile (median) and 7 weeks (95% CI: 5, 11) for the 75th percentile. The median 
romiplostim  dose  prior  to  first  platelet  response  was  3  μg/kg  (range,  1  to  18  μg/kg).  From  week  4 
onwards, weekly incidence of response was in the range of 47% to 72%. 
Median platelet count at baseline was 20 x 109/L, and median platelet count 1 week after the first dose 
was 40 x 109/L. 
The overall subject incidence of rescue medication use was 34.6%. The rescue medications with the 
highest  subject  incidence  of  use  were  IVIG  and  corticosteroids.  The  subject  incidence  of  usage  of 
rescue medication decreased with time on study: the incidences at weeks 1 (n = 136), 13 (n = 100), 25 
(n = 89), and 37 (n = 70) were 25%, 16%, 19%, and 15%, respectively. 
Twenty-two percent of subjects (30/136) entered this study on concurrent ITP therapy. In most of the 
30 subjects, a single therapy was being used. In 13 of these subjects (13/30 = 43%), concurrent ITP 
therapy  was  discontinued during  the  present  study; and  in  6  of  these  subjects  (6/30  =  20%),  dosage 
was reduced by > 25%. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  weekly  platelet  counts  ≥  20  x  109/L  over  baseline  increased  more 
rapidly  for  subjects  who  had  previously  received  romiplostim  than  for  subjects  who  had  received 
placebo (week 1: 5.9% placebo, 13.8 romiplostim; week 2: 38.2% placebo, 66.7% romiplostim; week 
3: 47.1% placebo, 73.8% romiplostim; week 4: 57.6% placebo, 72.6% romiplostim). 
Studies 20000109, 20040134 and 20040209 
Supportive  studies  for  the  ITP  indication  were  the  2  healthy  subject  studies,  Studies  20000109  and 
20040134.  
Study  20040209  is  an  ongoing  open  label  individual  patient  protocol  of  romiplostim  in  severely 
refractory  thrombocytopenic  subjects  with  immune  (idiopathic)  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (and  who 
did not qualify for ongoing romiplostim ITP studies). Romiplostim was administered by subcutaneous 
injection  at  a  starting  dose  of  3  µg/kg  once  weekly.  As  of  31  July  2006  a  total  of  17  subjects  had 
enrolled  in  the  study  with  a  median  age  of  52  years  (65%  women  and  35%  men).  At  baseline  the 
median platelet count was 10 x 109/L. Peak platelet counts reached while on romiplostim ranged from 
10 x 109/L to 1672 x 109/L with a median peak platelet count of 468 x 109/L. Eight subjects responded 
in the absence of concomitant ITP medications.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Results  obtained  from  the  pivotal  studies  showed  that  the  efficacy  of  romiplostim  is  superior  to 
placebo. The efficacy database is robust and consistent and supported by the findings on both primary 
and secondary endpoints. In addition the long term extension study ITP showed that platelet response 
was durable in most patients. 
Page 41 of 59 
 
 
In view of the CHMP bleedings should have been a secondary efficacy endpoint, however the data on 
bleedings  are  presented  under  the  safety  section.  From  the  submitted  data  reduced  bleedings  in 
romiplostim-treated patients supports efficacy shown in terms of durable platelet response. Although 
no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  overall  incidence  of  bleeding  events  were  observed 
between  romiplostim  and  placebo  treated  patients,  bleeding  events  that  were  grade  2  or  higher  (≥ 
moderate) or grade 3 or higher (≥ severe, defined as clinically significant bleeding events) were less 
frequent in patients treated with romiplostim. However, this data cannot be regarded as conclusive and 
an  effect  of  romiplostim  in  terms  of  reduced  rate  of  bleedings  cannot  be  concluded.  A  warning 
addressing this uncertainty has been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
In early clinical studies, the maximum dose of romiplostim was 30 µg/kg. This was later reduced to 
10 µg/kg  due  to  lack  of  additional  clinical  benefit  of  doses  above  this  level.  Based  on  pre-clinical 
studies,  no  adverse  effects  were  seen  in  rats  given  a  single  dose  of  1000  μg/kg  or  in  monkeys  after 
repeated administration of romiplostim at 500 µg/kg (100 or 50 times the maximum clinical dose of 
10 µg/kg, respectively). In the event of overdose, platelet counts may increase above the normal range. 
Platelet counts should be monitored and appropriate treatment should be given (see section 4.2 of the 
SPC). 
A  loss  of  response  or  failure  to  maintain  a  platelet  response  with  romiplostim  treatment  within  the 
recommended  dosing  range  should  prompt  a  search  for  causative  factors,  including  immunogenicity 
and increased bone marrow reticulin (see safety section). 
Patients  already  receiving  ITP  medical  therapies  at  a  constant  dosing  schedule  were  allowed  to 
continue  receiving  these  medical  treatments  throughout  the  studies  (corticosteroids,  danazol  and/or 
azathioprine). Twenty-one non-splenectomised and 18 splenectomised patients received on-study ITP 
medical treatments (primarily corticosteroids) at the start of study. All (100%) splenectomised patients 
who were receiving romiplostim  were able to reduce the dose by more than 25% or discontinue the 
concurrent  ITP  medical  therapies  by  the  end  of  the  treatment  period  compared  to  17%  of  placebo 
treated  patients.  Seventy-three  percent  of  non-splenectomised  patients  receiving  romiplostim  were 
able to reduce the dose by more than 25% or discontinue concurrent ITP medical therapies by the end 
of the study compared to 50% of placebo treated patients. 
No overall differences in efficacy have been observed in patients < 65 and ≥ 65 years of age, although 
care is advised considering the small number of elderly patients included in the clinical trials so far. 
In addition romiplostim is not recommended for use in children below age 18 and hepatic or renal 
impaired patients due to insufficient data on efficacy. These limitations have been included in section 
4.2 of the SPC. 
In  non-splenectomised  patients,  splenectomy  is  still  considered  as  a  potentially  curative  option. 
Therefore  for  this  patient  population  the  indication  has  not  been  granted  as  initially  claimed  by  the 
applicant and it has been restricted to those patients in which splenectomy is contraindicated. 
Clinical safety 
The  clinical  safety  program  of  romiplostim  included  14  clinical  studies;  2  in  healthy  volunteers,  10 
studies  in  patients  with  ITP  and  2  in  other  indications,  myelodysplastic  syndromes  (MDS)  and 
thrombocytopenia  induced  by  chemotherapy  (CIT).  The  safety  database  included  451  subjects  (392 
romiplostim-treated  subjects)  and  a  total  of  308  ITP  subjects  (271  romiplostim-treated  subjects).  A 
summary on the safety program is shown in Figure 9. 
Page 42 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Safety program for romiplostim 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Studiesa
Key Efficacy and Safety  
Subjects with ITP
Other Indications
Healthy 
Subject 
Studies
Patient 
Studies 
(ITP)b
Controlled
Un -
controlled
20040209c
N = 31
(07 May 2007)
20050123d
N = 10
20030213e
N = 143
(13 July 2007)
20030105 
N = 63 
20030212
N = 62
20060131f
N = 79
(06 July 2007)
20000109
n = 48
20040134
n = 30
20000137A
n = 24
20000137B
n = 21
20010218
N = 16
20050162
n = 12
20030213
Subsets 
A & Bg
MDS
CIT
Uncontrolled
Uncontrolled
20050159
N = 44
(18 May 2007)
20050144
N = 21
(18 May 2007)
Phase 3 
pivotal studies
CIT = chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia; ITP = immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura; MDS = myelodysplastic syndromes; 
N= Subjects who were randomized and received investigational product at the time of the data cut-offs (20000109: 14 September 2001, 
20040134: 02 November 2004, 20010218: 19 July 2004 , 20000137A: 13 October 2003, 20000137B: 17 June 2004, 20030105: 30 August 
2006, 20030212: 21 December 2006, 20050162: 27 November 2006, 20050123: 02 December 2006, ). 
Ongoing studies cut-offs include:  20040209: 07 May 2007, 20030213: 13 July 2007, 20060131: 06 July 2007, and  20050144, 20050159, 
20060113, 20060195, 20050154, 20050232, 20060102 and 20060197: 10 December 2007. 
a   No biopharmaceutics studies were done. No studies of intrinsic or extrinsic factors were done.   
b   Studies 20000137B, 20010218, and 20050162 could have been classified under either clinical pharmacology or efficacy and safety 
studies.  
c   Individual treatment study for subjects not qualifying for other romiplostim studies.  Three additional subjects were enrolled, but were 
never dosed.  
d   Ancillary study evaluating long-term effects of romiplostim on bone marrow; open to subjects in Studies 20030105, 20030212, and 
subsequently in 20030213. 
e   Open-label extension study enrolling subjects from any previous ITP study in the US/EU.  One subject, 304351, was enrolled in study 
20030213, but was never dosed. 
f    An additional 4 subjects were enrolled in Study 20060131, but were never dosed as of the data cut-off. 
g   Study 20030213 Subsets A & B are subset studies of the parent Study 20030213.  
  Patient exposure 
Exposure  in  ITP  patients  is  summarised  in  Table  21.  The  median  duration  of  exposure  was  37.1 
weeks, where all ITP subjects had received at least 1 dose of romiplostim, 153 subjects had at least 26 
weeks of exposure, 114 subjects had at least 52 weeks of exposure and 36 subjects had at least 104 
weeks of exposure. 
Table 21: Exposure to romiplostim (ITP Safety Set, N=271) 
 Duration of Exposure (weeks) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Min, Max 
Number of Doses received 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Page 43 of 59 
271 
50.03 
45.13 
37.10 
8.00, 84.00 
1.0, 162.2 
271 
46.0 
42.2 
33.0 
7.0, 79.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Min, Max 
Cumulative Dose (µg) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Min, Max 
Average Weekly Dosec (µg/kg/week) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Min, Max 
Maximum Dose Receivedd (µg/kg) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Min, Max 
Most Frequently Used Dosee (µg/kg) 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Q1, Q3 
Min, Max 
1, 154 
271 
22443.8 
34372.3 
8525.0 
1701.0, 26290.0 
19, 248866 
271 
4.40 
3.16 
3.31 
2.13, 6.08 
0.1, 14.2 
271 
6.32 
4.37 
5.00 
3.00, 9.00 
0.2, 23.0 
271 
5.19 
4.15 
3.10 
2.00, 7.00 
0.2, 18.0 
In the phase 3 ITP safety subset (subjects who where randomized to and received romiplostim in the 
phase  III,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind  studies,  including  the  two  pivotal  studies  20030105  and 
20030212) 84 patients were exposed to romiplostim with a median duration of exposure of 24 weeks. 
The  median  average  weekly  dose  for  these  patients  was  2.48  g/kg,  and  the  maximum  dose  was 
15 g/kg. The median cumulative dose was 4098  g. In the phase 3 ITP long-term safety set subset 
(the phase 3 ITP safety subset plus the single  arm extension study 20030213) 117 subjects received 
romiplostim  and  the  median  duration  of  exposure  for  these  patients  was  69.1  weeks.  The  median 
average weekly dose was 3.15 g/kg, and the maximum dose was 18 g/kg. The median cumulative 
dose was 8525 g. 
  Adverse events 
The  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  for  ITP  patients  treated  with  romiplostim  was  91.5% 
(248/271).  Serious  adverse  events  that  were  related  to  treatment  by  the  investigator  were  observed 
with an incidence of 8.5% (23/271). The incidence of patients that reported at least 1 serious adverse 
event  was  25.5%  (69/271).  A  total  of  38  treatment-related  serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  23 
treated subjects. Table 22 shows the incidence of adverse events adjusted to study duration (per 100 
patient-years). 
Table 22.  Overall Summary of Study Duration-adjusted Adverse Event Incidence Rate in ITP 
patients treated with romiplostim. 
Number of  Adverse Events Reported 
Number of Adverse Events Reported with Severity of 
Severe 
Page 44 of 59 
romiplostim 
(Pt-yr=276.9) 
 N=271 
n  (r) 
4979 (1797.9) 
278 (100.4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
Number of Serious Adverse Events Reporteda 
Life-threatening 
Fatal 
Number of Treatment-Related Adverse Events Reported 
Number of Treatment-Related Adverse Events Reported 
with Severity of 
Severe 
Life-threatening 
Fatal 
Number of Treatment-Related Serious Adverse Events 
Reportedc 
32 (11.6) 
8 (2.9) 
212 (76.6) 
556 (200.8) 
40 (14.4) 
7 (2.5) 
2 (0.7) 
38 (13.7) 
Number of Adverse Events leading to study withdrawal 
a  Serious adverse event includes any event that is fatal, life-threatening (places subject at immediate risk of death), 
requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant 
disability/incapacity, a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or other significant medical hazard. 
19 (6.9) 
N = number of subjects who received at least one dose of investigational product over the course of all ITP studies. 
Pt-yr = Total subject years on study.  n = Number of adverse events.  r = Study duration adjusted event rate per 100 
subject-years (n / Pt-yr * 100). 
Multiple occurrences of the same non-fatal event for a subject are counted as separate events. Multiple fatal adverse events 
for the same subject were counted once. 
In the phase 3 ITP safety set, 84 (100%) romiplostim-treated subjects and 39 (95.1%) placebo-treated 
subjects  reported  an  adverse  event.  The  most  common  adverse  events  were  headache,  fatigue  and 
epistaxis  (see  Table  23  for  a  summary  of  adverse  effects).  Treatment-related  adverse  events  were 
reported in 34 (40.5%) patients treated with romiplostim and in 11 (26.8%) treated with placebo (see 
Table 23). 
In this phase 3 ITP safety set the incidence of patients reporting at least 1 serious adverse event was 
16.7% (14/84) in romiplostim-treated subjects and 19.5 (8/41) in placebo-treated subjects. There were 
22  serious  adverse  events;  8  (19.5%)  occurred  in  placebo  subjects  and  14  (16.7%)  occurred  in 
romiplostim  subjects.  There  were  multiple  reports  for  each  of  the  following  serious  adverse  events: 
gastrointestinal  haemorrhage  (2  romiplostim  subjects);  intracranial  haemorrhage  (1  subject  each  for 
placebo  and  romiplostim);  pneumonia  (2  placebo  subjects);  and  platelet  count  decreased  (2  placebo 
subjects and 1 romiplostim subject); all other serious adverse events were reported once.  
Page 45 of 59 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
Table 23: Subject Incidence of Adverse Events  5% Incidence in Either Treatment Group by 
Preferred Term (Phase 3 ITP Safety Set) 
Preferred Term 
Headache 
Fatigue 
Epistaxis 
Arthralgia 
Contusion 
Petechiae 
Diarrhoea 
Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 
Dizziness 
Insomnia 
Myalgia 
Back Pain 
Nausea 
Pain in Extremity 
Cough 
Anxiety 
Gingival Bleeding 
Abdominal Pain 
Muscle Spasms 
Injection Site Bruising 
Nasopharyngitis 
Oral Mucosal Blistering 
Pain 
Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 
Shoulder Pain 
Ecchymosis 
Asthenia 
Oedema Peripheral 
Haematoma 
Pyrexia 
Dyspepsia 
Rash 
Anaemia 
Injection Site Pain 
Paraesthesia 
Vomiting 
Chest Discomfort 
Urinary Tract Infection 
Injection Site Haematoma 
Toothache 
The Phase 3 ITP safety set consists of all subjects who received investigational product in either ITP phase 3 study, 20030105 or 
20030212. 
Incidence of adverse events are selected based on  5% occurrence in either romiplostim or placebo treatment group. 
Only adverse events starting after the first dose of investigational product are tabulated. 
MedDRA version 9.0 was used. 
romiplostim  
 (N = 84)  
 n (%) 
29  (34.5) 
28  (33.3) 
27  (32.1) 
22  (26.2) 
21  (25.0) 
14  (16.7) 
14  (16.7) 
14  (16.7) 
14  (16.7) 
13  (15.5) 
12  (14.3) 
11  (13.1) 
11  (13.1) 
11  (13.1) 
10  (11.9) 
9  (10.7) 
9  (10.7) 
9  (10.7) 
8  (9.5) 
8  (9.5) 
7  (8.3) 
7  (8.3) 
7  (8.3) 
7  (8.3) 
7  (8.3) 
6  (7.1) 
6  (7.1) 
6  (7.1) 
6  (7.1) 
6  (7.1) 
6  (7.1) 
5  (6.0) 
5  (6.0) 
5  (6.0) 
5  (6.0) 
4  (4.8) 
3  (3.6) 
3  (3.6) 
1  (1.2) 
1  (1.2) 
Placebo  
 (N = 41)   
 n (%) 
13  (31.7) 
12  (29.3) 
10  (24.4) 
8  (19.5) 
10  (24.4) 
9  (22.0) 
6  (14.6) 
5  (12.2) 
0  (0) 
3  (7.3) 
1  (2.4) 
4  (9.8) 
4  (9.8) 
2  (4.9) 
7  (17.1) 
5  (12.2) 
5  (12.2) 
0  (0) 
4  (9.8) 
2  (4.9) 
7  (17.1) 
3  (7.3) 
3  (7.3) 
2  (4.9) 
0  (0) 
6  (14.6) 
2  (4.9) 
2  (4.9) 
1  (2.4) 
1  (2.4) 
0  (0) 
4  (9.8) 
1  (2.4) 
1  (2.4) 
0  (0) 
3  (7.3) 
3  (7.3) 
3  (7.3) 
3  (7.3) 
3  (7.3) 
Page 46 of 59 
 
 
Table 24. Subject Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events by Preferred Term and > 5% 
Incidence in Either Treatment Group (Phase 3 ITP Safety Set) 
Preferred Term 
Placebo  
 (N = 41)  
 n (%) 
Romiplostim  
 (N = 84)  
 n (%) 
Number of Subjects Reporting Treatment-Related Adverse Events  11 (26.8) 
34 (40.5) 
Headache 
Myalgia 
Fatigue 
Arthralgia 
The  Phase  3  ITP  safety  set  consists  of  all  subjects  who  received  investigational  product  in  either  ITP  phase  3  study,  20030105  or 
20030212. 
Only adverse events starting after the first dose of investigational product are tabulated. 
MedDRA version 9.0 was used. 
16 (19.0) 
7 (8.3) 
5 (6.0) 
5 (6.0) 
3 (7.3) 
0 (0) 
1 (2.4) 
0 (0) 
  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
During romiplostim clinical development 11 patients died in ITP studies and 3 in other indications (2 
subjects during MDS studies and 1 subject during a CIT study). The fatal events in the ITP clinical 
studies occurred in 8 (2.5%) romiplostim-treated subjects and in 3 (6.5%) placebo-treated subjects. In 
1  case  death  was  considered  to  be  related  to  romiplostim  therapy,  a  case  of  aplastic  anaemia.  See 
Table 25 for a summary of the fatal events. 
Table 25.  Table of Deaths (All ITP Subjects) 
Study 
20030105 
20030105 
20030105 
20030212 
20030213 
20030213 
20030213 
20040209 
20040209 
20040209 
20040209 
Age (years)/ 
Sex 
70 / F 
51 / F 
52 / M 
80 / M 
35 / F 
47 / F 
69 / M 
75 / F 
66 / F 
72 / F 
1 / F 
Treatment 
Group 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Placebo 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
romiplostim 
Duration of 
Exposure 
6.1 weeks 
14.9 weeks 
10.0 weeks 
20.9 weeks 
54 weeks 
26 weeks 
54.4 weeks 
27.0 weeks 
11.9 weeks 
9.0 weeks 
30.4 weeks 
Cause of Death 
Pneumonia primary atypicala  
Pulmonary embolism 
Cerebral hemorrhage 
Hemorrhage intracranial 
Pneumonia pneumococcalb 
Cardiac arrest 
Renal failure 
Aplastic anaemia 
Thrombophlebitis superficialc 
Intestinal infarction 
Acute respiratory distress 
syndrome 
F = female; ITP = immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura; M = male; PID = patient identification 
a  The subject was hospitalized for an intracranial hemorrhage that was moderate in severity.  A computed 
tomography (CT) scan of the head revealed 5 to 7 mm hyperdensity in the right parietal white matter, and a chest 
radiograph showed an area of questionable right lobe pneumonia. 
b   The autopsy report noted the cause of death as acute cardiorespiratory failure secondary to overwhelming post-
splenectomy sepsis due to S pneumoniae. 
c  The clinical database erroneously included the cause of death for a subject 91701 in Study 20040209 as 
thrombophlebitis superficial.  The sponsor confirmed from the site that the subject did not die of this reported event, 
but instead died approximately 3 months after study discontinuation of a bleeding event related to ITP. 
Page 47 of 59 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events 
S
erious adverse events of special interest are summarised in Table 26. 
Table 26.  Study Duration-adjusted Rates for Adverse Event
Interest. 
(Pt
s of Special 
romiplostim 
-yr = 269.
 = 219
N
(r
 n  ) 
3) 
Number of Bleeding Events 
31
846 ( 4.1) 
Number of Clinically Significant Bleeding Events  
Number of Thrombotic / Thromboembolic Events 
Number of Bone Marrow Abnormality Events 
Number of Neoplasmsa 
41 (
15.
2) 
7
21 ( .8) 
3
10 ( .7) 
20 
(7
.4) 
72 (26.7) 
Number of Injection Site Reactions 
N
 = number of
ITP studies. 
 subjects who received at least one dose of investigational product over the course of all 
a  The updated marketing application ITP safety set consists of all subjects who received investig
product in an ITP study (20000137A, 20000137B, 20010218, 20030105, 20030212, 20030213, 
20040209, 20050123, or 20050162), including data up to the latest cut-off dates (see figure 9).    
b  
Reported adverse events where the preferred term mapped to the MedDRA system organ class of 
neoplasms benign, ma
lignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) were included in the 
neoplasm analysis.   
ational 
At the time of the marketing application, 35 subjects who started on placebo and later received 
romiplostim were counted in both treatment groups.  In the updated safety set, 36 subjects who started 
on placebo and later received romiplostimwere counted in both treatment g
Study duration is defined as time on study and measured by subject year. 
Pt-yr = Total subject years of on study.  n = Number of
event rate per 100 subject-years (n / Pt-yr *100 ). 
 adverse events. r = Study duration adjusted 
roups. 
Additional  data  from  the  ARISg  database  (Advance  Reporting  Information
o
ngoing ITP studies up to a cut-off of 10 December 2007 is shown in Table 27. 
  System  Global)  on 
Table 27. Ad
ditional ARISg Data for Ongoing romiplostim 
Studiesa 
Additional ARISg Dataa 
OC and rom
N =  52c 
7
Placebo / S
iplostimb 
Number of Bleeding Events 
     ITP 
     MDS 
     CIT 
Number of Thrombotic / Thromboembolic Events 
     ITP 
     MDS 
     CIT 
Number Bone Marrow Abnormality Events 
     ITP 
     MDS 
     CIT 
Page 48 of 59 
9 
4 
1 
7 
2 
0 
0 
1 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0 
0 
0 
Number of Neoplasms 
     ITP 
     MDS 
     CIT 
Number of Injection Site Reactions 
     ITP 
     MDS 
     CIT 
a 
 Additional ARISg data for ongoing romiplostim studies included in the safety analysis sets for the 120-day safety
update (interim period between database lock and 10 December 2007 for Studies 20040209 [ITP], 20060131 
[ITP], 20030213 [ITP], 20050159 [MDS], and 20050144 [CIT]) and ongoing romiplostim studies not included in 
the safety analysis sets for the 120-day safety update (cumulative data through 10 December 2007 for Studies 
20060113 [ITP], 20060195 [ITP], 20050154 [CIT], 2
b  Treatment information is not available for all cases. 
c   Preliminary enrolment numbers as of 10 December 2007. 
0050232 [MDS], 20060102 [MDS], and 20060197 [MDS]).  
1 
0 
0 
Bleedings. 
In the Phase III ITP studies, no statistically significant differences in the overall incidence of bleeding 
events  were  observed  between  romiplostim  and  placebo  treated  patients  (61%  placebo  versus  57% 
romiplostim).  However,  bleeding  events  that  were  grade  2  or  higher  (≥  moderate)  were  reported  by 
15% of patients treated with romiplostim and 34% of patients treated with placebo and the incidence 
of  bleeding  events  that  were  Grade  3  or  higher  (≥  severe,  defined  as  clinically  significant  bleeding 
events)  were  reported  by  7%
  of  patients  treated  with  romiplostim  and  by  12%  of  patients  receiving 
placebo (see Tables 28-29). 
Across the entire ITP clinical programme an inverse relationship between bleeding events and platelet 
counts was observed. All clinically significant (≥ grade 3) bleeding events occurre
d at platelet counts 
 30 x 109/l. All bleeding events ≥ grade 2 occurred at platelet counts < 50 x 109/l. 
<
Table 28. Subject Incidence of 
≥ Gra
de 2 (≥ Moderate) Bleeding Event 
20030212 
Non-Splenectomised 
20030105 
Splenectomised 
Combineda 
Placebo   
N = 20 
Ro
miplostim Placebo 
N = 42 
N = 21 
Ro
miplosti
N = 42 
m
Pla
N 
cebo 
= 41 
Ro
miplostim
N = 84 
Subject Incidence 
of ≥ Grade 2 
(≥ moderate) 
Bleeding Events  
Odds ratio of 
(romiplostim 
/placebo) 
95% confidence 
interval 
6  
(30.0%) 
4  
(9.5%) 
8 
(38.1%) 
9  
(21.4%) 
14 
(34.1%) 
13  
(15.5%) 
0.25 
0.44 
0.35 
(0.06, 1.00)  
(0.14, 1.40)  
(0.14, 0
.85) 
a p=0.018, post hoc analysis comparing bleeding event between total placebo and romiplostim 
Table 29. Subject Incidence of ≥ Grade 3 (Clinically Significant) Bleeding Event 
2030212 
Non-Splenectomised 
20030105 
Splenectomised 
Combineda 
Placebo 
N = 20 
Ro
miplosti
N = 42 
m
Placebo 
N = 21 
Ro
miplosti
N = 42 
m
Placebo N 
=41 
Ro
miplosti
N = 84 
m
Page 49 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
Subject 
Incidence of
≥ Grade 3 
(clinically 
significant) 
Bleeding Even
Odds ratio of 
(romiplostim 
/placebo) 
1  
(5.0%) 
ts   
2  
(4.8%) 
4 
(19.0%) 
4  
(9.5%) 
5 
(12.2%) 
6  
(7.1%) 
0.95 
0.45 
0.55 
95% confidence 
interval 
a p=0.36, post hoc analysis comparing bleeding event between total placebo and romiplostim 
 (0.08, 11.14) 
 (0.10, 2.00) 
(0.16, 1.96) 
Thrombotic events. 13 out of 219 (5.9%) ITP patients treated with romiplostim reported thrombotic 
events  including  3  deep  vein  thrombosis,  2  pulmonary  embolisms,  2  portal  vein  thrombosis,  2 
thrombophlebitis superficial, 2 thrombosis, 1 acute myocardial infarction, 1 cerebrovascular accident, 
1 coronary artery occlusion, 1 intestinal infarction, 1 myocardial infarction, , 1 peripheral embolism, 1 
septic thrombophlebitis, 1 transient ischaemic attack and 1 transverse sinus thrombosis. 10 events 
reported in 7 romiplostim treated patients have been deemed to be related to romiplostim treatment. 
Bone  marrow  abnormalities.  Bone  marrow  abnormalities  (reticulin  deposition)  related  to 
romiplostim  treatment  were  reported  at  least  in  9  out  of  219  (4.1%)  ITP  patients.  There  were  no 
ysed 
abnormalities  observed  in  the  placebo  treated  group.  Bone  marrow  biopsies  were  anal
systematically only in study 20050123. In this study one patient had mild increase of reticulin. There 
was one case of aplastic anaemia possibly drug-related reported patient treated with romiplostim. 
Neoplasms. 15 out of 219 (6.8%) ITP patients treated with romiplostim reported neoplasm including 3 
lung  neoplasms,  3  basal  cell  carcinomas,  1  multiple  myeloma,,  1  B-Cell  Lymphoma,  1 Bowden’s 
disease, 1 breast neopla
sm, 1 colon cancer, 1 haemangioma of the liver, 1 malignant hepatic neoplasm, 
1
  laryngeal  neoplasm,  1  malignant  melanoma,  1  melanocytic  naevus,  1 myelofibrosis  and  1 
seborrhoeic keratosis. 
The results in the MDS clinical studies showed that two subjects experienced a neoplasm: 1 subject 
had chloroma and 1 subject was noted to have increases in bone marrow blast cells that appeared to be 
consistent to AML. As of the data cut-off of 18 May 2007, 11 subjects were identified by investigators 
as  having  possible  disease  progression  to  AML.  Available  data  indicate  that  2  of  these  cases  were 
consistent  with  disease 
progression  to  AML;  3  cases  were  MDS  disease  progression  without 
progression to AML; and 6 cases were transient increases in bone marrow blast cell counts that were 
inconsistent with AML. 
hrombocytopenia  after  cessation  of  treatment.  4  out  of  271  events  of  thrombocytopenia  were 
T
observed after cessation of romiplostim treatment. 
Immunogenicity.  Antibody  formation  was  assessed  in  235  patients  who  had  received  romiplostim 
(see Table 30). The incidence of pre-existing binding antibodies was 7.2% for romiplostim and 5.1% 
for TPO. The incidence of developing binding antibodies was a  9.8% for romiplostim  and 5.1% for 
TPO. None of the samples were 
positive for neutralizing antibodies against TPO, although one patient 
was positiv
or 
these antibodi
e for neutralizing antibodies against romiplostim at week 79. The patient was negative f
es 4 months later. 
Table 30. Overall Subject Incidence of Antibodies to romiplostim and TPO for ITP 
Subjects 
ITP Safety Dataset 
N (%) 
ITP subjects tested for antibodies 
235 
Page 50 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   Pre-existing binding antibodies 
        romiplostim 
        TPOa 
   Pre-existing neutralizing antibodies 
        romiplostim 
        TPO 
   Developing binding antibodies 
        romiplostim 
        TPO 
   Developing neutralizing antibodies 
        romiplostim 
        TPO 
17 ( .2) 
7
12 (5.1) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.4) 
23 ( .8) 
9
12 (5.1) 
1 (0.4) 
0 (0.0) 
  Laboratory findings 
Summary  statistics  and  changes  from  baseline  were  calculated  for  the  following  6 serum  chemistry 
analytes:  alkaline  phosphatase,  ALT,  AST,  lactate  dehydrogenase  (LDH),  total  bilirubin,  creatinine, 
and P-selectin (GMP-140).  
In the phase 3 ITP safety set, baseline median ALTs were similar between the treatment groups (24 
/L]  placebo,  22 U/L  [range:  8  to  199  U/L]  romiplostim).  By  week  25,  the 
U/L  [range:  10  to  117  U
median ALT decreased 2.5 U/L in the placebo group while the median ALT remained unchanged in 
the romiplostim group.   
Baseline  median  LDH  was  higher  in  the  placebo  subjects  compared  with  the  romiplostim  subjects 
).  By week 25, 
(207.0 U/L [range: 133 to 428 U/L] vs 186.5 U/L [range: 82 to 442 U/L], respectively
the median LDH in placebo subjects had decreased by 5.5 U/L while the median LDH in romiplostim 
subjects had increased by 10.5 U/L. No clear clinically significant trend was apparent. 
2)  on 
In  study  20010218,  a  serious  adverse  event  of  increased  LDH  occurred  in  one subject  (1030
study day 9. The event occurred in a 45-year-old woman and was considered moderate in severity and 
related to investigational product; the event resolved 2 weeks later with no action being taken.   
The median p-selectin values were similar between the placebo and romiplostim groups at baseline, 49 
g/L  (range:  21  to  100  g/L)  and  52 g/L  (range:  15  to  113  g/L),  respectively.    At  week  25,  the 
y  4.0  g/L  and  for  romiplostim 
median  p-selectin  values  for  the  placebo  subjects  had  increased  b
subjects  by  33.0 g/L.  Median  values  remained  within  the  normal  range.  No  clear  pattern  emerged 
between throm
botic events, p-selectin levels, and/or platelet counts. 

Haematology 
group 
romiplostim 
In the phase 3 ITP safety set, median ANCs were slightly higher in the placebo group compared with 
the 
to  
24.192 x 109/L) vs 4.539 (range: 0.861 to 20.544 x 109/L), respectively.  Both treatment groups had 
minor fluctuations in ANCs throughout the stud
y. By the end of the study (week 25) median ANCs 
9
were similar for both treatment groups; 4.846 x 10 /L (range: 1.922 to 9.194 x 10 /L) vs 4.828 x 10 /L 
(range: 1.368 to 20.540 x 109/L, respectively).   
baseline; 
(range: 
109/L 
5.274 
1.827 
at 
x 
9
9
Mean  platelet  volume  increased  slightly  from  baseline  for  placebo  subjects,  but  remained  relatively 
constant in romiplostim subjects.  Median baseline results were 9.90 femtoliter (fL) (range: 7 to 18 fL) 
nd  9.70  fL  (range:  0  to  18  fL)  for  romiplostim  subjects;  at  week  25,  median 
for  placebo  subjects  a
results were 11.20 fL (range: 6.3 to 18 fL) for placebo subjects and 9.90 fL for (range: 7 to 18 fL) for 
romiplostim subjects. 
The  following  median  haematology  parameters  were  similar  at  baseline  and  throughout  the  phase  3 
oth  treatment  groups:  hematocrit,  haemoglobin,  mean  corpuscular  haemoglobin,  MCH 
studies  for  b
concentration,  mean  corpuscular  volume,  nucleated  RBCs,  RBCs,  red  cell  distribution,  reticulocytes 
and WBCs. 
Page 51 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Safety in special populations 
No specific study had been performed in special populations.  
  Safety related to drug-drug interactions
 and other interactions 
No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted. 
  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
he  overall  subje
T
subjects  during  an  ITP  clinical  study  was  6.8%  (16/271).    When  adjusted  for  study  d
incidence  is  6.9/100  subject-years  on  study.  Table  31  summarises  all  the  cases 
discontinuation. 
ct  incidence  of  adverse  events  leading  to  study  withdrawal  for  romiplostim-treated 
uration  the 
leading  to 
Table 31.  Table of Adverse Events Leading to Study Withdrawal, Excluding Deaths 
Study 
Age (y
ears)/ 
Sex 
Dose 
20030105 
40 / M 
romiplostim
20030212 
62 / F 
Placebo 
20030212 
48 / F 
romiplostim
Study 
Day 
Started 
43 
90 
64 
20030213 
27 / F 
romiplostim
248 
20030213 
60 / F 
romiplostim
317 
20030213 
30 / M 
romiplostim
154 
20030213 
44 / F 
romiplostim
NA 
45 
20030213 
44 / F 
romiplostim
908 
20030213 
56 / F 
romiplostim
95 
20030213 
56 / M 
romiplostim
312 
20040209 
66 / F 
romiplostim
105 
20040209 
72 / F 
romiplostim
62 
20040209 
52 / F 
romiplostim
378 
AE Leading to 
Withdrawal / Severity
Related to 
Test 
Article 
arrow disorder/ 
Yes 
Bone m
severe 
Metastases to
severe 
 liver / 
ymphoma / life 
B-cell l
threatening 
No 
No 
 hemorrhage / 
Yes 
Vaginal
severe 
Bone marr
severe 
ow disorder / 
Yes 
Myelofibro
moderate 
sis / 
Musculoskeletal pain / 
moderate 
Headache / mild 
Deep vei
moderate 
n thrombosis / 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Thrombophl
/ severe 
ebitis septic 
No 
Multiple myeloma 
threatening 
/ life 
phlebitis 
Thrombo
superficial / fatala 
Portal vein throm
severeb 
bosis / 
Pulmonary embo
life threatening 
lism / 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
378 
Deep vein 
life threatening 
thrombosis / 
20060131 
54 / F 
romiplostim
115 
Pulmonary embolism / 
moderate 
Note: 
AE = adverse event; F = female; M = male; PID = patient identification 
The table does not include deaths. 
Page 52 of 59 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Age (years)/ 
Sex 
Dose 
Study 
Day 
Started 
AE Leading to 
Withdrawal / Severity 
Related to 
Test 
Article 
a  
The clinical database erroneously included the cause of death for a Subject 91701 in Study 20040209 as thrombophlebitis 
superficial.  The sponsor confirmed from the site 
approximately 3 months after study discontinuation of a bleeding event related to ITP. 
that the subject did not die of this reported event, but instead died 
b
  Following clarification from the site, it was ind
icated that subject 92501 in Study 20040209 had discontinued the study 
for a reason noted as “hospitalizati
changed from “other” to “adverse event”.   
on due to portal vein thrombosis” and the reason for study discontinuation was 
  Post marketing experience 
No post marketing data are available 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The size of the safety database is  considered reasonable for a rare indication, especially considering 
that the treatment is intended for refractory patients. The main risks identified are increased reticulin 
ormation  a
f
nd  bone  marrow  fibrosis,  thrombocythemia,  thromboembolic  events,  malignancies  and 
bleedings due to lack of efficacy. In addition, immunogenicity has been identified as a risk as known 
for all therapeutic proteins. There are special warnings in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC addressing 
these risks: 
Increased bone marrow reticulin is believed to be a result of TPO receptor stimulation, leading to an 
increased number of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow, which may subsequently release cytokines. 
Increased reticulin may be suggested by morphological changes in the peripheral blood cells and can 
be  detected  through  bone  marrow  biopsy.  Therefore,  examinations  for  cellular  morphological 
abnormalities  using  peripheral  blood  smear  and  complete  blood  count  (CBC)  prior  to  and  during 
treatment  with  romiplostim  are  recommended.  If  a  loss  of  efficacy  and  abnormal  peripheral  blood 
smear  is  observed  in  patients,  administration  of  romiplostim  should  be  discontinued,  a  physical 
examination  should  be  performed,  and  a  bone  marrow  biopsy  with  appropriate  staining  for  reticulin 
should  be 
considered.  If  efficacy  is  maintained  and  abnormal  peripheral  blood  smear  is  observed  in 
patients, the physician should follow appropriate clinical judgment, including consideration of a bone 
marrow biopsy, and the risk-benefit of romiplostim and alternative ITP treatment options should be re-
assessed. 
Platelet  counts  above  the  normal  range  present 
a  theoretical  risk  for  thrombotic/thromboembolic 
complications.  However  an  association  between  these  events  and  elevated  platelet  counts  was  not 
observed and will be further investigated as part of the follow-up clinical studies that the Applicant has 
committed to perform in the post-approval phase. 
There were cases reported of progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in patients with MDS. 
The  relationship  to  romiplostim  treatment  is  unclear,  however  TPO  receptor  stimulators  are  growth 
factors  that  lead  to  thrombopoietic  progenitor  cell  expans
ion  and  there  is  a  theoretical  concern  that 
they  may  stimulate  the  progression  of  existing  haematopoietic  malignancies  or  MDS.  Romiplostim 
should therefore not be used for the treatment of thrombocytopenia due to MDS or any other cause of 
thrombocytopenia other than ITP outside of clinical trials. 
There  is  an  increased  risk  of  bleeding  associated  to  thrombocytopenia  if  romiplostim  treatment  is 
discontinued.  Patients  should  be  closely  monitored  for  a  decrease  in  platelet  count  and  medically 
managed to avoid bleeding upon discontinuation of treatment w
ith romiplostim. 
There is a potential risk for immunogenicity due to romiplostim treatment. To minimise this risk t
Applicant  has  committed  to  provide  anti-romiplostim  and  TPO  antibody  testing  to  physicia
whenever there is a suspicion that antibodies might be present. 
he 
ns 
lterations in re
A
d (decrease) and white (increase) blood cell parameters have been observed in non-
clinical toxicology studies (rat and monkey) but not in ITP patients. Monitoring of these parameters 
should be considered in patients treated with romiplostim and a warning has been included in section 
4.4 of the SPC. 
Page 53 of 59 
 
 
 
In addition, there were 7 subjects experiencing renal dysfunction in the phase III studies and at least 1 
had  a  potential  underlying  risk  factor  for  renal  impairment.  A  correlation  between  romiplostim  and 
renal impairment has not been observed however it is not clear whether romiplostin may have had a 
role in the deterioration of renal funtion in a limited number of patients. To address this concern the 
Applicant  has  committed  to  include  renal  impairment  as  a  potential  risk  in  the  RMP  as  a  follow-up 
measure post-authorisation. 
, both in number of patients and length of follow up, 
Overall a larger safety database is highly desirable
especially  taking  into  account  that  romiplostim  is  a  first  in  class  drug  with  a  novel  mechanism  of 
action. For this purpose Applicant has committed to perform three follow-up clinical studies that will 
be submitted as post-authorisation co
mmitments: 
-  A  retrospective  observational  study  to  determine  the  incidence  of  bone  marrow  fibrosis  and 
thrombotic/thromboembolic events. 
-  A  prospective  study  assessing  safety  of  romiplostim  treatment  based  on  National  Healt
systems in Denmark, Sweden and Finland. 
h  registry 
- A long term Open Label prospective study to assess changes in bone marrow morphology. 
In addition a strong RMP has been put in place to minimise the identified risks. Updated safety data on 
tioned trials and additional safety registries (US Patient Safety Registry, the Canadian 
the above men
Patient  Safety  Registry,  the  US  Pregnancy  Registry,  the  US  Lactation  Registry  and  the  US  and  EU 
immunogenicity  registry)  will  be  provided  by  the  Applicant  routinely  as  part  of  the  PSUR 
submissions. 
PSURs  will  also  include  data  on  combination  use  with  rituximab  or  alkylating  agents;  leukocytosis 
and  anemia;  usage  in  an  off-label  setting  including  paediatric  population;  reoccurrence  of 
of  romiplostim;  neutralizing  antibodies  to  romiplostim  or  TPO; 
thrombocytopenia  after  cessation 
pregnant  and  lactating  women;  renal,  hepatic,  cardiac,  pulmonary  events  indicative  of  worsening 
organ function; drug-drug interaction. In addition, annual updates on bone marrow abnormalities will 
be included in the routine PSURs. 
As an additional risk minimization measure the RMP will include an educational material to instruct 
physicians on the use of romiplostim. This educational material will be reviewed by CHMP prior to 
launch (included as a follow-up measure) and it will be made available in every member state. 
Patients  with  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance,  to  any  of  the  excipients  or  to  E.  coli  derived 
proteins should not take the romiplostim and a contraindication has been included in section 4.3 of the 
SPC. 
There  is  no  clinical  experience  available  on  the  use  of  romiplostim  in  special  populations  including 
t  or  lactating 
children,  elderly,  hepatic,  cardiac  and  pulmonary  impairment  patients  and  pregnan
women. Warnings for the use in these populations have been included in sections 4.2 and 4.6 of the 
tions were excluded of clinical trials such as patients with bone marrow 
SPC. In addition, some popula
disorders. Specific recommendations have been implemented in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of t
he Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  th
le
gislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
at  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
T
he MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Page 54 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
ce 
Proposed risk minimisation activi
ties 
sing 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described in the 
prescribing information.   
Routine risk comm
unication  
Routine physician education 
REMS (US only) 
sing 
n the 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described i
prescribing inform
R
outine risk comm
Routine ph
REMS (US only) 
ation.   
unication  
ysician education 
Appropriate statements addres
sing 
these risks will be described in the 
prescribing information.   
Routine risk comm
unication  
R
outine physician education 
REMS (US only) 
Table Summary o
Safety issue 
f the r
Re-occurrence of 
thrombocytopenia after 
cessation of  
romiplostim   
Increased bone marrow 
reticulin  
Thrombocytosis    
Thrombotic / 
Thromboembolic 
complications 
ent plan 
isk managem
Proposed pharmacovigilan
activities 
Routine PV 
romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry (US and Canada) 
reatment 
 to assess 
registry to assess 
Prospective 
iplostim treatment 
safety of rom
y 
in adult patients with ITP (Stud
20070797) 
Routine PV 
Advisory bone marrow panel 
romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry Advisory Committee 
Retrospective observational 
study to define prevalence of 
bone marrow reticulin in ITP 
subjects who have not received 
romiplostim (Study 20070
796) 
Prospective registry
safety of romiplostim t
in adult patients with ITP 
(Study 20070797) 
Long-term open-label 
prospective
assess changes in bone ma
morphology and systemic
cytokines 
Adverse event follow-up 
questionnaire (US only) 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry (US and Canada) 
Prospective registry to as
safety of romiplosti
in adult patie
Scandinavian Countries 
(Study 20070797) 
Routine PV 
 study (20080009) to 
rrow 
nts with ITP in 
m treatment 
sess 
External expert advisory panel 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry Advisory Committee 
Retrospective observat
study to define back
of thrombotic / thromboembo
events in ITP patients 
(Study 20070796) 
ional 
ground rates 
lic 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry (US and Canada) 
Prospective registry to assess 
safety of rom
in adult patie
Scandinavian Countrie
iplostim treatment 
nts with ITP in 
s (Study 
Page 55 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutralizing antibodies 
that cross react with 
eTPO  
Progression of existing  
hematological 
malignancies or MDS 
a,b 
Bone marrow fibrosis 
s 
Potential consequence
of off-label use in 
ns where 
indicatio
risk-benefit ratio has 
not been adequ
ately 
studied 
tients 
sess the 
her 
ta on the risk of 
20070797) 
Routine PV 
Long-term open-label 
prospective study to as
incidence of antibody 
development after romiplostim
exposure (20080009) 
Immunogenicity registry (Study 
20080091) designed to gat
and assess da
immunogenicity among pa
who receive romiplostim
. 
Routine PV 
Adverse event follow-up 
questionnaire (US only) 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry (US and Canada) 
Prospective registry to assess 
safety of rom
in adult patients with ITP in 
Scandinavian Countries (Study 
20070797) 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry Advisory Com
Same measures as described for 
the identified risk of increased
bone marrow reticulin  
Routine PV 
Prospective registry to assess 
safety of rom
in adult patients with ITP in 
Scandinavian
20070797) 
iplostim treatment 
iplostim treatment 
 Countries (Study 
mittee 
Romiplostim 
medication errors 
(dosing/administration) 
Routine PV 
Romiplostim Patient Safety 
Registry (US and Canada) 
Leukocytosis and 
anemia in the 
preclinical setting 
Routine PV 
Prospective registry to assess 
safety of rom
in adult patients with ITP in 
Scandinavian Countries (Study 
20070797) 
iplostim treatment 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described i
p
rescribing information.   
Routine risk communication  
Routine physician education 
sing 
n the 
sing 
n the 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described i
prescribing information.  
Routine ris
k communication  
Routine physician education 
Physician education (EU only) REMS 
(US only) 
sing 
n the 
Same measures as described for the
identified risk of increased bone 
marrow reticulin 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described i
prescribing information.  
Routine risk comm
unication  
Routine physician education 
Physician education (EU only) 
REMS (US only) 
Appropriate statements addres
these risks will be described i
prescribing inform
Routine risk communication  
Routine physician education 
REMS (US only) 
Appropriate statements addressing 
these risks will be described in the 
prescribing information (EU only) 
sing 
n the 
ation 
Safety issue 
Proposed ph
a
ctivities 
armacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Important Missing (or Limited) Information 
Pregnant women 
Routine PV 
Lactating women 
Routine PV 
Page 56 of 59 
Appropriate statements addressing 
these 
risks will be described in the prescribing 
information.  
Pregnancy reg
istry proposed (US) 
Appropriate statements addressing
 these 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
risks will be described in the prescribing 
information.  
Lactation registry proposed (US) 
Routine PV 
Ongoing paediatric 
Study 20060195 
Routine PV 
Ongoing clinical studies  
Routine PV 
Routine PV 
Routine PV 
Paediatric patients 
Geriatric patients 
nt 
Patients with renal, 
d 
hepatic, cardiac, an
pulmonary impairme
Patients with bone 
l 
marrow stem cel
disorder and/or any 
active malignancy 
Lack of data in 
patients concurrently 
receiving rituximab or 
alkylating agents 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the
minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal p
  opinion  that  risk 
roduct. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
 when used in accordance with the conditions 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
At  the  time  of  CHMP  opinion,  all  the minor
Some  additional  points  will  be  addressed  as  part  of
unresolved quality issues that may affect the risk-benefit balance. 
  issues  raised  during  the  procedure  have  been  clarified. 
  post-authorisation  commitments.  There  are  no 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Multiple dose romiplostim toxicology studies were conducted in rats for 4 weeks and in monkeys for 
up to 6 months. In general, effects observed during these studies  were related  to the thrombopoietic 
activity of romiplostim and were similar regardless 
of study duration. Injection site reactions were also 
related to romiplostim administration. Myelofibrosis has been observed in the bone marrow of rats at 
all tested dose levels. In these studies, myelofibrosis was not observed in animals after a 4-week post-
treatment recovery period, indicating reversibility. 
In  1-month  rat  and  monkey  toxicology  studies,  a  mild  decrease  in  red  blood  cell  count, haematocrit 
and  haemoglobin  was  observed.    There  was  also  a  stimulatory  effect  on  leukocyte  production,  as 
peripheral  blood  counts  for  neutrophils,  lymphocytes,  monocytes,  and  eosinophils  were  mildly 
increased.    In  the  longer  duration  chronic  monkey  study,  there  was  no  effect  on  the  erythroid  and 
leukocytic  lineage
s  when  romiplostim  was  administered  for  6  months  where  the  administration  of 
romiplostim was decreased from thrice weekly to once weekly.  Additionally, in the phase 3 pivotal 
studies, romiplostim did not affect the red blood cell and white blood cells lineages relative to placebo 
treated subjects.   
Due to the formation of neutralising antibodies pharmacodynamic effects of romiplostim in rats were 
often decreasing at prolonged duration of administration. Toxicokinetic studies showed no interaction 
of  the  antibodies  with  the  me
asured  concentrations.  Although  high  doses  were  tested  in  the  animal 
studies, due to differences between the laboratory species and humans with regard to the sensitivity for 
Page 57 of 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the pharmacodynamic effect of romiplostim and the effect of neutralising antibodies, safety margins 
cannot be reliably estimated.  
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  romiplostim  has  not  been  evaluated.  Therefore,  the  risk  of  potential 
carcinogenicity of romiplostim in humans remains unknown.   
In  all  developmental  studies  neutralising  antibodies  were  formed,  which  may  have  inhibited 
romiplostim  effects.  In  embryo-foetal  development  studies  in  mice  and  rats,  reductions  in  maternal 
body weight were found only in mice. In mice there was evidence of increased post-implantation loss. 
In  a  prenatal  and  postnatal  development  study  in  rats  an  increase  of  the  duration  of  gestation  and  a 
slight increase in the incidence of peri-natal pup mortality was found. Romiplostim is known to cross 
tal  barrier  in  rats  and  may  be  transmitted  from  the  mother  to  the  developing  foetus  and 
the  placen
stimulate foetal platelet production. Romiplostim had no observed effect on the fertility of rats. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  romiplostim  was  evaluated  in  two  placebo-controlled,  double-blind  studies in  adults 
with ITP who had completed at least one treatment prior to study entry.  Study 20030105 evaluated 
patients  who  were  splenectomised  and  continued  to  have  thrombocytopenia.  In  addition  to  a 
splenectomy,  patients  had  a  median  of  6  treatments  for  ITP  prior  to  study  entry  including 
corticosteroids,  immunoglobulins,  rituximab,  danazol,  cytotoxic  therapies,  and  azathioprine.  Patients 
had a median platelet count of 14 x 109/l at study entry. Study 20030212 evaluated patients who were 
enectomised and had an inadequate response or were intolerant to prior therapies. Patients had 
non-spl
a median of 3 treatments for ITP prior to study entry and a median platelet count of 19 x 109/l at study 
entry.  
In  both  studies  patients  (≥ 18  years)  were  randomised  in  a  2:1  ratio  to  receive  a  starting  dose  of 
 24 weeks. 
romiplostim 1 µg/kg or placebo. Patients received single subcutaneous weekly injections for
Doses were adjusted to maintain (50 to 200 x 109/l) platelet counts. The median average weekly dose 
for splenectomised patients was 3 µg/kg and for non-splenectomised patients was 2 µg/kg.  
Efficacy has been shown in terms of a durable platelet response. A significantly higher proportion of 
patients  receiving  romiplostim  achieved  a  durable  platelet  response  compared  to  patients  receiving 
placebo in both studies. Following the first 4-weeks of study romiplostim maintained platelet counts ≥ 
50  x  109/l  in  between  50%  to  70%  of  pati
ents  during  the  6 month  treatment  period  in  the  placebo-
controlled  studies.  In  the  placebo  group,  0%  to  7%  of  patients  were  able  achieve  a  platelet  count 
response during the 6 months of treatment. 
Although  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  overall  incidence  of  bleeding  events  were 
observed  between  romiplostim  and  placebo  treated  patients,  bleeding  events  that  were  grade  2  or 
higher (≥ moderate) or grade 3 or higher (≥ severe, defined as clinically significant bleeding even
ts) 
were  les
s  frequent  in  patients  treated  with  romiplostim.  However,  this  data  cannot  be  regarded  as 
conclusive and an effect of romiplostim in terms of reduced rate of bleedings cannot be concluded. 
Safety 
Based on an analysis of all patients receiving romiplostim in the two ITP placebo-controlled studies, 
adverse  events  were  reported  in  39  (95.1%)  patients  while  receiving  placebo  (n = 41)  and  in 
84 (100%)  patients  while  receiving  romiplostim  (n = 8 4).  Of  these  adverse  events  27.4%  were 
se events are headache 
classified as severe. The incidences of the most frequent treatment-related adver
(19% romiplostim treated patients; 7.3% placebo), myalgia (8.3% romiplostim; 0% placebo), fatigue 
(6% romiplostim; 2.4% placebo) and arthralgia (6% romiplostim; 0% placebo). 
The main risk identified is increased reticulin formation and bone marrow fibrosis. At least 10 out of 
271  romiplostim-treated  patients  (3.7%)  reported  bone  marrow  abnormalities  during  ITP  studies. 
Histological samples have been obtained only for a limited amount of patients and the data provided 
t  to  characterise  the  exact  magnitude  of  the  risk.  Additional  potential 
by  the  Applicant  is  insufficien
risks  identified  include  thrombocythemia,  thromboembolic  events,  malignancies,  immunogenictcity 
and effects on renal function. 
Overall a larger safety dataset would have been highly desirable, especially taking into consideration 
that  romiplostim  has  a  novel  mechanism  of  action.  For  this  purpose  the  risks  associated  with 
romiplostim  treatment  will  be  prospectively  assessed  by  the  Applicant  in  the  context  of  post-
Page 58 of 59 
authorisation commitments including a retrospective observational study to determine the incidence of 
bone marrow fibrosis and thrombotic/thromboembolic events, a prospective study assessing 
safety of 
romiplostim  treatment  based  on  National  Health  registry  systems  in  Denmark,  Sweden  and  Finland 
and a long term open label prospective study to assess changes in bone marrow morphology. 
e  the  identified  risks.  It  will  include  an 
In  addition  a  strong  RMP  has  been  put  in  place  to  minimis
educational material to instruct physicians on the risks associated with the use of romiplostim that will 
be made available to physicians before they administer drug. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities des
cribed adequately addressed these. 
  User consultation 
The Applicant performed 
provided. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
a readability testing (“user consultation”) and a satisfactory report has been 
The benefits of romiplostim in terms of platelet count have been demonstrated and replicated in two 
independent randomised clinical trials. This strength of evidence is uncommon in an orphan condition  
like  ITP  and  the  effect  of  romiplostim  should  be  placed  in  the  context  of  a  life  threatening  disease 
where limited therapeutic alternatives  are possible.  In splenectomised patients refractory to first line 
therapies  (corticosteroids  and  Iv  Ig)  and  in  non-splenectomised  patients  in  which  splenectomy  has 
been  contraindicated  romiplostim  covers  an  unmet  medical  need.  The  indication  for  non-
splenectomised patients has been restricted 
from the one that the Applicant initially applied for based 
on  the  fact  that  for  non-splenoctmised  patients,  splenectomy  is  a  therapeutic  option  that  could 
potentially affect the course of the disease. 
Considering  identified  and  potential  risks  and  uncertainties  (increased  reticulin  formation  and  bone 
marrow  fibrosis,  thrombocythemia,  thromboembolic  events,  malignancies,  immunogenitcity  and 
effects on renal function) that need to be furthe
r assessed in a larger population, and the compelling 
efficacy evidence shown in favor of romiplostim, it can be concluded that the benefits of the treatment 
overweight the risks for this patient population. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
 
additional risk minimisation activities were required. 
routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
Based
consen
  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
sus that the risk-benefit balance of Nplate indicated for: 
romiplostim is indic
splenectomised  patients  who  are  refractory 
immunoglobulins), 
ated for adult chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) 
treatments  (e.g.  corticosteroids, 
to  other 
romiplostim may be considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomised p
where surgery is contra-indicated, 
atients 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 59 of 59 
