EMA/57487/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004790 
Nubeqa (darolutamide) 
An overview of Nubeqa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nubeqa and what is it used for? 
Nubeqa is a medicine used to treat men with prostate cancer. 
It is used when the cancer is castration-resistant (worsens despite treatment to lower testosterone 
levels, including surgical removal of the testes) and is at high risk of metastasis (spreading to other 
parts of the body).  
It is also used when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body but responds to treatment that 
lowers testosterone levels (hormone sensitive). It is used in combination with docetaxel (another 
cancer medicine) and a treatment called androgen deprivation therapy (treatment to lower male sex 
hormones). 
Nubeqa contains the active substance darolutamide.  
How is Nubeqa used? 
Nubeqa is available as tablets (300 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment 
should be started and supervised by a specialist doctor experienced in the treatment of prostate 
cancer. 
The recommended dose of Nubeqa is 600 mg (two tablets) taken twice a day with food. Patients who 
have not had their testes surgically removed (castration) should continue treatment with a medicine 
known as an ‘LHRH analogue’ to lower production of testosterone. 
If the patient develops severe side effects, the dose may have to be reduced or treatment may have to 
be interrupted. For more information about using Nubeqa, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Nubeqa work? 
The active substance in Nubeqa, darolutamide, is an androgen receptor inhibitor. This means that it 
binds to the receptor (target) of sex hormones called androgens, such as testosterone, and blocks 
them from stimulating prostate cancer cells from growing.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Nubeqa have been shown in studies? 
Nubeqa was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in one ongoing main study involving 1,509 
men with non-metastatic cancer of the prostate. The main measure of effectiveness was how long 
patients lived before their cancer spread to other parts of the body. Patients treated with Nubeqa lived 
for an average of 40 months without the cancer spreading, compared with around 18 months for 
patients given placebo. 
In a second main study involving 1,306 men with metastatic, hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, 
around 63% of patients given Nubeqa were alive 4 years after starting treatment compared with 50% 
of those who were given placebo. Both Nubeqa and placebo were given together with docetaxel and 
androgen deprivation therapy. 
What are the risks associated with Nubeqa? 
The most common side effects with Nubeqa (which may affect more than 1 in 10 patients) are 
tiredness, weakness, lethargy (lack of energy) and feeling unwell. 
The most common side effects with Nubeqa given together with docetaxel are rash and hypertension 
(high blood pressure). 
For the full list of side effects of Nubeqa, see the package leaflet. 
Nubeqa is not for use in women and must not be used in women who are or who may be pregnant. For 
the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Nubeqa authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Nubeqa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Nubeqa has been shown to delay the onset of metastases compared with 
placebo. When given together with docetaxel and androgen deprivation therapy, the medicine has 
been shown to increase the time patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer live. 
Nubeqa is well tolerated and its risks are considered manageable. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nubeqa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nubeqa have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nubeqa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Nubeqa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nubeqa 
Nubeqa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 March 2020. 
Further information on Nubeqa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nubeqa.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2023.  
Nubeqa (darolutamide)  
EMA/57487/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
