ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
NUBEQA 300 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darolutamide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 186 mg of lactose monohydrate (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
White to off-white, oval tablets with a length of 16 mm and a width of 8 mm, marked with “300” on 
one side, and “BAYER” on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
NUBEQA is indicated for the treatment of adult men with  
- 
non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) who are at high risk of developing 
metastatic disease (see section 5.1). 
metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in combination with docetaxel and 
androgen deprivation therapy (see section 5.1). 
- 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a specialist physician experienced in treatment of 
prostate cancer. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 600 mg darolutamide (two tablets of 300 mg) taken twice daily, equivalent 
to a total daily dose of 1200 mg (see section 5.2). 
Darolutamide should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
Medical castration with a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue should be 
continued during treatment of patients not surgically castrated. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) 
mHSPC patients should start darolutamide in combination with docetaxel (see section 5.1). The first of 
6 cycles of docetaxel should be administered within 6 weeks after the start of darolutamide treatment. 
The recommendation in the product information of docetaxel should be followed. Treatment with 
darolutamide should be continued until disease progression or unaccepatble toxicity even if a cycle of 
docetaxel is delayed, interrupted, or discontinued. 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed, the dose should be taken as soon as the patient remembers prior to the next 
scheduled dose. The patient should not take two doses together to make up for a missed dose. 
Dose modification 
If a patient experiences a ≥ Grade 3 toxicity or an intolerable adverse reaction related to darolutamide 
(see section 4.8), dosing should be withheld or reduced to 300 mg twice daily until symptoms 
improve. Treatment may then be resumed at a dose of 600 mg twice daily. 
Dose reduction below 300 mg twice daily is not recommended, because efficacy has not been 
established. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
For patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15-29 mL/min/1.73 m2) not receiving haemodialysis, 
the recommended starting dose is 300 mg twice daily (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment. 
The available data on darolutamide pharmacokinetics in moderate hepatic impairment is limited. 
Darolutamide has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
For patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Classes B and C), the 
recommended starting dose is 300 mg twice daily (see sections 4.4 and 5.2.). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of darolutamide in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration 
NUBEQA is for oral use. 
The tablets should be taken whole with food (see section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Women who are or may become pregnant (see section 4.6). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Renal impairment 
The available data in patients with severe renal impairment are limited. 
As exposure might be increased those patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The available data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment are limited, and darolutamide has not 
been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
As exposure might be increased those patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Recent cardiovascular disease 
Patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease in the past 6 months including stroke, 
myocardial infarction, severe/unstable angina pectoris, coronary/peripheral artery bypass graft, and 
symptomatic congestive heart failure were excluded from the clinical studies. Therefore, the safety of 
darolutamide in these patients has not been established. 
If NUBEQA is prescribed, patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease should be treated 
for these conditions according to established guidelines. 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
In case of hepatic transaminase elevations suggestive of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury related 
to darolutamide, permanently discontinue treatment with darolutamide (see section 4.8). 
Concomitant use with other medicinal products 
Use of strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inducers during treatment with darolutamide may decrease the 
plasma concentration of darolutamide and is not recommended, unless there is no therapeutic 
alternative. Selection of an alternate concomitant medicinal product with less potential to induce 
CYP3A4 or P-gp should be considered (see section 4.5). 
Patients should be monitored for adverse reactions of BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates as 
co-administration with darolutamide may increase the plasma concentrations of these substrates. 
Co-administration with rosuvastatin should be avoided unless there is no therapeutic alternative (see 
section 4.5). 
Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval 
In patients with a history of risk factors for QT prolongation and in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that might prolong the QT interval (see section 4.5), physicians should assess the 
benefit-risk ratio including the potential for Torsade de pointes prior to initiating NUBEQA. 
Information about excipients 
NUBEQA contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total 
lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on darolutamide 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inducers 
Darolutamide is a substrate of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). 
Use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers and P-gp inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, 
St. John's Wort, phenytoin, and rifampicin) during treatment with darolutamide is not recommended, 
unless there is no therapeutic alternative. Selection of an alternate concomitant medicinal product, 
with no or weak potential to induce CYP3A4 or P-gp should be considered. 
Repeated administration of rifampicin (600 mg), a strong CYP3A4 and a P-gp inducer, with a single 
dose of darolutamide (600 mg) together with food, resulted in a decrease of 72% in mean exposure 
(AUC0-72) and a decrease of 52% in Cmax of darolutamide. 
CYP3A4, P-gp and BCRP inhibitors 
Darolutamide is a substrate of CYP3A4, P-gp and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). 
No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected in case of CYP3A4, P-gp or BCRP inhibitor 
administration. Darolutamide may be given concomitantly with CYP3A4, P-gp or BCRP inhibitors. 
Concomitant use of darolutamide with a combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases 
darolutamide exposure which may increase the risk of darolutamide adverse reactions. It is 
recommended to monitor patients more frequently for darolutamide adverse reactions and modify 
darolutamide dose as needed. 
Administration of itraconazole (200 mg twice daily on day 1 and once daily on the following 7 days), 
a strong CYP3A4, P-gp and BCRP inhibitor, with a single dose of darolutamide (600 mg on day 5 
together with food) resulted in a 1.7-fold increase in mean exposure (AUC0-72) and a 1.4-fold increase 
of Cmax of darolutamide. 
UGT1A9 inhibitors 
Darolutamide is a substrate of UGT1A9. 
No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected in case of UGT1A9 inhibitor administration.  
Darolutamide may be given concomitantly with UGT1A9 inhibitors. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that co-administration of UGT1A9 inhibitors with 
darolutamide resulted in a 1.2-fold increase in exposure (AUC0-72) of darolutamide. 
Docetaxel 
Administration of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel resulted in no clinically relevant 
changes in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide in mHSPC patients (see section 5.1). 
Effects of darolutamide on other medicinal products 
BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates 
Darolutamide is an inhibitor of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and Organic Anion 
Transporting Polypeptides (OATP) 1B1 and 1B3. 
Co-administration of rosuvastatin should be avoided unless there is no therapeutic alternative. 
Selection of an alternative concomitant medicinal product with less potential to inhibit BCRP, 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 should be considered. 
Administration of darolutamide (600 mg twice daily for 5 days) prior to co-administration of a single 
dose of rosuvastatin (5 mg) together with food resulted in approximately 5-fold increase in mean 
exposure (AUC) and Cmax of rosuvastatin. 
Co-administration of darolutamide with other BCRP substrates should be avoided where possible. 
Co-administration of darolutamide may increase the plasma concentrations of other concomitant 
BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates (e.g. methotrexate, sulfasalazine, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, 
pitavastatin). Therefore, it is recommended to monitor patients for adverse reactions of BCRP, 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates. In addition, the related recommendation in the product 
information of these substrates should be followed when co-administered with darolutamide. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-gp substrates 
No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected in case of P-gp substrate administration. 
Darolutamide may be given concomitantly with P-gp substrates (e.g. digoxin, verapamil or 
nifedipine). Co-administration of darolutamide together with the sensitive P-gp substrate dabigatran 
etexilate did not reveal any increase in exposure (AUC and Cmax) of dabigatran. 
CYP3A4 substrates 
Darolutamide is a mild inducer of CYP3A4. 
No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected in case of CYP substrate administration. 
Darolutamide may be given concomitantly with CYP substrates (e.g. warfarin, L-thyroxine, 
omeprazole). 
Administration of darolutamide (600 mg twice daily for 9 days) prior to co-administration of a single 
dose of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam (1 mg) together with food, decreased the mean 
exposure (AUC) and Cmax of midazolam by 29% and 32%, respectively. 
Darolutamide did not inhibit the metabolism of selected CYP substrates in vitro at clinically relevant 
concentrations. 
Docetaxel 
Administration of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel resulted in no clinically relevant 
changes in the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel in mHSPC patients (see section 5.1). 
Medicinal products that prolong the QT interval 
Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the co-administration with 
medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce Torsade de 
pointes should be carefully evaluated. These include medicinal products such as class IA (e.g., 
quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic 
medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, and antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
This medicinal product is not indicated in women of childbearing potential. It is not to be used in 
women who are, or may be, pregnant or breast-feeding (see sections 4.1 and 4.3). 
Women of childbearing potential / contraception in males and females 
It is not known whether darolutamide or its metabolites are present in semen. If the patient is engaged 
in sexual activity with a woman of childbearing potential, a highly effective contraceptive method 
(< 1% failure rate per year) should be used during and for 1 week after completion of treatment with 
NUBEQA to prevent pregnancy. 
Pregnancy  
Based on its mechanism of action, darolutamide may cause foetal harm. No non-clinical reproductive 
toxicity studies have been conducted (see section 5.3). 
It is not known whether darolutamide or its metabolites are present in semen. If the patient is engaged 
in sexual activity with a pregnant woman, a condom should be used during and for 1 week after 
completion of treatment with NUBEQA. Exposure of the foetus to an androgen receptor inhibitor 
through seminal transfer to the pregnant woman has to be avoided, as this could affect development of 
the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether darolutamide or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. No studies in 
animals have been conducted to evaluate the excretion of darolutamide or its metabolites into milk 
(see section 5.3). A risk to the breast-fed child cannot be excluded. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
There are no human data on the effect of darolutamide on fertility. 
Based on animal studies, NUBEQA may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
NUBEQA has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently observed adverse reactions in patients with 
- 
- 
nmCRPC receiving darolutamide are fatigue/asthenic conditions (15.8%) 
mHSPC receiving darolutamide in combination with docetaxel are rash (16.6%) and 
hypertension (13.8%). 
For additional safety information when darolutamide is administered in combination, refer to the 
product information of the individual medicinal products. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions observed in patients with nmCRPC treated with darolutamide are listed in 
Table 1. The adverse reactions observed in patients with mHSPC treated with darolutamide in 
combination with docetaxel are listed in Table 2.  
Adverse reactions are classified according to System Organ Class. They are grouped according to their 
frequencies. Frequency groups are defined by the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Within each frequency group, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions reported in the ARAMIS studya 
System organ class 
(MedDRA) 
Cardiac disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Investigationsf 
Very common 
Common 
Ischaemic heart diseaseb 
Heart failurec 
Rashd 
Pain in extremity 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Fractures 
Fatigue/asthenic conditionse 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Blood bilirubin increased 
AST increased 
The median duration of exposure was 14.8 months (range: 0.0 to 44.3 months) in patients treated with 
darolutamide and 11.0 months (range: 0.1 to 40.5 months) in patients treated with placebo. 
Includes arteriosclerosis coronary artery, coronary artery disease, coronary artery occlusion, coronary 
artery stenosis, acute coronary syndrome, acute myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, angina unstable, 
myocardial infarction, myocardial ischaemia. 
Includes cardiac failure, cardiac failure acute, cardiac failure chronic, cardiac failure congestive, 
cardiogenic shock. 
Includes rash, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash papular, rash pustular, erythema, dermatitis. 
Includes fatigue and asthenia, lethargy and malaise. 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. The incidence is based on 
values reported as laboratory abnormalities. 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported in mHSPC patients treated with darolutamide in 
combination with docetaxel in the ARASENS studya, b 
Very common 
Hypertensionc 
System organ class 
(MedDRA) 
Vascular disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  Rashd, e 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Investigationsf 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Blood bilirubin increased 
ALT increased 
AST increased 
Common 
Fractures 
Gynaecomastia 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
The median duration of exposure was 41.0 months (range: 0.1 to 56.5 months) in patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and 16.7 months (range: 0.3 to 55.8 months) in patients treated with 
placebo+docetaxel. 
Adverse reactions incidences may not be attributable to darolutamide alone but may contain contributions 
from other medicinal products used in combination. 
Includes hypertension, blood pressure increased, hypertensive emergency. 
Includes rash, drug eruption, rash erythematous, rash follicular, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash 
papular, rash pruritic, rash pustular, rash vesicular, erythema, dermatitis. 
The incidence was highest during the first 6 months of treatment. 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. The incidence is based on 
values reported as laboratory abnormalities. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatic transaminase elevations 
Cases of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury with grade 3 and 4 increases in alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to ≥ 5 and ≥ 20 x upper limit of normal 
(ULN) have been reported in darolutamide clinical studies including 1 case of increased transaminases 
along with a simultaneous increase in total bilirubin to 3 x ULN. Time to onset ranged from 1 month 
to 10.5 months after initiation of darolutamide. The ALT and AST elevations were reversible upon 
darolutamide discontinuation. For specific recommendations, see section 4.4. 
non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) 
Fatigue 
Fatigue/asthenic conditions were reported in 15.8% of patients treated with darolutamide and in 11.4% 
of patients treated with placebo. Events with worst grade of 3 were reported in 0.6% of patients treated 
with darolutamide and in 1.1% of patients treated with placebo. Fatigue (not including asthenia, 
lethargy or malaise) occurred in the majority of patients (12.1% of patients treated with darolutamide 
and 8.7% of patients treated with placebo). 
Fractures 
Fractures occurred in 4.2% of patients treated with darolutamide and in 3.6% of patients treated with 
placebo. 
Ischaemic heart disease and heart failure 
Ischaemic heart disease occurred in 3.2% of patients treated with darolutamide and in 2.5% of patients 
treated with placebo. Grade 5 events occurred in 0.3% of patients treated with darolutamide and 0.2% 
of patients treated with placebo. Heart failure occurred in 1.9% of patients treated with darolutamide 
and in 0.9% of patients treated with placebo. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 19.6% of patients treated with 
darolutamide and in 9.4% of patients treated with placebo. The median time to nadir was 256 days. 
The laboratory tests abnormalities manifested predominantly as grade 1 or 2 intensity. Neutrophil 
count decreased of grade 3 and 4 was reported in 3.5% and 0.5% of patients, respectively. Only one 
patient permanently discontinued darolutamide due to neutropenia. Neutropenia was either transient or 
reversible (88% of patients) and were not associated with any clinically relevant signs or symptoms. 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Bilirubin increased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 16.4% of patients treated with 
darolutamide and in 6.9% of patients treated with placebo. The episodes were predominantly of 
grade 1 or 2 intensity, not associated with any clinically relevant signs or symptoms, and reversible 
after darolutamide was discontinued. Bilirubin increased of grade 3 was reported in 0.1% of patients 
treated with darolutamide and in 0% of patients treated with placebo. In the darolutamide arm, the 
mean time to first onset of increased bilirubin was 153 days, and the mean duration of the first episode 
was 182 days. No patients were discontinued from treatment due to increase in bilirubin. 
AST increased 
AST increased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 22.5% of patients treated with 
darolutamide and in 13.6% of patients treated with placebo. The episodes were predominantly of 
grade 1 or 2 intensity, not associated with any clinically relevant signs or symptoms, and reversible 
after darolutamide was discontinued. AST increased of grade 3 was reported in 0.5% of patients 
treated with darolutamide and in 0.2% of patients treated with placebo. In the darolutamide arm, the 
mean time to first onset of increased AST was 258 days, and the mean duration of the first episode 
was 118 days. No patients were discontinued from treatment due to increase in AST. 
metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) 
Hypertension 
In the ARASENS study hypertension was reported in 13.8% of patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and 9.4% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. 
Grade 3 hypertension was reported in 6.4% of patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel compared 
to 3.5% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. One patient had grade 4 hypertension in each 
treatment arm.  
One case was reported as grade 5 hypertension with grade 5 arteriosclerosis in the 
darolutamide+docetaxel arm. This patient had a long-standing history of hypertension and smoking 
and the case occurred more than 3 years after starting darolutamide treatment. Events of hypertension 
were reported more commonly in patients with no medical history of hypertension in both treatment 
arms. 
Fractures 
Fractures occurred in 7.5% of patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and in 5.1% of patients 
treated with placebo+docetaxel. 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 50.6% of patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and in 45.5% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. Grade 3 and 4 
neutrophil count decreased was reported in 34.4% of patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and 
in 31.4% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. In both treatment arms, the incidences of 
neutrophil count decreased and neutropenia were highest during the first months of treatment, after 
which the incidence and severity of the events decreased. 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Bilirubin increased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 19.6% of patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and in 10.0% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. The events were 
predominantly of grade 1 or 2 intensity. Grade 3 and 4 bilirubin increased was reported in 0.5% of 
patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and in 0.3% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALT and AST increased 
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 42.3% of 
patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and in 38.0% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. 
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) increased was reported as a laboratory abnormality in 43.9% of 
patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and in 39.3% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. 
ALT and AST elevations were predominantly of grade 1 intensity. Grade 3 and 4 ALT increased was 
reported in 3.7% of patients treated with darolutamide+docetaxel and in 3.0% of patients treated with 
placebo+docetaxel. Grade 3 and 4 AST increased was reported in 3.6% of patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and in 2.3% of patients treated with placebo+docetaxel. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The highest dose of darolutamide studied clinically was 900 mg twice daily, equivalent to a total daily 
dose of 1800 mg. No dose limiting toxicities were observed with this dose. 
Considering the saturable absorption (see section 5.2) and the absence of evidence for acute toxicity, 
an intake of a higher than recommended dose of darolutamide is not expected to lead to toxicity. 
In the event of intake of a higher than recommended dose, treatment with darolutamide can be 
continued with the next dose as scheduled. 
There is no specific antidote for darolutamide and symptoms of overdose are not established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Endocrine therapy, anti-androgens; ATC code: L02BB06 
Mechanism of action 
Darolutamide is an androgen receptor (AR) inhibitor with a flexible polar-substituted pyrazole 
structure that binds with high affinity directly to the receptor ligand binding domain. 
Darolutamide competitively inhibits androgen binding, AR nuclear translocation, and AR mediated 
transcription. A major metabolite, keto-darolutamide, exhibited similar in vitro activity to 
darolutamide. Darolutamide treatment decreases prostate tumour cell proliferation leading to potent 
antitumour activity. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
No prolongation of the mean QTcF interval (i.e., greater than 10 ms) was observed after oral 
administration of 600 mg darolutamide twice daily compared to placebo. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety were established in two randomised placebo-controlled multicentre phase III 
studies in patients with nmCRPC (ARAMIS) and mHSPC (ARASENS). All patients received a 
luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue concurrently or had a bilateral orchiectomy. 
non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) 
The efficacy and safety of darolutamide was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled multicentre phase III study (ARAMIS) in patients with non-metastatic (as assessed 
by conventional imaging CT, bone scan, MRI) castration resistant prostate cancer with a 
prostate-specific antigen doubling time (PSADT) of ≤ 10 months.  
Patients were included in the trial if they had 3 rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels after the 
nadir taken at least 1 week apart during androgen deprivation therapy, PSA ≥ 2 ng/mL at screening 
and castrate level of serum testosterone < 1.7 nmol/L. 
Patients with a medical history of seizure were allowed to enter the study. There were 12 patients 
(0.21%) enrolled on the darolutamide arm with a history of seizure. 
Patients with uncontrolled hypertension or recent (in the past 6 months) stroke, myocardial infarction, 
severe/unstable angina pectoris, coronary/peripheral artery bypass graft, congestive heart failure New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV were excluded from the study. 
Patients with prior treatment with second generation AR inhibitors such as enzalutamide, apalutamide 
and darolutamide, or CYP17 enzyme inhibitors such as abiraterone acetate as well as patients 
receiving systemic corticosteroid with dose greater than the equivalent 10 mg of prednisone/day 
within 28 days before randomisation were excluded from the study. 
In total, 1509 patients were randomized 2:1 to receive either 600 mg darolutamide orally twice daily 
(n=955) or matching placebo (n=554). 
Patients with presence of pelvic lymph nodes < 2 cm in short axis below the aortic bifurcation were 
allowed to enter the study. Absence or presence of metastasis was assessed by independent central 
radiological review. Included in these analyses were 89 patients that were retrospectively identified 
with metastasis at baseline. Randomization was stratified by PSADT (≤ 6 months or > 6 months) and 
use of osteoclast-targeted therapy at study entry (yes or no). 
The following patient demographics and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment 
arms. The median age was 74 years (range 48-95) and 9% of patients were 85 years of age or older. 
The racial distribution was 79% White, 13% Asian, and 3% Black. A majority of patients had a 
Gleason score of 7 or higher at diagnosis (73%). The median PSADT was 4.5 months. Nine percent 
(9%) of patients had prior orchiectomy, 25% of patients had prior prostatectomy and 50% of patients 
had at least one prior radiotherapy. Seventy-six percent (76%) of patients received more than one prior 
anti-hormonal treatment. Patients had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status 
(ECOG PS) score of 0 (69%) or 1 (31%) at study entry. 
Treatment with darolutamide continued until radiographic disease progression as assessed by 
conventional imaging (CT, bone scan, MRI) by blinded central review, unacceptable toxicity or 
withdrawal. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was metastasis free survival (MFS). Secondary endpoints were overall 
survival (OS), time to pain progression, time to initiation of first cytotoxic chemotherapy for prostate 
cancer, and time to first symptomatic skeletal events (defined as occurrence of any of the following: 
external beam radiotherapy to relieve skeletal symptoms, new symptomatic pathologic bone fracture, 
spinal cord compression, or tumour-related orthopaedic surgical intervention). 
Treatment with darolutamide resulted in an improvement in MFS compared to placebo (see Table 3 
and Figure 1). 
MFS results were consistent across patient subgroups regardless of PSADT, prior use of 
bone-targeting agents or loco-regional disease. Additional subgroups with consistent MFS results 
included PSA at baseline, Gleason score at diagnosis, age, geographical region, ECOG PS at baseline, 
race, and number of prior hormonal therapies. 
After the primary analysis of MFS, once the study was unblinded, patients receiving placebo were 
offered treatment with open-label darolutamide (cross-over option). Among the 554 patients 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised to placebo, 170 (31%) crossed over to receive darolutamide treatment. The OS analysis 
was not adjusted for confounding effects of cross-over. 
At the time of the final analysis, treatment with darolutamide resulted in a statistically significant 
improvement in overall survival compared to placebo (median was not reached in either arm, see 
Table 3 and Figure 2). 
Treatment with darolutamide also resulted in statistically significant delays in time to pain 
progression, time to initiation of first cytotoxic chemotherapy and time to first symptomatic skeletal 
event compared to placebo (see Table 3). 
At the time of final analysis, the median duration of treatment in patients treated with darolutamide 
was 33.3 months (range: 0.0 to 74.0 months) during combined double-blind and open-label period. 
All analyses were performed in the full analysis set. 
Table 3: Efficacy results from the ARAMIS study 
Number (%) of patients with 
events 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Darolutamide 
(N=955) 
Placeboa 
(N=554) 
Darolutamide 
(N=955) 
Placeboa 
(N=554) 
221 (23.1%) 
216 (39.0%)  40.4 
(34.3, NR) 
148 (15.5%) 
106 (19.1%)  NR 
(56.1, NR) 
251 (26.3%) 
178 (32.1%)  40.3 
(33.2, 41.2) 
127 (13.3%) 
98 (17.7%)  NR 
(NR, NR) 
18.4 
(15.5, 22.3) 
NR 
(46.9, NR) 
25.4 
(19.1, 29.6) 
NR 
(NR, NR) 
29 (3.0%) 
28 (5.1%) 
NR 
(NR, NR) 
NR 
(NR, NR) 
Efficacy 
parameter 
Metastasis 
free survivalc  
Overall 
survival 
Time to pain 
progressionc, d 
Time to 
initiation of 
first cytotoxic 
chemotherapy 
Time to first 
symptomatic 
skeletal event 
Hazard Ratiob  
(95% Confidence 
Interval [CI]) 
p-value 
(two-sided) 
0.413 
(0.341, 0.500) 
<0.000001 
0.685 
(0.533, 0.881) 
0.003048 
0.647 
(0.533, 0.785) 
0.000008 
0.579 
(0.444, 0.755) 
0.000044 
0.484 
(0.287, 0.815) 
0.005294 
a 
b 
c 
d 
including 170 patients who crossed over to open-label darolutamide 
Hazard ratio < 1 favours darolutamide 
for MFS and time to pain progression, the analysis performed at the time of primary completion is 
considered as the final analysis  
Patient reported outcome as evaluated by Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form questionnaire 
NR:  Not reached. 
Treatment with darolutamide resulted in a longer progression free survival (PFS, median 36.8 vs 
14.8 months, HR=0.380, nominal p<0.000001) and time to PSA progression (median 29.5 vs 
7.2 months, HR=0.164, nominal p<0.000001). Consistency of effect was observed across all measures 
of survival (MFS, OS and PFS). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves of metastasis free survival (ARAMIS) 
Darolutamide (N = 955) 
Placebo (N = 554) 
)
%
(
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
s
i
s
a
t
s
a
t
e
M
Patients at risk 
Months from Randomisation 
Darolutamide 
Placebo 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves of overall survival (ARAMIS) 
Darolutamide (N = 955) 
Placebo (N = 554) 
)
%
(
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
Patients at risk 
Months from Randomisation 
Darolutamide 
Placebo 
Patients receiving darolutamide in the ARAMIS study (double-blind period) demonstrated a 
significantly higher confirmed PSA response rate (defined as a ≥ 50% reduction from baseline), 
compared with patients receiving placebo, 84.0% vs 7.9% (difference = 76.1%, p<0.000001 (nominal 
p-value, for information only)). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
     
metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) 
The efficacy and safety of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel was assessed in a multicentre, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III study (ARASENS) in patients with mHSPC. In total, 
1306 patients were randomised 1:1 to receive 600 mg darolutamide orally twice daily (n=651) or 
matching placebo (n=655), concomitantly with 75 mg/m2 of docetaxel for 6 cycles. Treatment with 
darolutamide or placebo continued until symptomatic progressive disease, change of antineoplastic 
therapy, unacceptable toxicity, death, or withdrawal. 
Presence of metastasis was assessed by independent central radiological review. Patients with regional 
lymph node involvement only (M0) were excluded from the study. Randomisation was stratified by 
extent of disease (non-regional lymph nodes metastases only (M1a), bone metastases with or without 
lymph node metastases (M1b) or visceral metastases with or without lymph node metastases or with or 
without bone metastases (M1c)) and by alkaline phosphatase level (< or ≥ upper limit of normal) at 
study entry. Patients with brain metastases were allowed to enter the study but there were no patients 
with brain metastasis enrolled. 
The following patient demographics and disease characteristics were balanced between treatment 
arms. The median age was 67 years (range 41-89) and 0.5% of patients were 85 years of age or older. 
The racial distribution was 52% White, 36% Asian, and 4% Black. A majority of patients had a 
Gleason score of 8 or higher at diagnosis (78%). 71% of patients had an ECOG PS score of 0 and 29% 
of patients had an ECOG PS score of 1. There were 86.1% of patients with de novo and 12.9% of 
patients with recurrent disease. At study entry 3% of patients had M1a, 79.5% had M1b and 17.5% 
had M1c; alkaline phosphatase was < ULN in 44.5% of patients and ≥ ULN in 55.5% of patients; 
median PSA level at baseline was 30.3 µg/L and 24.2 µg/L for darolutamide vs the placebo group, 
respectively. Patients with a medical history of seizure were allowed to enter the study, and 4 patients 
(0.6%) were enrolled in the darolutamide+docetaxel arm.  
77.0% of patients had high-volume disease and 23.0% had low-volume disease. High-volume disease 
was defined as presence of visceral metastases or 4 or more bone lesions, with at least 1 metastasis 
beyond the vertebral column and pelvic bones. Around 25% of patients received concomitant 
treatment with bisphosphonates or denosumab. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was overall survival (OS). Secondary endpoints were time to 
castration-resistant prostate cancer, time to pain progression, symptomatic skeletal event free survival 
(SSE-FS), time to first symptomatic skeletal event (SSE), time to initiation of subsequent 
antineoplastic therapy, time to worsening of disease-related physical symptoms, and time to initiation 
of opioid use for ≥ 7 consecutive days. Pain progression was assessed using the patient-reported 
outcome (PROs) Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF), defined as at least a 2-point worsening 
from nadir, and initiation of short- or long-acting opioid use for pain for ≥7 consecutive days. 
The median duration of treatment was 41.0 months (range: 0.1 to 56.5 months) in patients treated with 
darolutamide+docetaxel and 16.7 months (range: 0.3 to 55.8 months) in patients treated with 
placebo+docetaxel. 87.6% and 85.5% of patients received full 6 cycles of docetaxel and 1.5% and 
2.0% of patients did not receive docetaxel in darolutamide+docetaxel and placebo+docetaxel arm, 
respectively.  
14 
Table 4: Efficacy results from the ARASENS study 
Number (%) of patients 
with events 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Efficacy 
parameter 
Darolutamide 
+ docetaxel 
(N=651) 
Overall survivald  229 (35.2%) 
Placebo 
+ docetaxel 
(N=654)a 
Darolutamide 
+ docetaxel 
(N=651) 
Placebo 
+ docetaxel 
(N=654)a 
304 (46.5%)  NR 
(NR, NR) 
48.9  
(44.4, NR) 
Hazard Ratiob 
(95% Confidence 
Interval [CI]) 
p-value 
(one-sided)c 
0.675 
(0.568, 0.801) 
<0.0001 
a 
b 
c 
d 
one patient in placebo arm was excluded from all analyses 
Hazard ratio < 1 favours darolutamide 
based on stratified log-rank test 
OS results were consistent across patient subgroups, including extent of disease and alkaline phosphatase 
levels 
NR: not reached 
The following secondary efficacy endpoints showed a statistically significant advantage in favour of 
the patients in the darolutamide+docetaxel arm compared to patients in the placebo+docetaxel arm: 
time to castration-resistant prostate cancer (median NR vs 19.1 months; HR=0.357, p<0.0001); time to 
first symptomatic skeletal event (median NR vs NR months; HR=0.712, p=0.0081); time to initiation 
of subsequent antineoplastic chemotherapy (median NR vs 25.3 months; HR=0.388, p<0.0001); time 
to pain progression (median NR vs 27.5 months; HR=0.792, p=0.0058); symptomatic skeletal event 
free survival time (median 51.2 vs 39.7 months; HR=0.609, p<0.0001). 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves of overall survival (ARASENS)a 
)
%
(
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
1 - Darolutamide+docetaxel (N = 651) 
2 - Placebo+docetaxel (N = 654) 
Patients at risk 
Months from Randomization 
a 
OS rate at 36 months was 72.3% (95% CI, 68.8 to 75.8) in the darolutamide+docetaxel arm vs 63.8% 
(95% CI, 60.1 to 67.6) in the placebo+docetaxel arm. 
OS rate at 48 months was 62.7% (95% CI, 58.7 to 66.7) in the darolutamide+docetaxel arm vs 50.4% 
(95% CI, 46.3 to 54.6) in the placebo+docetaxel arm. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
darolutamide in all subsets of the paediatric population in prostate malignant neoplasms (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
General introduction 
Darolutamide consists of two diastereomers [(S,R)-darolutamide and (S,S)-darolutamide] which 
interconvert via the main circulating metabolite called keto-darolutamide. In vitro, all three substances 
show similar pharmacological activity. Darolutamide is poorly soluble in aqueous solvents over a 
large pH range and generally more soluble in organic solvents. 
Absorption 
Following oral administration of 600 mg (2 tablets of 300 mg) twice daily, peak plasma concentrations 
of darolutamide at steady state were 4.79 mg/L (coefficient of variation: 30.9%) in nmCRPC patients 
in the ARAMIS study and 3.84 mg/L (coefficient of variation: 35.6%) in mHSPC patients in the 
ARASENS study. Median time to achieve peak plasma concentrations was 3 to 4 hours. The ratio of 
the two diastereomers, (S,R)-darolutamide to (S,S)-darolutamide, changed from a 1:1 ratio in the tablet 
to an approximately 1:9 ratio in plasma based on AUC0-12 data at steady-state. Following oral 
administration together with food, steady-state is reached after 2-5 days of repeated twice-daily 
dosing. 
The absolute bioavailability compared to an intravenous injection is approximately 30% following oral 
administration of a NUBEQA tablet containing 300 mg darolutamide under fasted conditions. 
Bioavailability of darolutamide was enhanced by 2.0- to 2.5-fold when administered with food. A 
similar increase of exposure was observed for the major metabolite keto-darolutamide.  
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution of darolutamide after intravenous administration is 119 L 
indicating that darolutamide is widely distributed throughout the body to both intracellular and 
extracellular fluid spaces. 
Darolutamide is moderately (92%) bound to human plasma proteins without any difference between 
the two diastereomers. The major metabolite of darolutamide, keto-darolutamide, is highly (99.8%) 
bound to plasma proteins.  
Passage of darolutamide across the blood-brain barrier has not been studied clinically. However, brain 
exposures to darolutamide in terms of AUC0-24 are very low with 4.5% of plasma exposure after single 
dose in rats and 1.9-3.9% after repeated dose in mice. This indicates low passage of darolutamide 
across the intact blood-brain barrier in rats and mice and a low likelihood that darolutamide crosses the 
intact blood-brain barrier in humans to a clinically relevant extent. 
Biotransformation 
The diastereomers (S,R)-darolutamide and (S,S)-darolutamide are able to interconvert via the 
metabolite keto-darolutamide with a preference for (S,S)-darolutamide.  
Following single oral administration of 300 mg14 C-darolutamide given as an oral solution, 
keto-darolutamide is the only major metabolite with about 2-fold higher total exposure in plasma 
compared to darolutamide. Darolutamide and keto-darolutamide accounted together for 87.4% of 
the 14 C-radioactivity in plasma indicating that all other metabolites are of minor importance.  
Darolutamide is metabolised primarily by oxidative metabolism mediated mainly by CYP3A4, as well 
as by direct glucuronidation mediated preferentially by UGT1A9 and UGT1A1. In addition, mainly 
the AKR1C isoforms were shown to catalyse the reduction of keto-darolutamide to the substance 
diastereomers. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
The effective half-life of darolutamide and keto-darolutamide in plasma of patients is approximately 
18 to 20 hours. Of the two diastereomers comprising darolutamide, (S,R)-darolutamide has a shorter 
effective half-life of 9 hours compared to (S,S)-darolutamide with an effective half-life of 22 hours. 
The clearance of darolutamide following intravenous administration was 116 mL/min (CV: 39.7%). A 
total of 63.4% of substance-related material is excreted in the urine (approximately 7% unchanged), 
32.4% is excreted in the faeces. More than 95% of the dose was recovered within 7 days after 
administration. 
Linearity / Non-linearity 
In the dose range of 100 to 700 mg (after single dose and at steady state), the exposure to the two 
diastereomers and the major metabolite keto-darolutamide increases linearly in a nearly dose-related 
manner. Based on a saturated absorption, no further increase in exposure to darolutamide was 
observed at 900 mg twice daily.  
Special populations 
Elderly 
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide were observed 
(65-95 years). 
Renal impairment 
In a clinical pharmacokinetic study, AUC and Cmax for darolutamide were 2.5 and 1.6-fold higher in 
patients with severe renal impairment (estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate [eGFR] 15 to 
29 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared to healthy volunteers. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates a 1.1-, 1.3- and an approximately 1.5-fold higher 
exposure (AUC) of darolutamide in patients with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment (eGFR 
15 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared to patients with normal renal function. 
The pharmacokinetics of darolutamide has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease 
receiving dialysis (eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73 m2). 
Hepatic impairment 
In a clinical pharmacokinetic study, Cmax and AUC for darolutamide were 1.5 and 1.9-fold higher in 
patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) compared to healthy volunteers. There are 
no data for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). 
Ethnic differences 
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide were observed based on 
ethnicity (White, Japanese, non-Japanese Asian, Black or African American). A population 
pharmacokinetic analysis indicated a geometric mean increase in exposure (AUC) of up to 1.56-fold 
(90% CI: 1.43 to 1.70) in Japanese patients compared to patients from all other regions in both the 
ARAMIS and ARASENS studies. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Systemic toxicity 
In repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, the main findings were changes in the male 
reproductive organs (decreases in organ weight with atrophy of the prostate and epididymides). These 
effects occurred at systemic exposures in the range of or below the anticipated human exposure (based 
on AUC comparison). Additional changes to reproductive tissues included minimal increase in 
vacuolation of the pituitary gland, atrophy and secretory reduction in seminal vesicles and mammary 
glands in rats as well as testicular hypospermia, seminiferous tubule dilatation and degeneration in 
dogs. Changes in the male reproductive organs in both species were consistent with the 
pharmacological activity of darolutamide and reversed or partially resolved after 4- to 8-week 
recovery periods. 
Embryotoxicity / teratogenicity 
Studies on developmental toxicity have not been performed. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Studies on reproductive toxicity have not been performed. However, male fertility is likely to be 
impaired based on the findings in repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs, which are consistent 
with the pharmacological activity of darolutamide. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity  
Darolutamide did not induce mutations in the microbial mutagenesis (Ames) assay. At high 
concentrations, darolutamide did induce structural chromosome aberrations in vitro in cultured human 
lymphocytes. However, in the in vivo combined bone marrow micronucleus test and the Comet assay 
in the liver and duodenum of the rat, no genotoxicity was observed at exposures in excess of the 
maximum human exposure.  
Oral administration of darolutamide to male rasH2 transgenic mice for 6 months did not show 
carcinogenic potential at doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day, which is 0.9-1.3 times for darolutamide and 
2.1-2.3 times for keto-darolutamide the clinical exposure (AUC) at the recommended clinical daily 
dose of 1200 mg/day. Based on this study carcinogenic risk of darolutamide cannot be completely 
excluded. 
Safety pharmacology 
In vitro, darolutamide weakly inhibited the hERG potassium current and the L-type calcium channel. 
In vivo, in anaesthetised dogs, darolutamide slightly decreased the QT interval duration, but this effect 
was not found in conscious dogs. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Calcium hydrogen phosphate (E 341) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate (E 470b) 
Povidone (E 1201) 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose 
Lactose monohydrate 
Macrogol (E 1521) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
PVC/Aluminium foil blisters containing 16 film-coated tablets. 
Each pack contains 96 or 112 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG  
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1432/001 
EU/1/20/1432/002 
112 film-coated tablets 
96 film-coated tablets 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27 March 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Orion Corporation, Orion Pharma 
24100 Salo 
Finland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
NUBEQA 300 mg film-coated tablets 
darolutamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darolutamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. Read the package leaflet before use. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
96 film-coated tablets 
112 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1432/001 
EU/1/20/1432/002 
112 film-coated tablets 
96 film-coated tablets 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
NUBEQA 300 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
NUBEQA 300 mg tablets  
darolutamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
NUBEQA 300 mg film-coated tablets 
darolutamide 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What NUBEQA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take NUBEQA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take NUBEQA 
Possible side effects 
How to store NUBEQA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What NUBEQA is and what it is used for 
NUBEQA contains the active substance darolutamide.  
It is used to treat adult men with prostate cancer that: 
- 
has not spread to other parts of the body and no longer responds to medical or surgical treatment 
that lowers testosterone (also called non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer) 
has spread to other parts of the body and responds to medical or surgical treatment that lowers 
testosterone (also called metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer). 
- 
How NUBEQA works 
NUBEQA blocks the activity of male sex hormones called androgens, such as testosterone. By blocking 
these hormones, darolutamide stops prostate cancer cells from growing and dividing. 
2.  What you need to know before you take NUBEQA 
Do not take NUBEQA if 
- 
you are allergic to darolutamide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
you are a woman who is or may become pregnant. 
- 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking NUBEQA if 
- 
- 
- 
you have problems with your kidneys 
you have problems with your liver 
you have any heart conditions including heart rhythm problems or if you are using medicines 
for these conditions 
you had a surgery to treat blood vessel conditions. 
- 
Taking this medicine may affect your liver tests. If your blood tests show abnormal results of your 
liver function, your doctor may decide to stop treatment permanently. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine is not for use in children and adolescents under 18 years. Prostate cancer does not occur 
in this age group. 
Other medicines and NUBEQA 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
The following medicines may influence the effect of NUBEQA, or NUBEQA may influence the effect 
of these medicines to treat: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
bacterial infections, such as rifampicin 
epilepsy, such as carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin 
symptoms of slightly low mood and mild anxiety: St. John's wort (a herbal medicine) 
high cholesterol, such as rosuvastatin, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, pitavastatin 
severe joint inflammation, severe cases of the skin disease psoriasis, and cancers: methotrexate 
inflammatory bowel diseases: sulfasalazine 
Your doctor may therefore change the dose of the medicines that you are taking. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
NUBEQA is not for use in women. 
This medicine could possibly have an effect on male fertility. 
Follow these advices during and for 1 week after stopping: 
- 
use a highly effective method of contraception to prevent pregnancy, if you are having sex with 
a woman who can become pregnant. 
use a condom to protect the unborn baby, if you are having sex with a pregnant woman. 
- 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
NUBEQA contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take NUBEQA 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is 
2 tablets 2 times daily 
Your doctor may reduce your dose to 1 tablet 2 times daily, if you have problems with your liver or 
kidneys. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of use 
Swallow the tablets whole, take them with food and a glass of water. 
Your doctor may also prescribe other medicines while you are taking NUBEQA. 
If you take more NUBEQA than you should 
Continue the treatment with the next dose as scheduled. 
If you forget to take NUBEQA 
Take your missed dose as soon as you remember before the next scheduled dose. Do not take a double 
dose to make up for 1 or more forgotten tablets. 
If you stop taking NUBEQA 
Do not stop taking this medicine unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects of NUBEQA occur with the following frequencies: 
In patients with non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
tiredness 
blood tests showing reduced number of a white blood cell type called neutrophils 
blood tests showing increased levels of substances produced by the liver: bilirubin, aspartate 
transaminase 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blockage of the arteries in the heart 
heart failure 
rash 
pain in arms and legs 
pain in muscles and bones 
broken bones 
In patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
high blood pressure 
rash 
blood tests showing reduced number of a white blood cell type called neutrophils 
blood tests showing increased levels of substances produced by the liver: bilirubin, alanine 
transaminase and aspartate transaminase 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
broken bones 
breast enlargement in men 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store NUBEQA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What NUBEQA contains 
The active substance is darolutamide. Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darolutamide. 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
calcium hydrogen phosphate (E 341) 
croscarmellose sodium 
hypromellose 
lactose monohydrate 
macrogol (E 1521) 
magnesium stearate (E 470b) 
povidone (E 1201) 
titanium dioxide (E 171) 
See “NUBEQA contains lactose” in section 2 for more information. 
What NUBEQA looks like and contents of the pack 
The film-coated tablets (tablets) are white to off-white, oval with a length of 16 mm and a width of 
8 mm. They are marked with “300” on one side, and “BAYER” on the other side. 
Each carton contains: 
- 
- 
96 film-coated tablets consisting of 6 blisters or 
112 film-coated tablets consisting of 7 blisters 
Each blister contains 16 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Orion Corporation, Orion Pharma 
24100 Salo 
Finland 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-5356311 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Tел.: +359 (0)2 424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 23 50 00 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)214-30 513 48 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372 655 8565 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ: +30 210-618 75 00 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: +385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 397 81 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Tηλ: +357 22 48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371 67 84 55 63 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel. +37 05 23 36 868 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel:+36 14 87-41 00 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +35 621 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47 24 11 18 00 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 46-0 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z.o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer s.r.l. 
Tel: +40 21 529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386 1 58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer spol. s r.o. 
Tel. +421 2 59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 785 21 
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46 (0) 8 580 223 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0)118 206 3000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
