Summary of risk management plan for Nucala (mepolizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Nucala. The RMP details important 
risks of Nucala, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Nucala 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Nucala's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Nucala should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Nucala should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Nucala's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Nucala is authorised as an add-on treatment for severe refractory eosinophilic asthma in adult, 
adolescents and children aged 6 years and older. 
Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for patients aged 6 years and older with relapsing-
remitting or refractory eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). 
Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for adult patients with inadequately controlled 
hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) without an identifiable non-haematologic secondary cause. 
Nucala is indicated as an as add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids for the treatment of 
adult patients with severe chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) for whom 
therapy with systemic corticosteroids and/or surgery do not provide adequate disease control. 
See SmPC for further indication information, dose and method of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Nucala’s benefits can be found in Nucala’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/003860/hu
man_med_001933.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of Nucala, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Nucala's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment -so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Nucala is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Nucala are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Nucala. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Systemic Reactions including anaphylaxis 
Important potential risks 
Alterations in immune response (malignancies) 
Alterations in cardiovascular safety 
Missing information 
Limited data in pregnant and lactating patients 
Safety of mepolizumab in children with EGPA 
Safety of mepolizumab in patients with organ- or life-
threatening EGPA 
II.B
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Systemic Reactions including anaphylaxis 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
There have been reports of systemic reactions including anaphylaxis in patients 
who received mepolizumab.  Allergic reactions (including swelling of the face, 
lips, mouth or tongue; wheezing, difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath; 
low blood pressure with fainting, dizziness or light headedness; rash; and itchy 
raised bumps or hives) have been reported in clinical trials with mepolizumab 
but these reactions have also been reported in people who got an injection of 
placebo. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups or risk factors were identified during clinical trials in the severe 
asthma, EGPA, HES and nasal polyps population.   
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The SmPC includes appropriate information in Section 4.4 (Special Warnings 
and Precautions) and Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects). 
Equivalent wording is included in the patient leaflet Section 2 and Section 4. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risk: Alterations in immune response (malignancies) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Certain white blood cell types have been implicated in tumor immune 
surveillance and the body’s ability to fight cancer. The role of eosinophils in 
this process is unclear. However, since mepolizumab lowers eosinophils, 
which are a component of innate immunity, cancer is of potential concern 
in patients taking mepolizumab.  The frequency of cancer was monitored in 
clinical studies with mepolizumab and to date was similar between the 
patients who received mepolizumab and those who received placebo. The 
types of cancer were similar to those occurring in general population. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups or risk factors were identified during clinical trials in the 
severe asthma EGPA, HES and nasal polyps population. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risk: Alterations in cardiovascular safety 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Effects on the heart and blood vessels were monitored during the studies 
with mepolizumab.  Overall, the effects on the heart and blood vessels 
were similar between patients receiving mepolizumab and those who 
received placebo.  In one dose-ranging study in patients with severe 
asthma, effects on the heart occurred more often in patients receiving 
mepolizumab than those who received placebo.  The finding from this 
study was not seen in other studies in patients with severe asthma, EGPA, 
HES or  nasal polyps. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups or risk factors were identified during clinical trials in the 
severe asthma EGPA, HES and nasal polyps population. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No risk minimisation measures 
Missing information: Limited data in pregnant and lactating patients 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The SmPC Section 4.6, Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation, of the SmPC 
advises prescribers on the non-clinical reproductive toxicity data available 
on NUCALA. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
The Mepolizumab Pregnancy Exposure Study (200870): a VAMPSS post 
marketing surveillance study of Mepolizumab safety in pregnancy 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Missing information: Safety of mepolizumab in children with EGPA 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2, Posology and method of administration, advises 
prescribers on the dose of mepolizumab for children.  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
A post-marketing study is proposed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
mepolizumab in children aged 6 – 17 years with EGPA. 
Missing information: Safety of mepolizumab in patients with organ- or life-threatening EGPA 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 Warnings and Precautions, and Section 5.1 
Pharmacodymanic properties, advises prescribers on the exclusion of 
patients with organ-threatening or life-threatening EGPA from the study. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
II.C
II.C.1
Post-authorisation development plan  
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Nucala.  
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study 200870 (a VAMPSS post marketing surveillance study of Mepolizumab safety in 
pregnancy) 
Cessation of enrolment to the Mepolizumab Pregnancy Exposure Study, with final 
closure of study in 2024. See Part III.2 for the rationale for cessation of enrolment to study 
200870, and Part III.1 for continued monitoring of pregnancies and outcomes via routine 
pharmacovigilance with enhanced data collection. The final report for study 200870 will be 
available in 2024 as indicated in this RMP (see Part III.3), and this will mark the closure of the 
study. 
EGPA paediatric post-marketing study 
A post-marketing study is proposed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of mepolizumab in 
children aged 6 – 17 years with EGPA. The protocol will be developed and submitted to PRAC 
within 3 months of European Commission decision for procedure EMEA/H/C/3860/II/36_G. 
