EMA/669922/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005378 
Nulibry (fosdenopterin) 
An overview of Nulibry and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nulibry and what is it used for? 
Nulibry is a medicine used to treat patients  with molybdenum cofactor deficiency (MoCD) type A. 
MoCD type A is an inherited disease where patients  do not have enough of a substance called 
'molybdenum cofactor', a molecule needed for the production of certain enzymes. Without  these 
enzymes, the toxic chemical sulfite  builds up in the brain causing brain damage. 
In the 'type A' form of the disease, the absence of molybdenum cofactor is due to patients  lacking a 
substance called 'cyclic pyranopterin monophosphate (cPMP)’,  which the body needs to make 
molybdenum cofactor. 
MoCD type A is rare, and Nulibry was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in  rare 
diseases) on 20 September 2010.  Further information on the orphan designation can be found here. 
Nulibry contains the active substance fosdenopterin. 
How is Nulibry used? 
Nulibry can only be obtained with  a prescription. Treatment with  Nulibry should be started and 
supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in managing hereditary metabolic disorders. 
Nulibry is given as an infusion (drip) into  a vein once a day. The recommended dose is 0.90  mg per 
kilogram body weight. For patients  less than one year of age a lower starting  dose and titration 
schedule are recommended. The starting dose and titration  schedule depend on the  gestational age at 
birth. Treatment needs to be continued for life if the condition  is confirmed by genetic testing. 
For more information about using Nulibry,  see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nulibry work? 
The active substance in Nulibry, fosdenopterin, is a synthetic  form of cPMP. As patients  with MoCD type 
A do not  have enough cPMP the medicine works by replacing this substance. The body then uses this 
substance to produce molybdenum cofactor, allowing it  to start producing molybdenum-dependent 
enzymes and reducing the  levels of sulfite  in the brain. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Nulibry have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Nulibry were studied in five main studies involving a total of 52 patients  with MoCD 
type A. The studies looked at the  effect of Nulibry on survival after one year of treatment. The results 
in the 15  patients treated with Nulibry were compared with  historical data from two studies involving 
37 patients  who did not receive Nulibry or any other treatment. After one year, around 93% of patients 
using Nulibry were alive compared with  around 75%  of those who received no treatment. The studies 
also indicated  that early treatment with  Nulibry (i.e. before patients  develop major brain damage) 
preserves the ability to  take food by mouth,  and improves growth and development of motor 
(movement) and cognitive (mental) functions. 
What are the risks associated with Nulibry? 
The most common side effects with  Nulibry (which  may affect more than 1 in 10  people) are 
complications associated with  the catheter (tube) delivering the medicine. 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Nulibry, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nulibry authorised in the EU? 
Because MoCD type A is a very rare disease, the studies  were small, but Nulibry was shown to be 
effective at improving survival of patients  with  MoCD type A. The studies also indicate that  early 
treatment with  Nulibry improves the quality of life of patients and delays disease progression. The side 
effects seen to date are considered manageable. Given the seriousness of the condition and the lack of 
existing treatments, the European Medicines Agency decided that  Nulibry’s benefits are greater than its 
risk and it  can be authorised for use in the EU.   
Nulibry has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it  has not  been possible 
to obtain complete information about Nulibry due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the Agency 
will review any new information that  becomes available and this  overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Nulibry? 
Since Nulibry  has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that  markets Nulibry 
will provide yearly updates on any new information concerning the safety and efficacy of Nulibry. In 
addition the company will conduct and submit the  results of a study of patients with  MoCD type A 
treated with  Nulibry in clinical practice to further characterise the long-term safety and efficacy of the 
medicine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nulibry? 
The company that  markets Nulibry will provide educational material to  all healthcare professionals 
expected to prescribe Nulibry, which  should be shared with  patients  or caregivers expected to use 
Nulibry in the  home setting.  The material will include instructions  on how to use the medicine and an 
infusion diary.  
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Nulibry have also been included in  the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Nulibry (fosdenopterin)  
EMA/669922/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nulibry are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Nulibry are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nulibry 
Nulibry received a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances valid throughout the  EU on 
15 September 2022. 
Further information on Nulibry can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nulibry.  
This overview was last updated in  09-2022. 
Nulibry (fosdenopterin)  
EMA/669922/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
