EMA/439578/2023 Rev.51,2 
Update of 29 September 2023: 
The shortage affecting Nulojix has been resolved and the below information and recommendations 
which were issued during the shortage no longer apply. 
17 January 2022 
Shortage of Nulojix (belatacept) 
solution for infusion  
Indication 
Nulojix is used in adults to prevent the body from rejecting a 
transplanted kidney. 
Reason for shortage  
Since March 2017 supply of Nulojix has been disrupted due to 
an inability to produce as much medicine as required to meet 
current demands while the company changes its manufacturing 
process. The transition to the new manufacturing process is 
ongoing and some restrictions will remain in place until the third 
quarter of 2022. 
Member States affected3 
The shortage affects most countries where Nulojix is marketed. 
Information for healthcare 
professionals  
In the EU these are: Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, 
Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, Norway, 
Spain and Sweden. 
•  A letter from the marketing authorisation holder, Bristol-
Myers Squibb, has been sent to healthcare professionals in 
the affected countries to inform them that the shortage will 
last longer than expected (until third quarter of 2022) and 
that the measures previously agreed should continue to be 
followed.  
•  New patients can be started on Nulojix but only if enough 
supplies are available. Therefore, before a new patient is 
started on Nulojix, a member of the transplant team should 
contact the marketing authorisation holder, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, to confirm that adequate supplies are available.  
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority and from the marketing authorisation 
1 Information has been revised following a DHPC informing healthcare professionals that the shortage will last 
longer than previously anticipated. 
2  The box announcing the resolution of the shortage has been added (29 September 2023) 
3 This information may change. For up-to-date information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, contact the national competent authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Nulojix (belatacept) 
solution for infusion  
holder. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) 
informing about the new timelines has been sent to relevant 
HCPs and is also available on the EMA website. 
Information for patients  
•  Nulojix remains in short supply. The shortage is expected to 
last until the third quarter of 2022.  
•  New patients can be started on Nulojix, but only if enough 
supplies are available.  
• 
• 
If you are due to start treatment with Nulojix a member of 
the transplant team will contact the manufacturer to confirm 
that adequate supplies are available. 
Patients who have any questions should speak to their 
doctor or pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Nulojix (belatacept)  
EMA/439578/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
