Assessment report 
NULOJIX 
International Nonproprietary Name: Belatacept 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2098 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 12 
Methods of analysis ................................................................................................ 17 
Absorption............................................................................................................. 18 
Distribution............................................................................................................ 18 
Metabolism ............................................................................................................ 18 
Excretion............................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions............................................................................. 18 
Single dose toxicity................................................................................................. 19 
Repeat-dose toxicity ............................................................................................... 19 
Genotoxicity .......................................................................................................... 22 
Carcinogenicity....................................................................................................... 22 
Local tolerance ....................................................................................................... 23 
Other toxicity studies .............................................................................................. 24 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 29 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 38 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 63 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 76 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 81 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 85 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 2/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
adverse drug reaction 
acute rejection 
ADR  
AR  
AUC                            area under the concentration-time curve (over one dosing interval) 
BMS  
CAN  
CIT  
CKD  
Cmax 
Cmin 
CMV  
CNI  
CRF  
CsA 
CTS  
CV 
CYP450  
DGF  
DMC  
EBV  
ECD  
ESRD    
GFR  
HDL  
HLA  
IL  
ITT  
LDL  
LDT  
LI  
MDRD    
MedDRA  
MI  
MMF  
MPA  
NKF  
NODM    
PMA 
PML 
PRA 
PTLD  
SCD  
SCr  
SD  
SRL 
TB  
UNOS    
USRDS   
UTI  
Bristol-Myers Squibb 
chronic allograft nephropathy 
cold ischemia time 
chronic kidney disease 
 maximum concentration 
 trough serum concentration 
cytomegalovirus 
calcineurin inhibitor 
case report form 
 cyclosporine A 
Collaborative Transplant Study 
cardiovascular 
cytochrome P450 
delayed graft function 
Data Monitoring Committee 
Epstein Barr virus 
extended criteria donor 
end-stage renal disease 
glomerular filtration rate 
high density lipoprotein 
human leukocyte antigen 
Interleukin 
intent-to-treat 
low density lipoprotein 
lymphocyte depleting therapy 
less intensive (belatacept regimen) 
Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (i e Levey formula) 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
more intensive (belatacept regimen) 
mycophenolate mofetil 
mycophenolic acid 
National Kidney Foundation 
new onset diabetes mellitus 
phorbol myristate acetate 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
panel reactive antibodies 
post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder 
standard criteria donors 
serum creatinine 
standard deviation 
sirolimus 
tuberculosis 
United Network of Organ Sharing 
United States Renal Data System 
urinary tract infection 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 3/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG submitted on 03 February 2010 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for NULOJIX, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 April 2009. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: prophylaxis of graft failure and dysfunction in adult 
patients receiving a renal transplant. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/99/2008 for the following condition:  
  Renal transplantation 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) with a deferral. 
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 18 February 2005. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 4/85
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur: Dr. Tomas Salmonson (SE) 
Co-Rapporteur: Dr. Romaldas Mačiulaitis (LT) 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 03 February 2010. 
The procedure started on 24 February 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 May 2010. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 May 2010.  
  During the meeting in June 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 24 June 
2010. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 14 December 
2010. 
 
The summary reports of the GMP inspection carried out at the following sites: BioReliance 
Corporation, 9900 Blackwell Road, Rockville, Maryland – USA, Bioreliance Corporation - 9630 
Medical Center Drive - Rockville, Maryland – USA; Bioreliance Corporation, 14920 Broschart Road, 
Rockville, MD, USA between 20th – 24th September 2010; and C Beckman Coulter Genomics100 
Perimeter Park Drive 27560 Morrisville, NC USA between 30th September – 1st October 2010 were 
issued on 21 January 2011 and 14 January 2011 respectively. 
  A GCP inspection was carried out at two investigator sites in Argentina (20-24 September 2010 
and 27-30 September 2010) in relation to the conduct of the two trials IM103008 and IM 103027. 
The final integrated inspection report was issued on 25 October 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  28 January 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 14-17 February 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 14 March 2011. 
  During the meeting in April 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Nulojix on 14 April 2011. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 13 April 2011. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
End stage renal disease (ESRD) is a global health issue with an incidence that is growing at an annual 
rate of 8%, outpacing the annual population growth rate of 1.3%. Renal transplantation is the 
preferred treatment for ESRD because it confers improved survival and quality of life over dialysis. 
After transplantation, recipients require lifelong immunosuppression to suppress the alloimmune 
response and maintain a functioning graft. Therapeutic advances, such as the calcineurin inhibitors, 
CNI, (ciclosporin, CsA, and tacrolimus) are the current mainstays of immunosuppressive therapy. 
Current immunosuppressive regimens yield 1-year graft survival rates of 90% for deceased-donor 
grafts and 95% for living-donor grafts. However, the reductions in acute rejection (AR) rates and 
improvements in short-term survival have not led to commensurate improvements in longer term 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 5/85
 
 
 
 
patient and graft survival, which remain suboptimal. For example, 5-year patient survival with a 
functioning graft is 68% and 77% for recipients of deceased donor transplants, and 80% and 86% for 
recipients of living donor transplants, in the United States and Europe, respectively.  
Despite their favourable impact on short-term outcomes, the CNIs may contribute to poor long-term 
outcomes due to their associated renal, cardiovascular, and metabolic toxicities. The nephrotoxicity of 
CNIs is of particular concern because post-transplantation renal function has emerged as the strongest 
predictor of graft survival, cardiovascular events, and subject survival. Much research has focused on 
developing strategies to avoid or minimise CNIs to improve post-transplant renal function and, 
ultimately, longer term outcomes. Long-term transplant outcomes and the risk associated with CNIs 
are of growing importance due to the increasing reliance on higher risk extended criteria donor (ECD) 
kidneys to satisfy the critical shortage of organs for patients on the kidney transplant waiting list.  
Therefore, an unmet medical need exists for new therapeutic agents that can provide short-term 
outcomes comparable to the CNIs, while preserving renal function over time and avoiding their off 
target cardiovascular and metabolic toxicities, thus supporting improved longer term graft and subject 
survival after renal transplantation of both standard criteria donor (SCD) and ECD kidneys. Belatacept 
has been developed as a new therapeutic option to address this unmet medical need. 
About the product 
Belatacept is a recombinant soluble fusion protein consisting of the extracellular domain of human 
CTLA-4 and a fragment (hinge–CH2–CH3 domains) of a modified Fc domain of human IgG1. Belatacept 
targets the blockade of CD28:CD80/CD86 interactions, key costimulatory signals required for T cell 
activation. T cells require at least 2 signals for full activation. The first signal needed for T cell 
activation is delivered by the T cell receptor and the second via costimulatory molecules. The 
interaction between CD28 and CD80 and/or CD86 is the most important costimulatory signal for the 
initial activation of naive T cells. Activated T cells are the most important immune mediators of 
allograft rejection. 
The initially proposed indication reads as follows: “NULOJIX, in combination with corticosteroids and a 
mycophenolic acid, is indicated for prophylaxis of graft failure and dysfunction in adults receiving a 
renal transplant. It is recommended to add an interleukin (IL)-2 receptor antagonist for induction 
therapy to this belatacept-based regimen.” The finally approved indication is as follows: “Nulojix, in 
combination with corticosteroids and a mycophenolic acid (MPA), is indicated for prophylaxis of graft 
rejection in adults receiving a renal transplant (see section 5.1 for data on renal function). It is 
recommended to add an interleukin (IL)-2 receptor antagonist for induction therapy to this belatacept-
based regimen”. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 6/85
 
 
 
 
The dosing regimen is the following: 
Dose of belatacept for renal transplant recipients 
Dose for Initial Phase 
Day of transplantation, prior to implantation (Day 1) 
Day 5, Day 14 and Day 28  
End of Week 8 and Week 12 after transplantation 
Dose for Maintenance Phase 
Dose 
10 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg 
10 mg/kg 
Dose 
Every 4 weeks (± 3 days), starting at the end of week 16 after transplantation 
5 mg/kg 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This application has been submitted as complete and independent application according to Article 8.3 
of Directive 2001/83/EC meaning that it includes complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data 
based on applicants’ own tests and studies and bibliographic literature supporting certain tests or 
studies. 
The CHMP guideline on the clinical investigation of immunosuppressants for solid organ transplantation 
(CHMP/EWP/263148/06) is relevant for this application. EMA/CHMP Scientific advice was received on 
17 February 2005 for belatacept on clinical and nonclinical aspects of the development programme. 
A Paediatric Investigation Programme was agreed for the condition “Renal transplantation”, which is 
not yet complete. This includes a paediatric development in paediatric population from two years to 
less than 18 years; a deferral for initiation and completion of some or all of the studies was agreed. In 
terms of clinical studies, this plan includes a multicenter, multiple-dose, PK/conversion study in stable 
renal transplant adolescents, as well as an efficacy and safety study in de novo renal transplant 
recipients. For paediatric patients below the age of two years a waiver was agreed.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Belatacept is a genetically engineered fusion protein which consists of the functional binding domain of 
modified human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and the Fc domain of human monoclonal 
immunoglobulin of the IgG1 subclass. It is produced by cell culture using a Chinese hamster ovary 
(CHO) mammalian cell expression system. 
Belatacept has been used in combination with an interleukin-2 receptor antagonist, a mycophenolic 
acid, and corticosteroids.  
The immunomodulatory biological activity of belatacept is based on its direct binding to B7-1 and B7-2 
(CD80 and CD86, respectively) expressed on antigen presenting cells which then results in selectively 
blocking full activation (co-stimulation) and proliferation of T-lymphocytes.  
The drug product, belatacept 250 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, is a sterile, 
single use, non-pyrogenic lyophile for intravenous (IV) administration. The proposed dosing regimen of 
belatacept is 10 mg/kg intravenously, on Day 1 (day of transplant) and Day 5, then every other week 
for 2 weeks (end of Weeks 2 and 4), then every 4 weeks for 2 months, and then at 5 mg/kg monthly 
thereafter.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 7/85
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Belatacept is a genetically engineered fusion protein which consists of the functional binding domain of 
modified human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and the Fc domain of human monoclonal 
immunoglobulin of the IgG1 subclass. It is produced by cell culture using a Chinese hamster ovary 
(CHO) mammalian cell expression system. 
Manufacture 
Belatacept is produced at the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company facilities located in East Syracuse, New 
York, USA. Belatacept is produced by large-scale cell culture using a genetically engineered Chinese 
hamster ovary (CHO) cell line and is purified from the clarified (cell-free) harvest material using 
standard chromatography and filtration steps. 
The manufacturing process is initiated with the thaw of a manufacturer’s working cell bank (MWCB) 
vial. The cell culture is expanded using a series of flask and seed bioreactor steps, until reaching 
sufficient density for inoculation into the production bioreactor. The cell culture from the bioreactor 
content is harvested and clarified in preparation for downstream processing.   
Belatacept is purified using a series of chromatographic and filtration steps. The downstream 
belatacept manufacturing process includes chromatography steps like affinity chromatography step, an 
anion exchange chromatography step and a hydrophobic interaction chromatography step etc. The 
downstream processing steps also include a viral inactivation step and a viral filtration step to clear 
potential adventitious viral agents.  
Process controls 
In the Day 150 Assessment Report, there were still a number of main deficiencies noted in the 
documentation supporting the proposed system for in-process controls. The provided documentation 
did not fully justify the classification of critical and non-critical process parameters and the proposed 
process operation ranges. Of particular concern was the operation control of the downstream 
chromatography steps because indications of variability for CQAs over the currently defined operation 
range for both critical and non-critical process parameters. Furthermore, there were indications that 
the IEF method could not reliably resolve product variants for quantification in the more basic pI 
region, as within this pI region, variability in charge forms was noted.  
Within the responses provided by the applicant, an acceptable review of the IPC system has been 
provided. The limits for operation control have been tightened in order to reduce variability in the 
bioreactor and the three chromatography steps.  
In addition, acceptable documentation has been provided supporting that IEF has capacity to resolve 
for enumeration/quantification of different charge forms of belatacep over the pI range required to 
control consistency in production. 
Drug Substance Characterisation 
Belatacept consists of two polypeptide chains with 357 amino acids and exists as covalent homodimer 
(referred to as belatacept “monomer”) linked through an inter-chain disulfide bond. Belatacept 
contains both N-linked and O-linked oligosaccharides and the glycosylated molecule have an average 
molecular weight of 90,619 daltons. 
The coding sequences for belatacept are closely similar to the sequences encoding abatacept, the 
active ingredient in Orencia (EMEA/H/C/701). The cDNA fragment coding for LEA29Y was generated 
during the mutagenesis of CTLA-4 Ig (abatacept) to identify high-avidity molecules with slower rates of 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 8/85
 
 
 
 
dissociation from B7 ligands. An acceptable overview is provided on the construction of the expression 
vector and development of the production cell line. 
In the process of establishment, the cell line was then adapted to a chemically defined, animal-
component free medium. No animal derived raw materials are used in production. Overall, the cell 
banks are acceptably characterized. Some further information is however required on the control of 
new working cell banks. 
Satisfactory studies, using state-of-the-art techniques, are reported for characterisation of general 
structure, covering the full amino acid sequence, average molecular weight, mapping of N- and C-
terminal sequences, carbohydrate profile, intra- and inter-chain disulphide bonds, secondary structure 
and biological activity. 
The weak point in the documentation is the characterisation of the key degradation pathways 
(oxidation, deamidation and formation of charge forms) where further studies were required. 
Additional studies addressing the degradation of product have been provided; thereby the 
characterisation of the product is considered acceptable. 
Specification 
The drug substance specification includes tests and acceptance criteria for appearance, identity 
(capillary electrophoresis), purity (peptide mapping, IEF, SDS-PAGE, SE-HPLC), sialic acid content 
(NANA,NAGA), N-linked glycan profile, process-related impurities, total protein, as well as pH, 
endotoxin and bioburden. 
The selection of these tests is generally considered appropriate, as they cover most of the observed or 
expected variability. There were, however, concerns raised on the performance of some of the 
analytical methods. The control in performance of analytical methods has been improved and is by 
large considered acceptable.  
The applicant is recommended to perform optimisation/validation studies to further improve the control 
of biological activity and purity in analysis by the B7 bioassay and the SDS-PAGE analysis. 
Resulting from the requested review of the proposed limits for control by specifications, the 
specifications have been revised and are considered acceptable. 
Stability 
A shelf life of 30 months at the long-term storage condition of -40°C with interim storage at 5°C for an 
additional 12 months was originally proposed for drug substance. 
As significant increase is seen for some product-related impurities during storage under refrigerated 
conditions, yielding levels clearly above those qualified in clinical studies, storage under refrigerated 
conditions was not accepted. The applicant has now shortened the time-period for refrigerated storage 
and storage for up to three months can be accepted. 
For drug substance stored under the proposed long-term condition, no trend in stability can be 
detected. Stability data covering proposed storage time has now been provided and with a reservation 
for the outcome of the investigations requested supporting adequate performance of IEF method, a 
shelf-life of 30 months can be assigned for drug substance stored at -40°C. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 9/85
 
 
 
 
                                               
Comparability exercise for Active Substance 
N/A 
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product 
The drug product, belatacept 250 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, is a sterile, 
single use, non-pyrogenic lyophile for intravenous (IV) administration. The proposed dosing regimen of 
belatacept is 10 mg/kg intravenously, on Day 1 (day of transplant) and Day 5, then every other week 
for 2 weeks (end of Weeks 2 and 4), then every 4 weeks for 2 months, and then at 5 mg/kg monthly 
thereafter. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Although the documentation presented by the Applicant provides an acceptable overview of the 
development of the formulation of drug product, and the identification of adequate parameters to be 
used for in-process in commercial production, the reports did not include extended studies for “process 
understanding,” challenging the effect by exceeding the in-process limits that were established in 
development or studying the interaction between different process parameters. Further data has been 
presented now providing satisfactory supporting the classification of critical and non-critical parameters 
for operation control. 
Compatibility issues were assessed to identify possible formulation problems. Appearance of visible 
particles in some of the samples was confirmed during reconstitution and compatibility studies. 
Evaluation of the particles revealed the presence of numerous air bubbles along with a few particles for 
most of the samples. Attempts to characterize the particles were unsuccessful because an insufficient 
amount of material was obtained. The finding is rare, only seen in one out of six experiments, and the 
particles has been shown to be removed by the final in-line filters during IV administration. 
Manufacture of the product 
NULOJIX is manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Pharma, LTD at its facility in Manati, Puerto 
Rico (BMS-MAN).  
The process for manufacture of drug product, including fairly conventional steps for compounding, 
sterile filtration, aseptic filling, lyophilisation and stoppering, is satisfactorily described and validated.  
Manufacturing facilities have been described. Satisfactory presentation of floor diagrams and indication 
of flow of equipment, personnel and materials, and information concerning the building utilities, 
confirm adequate environment for belatacept production.  
Product specification 
The drug product specification includes tests and acceptance criteria for appearance of lyophilisate, 
identity (capillary electrphoresis), purity (peptide mapping, IEF, SDS-PAGE, SE-HPLC), total protein, as 
well as pH, constitution time, particulate matter, uniformity of content, moisture, osmolarity, endotoxin 
and sterility. Besides pharmacopendial methods used exclusively for control of drug product, basically 
the same tests apply for control for drug substance and drug product, and thus also the same concerns 
raised on drug substance applies for drug product. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 10/85
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Similarly as noted for drug substance, additional stability data has been provided. Thus, with a 
reservation for the outcome of the investigations requested supporting adequate performance of IEF 
method, a shelf-life of 30 months can be approved for drug product stored under refrigerated 
conditions, with protection from light.  
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
Adventitious agents 
The estimated value for Particles per Dose seems to be acceptable. The requested relevant study 
protocols have been presented.  
A reduction of the capacity to remove the naked model virus PPV was seen at the elevated pressure of 
14 psi and to improve control for this parameter defined an acceptable action limit at the virus 
filtration step. 
Additional documentation has been provided, but as naked virus such as MMV can be present, a filter 
of as high capacity as possible is needed and further documentation was required to justify why only 
the Planova 15N filter is used. Acceptable conditions have since been established to control an 
adequate performance of the ViroSart CPV and Planova 15N filters for removal of virus. 
Comparability Exercise for Finished Medicinal Drug Product  
N/A 
GMO 
N/A 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
During the procedure of NULOJIX, a Major Objection related to Quality was initially identified. This 
Major Objection concern to the following: 
  Supportive documentation to the proposed system for In – Process Controls (IPC) 
Although additional information was requested during the procedure, the applicant was able to provide 
in a satisfactorily manner the majority information requested.  
Acceptable documentation to support that IEF has capacity to resolve for enumeration/quantitation of 
different charge forms of belatacep over the pI range required to control consistency in production has 
been provided. The working range of IEF has been extended and the limits for operation control in 
order to reduce variability in the bioreactor and chromatography steps have been tightened.  
The current SDS-PAGE analysis has only been validated for quantitition of the main component. 
Although the control of impurities is indirectly addressed in the validation, and the analysis could in 
this aspect be considered acceptable for confirmation of consistency in production using an established, 
validated process, it is not considered sufficient for confirmation of comparability of product in 
conjunction with the introduction of major process changes. Supporting comparable impurity profile, a 
validated quantitative method is required, both to show that the individual species remain within the 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 11/85
 
 
 
 
                                               
amount qualified in clinical studies, and to confirm similar trends for these species in stability studies 
(Quality Obligation).  
In addition, in order to ensure consistent biological activity of product in commercial production, the 
control in routine analysis of the B7 binding should be improved. Currently, two bioassays are applied 
for release control of drug substance and drug product. Both these assay are claimed validated in 
accordance with the requirements in the ICH Q2 guideline, using the Four-Parameter Logistic Curve 
model (Statistical analysis of results of biological assays and tests, Ph. Eur. 5.3) for statistical 
evaluation of data. However, the control elicited by the statistical evaluation of data during validation 
was apparently not implanted in the procedures for the analyses in routine use and consequently, no 
assay criteria were established to ensure that results obtained in routine analysis of batches would be 
“statistically valid”.  
Therefore, to prevent a shift in biological activity of Nulojix in conjunction with the introduction of 
future changes in the commercial production process, it is crucial that at least one of the bioassays 
used for analysis adheres to the requirement in Ph. Eur. 5.3 (Quality Obligation). 
Thus, at the time of the responses of the List of Outstanding issues, the applicant was able to 
satisfactorily address the quality questions. The applicant has been requested to provide further 
information through some Post Authorisation Commitments (please see section 2.7).  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been 
presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of obligations and recommendations in regards 
to quality issues which were not considered to impact on the Risk-benefit balance of the product. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Belatacept is a soluble human-human chimeric protein consisting of the modified extracellular domain 
of human CTLA4 fused to a modified fragment (hinge-CH2-CH3 domains) of the Fc domain of a human 
IgG1 antibody. The modification in the CD80/CD86 binding domain consists of point mutations that 
result in 2 amino acid substitutions (L104 to E and A29 to Y). In the IgG1 Fc domain four amino acids 
were genetically engineered to reduce complement fixation and decreased antibody dependent cellular 
cytotoxicity. Belatacept is produced by large-scale cell culture using a genetically engineered Chinese 
hamster ovary (CHO) cell line and is purified from the clarified (cell-free) harvest material using 
standard chromatography and filtration steps. The drug product, belatacept for Injection, 250 mg/vial, 
is a sterile, single use, non-pyrogenic lyophile for intravenous administration.  
Scientific advice on the toxico-pharmacological development for belatacept was received from the 
EMA/CHMP. 
All pivotal toxicology studies, including toxicokinetic evaluations, supporting the safety of belatacept 
or abatacept have been performed under GLP conditions.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 12/85
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
The intended function of belatacept is to inhibit CD28 binding to CD80/CD86 by blocking/binding to 
CD80/CD86. Belatacept binds to CD80/CD86 by containing CD80/CD86 binding elements from CTLA-4, 
a surface molecule normally expressed on activated T cells that serves as a vital molecule for the self-
regulating/inhibiting part of an adaptive T cell immune response. The CD80/CD86 binding motif 
MYPPPY is shared by both CTLA-4 and CD28, but CTLA-4 binds to CD80/CD86 with much higher avidity 
(10 to 100 times). The inhibited CD28 binding deprives the T cells of the second activation signal 
needed for the full induction of an adaptive immune response. Belatacept is a further development of 
abatacept (centrally approved in 2007 as Orencia, indicated in rheumatoid arthritis and polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis) as to intended function, i.e. to inhibit costimulation of T cells. In belatacept 
the Applicant has made two point mutations in the amino acid sequence of abatacept to increase 
binding to CD80 and CD86 in order to increase the immunsuppressive capability of belatacept in 
comparison to abatacept. 
Abatacept studies in rodents were used to support belatacept registration requirements because: 1) 
abatacept binds more avidly than does belatacept to murine CD80/86; 2) abatacept has greater in 
vitro and in vivo bioactivity in rodents than belatacept; and 3) abatacept is very similar to belatacept in 
both its mechanism of action and its structure. 
The binding of belatacept to CD80/CD86 most likely also has direct implications on the CTLA-4 
expressing T cells by disrupting the inhibitory signals delivered by CTLA-4 though its cytoplastic tail. 
The exact intracellular signals delivered by CTLA-4 remains uncertain; however CTLA-4 signalling down 
regulates cytokine production by inhibiting the accumulation of AP-1, NF- and NFAT in the nucleus of 
activated T cells. CTLA-4 also regulates cell proliferation by inhibiting cyclin D3, cyclin-dependent 
kinases 4 and 6, and the degradation of cell-cycle inhibitor p27kip1.  
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In vitro binding studies 
In biochemical binding studies using radiolabeled abatacept, it was shown that abatacept binds to 
CD80 with approximately 2-fold greater affinity than to CD86. Additionally, abatacept binds with 
approximately 100-fold higher avidity to CD80 and CD86 than human CD28-Ig does, and is therefore 
an effective competitor for CD28:CD80/86 interactions. As a result of the 2 amino acid modifications, 
belatacept binds to its target receptors CD80 and CD86 with greater avidity than the parent CTLA4-Ig 
molecule, abatacept. A series of Biacore binding studies demonstrated that belatacept binds to CD86-
Ig with approximately 4.3-fold higher avidity than the parent molecule. Likewise, these studies 
demonstrated that belatacept binds CD80-Ig with approximately 1.8-fold greater avidity than 
Abatacept. 
In vitro functional analysis 
Effect of belatacept and CTLA-4Ig on CD80- or CD86-mediated stimulation of CD4+ T cells. 
The concentration of belatacept required inhibiting 50% (EC50) of CD80-mediated costimulation of 
CD4+ T cell proliferation was 0.001 μg/mL and the EC50 for belatacept inhibition of CD86-mediated 
costimulation of CD4+ T cell proliferation was 0.0025 μg/mL. The EC50’s for belatacept and abatacept 
for inhibition of CD80 mediated T cell proliferation was 0.001 ug/ml vs 0.005 ug/ml respectively. The 
EC50’s for belatacept and abatacept for inhibition of CD86 mediated T cell proliferation was 0.0025 
ug/ml vs 0.032 ug/ml respectively. Therefore, the high avidity ligand binding properties of belatacept 
were reflected functionally, with the belatacept variant being a more potent inhibitor of both CD80- 
and CD86-mediated costimulation of T cells compared to abatacept. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 13/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inhibition  of  primary  and  secondary  allogenic  mixed  lymphocyte  reaction  by  belatacept 
treatment  
A series of mixed lymphocyte reaction assays were conducted to evaluate the ability of belatacept to 
inhibit allo-responses in vitro. The EC50 of belatacept for inhibition of proliferation in the primary 
mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) was 0.18 μg/mL. The EC50 of belatacept for inhibition of 
proliferation in the secondary MLR was 0.20 μg/mL. 
Measurement of IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-γ was performed on culture supernatants collected 24 hours post 
primary and secondary stimulation. In the primary MLR assay, only IL-2 was detectable and the EC50 
of belatacept for inhibition of IL-2 production in the primary MLR was 0.04 μg/mL. In the secondary 
MLR IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-γ were produced at detectable levels and it appeared that belatacept’s EC50 for 
inhibition of IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-γ production in the secondary MLR were 0.03 μg/mL, 0.20 μg/mL, and 
0.14 μg/mL respectively. A number of additional in vitro experiments were performed to evaluate the 
effect of belatacept on T cell responses stimulated by allogeneic monocyte-derived dendritic cells. The 
data showed consistency in terms of inhibition of proliferation and cytokine release. 
Target saturation in human whole blood and allo-response assay 
In these studies, the concentrations of belatacept required for the saturation of CD86 (IC50 = 0.102 ± 
0.019 μg/mL) paralleled those required for the inhibition of alloantigen stimulation in vitro (IC50 = 
0.185 ± 0.08 μg/mL). The concentrations of belatacept required for the saturation of CD80 (IC50 = 
0.009 ± 0.004 μg/mL) were substantially lower. Additionally, belatacept CD80/CD86-receptor 
occupancy was compared directly with the degree of alloresponse inhibition induced by belatacept in a 
dendritic cell-stimulated MLR. The belatacept concentration required for saturation of CD86 correlated 
more directly with the inhibition of the alloresponse. At a concentration of 0.1 μg/mL of belatacept, 
>90% of the CD80 receptors appeared to be saturated while only achieving approximately 35% 
inhibition of the allo-response. At this same concentration of belatacept, only ~35% of the CD86 
receptors also appeared to be saturated.  
Fc Receptor-mediated functions 
Since the Fc portion of Ig fusion proteins has the potential to bind Fc receptors and mediate antibody-
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) as well as complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), studies 
were conducted to evaluate the capacity of belatacept to mediate ADCC and CDC. The studies 
demonstrated that belatacept at 30 μg/mL, did not mediate ADCC of a CD80/86 expressing human B-
cell line (PM-LCL) by PBMC from 13 different normal donors. The LCL B cell line was exposed to either 
complement alone or in combination with increasing concentrations of anti-CD80/anti-CD86 antibodies 
or belatacept. The background level of cell lysis in the presence of complement alone was about 22%. 
Increasing concentrations of either anti-CD80 or anti-CD86 resulting in complement-mediated cell 
killing, with a maximal response at 100 ng/ml. In contrast, increasing concentrations of belatacept up 
to 30 μg/ml did not increase complement-mediated killing above the background level observed with 
complement alone. 
In vivo functional studies 
Belatacept suppression of KLH antibody response in mouse, rat, rabbit and monkey 
To identify the appropriate species and CD28 blocker to use for efficacy and toxicology studies, a series 
of studies comparing the bioactivity of belatacept with that of abatacept have been conducted in mice, 
rats, rabbits, and monkeys in a primary T cell-dependent antibody response model using either 
keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) or sheep erythrocytes (SRBC) as the antigen.  
  Murine studies 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 14/85
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies 092804KLH, 102704KLH, 02085KLH 
A series of experiments were performed to test the ability of abatacept and belatacept to block a 
murine primary immune response to KLH. Both abatacept and belatacept were capable of inhibiting the 
murine primary immune response to KLH in vivo in a dose-dependent manner. Mice treated with 
abatacept demonstrated a dose-responsive inhibition of KLH-specific IgG on Day 14. Mice treated with 
belatacept also demonstrated a dose-responsive inhibition of KLH-specific IgG on Day 14. Abatacept 
appears to be more potent by dose as > 90% inhibition of the response is achieved at doses of 
3 mg/kg and above whereas >90% inhibition with belatacept was achieved only at the 30 mg/kg dose. 
This finding justifies using abatacept mice data when addressing belatacept safety and efficacy.   
  Rat studies 
Study DS04256 
This study was conducted to compare the bioactivity of belatacept to abatacept in rats at a dose of 
abatacept known to be immunosuppressive in rodents. Marked suppression (≥ 99%) of total T-cell-
dependent antibody response to KLH was observed in all female rats (10/10 per group) administered 
intravenously 20 mg/kg belatacept or abatacept on Days 1 and 8. 
Study DS04284 
This study was conducted to compare the dose-response for the bioactivity of belatacept to abatacept 
in rats relative to exposure. Systemic exposures to belatacept ranged from 51 to 67%, as determined 
from the AUC0-168 h (first dosing interval and prior to onset of immunogenicity), and 40 to 55%, 
based on AUC0-t, where t is time of last measurable serum concentration, of the exposure to 
abatacept achieved following administration at the same doses. When given the same doses, the 
incidence and onset of drug-specific antibodies was increased in groups given belatacept relative to 
groups given abatacept. The development of belatacept or abatacept-specific antibodies in individual 
rats strongly correlated with a rapid decline in serum drug levels. Onset of immunogenicity was 
generally observed after the first dosing interval.  
Study DS05055 
The objective of this study was to compare the bioactivity of belatacept to abatacept relative to 
exposures. Based on AUC (0-T, where T is the last detectable time point), exposure to belatacept was 
144%, 85%, 62% and 35% of the exposure to abatacept at doses of 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, or 1 mg/kg, 
respectively.  
Overall in rat, abatacept showed similar improved efficacy over belatacept as to suppressive capability, 
immunogenicity and clearance.  
  Rabbit studies 
Study DS04252 
The objectives of this study were to determine if belatacept is pharmacologically active in rabbit and 
compare its bioactivity to that of abatacept. Systemic exposures to belatacept, as determined from the 
AUC0-168 h and AUC0-840 h, were 50 and 32%, respectively, of that achieved following similar doses 
of abatacept. The clearance of belatacept was approximately 4-fold greater than that of abatacept. 
Marked suppression (≥ 99%) of the T-cell-dependent antibody response to KLH was observed on Days 
8, 15, and 22 in rabbits that received abatacept. In rabbits given belatacept, 99, 96, and 67% 
suppression was observed on Days 8, 15, and 22, respectively. Abatacept-specific antibodies were 
detected in 1 out of 6 rabbits given abatacept from Day 15 to Day 36, whereas belatacept -specific 
antibodies were detected in 3 out of 5 rabbits by Day 15 and in all rabbits (5/5) given belatacept by 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 15/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 29. The development of abatacept- or belatacept -specific antibodies in individual rabbits strongly 
correlated with a rapid decline in serum drug levels. 
Study DS04287 
This study was conducted to compare the dose-response for the bioactivity of belatacept to abatacept 
in rabbits relative to exposure. Systemic exposures to belatacept, as determined from the AUC0-last, 
were 41% and 38% of that achieved with abatacept at 3 and 10 mg/kg doses, respectively. The 
clearance of belatacept was approximately 2.1- and 2.6-fold greater than that of abatacept. Overall, 
most animals developed drug directed antibodies at day 36 with the exception of the abatacept high 
dose (20 mg/kg) group (2/6 animals developed antibodies).  
The above mentioned studies in rabbit showed that belatacept suppressed the formation of antigen-
specific antibodies as effective as abatacept. However clearance of belatacept was higher than for 
abatacept which reduces belatacept exposure in rabbit.  
  Monkey studies 
Study 97607 
The objective of this study was to establish and compare the immunosuppressive activity of belatacept 
and abatacept. Overall, the serum concentrations of belatacept were generally lower than serum 
concentration of abatacept. At higher doses (≥0.125 mg/kg) belatacept was shown to be more 
immunosuppressive than abatacept.    
Renal transplants in Rhesus Macaques (Larsen et al and Final reports on phase I, II and islet studies. 
Emory University study report; 2002).  
To evaluate the efficacy of belatacept in a model of renal transplantation, a series of primate transplant 
studies were conducted with belatacept. The data show that belatacept are more potent in a Rhesus 
renal transplant model than abatacept. The addition of belatacept to other immunsuppressive drugs 
prolongs engraftment. In addition, belatacept addition to methylprednisolone and steroids seems to 
inhibit formation of donor directed antibodies. 
Islet cell transplantation in Rhesus macaques Adams et al.  
In rhesus macaques, total pancreatectomy without duodenectomy or splenectomy was performed at 
least 1 week before transplant. Overall the data show that belatacept improves islet function after 
transplantation. 
Studies in monkey showed that that belatacept is more potent in a Rhesus renal transplant model than 
abatacept. The addition of belatacept to other immunosuppressive drugs prolongs engraftment. In 
addition, belatacept addition to methylprednisolone and steroids seems to inhibit formation of donor 
directed antibodies. In antigen challenging studies belatacept was shown to be more 
immunosuppressive than abatacept at doses ≥0.125 mg/kg.   
Effect of CD80/CD86 blockade on host pathogen defense 
Numerous nonclinical studies have been conducted to assess the CD28 costimulation dependence of 
host defense against different types of pathogens, including viruses, intracellular bacteria, fungi and 
parasites. The studies presented by the applicant have been conducted using either abatacept, CTLA4-
Ig from sources other than the applicant, or other means of CD28 modulation. Since the majority of 
the animal models assessing host defense are in mice, and belatacept has limited biological activity in 
mice compared to abatacept, evaluation of the CD28 dependency in these models was conducted with 
abatacept in place of belatacept. The overall data on host viral immunity suggests a risk of reactivation 
of dormant viruses in the models studied. However, some data also suggests that viral immunity is 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 16/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
preserved after CTLA4-Ig treatment. Since most of the studied viruses are species specific it is difficult 
to extrapolate these studies to humans. The increased risks for infections are well known for in clinical 
use immunosuppressants and relevant also for belatacept.  
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No studies to specifically assess any secondary pharmacodynamics were conducted since there is no 
evidence of off target biological effects with belatacept. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No in vitro safety pharmacology studies have been performed by the applicant. In vivo evaluations of 
the potential effects of intravenous administration of belatacept on the cardiovascular, 
central/peripheral nervous and/or respiratory systems in monkeys were included as part of the pivotal 
(GLP) single and repeat-dose studies. The data provided show that Belatacept does not interfere with 
cardiovascular, neurological or respiratory functions.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The non-human primate transplant studies described investigated the efficacy of belatacept for 
prophylaxis of graft loss in combination with other standard immunosuppressive compounds. In 
general, combinations of belatacept with corticosteroid, MMF, basiliximab and/or sirolimus 
demonstrated enhanced efficacy compared to monotherapy. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of belatacept and rodent homolog abatacept has been studied after intravenous 
administration in different animal species: mice, rats, rabbits and monkeys. Studies using 
subcutaneous administration have been performed in mice and rats. The drugs were administered as 
solutions and doses ranged from 0.03 mg/kg in bioactivity studies to 200 mg/kg in drug safety 
evaluation studies; product comparability studies were conducted at the potential human therapeutic 
induction dose (10 mg/kg). 
Two manufacturing process changes were made during the development of belatacept. The first, from 
Process A to Process B, included an increase in production bioreactor working volume and the 
elimination, addition, and modification of various production steps. The second, from Process B to 
Process C (used to produce drug substance for Phase 3 clinical trials and intended to produce drug 
substance for commercial use) included elimination and addition of various medium additives, the 
latter to improve product consistency and productivity.  
The pharmacokinetic profiles, efficacy and safety were comparable in cynomolgus monkeys receiving a 
single intravenous 10-mg/kg dose of belatacept was comparable throughout the product development, 
i.e. A material, B material, C material (lyophilized drug product) or belatacept as a liquid ready-to-use 
clinical formulation. 
Methods of analysis 
The concentration of belatacept and abatacept in serum was measured using double antibody sandwich 
enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). The methods used are validated and reliable.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 17/85
 
 
 
 
Absorption  
Dose-dependent PK was observed in rats (and, to a lesser degree, in rabbits) following single doses of 
either belatacept or abatacept. In a dose range of 0.03 to 1 mg/kg, these were characterized by 
decreasing elimination with increasing dose, resulting in a greater than proportional increase in 
exposure with dose. This phenomenon, which occurred at mean serum belatacept and abatacept 
concentrations of ≤10 and 20 μg/mL, respectively, is consistent with saturation of elimination via 
receptor-mediated endocytosis, which has been shown to lead to nonlinear PK of monoclonal 
antibodies. In contrast, in rats receiving repeated abatacept SC and/or IV doses of 20 to 200 mg/kg, 
there was a trend for both CLT and Vss to increase with dose resulting in a less than dose-proportional 
increase in exposure. This phenomenon is consistent with a saturation of FcRn, which protects 
antibodies of the human IgG1 isotype from elimination. There was little evidence for dose-dependent 
PK in monkeys receiving intermediate-range single doses of belatacept (9 to 90 mg/kg; Cmax range = 
233 to 2850 μg/mL) or abatacept (10 to 50 mg/kg doses; Cmax range = 280 to 1460 μg/mL). While 
this is a cross-study and cross-species comparison, these data suggest that the nature of the dose 
dependency of abatacept (and potentially belatacept) PK may vary depending on the dose range, with 
increases in exposure being roughly proportional to dose in the clinical dose range. This is consistent 
with the dose proportionality of belatacept exposure in humans receiving 1 to 20 mg/kg doses of 
belatacept (Cmax = 28.7 to 468 μg/mL). 
Distribution 
No radiolabeled tissue distribution studies were conducted. The Vss for belatacept was low in all tested 
species, with mean values ranging from 39 to 149 mL/kg. These values are only slightly higher than 
the reported plasma volume in these species (31 to 52 mL/kg), indicating limited extravascular 
distribution.  
Since belatacept is neither lipophilic nor a known transporter substrate and has a low volume of 
distribution, it is unlikely that it crosses the blood-brain barrier. A confirmatory study was conducted in 
monkeys. Belatacept concentrations in homogenates of brain samples taken 24 hours after the final 10 
or 50 mg/kg dose were very low (91.1 ± 42.5 and 356 ± 108 ng/g tissue, respectively), representing 
only 0.067 and 0.055%, respectively, of the corresponding serum belatacept concentrations. A number 
of additional observations in drug-treated monkeys were consistent with this conclusion. 
Metabolism 
No studies were conducted to evaluate the metabolism and metabolic pathways of belatacept in 
animals since belatacept consists of amino acids. 
Excretion 
No studies were conducted to evaluate the excretion of belatacept or abatacept in animals. This is 
acceptable since belatacept consists of amino acids. Secretion of belatacept into milk was 
demonstrated following the administration to lactating rats.   
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Since belatacept is a protein it does not undergo metabolism by the cytochrome P450 enzymes and, 
thus, it is not expected to have direct PK interactions with molecules that are metabolized by these 
enzymes. No studies were therefore conducted to determine the potential for any drug-drug 
interactions of belatacept with any other molecules.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 18/85
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Study number 98642 was conducted to assess the single-dose toxicity, toxicokinetics and 
immunogenicity of belatacept in monkeys. Belatacept (lyophylized Process A) was administered to 3 
cynomolgus monkeys/sex/group at single intravenous doses of 9, 30, or 90 mg/kg. Cmax values 
increased in proportion to dose. Although the increase in AUC(INF) was dose proportional in male 
monkeys, it was greater than the dose increment in female monkeys. Both CLT and Vss values 
appeared comparable among the dose groups. The lower T-HALF estimates at the 9- and 30-mg/kg 
dose levels (75.2-88.3 hours) as compared to the 90-mg/kg dose level (116-132 hours) were 
attributed to the formation of anti-drug antibodies that accelerated the elimination of belatacept. 
Belatacept-specific antibody titers were evident in low- and intermediate-dose monkeys at 5 and 6 
weeks postdose, respectively. 
There were no clinical signs of toxicity, decreases in body weights or food intakes, electrocardiographic 
alteration, or changes in body temperatures that were considered drug-related. Additionally, there 
were no changes in histamine, complement C3a, TNF or IL-6 levels, or alterations in serum 
immunoglobulin levels or changes in the phenotypic expression of peripheral-blood or splenic 
lymphocytes that were clearly drug-related.  
Necropsies were conducted on 1 monkey/sex/group on Day 15 and there were no drug-related 
clinicopathologic, gross pathologic or histopathologic changes observed. 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
Belatacept and abatacept have been studied in several repeat-dose toxicity studies (table 1).   
Table 1. Repeat-dose toxicity studies.   
Study ID 
Test 
substans 
GLP 
status 
Species/Numb
er and 
Sex/Group 
Dose/Rou
te 
98699 
Belatacept 
GLP 
Monkey/3M,3F  
0, 10, 22 
or 50 
mg/kg/iv 
Duration 
Major findings 
1 month 
with 
administrati
on every 
other day, 6 
week post 
dose 
observation 
AUC(TAU) values at the end of treatment 
were 2.2- to 2.7-fold greater than on Day 
1, suggesting drug accumulation over the 
treatment period. No antibodies to 
belatacept or host-cell (CHO) proteins were 
detected during the study. Increased 
complement (C3a) levels were evident in 
one high-dose female monkey immediately 
following dosing on Days 1, 15, and 22. 
Minimal mean decreases of 10, 34, and 
32% from pretreatment serum IgG levels 
were observed at the end of treatment at 
doses of 10, 22, and 50 mg/kg/day, 
respectively, with levels generally returning 
towards baseline values during the dose-
free observation period. Other drug-related 
changes included minimal lymphoid 
depletion of germinal centers of spleen 
and/or lymph nodes.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 19/85
 
 
 
 
 
99655 
Belatacept 
GLP 
Monkey/5M,5F 
0, 10, 22 
or 50 
mg/kg/iv 
6 months 
with 
administrati
on once a 
week, 3 
months post 
dose 
observation 
DS02008 
Abatacept 
GLP 
Monkey/5M,5F 
0, 10, 22 
or 50 
mg/kg/iv 
1 year with 
administrati
on once 
weekly, 13 
weeks post 
dose 
observation 
96633 
Abatacept 
GLP 
Mouse/20M,20F 
0, 20, 65 
or 200 
mg/kg/sc 
6 months 
with 
administrati
on once 
weekly, 4 
months post 
dose 
observation 
Reversible, minimal decreases in serum 
IgG levels were noted. There were no drug 
effects on clinical pathology parameters 
and no gross pathologic findings associated 
with administration of belatacept. At the 
end of dosing, minimal to moderate, non-
dose-dependent decreases in the number 
and diameter of germinal centers in lymph 
nodes and spleen. Following completion of 
treatment, functional activity of the 
immune system was demonstrated by a 
robust antibody response to KLH following 
immunization after a 2-month recovery 
period. Drug-specific  antibodies were not 
detected during the treatment period, but 
were observed in 4 of 6 recovery monkeys 
12 weeks after completion of treatment, 
after belatacept serum levels had dropped 
below immunosuppressive levels. Viral 
status was not assessed in these monkeys.  
Systemic exposure to abatacept increased 
in a dose-related manner with no apparent 
gender differences. No drug-related clinical 
signs of toxicity were observed. No 
remarkable changes in peripheral blood 
lymphocyte phenotypes. Histopathologic 
changes were limited to the spleen and 
mandibular lymph node. In both of these 
organs, mild to moderate decreases in the 
number and diameter of germinal centers, 
containing fewer centrally located blast 
cells (centrocytes) and peripherally located 
small lymphocytes, were observed 
reflecting decreased germinal center 
activity. These findings were evident at all 
doses and were present to a very slight 
degree (background level) in the controls. 
Complete recovery occurred during the 3-
month dose-free recovery period. 
Abatacept treatment did not result in any 
clinical manifestation associated with a 
viral infection even though prestudy viral 
screening indicated previous exposure of 
all monkeys to one or more of the following 
viruses: LCV (EBV-like virus), Herpes B, 
rhesus CMV, and simian papovavirus 
(SV40; JC-like virus).   
The absorption of abatacept following 
subcutaneous administration was 
prolonged with time to reach Cmax (Tmax) 
ranging from 6 to 24 h. No drug-related 
deaths or clinical observations occurred 
during the study and there were no drug-
related changes in clinical athology 
parameters or gross pathology findings at 
any dose. At doses of 65 and 200 mg/kg, 
decreases in the percentages of splenic B-
cells (~ 61 to 85%) and inhibition of ex 
vivo B- and T-cell activation in males and a 
transient decrease in serum IgG were 
observed at the end of the 6-month dosing 
period, but both recovered by the end of 
the 4-month dose-free observation period. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 20/85
 
 
 
 
 
DS07166 
Abatacept 
GLP 
Rat/20M,20F 
0, 65 or 
200 
mg/kg/iv 
3 months 
with 
administrati
on once 
every 3 
days, 3 
month post 
dose 
observation 
In both sexes, abatacept administration 
resulted in generally dose-independent 
effects on immune parameters. These 
changes included increases in total T-cell 
counts that correlated with increased 
counts of total lymphocytes and that were 
primarily due to increases in T-helper cell 
counts (CD4+CD8-; 1.32 to 2.01x 
controls), and decreases in the counts of a 
subset of peripheral-blood T-regulatory 
cells. There were no effects on the T-
cytotoxic cell (CD8+CD4-) population. 
Another pharmacologic effect of abatacept 
was decreased total serum globulin levels 
secondary to a decrease in serum IgG 
concentrations. In lymphoid organs, drug-
related microscopic findings at both doses 
included an increased incidence of: 1) 
decreased B-cell areas characterized by 
decreased number and size of germinal 
centers in spleen and 
mesenteric/mandibular lymph nodes, and 
2) increased size of T-cell areas. In non-
lymphoid organs, both doses of abatacept 
were associated with lymphocytic 
inflammation of thyroid (thyroiditis; 6%) 
and pancreatic islets (18%) with higher 
incidence at Week 21 than at Week 14. 
These findings are consistent with a 
possible autoimmune etiology. In general, 
the incidence and severity of these non-
lymphoid changes were independent of 
dose and sex (except inflammation of the 
pancreatic islets that affected more males 
than females). 
 
The toxicokinetics between various animal studies and human is presented in table 2.   
Toxicokinetics 
Table 2. Toxicokinetic comparisons. 
Species 
Study 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
Human 
Multiple doses, iv, 
belatacept 
Monkey 
Monkey 
Monkey 
Mouse 
Rat 
1 month, every 
other day, iv, 
belatacept, study 
nr 98699 
6 months, once 
weekly, iv, 
belatacept, study 
nr 99655 
1 year, once 
weekly, iv, 
abatacept, 
DS02008 
6 months, once 
weekly, sc, 
abatacept, 96633 
3 months, once 
every 3 days, iv, 
Assessment report Nulojix 
10a 
10b 
5c 
10 
22 
50 
10 
22 
50 
10 
22 
50 
20 
65 
200 
65F 
65M 
AUC (28/30 
days) 
(ug*h/ml) 
47,900 
21,241 
13,587 
169,540 
314,510 
717,808 
55,992 
131,396 
279,266 
88,368 
189,012 
Multiple of 
human exposure 
NA 
NA 
NA 
3.5, 8, 12,5 
6.5, 14.8, 23 
14.9, 33.8, 52.8 
1.2, 2.6, 4.1 
2.7, 6.2, 9.7 
5.8, 13.1, 20.6 
1.8, 2.4, 6.5 
3.9, 8.9, 13.9 
429, 608 
8.9, 20.2, 31.6 
40,132 
118,324 
217,912 
362,700 
232,500 
0.8, 5.3, 3.0 
2.5, 5.6, 8.7 
4.5, 10.3, 16 
7.5, 17, 27 
4.8, 11, 17 
Page 21/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
abatacept, 
DS07166 
200F 
200M 
862,110 
549,270 
18, 41, 63 
11, 26, 40 
aExposure (AUC 28 days) in LI regimen during first month of treatment when administered at 10 mg/kg on Days 1, 5, and 14; 
source of human AUC data - Population PK data. 
bExposure (AUC 28 days) in LI regimen during fourth month when administered at 10 mg/kg once every 28 days; source of human 
AUC data - Study IM103047. 
cExposure (AUC 28 days) in LI regimen at steady state during maintenance phase when administered at 5 mg/kg once every 4 
weeks; source of human AUC data - Study IM103100 long-term extension. 
dExposure multiples based on AUCs in humans given belatacept during the first month, fourth month, or maintenance phase of LI 
regimen, respectively. 
Genotoxicity  
Genotoxicity testing is generally not required for protein therapeutics. No genotoxicity studies were 
conducted with belatacept. However, a battery of validated in vitro genotoxicity assays was conducted 
with abatacept.  
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term studies 
A carcinogenicity study was not conducted with belatacept. A lifetime study (study nr 97610) in mice 
was conducted with abatacept to determine the carcinogenic potential of CD28 blockade. In this pivotal 
carcinogenicity study abatacept was administered at weekly intervals for up to 88 weeks. Mice were 
dosed at 20, 65 or 200 mg/kg providing exposure multiples of 0.7, 1.6, and 2.5 times at 20 mg/kg; 2, 
4, and 7 times and at 65 mg/kg; and 3, 7, and 10 times at 200 mg/kg the AUCs in patients given 
belatacept during the first month, fourth month, or maintenance phase of the LI regimen, respectively. 
The Applicant claims that the presence of retroviruses can account for the increased frequency of 
lymphomas (1.7%M/11.7%F in the vehicle control group, 30%M/45%F in the 20 mg/kg/week group, 
36.7%M/58.3%F in the 65 mg/kg/week group, 28.3%M/56.7%F in the 200 mg/kg/week group) and 
mammary tumours (4 females in the vehicle group, 3 females in the 20 mg/kg/week group, 7 females 
in the 65 mg/kg/week group and 10 females in the 200 mg/kg/week group)  in this study. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
A complete battery of reproductive toxicity studies was conducted with belatacept, in addition to 
abatacept, to assess potential effects on fertility, reproductive function, gestation, parturition, and 
lactation of the parental generation in rats; on embryonic and fetal development in rats and rabbits; 
and on growth, development, reproductive performance and immune function of progeny in rats. In 
these studies belatacept was dosed daily to increase exposure relative to abatacept when dosed every 
3 days. 
Study DN06032 – Intravenous study of fertility and embryonic development in rats 
Belatacept was administered intravenously once daily to groups of male and female rats at doses of 
20, 65, or 200 mg/kg. The data shows that there were no effects of belatacept on male or female 
reproductive function (mating and fertility; estrous cycling in females) or early embryonic development 
of the offspring at doses as high as 200 mg/kg/day, the highest dose tested in this study. 
Study DN06008 – Intravenous study of embryo-fetal development in rats 
Belatacept was administered intravenously to groups of time-mated rats once daily on GD 6 through 
15 at doses of 20, 65, or 200 mg/kg. There were no effects of belatacept on the dams at 20 or 65 
mg/kg/day or on the fetuses at any dose tested. At 200 mg/kg/day, drug-related maternal toxicity 
consisting of a reduction in maternal body-weight gain (25% less than controls) was noted during the 
first few days of dosing (Days 6 to 9 of gestation). No other drug-related changes occurred during this 
study. There were no effects in the fetuses at any dose tested. Fetal exposures to belatacept were 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 22/85
 
 
 
 
verified in all treated groups, demonstrating that belatacept crosses the placenta. Fetal serum 
concentrations were found to be approximately 8 to 9% of maternal concentrations. 
Study DN06002 – Intravenous study of pre- and postnatal development in rats 
Belatacept was administered intravenously to time-mated rats (55/group) once daily at doses of 20, 
65, or 200 mg/kg from GD 6 through lactation day (LD) 20. The rats were allowed to deliver naturally, 
and their litters were monitored for viability at birth and postnatal survival and growth. The data 
showed that belatacept-specific antibodies were not detected in serum or milk of drug-treated dams. 
Serum concentrations of belatacept in PND-21 pups were low (1.4% to 3.2% of maternal Cmax on LD 
12), dose-related, and comparable between males and females. Belatacept was generally not detected 
in pups on PNDs 62-64. In these offspring, low incidence (10/120 rats) and magnitude (endpoint titers 
11 to 77) of belatacept immunogenicity were noted on PNDs 62 to 112. 
Belatacept at all doses was associated with changes in the dams and their F1-generation offspring. 
Study DN06056 – Intravenous study of embryo-fetal development in rabbits 
Belatacept was administered intravenously once daily to 4 groups of presumed-pregnant females  
(27 per group) on days 7 through 19 of gestation at doses of 10, 30, or 100 mg/kg. Fetal exposures to 
belatacept were verified in all treated groups, demonstrating that belatacept crosses the placenta. 
Fetal serum concentrations were found to be approximately 0.7 to 1.3% of maternal concentrations. 
There were no effects on the dose or fetuses at any dose. Belatacept did not affect embryo-
development in rabbits at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day.  
Juvenile studies 
The toxicity of belatacept in juvenile animals has not been evaluated. However, the toxicity of 
abatacept (more active analogue in rodents) in juvenile animals was evaluated in a study in juvenile 
rats administered abatacept parenterally from postnatal day 4 to 93. Two additional pivotal studies 
(Study DN07013 and DS07165) were conducted in juvenile and adult rats to further investigate the 
etiology of the findings observed in the initial juvenile rat study. 
The data show that abatacept has impact on the developing immune system as shown by increased 
bacterial infections and altered immune parameters. These animals also showed signs of autoimmunity 
(lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid gland and pancreatic islets). Some of these findings were 
reversible over a 3-month treatment-free period. However, the infiltration of the pancreatic islet and 
thyroid gland increased in incidence and severity during the post dosing period. When administration 
was postponed to postnatal day 28, the amount of infections decreased but the immunological 
parameters and signs of pancreatic islets autoimmunity remained similar to animals administered on 
postnatal day 4. The lower incidence and severity of infections in this study, as compared to the first 
juvenile study, may be due to the conduct of the study under more microbiologically controlled 
conditions. 
Local tolerance 
Several studies were completed to assess the irritation potential following intravenous, intra-arterial, 
paravenous, or subcutaneous administration at concentrations or doses associated with human use. 
Overall, no significant injection-site irritation was observed. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 23/85
 
 
 
 
Other toxicity studies 
Study 99722 - Belatacept, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), solumedrol, and Simulect®: Mono- 
and combination-therapy repeat-dose intravenous study in renal transplant recipient 
monkeys; histopathological evaluation 
This study was conducted to evaluate the therapeutic effects of treatment with belatacept alone, in 
combination with MMF and solumedrol, or in combination with Simulect® (IL-2 receptor antagonist, 
bailiximab) following renal transplantation in rhesus monkey. From a safety point of view belatacept 
does not contribute to any significant histopathological findings in the transplanted kidney. Efficacy 
(duration of survival) is improved by belatacept addition to MMF, and solumedrol. The applicant has 
presented data showing the generation of allo-specific antibodies. The data show that belatacept is 
able to inhibit the formation such antibodies. The reason for not performing skin grafts was discussed 
by the applicant and considered as acceptable. 
Study DS09027 – A 1-month intravenous investigative study in male monkeys 
The objective of this investigative study was to assess the ability of belatacept to cross the blood-brain 
barrier and to investigate its effects on the presence of immune cells and the expression of CD80 or 
CD86 in the brain of healthy monkeys. The data showed that belatacept is not able to cross the blood-
brain barrier in male monkeys. 
Antigenicity 
Belatacept, a fully human protein, was immunogenic in mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys as shown by 
the ability of each species to induce belatacept-specific antibodies. However belatacept-specific 
antibodies were generally not detected during the treatment period of a study, suggesting that they 
were not formed until after belatacept serum levels had dropped below immunosuppressive levels; 
however, it cannot be ruled out that high serum belatacept levels may also have interfered with the 
detection of antibodies during and immediately after the dosing phase. Thus, in each species tested, 
belatacept appeared to suppress the antibody response against itself, allowing exposure to be 
maintained throughout the treatment period of each study. Once belatacept-specific antibodies were 
present, clearance of drug from the blood vascular compartment was often accelerated. In monkeys, 
the majority of the belatacept-specific antibody response was found to be directed toward the Ig 
domains, with a minor portion of the response directed toward the CTLA4 (CD80/86 binding) domains. 
The neutralizing properties of the response were not evaluated as this response generally appeared 
only after the treatment period was completed. The appearance of belatacept-specific antibodies was 
not associated with any acute or target-organ toxicity in any species. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No dedicated ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment was performed for this medicinal product, 
which is in accordance with the applicable guidance. The active substance is a protein, the use of 
which is unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment. Therefore, belatacept is not 
expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
With regard to the mode of action, the CHMP raised that the potential of belatacept to block the 
inhibitory receptor CTLA-4 could enhance the immune response. Data from pharmacological studies 
suggested such activity at low doses. Such activity could also be part of the explanation to the 
unexpectedly strong immunogenicity of belatacept after a single dose in healthy volunteers. There was 
a concern that when belatacept exposure falls below a certain level (such as after an intended or 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 24/85
 
 
 
 
accidental treatment interruption), the enhanced immune response could have negative consequences 
on graft and patient survival. In response to this discussion of immune enhancement at low belatacept 
doses the Applicant has re-evaluated the data by performing an individual statistical intrapolation of 
antigen-specific endpoint titers from the mentioned mouse, rat and monkey studies. This re-evaluation 
has generated new figures in which end point titers from individual animals are presented in a way 
which makes the data more exhaustive. The new figures show no immune enhancement at low 
belatacept doses.  
The Applicant has addressed the concern for immune enhancement after discontinuation of belatacept 
treatment by re-evaluating study 99655. In this study monkeys were treated weekly with belatacept 
for 6 months before KLH immunization followed 2 months of recovery. No statistically significant 
differences (p ≤0.05) in endpoint titers of monkeys in the belatacept dose groups relative to vehicle 
control or evidence of a rebound effect was seen. In addition, the Applicant has evaluated the clinical 
data in search for signs of increased autoimmune events in patients treated with low doses. No such 
trend was found. Also, the Applicant has re-evaluated clinical data from subjects discontinuing 
belatacept treatment in search for signs of increased autoimmunity. In the phase 3 trials of the 14 
autoimmune events observed, 13 were observed while on study drug when the belatacept 
concentrations are typically >2 g/mL and one autoimmune event was observed at 45 days post 
discontinuation. There were no auto-immune events reported beyond 56 days post discontinuation of 
study medication when belatacept concentrations would be expected to be approximately  
0.2-0.4 g/mL. Again, the data show no signs of immune enhancement in form of increased risk for 
autoimmunity. Also, in the study in healthy volunteers there was no reported autoimmune event 
during the 116 days follow-up.  
The mechanism by which belatacept could influence the function of CTLA-4 has been addressed 
indirectly by the Applicant by presenting data on CD86 expression on LPS stimulated dendritic cells 
after co-culture with CTLA-4 expressing Jurkat T cells in combination with belatacept. In this assay 
CTLA-4 expressing Jurkat cells are able to reduce the increased CD86 expression to background levels 
showing that CTLA-4 is able to negatively influence the maturation of dendritic cells. The data also 
show that belatacept is able to influence the CD86 expression in a dose-dependent manner by blocking 
the negative effects inflicted by the CTLA-4 expressing Jurkat cells, thus proving that belatacept could 
inhibit the negative function of CTLA-4. The Applicant claims that the effect seen is only observed at 
high belatacept concentrations, which are not reached in the clinic. Also, the concern originally raised 
was on effects at low belatacept concentrations, at which no impact on the negative function of CTLA-4 
could be observed in the presented study. The Applicant also states that future studies into the actual 
function/signalling of CTLA-4 in T cells is difficult to perform due to limitation in available techniques 
and knowledge.  
In conclusion, the Applicant has presented a re-evaluation of in vivo and clinical data to address the 
issue of possible immune enhancement. This re-evaluation has resulted in: new figures generated from 
the in vivo data which show no immune enhancement at low belatacept doses, data showing no signs 
of increased autoimmune events in patients treated with low doses, data showing no signs of increased 
autoimmunity in subjects discontinuing belatacept treatment and data reporting no autoimmune event 
in healthy volunteers during the 116 days follow-up. However, newly generated in vitro data indeed 
show that belatacept can influence the function of CTLA-4, but at concentrations which are much 
higher than the ones reached in the clinic. Also, the initial concern was for immune enhancement at 
low concentrations, at which no distortion of CLTA-4-fuction was observed in vitro. Thus, since the in 
vivo and clinical data do not support the initial concern of immune enhancement and since the newly 
generated in vitro data only show distortion of CTLA-4 function at high concentrations a possible 
immune enhancement effect is not a concern for belatacept.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 25/85
 
 
 
 
Since the Fc portion of Ig fusion proteins has the potential to bind Fc receptors and mediate antibody-
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) as well as complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), studies 
were conducted to evaluate the capacity of belatacept to mediate ADCC and CDC. The studies 
demonstrated that belatacept, at 30 μg/mL, did not mediate ADCC of a CD80/86 expressing human B-
cell line (PM-LCL) by PBMC from 13 different normal donors. Increasing concentrations of belatacept up 
to 30 μg/ml, did not increase complement-mediated killing above the background level observed with 
complement alone.  
In all species evaluated (mouse, rat, rabbit, monkey) belatacept is biologically active and complete 
suppression (≥98%) can be achieved at a species-dependent dose level or serum concentration. As 
such the efficacy and safety data generated in these species are considered relevant for the non-
clinical assessment of belatacept.   
Due to its normal inhibitory function, autoimmune reactions are a theoretical risk when blocking the 
function of CTLA-4. The collective data suggests that autoimmune reactions are not induced or 
exacerbated when blocking CD28/CTLA-4 binding to CD80/CD86. There are a few a signals that do 
indicate autoimmunity: 
a)  In a spontaneous model of diabetes (NOD mouse), CTLA4-Ig injections before diabetes onset 
resulted in faster diabetes onset. 
b)  CD28 deficient NOD mice spontaneously develop autoimmune pancreatitis. 
c)  Administration of high doses of abatacept resulted in inflammation in the thyroid and pancreas.  
In general, the pharmacology study program is adequate and supports the concept of belatacept 
immunosuppression.  
The PK of belatacept is typical for an IgG1 fusion protein, being characterized by slow elimination, 
limited extravascular distribution, and sensitivity to the carbohydrate composition of the molecule. 
While there were differences between species in PK, of the species tested, the PK parameters in the 
primary toxicology species (monkey) were most similar to those observed in humans. While dose-
dependent nonlinear PK was observed in some species, increases in exposure were roughly 
proportional to dose in the clinical dose range. Anti-belatacept antibodies were detected once serum 
belatacept concentrations had fallen to low levels; in some cases this was associated with a discernable 
acceleration in the decline in serum belatacept concentrations. 
The presented toxicology program includes multiple studies in monkey (up to 1 year in repeat-dose 
studies), mice (6 months repeat-dose and lifetime carcinogenicity studies), rat (3 months repeat-dose 
and reproductive/developmental studies) and rabbit (local tolerance and embryo-foetal studies). As to 
improved function over abatacept monkey is the most relevant species. In rodents abatacept is more 
immunosuppressive than belatacept. However, in both cases similar immunosuppression could be 
achieved by increased dosing/exposure. Therefore, with respect to potency, exposure and dose all 
species used in the safety testing are regarded as relevant. 
The most noteworthy findings in any of the repeat-dose toxicity studies are related to the 
pharmacology of the drug. Minimal mean decreases from pretreatment serum IgG levels were 
observed in monkey (one month treatment at AUC exposures 3.5 to 52.8 times the clinical), with 
levels generally returning towards baseline values during the dose-free observation period. At the end 
of dosing, minimal to moderate, non-dose-dependent decreases in the number and diameter of 
germinal centers in lymph nodes and spleen was also observed in monkey. In both of these organs, 
mild to moderate decreases in the number and diameter of germinal centers, containing fewer 
centrally located blast cells (centrocytes) and peripherally located small lymphocytes, were observed 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 26/85
 
 
 
 
 
reflecting decreased germinal center activity. These findings were evident at all doses (6 months 
treatment at AUC 1.2 to 20.6 times the clinical exposure) and were present to a very slight degree 
(background level) in the controls. Complete recovery occurred during dose-free recovery. 
One year abatacept treatment (at exposures levels 1.8 to 31.6 times the clinical) did not result in any 
clinical manifestation associated with a viral infection even although prestudy viral screening indicated 
previous exposure of all monkeys to one or more of the following viruses: LCV (EBV-like virus), Herpes 
B, rhesus CMV, and simian papovavirus (SV40; JC-like virus). No viral screening was performed in any 
the belatacept monkey studies. Overall there is a lack of data on viral immunity throughout the 
belatacept monkey studies. It would have been valuable to the safety assessment to be able to 
address the levels of viral-specific antibodies and viral antigen-specific T cells after long-term 
belatacept treatment, especially since belatacept is a more potent immunosuppressant than abatacept 
and since clinical viral reactivation can contribute to graft rejection. In the clinic, belatacept will be 
administered together with several other immunosuppressants and prophylactic antiviral drugs. As 
such, data showing the impact of belatacept on viral immunity will be hard to extract from clinical 
experience. On the other hand there are major species differences between human and monkey viral 
tropism and in combination with the absence of clinical viral manifestations in the monkey studies the 
lack of specific viral immunity data is acceptable. 
In the rat three month repeat-dose study, both doses of abatacept (4.8 to 63 times the clinical 
exposure) were associated with lymphocytic inflammation of thyroid (thyroiditis; 6%) and pancreatic 
islets (18%) with higher incidence at Week 21 than at Week 14. These findings are consistent with a 
possible autoimmune etiology. Similar findings were reported from juvenile toxicity studies. These data 
have been described in section 5.3 of the SPC. 
In the pivotal carcinogenicity study abatacept was administered at weekly intervals for up to 88 weeks. 
Mice were dosed at 20, 65 or 200 mg/kg providing exposure multiples of 0.7, 1.6, and 2.5 times at 20 
mg/kg; 2, 4, and 7 times and at 65 mg/kg; and 3, 7, and 10 times at 200 mg/kg the AUCs in patients 
given belatacept during the first month, fourth month, or maintenance phase of the LI regimen, 
respectively. The Applicant claims that the presence of retroviruses can account for the increased 
frequency of lymphomas (1.7%M/11.7%F in the vehicle control group, 30%M/45%F in the 20 
mg/kg/week group, 36.7%M/58.3%F in the 65 mg/kg/week group, 28.3%M/56.7%F in the 200 
mg/kg/week group) and mammary tumours (4 females in the vehicle group, 3 females in the 20 
mg/kg/week group, 7 females in the 65 mg/kg/week group and 10 females in the 200 mg/kg/week 
group) in this study. It is the CHMP’s opinion that this is a plausible explanation especially since 
abatacept has been show to be non-genotoxic. These data could refer to the human situation as an 
increased risk for virally induced malignancies. Breast cancer cases were reported in core clinical 
studies and mammograms were performed at inclusion and yearly thereafter (see clinical issues).  
A complete battery of reproductive toxicity studies was conducted with belatacept to assess potential 
effects on fertility, reproductive function, gestation, parturition and lactation of the parental generation 
in rats; on embryonic and fetal development in rats and rabbits; and on growth, development, 
reproductive performance and immune function of progeny in rats.  
Fetal exposures to belatacept were verified and demonstrated that belatacept crosses the placenta. 
Fetal serum concentrations were found to be approximately 0.7% (rabbit, at 3 to 66 times the clinical 
exposure) to 9% (rat, at 4 to 87 times the clinical exposure) of maternal concentrations. Additionally, 
dose-related levels of belatacept were present in maternal milk in rat at approximately 9 to 13% of 
those in the serum (at 4 to 87 times the clinical exposure). 
In rats, belatacept at all doses was associated with changes in the dams and their F1-generation 
offspring (dosed 20, 65 or 200 mg/kg/day from gestation day 6 though lactation day 20, 4 to 87 times 
the clinical exposure). In the dams, there were dose-dependent clinical toxicities (2, 3 and 5 dams at 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 27/85
 
 
 
 
20, 65 and 200 mg/kg/day, respectively) including signs of dehydration, soft/liquid feces, scant/absent 
feces, ungroomed coat, urine-stained abdominal fur, and hunched posture, pronounced body-weight 
loss and marked reductions in food consumption. In the F1-generation the observed toxicity included 
increased pup mortality (at all doses, 44-100% pup losses on PND 1-18), reduced weights, signs of 
dehydration, coldness to touch, decreased motor activity, absence of milk band, absence of maternal 
nursing or nesting, emaciation, ungroomed coat and reduced serum IgG levels. The clinical toxicities 
seen in the rat pre- postnatal study are considered to be attributed to opportunistic infection, 
secondary to pharmacologically mediated immunosuppression. Collectively, pup mortality in these 
litters is consistent with compromised maternal care (nesting and/or nursing) and/or nutritional 
support (milk production); and is thus considered secondary to maternal toxicity (these findings were 
restricted to 3.8-9.6% dams in all treated groups). All pups showed signs of immunosuppression by 
reduced IgG levels, however this finding was not accompanied by any toxicity or signs of 
autoimmunity.  
The toxicity of belatacept in juvenile animals has not been evaluated. However, the toxicity of 
abatacept (more active analogue in rodents) in juvenile animals was evaluated in a definitive study in 
juvenile rats administered abatacept parenterally from postnatal day 4 to 93. Two additional pivotal 
studies were conducted in juvenile and adult rats to further investigate the etiology of the findings 
observed in the initial juvenile rat study. The data show that abatacept has impact on the developing 
immune system as shown by increased bacterial infections and altered immune parameters. These 
animals also showed signs of autoimmunity (lymphocytic infiltration of the thyroid gland and pancreatic 
islets). Some of these findings were reversible over a 3-month treatment-free period. However, the 
infiltration of the pancreatic islet and thyroid gland increased in incidence and severity during the post 
dosing period. When administration was postponed to postnatal day 28, the amount of infections 
decreased but the immunological parameters and signs of pancreatic islets autoimmunity remained 
similar to animals administered on postnatal day 4. The lower incidence and severity of infections in 
this study, as compared to the first juvenile study, may be due to the conduct of the study under more 
microbiologically controlled conditions. In conclusion abatacept and most likely also belatacept show 
signs of potential juvenile secondary toxicity. The findings in these three studies have been described 
in 5.3 of the SPC. The data presented in these studies indicate a potential clinical risk when using 
belatacept during pregnancy. These risks include both an increased risk for infections (which most 
likely is attributed to the immunosuppressive action of belatacept), but also an increased risk for 
immune enhancement as shown by autoimmune reactions. Overall, the data show that belatacept has 
a negative impact on the developing immune system and should therefore not be used in later phases 
of pregnancy. 
In local tolerance studies performed in rabbit reactions were mild to moderate at the site of belatacept 
administration. The reactions were in many cases similar in the belatacept and vehicle control groups. 
The results provide evidence for a good local tolerance of belatacept. 
The Applicant refers to a combined belatacept safety and efficacy study in which selected organs were 
microscopically analyzed to assess and compare potential drug-related toxicities when the 
immunosuppressive compounds were administered simultaneously, relative to single-agent 
administration following renal transplantation in monkeys. Data show that efficacy (duration of graft 
survival) is improved by belatacept addition to MMF, and solumedrol. From a safety point of view 
belatacept does not contribute to any significant histopathological findings in the transplanted kidney.  
A dedicated belatacept CNS study was conducted in monkeys with the intention to establish if 
belatacept crosses the blood-brain barrier and if belatacept has effects on the CNS immune cells 
expressing CD80 or CD86. Data show that belatacept does not cross the blood brain barrier in healthy 
monkeys. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 28/85
 
 
 
 
No amino acid sequence comparison has been presented by the applicant in which all the parts of the 
belatacept constructs are aligned with corresponding amino acid sequences for the various species 
used in safety testing. When looking at the amino acid sequence within the CLTA-4 coding region 
rhesus monkeys and humans share all but one amino acid. As such this part of the construct is most 
likely less immunogenic in rhesus monkeys than in mice or rats which have a more heterogeneous 
sequence compared to humans. However, the amino acid sequence coding for the construct fusion 
regions will most likely be more immunogenic due to the formation of neoantigen. This is also true for 
humans. In addition, other amino acid species differences in the sequence will be immunogenic, for 
instance within the Ig domain. In the species tested, drug-directed antibodies appeared generally when 
belatacept serum levels had dropped below immunosuppressive levels. Taken the neo-antigenic nature 
of belatacept, it is a theoretical risk that this also could take place in humans at low serum levels, for 
instance after miss-dosing or after discontinuation of treatment (i.e. after graft rejection). In such 
events, retreatment with belatacept could be hampered by preformed drug-directed antibodies, for 
instance in case of retransplantation. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall the non-clinical program conducted by the Applicant meets the requirements and the data are 
acceptable. The initially raised concerns regarding the mode of action and the potential risk for 
enhanced immunity were adequately addressed by the Applicant hence this issue is resolved. As 
expected for this type of product there are potential risks associated with belatacept treatment during 
pregnancy, increased risks for infections and risks associated with tumour formation; these will need to 
be addressed with clinical data. The SmPC adequately reflects the non-clinical findings. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The Phase 3 program was composed of two randomized, active-controlled, partially-blinded global 
studies in de novo renal transplant patients receiving allografts from a broad range of donor types. 
Both studies evaluated 2 belatacept dose regimens, which were compared to CsA. In the studies, 
belatacept was administered in conjunction with basiliximab induction, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) 
and corticosteroids.  
Scientific advice on the phase III program for belatacept was received from the EMEA in February 2005 
(EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/44749/05) and resulted in the inclusion of acute rejection (AR) as a third primary 
endpoint in study IM103008. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 29/85
 
 
 
 
Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies with belatacept in transplant recipients 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
In total, 13 studies contributed to clinical pharmacology in healthy volunteers [IM103001, 3024, 3029, 
3038, 3046], in renal transplant subjects [3010, 3034, 3047, 3100, 3100LTE, 3008, 3027], and in 
patients with Rheumatoid arthritis [3002]. 
Standard pharmacokinetic data analysis has been utilized. Both non-compartmental methods and 
nonlinear mixed effects modelling have been applied. 
A total of three different bioanalytical methods (at two sites: BMS and PPD) were used for the 
determination of belatacept in serum (BMS Manual Method, BMS Automated Method and PPD Manual 
Method). The bioanalytical method seems adequately validated and the analyses at the two sites were 
cross-validated.  
To characterize the PK of mycophenolic acid (MPA) in stable renal transplant patients receiving either a 
belatacept-based or a CsA-based regimen, a LC-MS/MS bioanalytical method was developed and 
validated.  
Absorption  
Belatacept is intended for iv administration hence bioavailability is by definition 100 %. 
Three formulations, A, B and C, have been used during development due to the manufacturing process 
being changed twice. When comparing belatacept manufactured by process C and B, PK differ due to a 
reduction in CL with process C resulting in a 20 % higher AUC. This is not considered critical as the 
difference is small and most importantly, phase 3 was conducted with belatacept manufactured by 
process C. Regarding the comparison with process A, no definite conclusions can be drawn due to the 
comparison being done between studies. However, no marked difference between processes A, B and 
C in PK is expected based on the results. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 30/85
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The typical reference volumes determined by POP-PK were 3.59 L and 5.11 L for the central 
compartment and the peripheral compartment (in total 8.7 L or 0.12 L/kg), respectively (reference 
body weight 75 kg). 
The determination of volume of the central and peripheral compartments determined by the population 
analysis is consistent with the Vss determined by non-compartmental analysis (0.10 L/kg, 0.12 L/kg, 
0.11 L/kg based on studies IM103024, IM103047, IM103100, respectively).  
Since belatacept is neither lipophilic nor a known transporter substrate and has a low volume of 
distribution, it is unlikely that it crosses the blood-brain barrier. Preclinical brain distribution data 
further supports this statement. 
Elimination 
No studies of the metabolism of belatacept in humans were conducted. Like most therapeutic proteins, 
belatacept is not expected to be metabolized by CYP.  
It is expected that the high molecular weight (approximately 90 kD) of belatacept precludes renal 
excretion as a route of elimination. There is limited data on renal excretion. In one study (IM103047), 
urine data was collected from 4 subjects with proteinuria. All subjects had low but measureable 
belatacept concentrations.  
The elimination half-life in serum was about 8-10 days. Plasma clearance was about 0.5 ml/h/kg. 
Overall in subjects receiving belatacept as a component of a 4-agent immunosuppressive regimen in 
the Phase 3 studies and the 4-week schedule of IM103100LTE, drug specific antibodies against 
belatacept were developed in 4.4 % (37/847) of the subjects during treatment. Based on the 
presented data, antibodies directed towards belatacept seem not to affect belatacept clearance, but 
the data are limited. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Data on dose proportionality is found in study IM103001. This was a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, sequential escalating single dose study of belatacept (produced by Process A) 
administered intravenously over 1 hour in 40 healthy subjects. Groups of 8 subjects (6 subjects on 
belatacept and 2 subjects on placebo) each were assigned to one of five dose levels; 0.1, 1.0, 5.0, 10 
or 20 mg/kg of belatacept or placebo. The data showed that belatacept seems to exhibit dose 
proportionality within 1-20 mg/kg. The population PK analysis did not include a formal analysis of time 
dependency but supported time invariant PK since the plots of conditional weighted residuals and 
weighted residual versus time after first dose revealed no trends. 
Special populations 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
In the final model, interindividual variability in CL, central volume of distribution and peripheral volume 
of distribution were 21.4%, 17.7% and 28.8% CV respectively. Interoccasion variability was estimated 
in the base model only and was about 9% for CL. 
Impaired renal function 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 31/85
 
 
 
 
No formal renal impairment study has been performed. The pharmacokinetic profile of belatacept 
seems not to be affected by varying degrees of renal function. The proposed SPC text in section 4.2 is 
acceptable. 
Impaired hepatic function 
No specific study in patients with hepatic impairment was performed. It is generally accepted 
therapeutic proteins are eliminated by catabolism and/or receptor-mediated processes and not by 
hepatic metabolic clearance. The proposed SPC text in section 4.2 is acceptable. 
Gender 
Based on the POP-PK analysis, the effect of gender on the clearance of belatacept was not clinically 
relevant.  
Race 
Based on the POP-PK analysis, the effect of race on the clearance of belatacept was not clinically 
relevant.  
Weight 
The data show that the relation between the CL and V is not directly proportional to body weight 
therefore there is a slight increase in exposure with increasing body weight when dosed by body 
weight. Between 12 and 25% higher median Cmax and Cmin was observed in obese subjects 
compared with non-obese subjects was observed. Overall there is no strong indication that the 
increase in exposure in obese subjects is of relevance and hence the suggested dose by body weight is 
considered appropriate also for obese subjects from a pharmacokinetic point of view. 
Elderly 
Although the number of subjects above 75 years is not extensive there is no obvious trend of 
decreased clearance and the observed slight decrease in clearance with age is not clinically relevant. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No in vitro and in vivo studies on the interaction potential of belatacept have been performed. The 
interaction potential for belatacept is likely low.  
The applicant has investigated the interaction between CsA and mycophenolic acid. The Phase 3 
program was composed of 2 randomized, active-controlled, partially-blinded global studies in de novo 
renal transplant patients receiving allografts from a broad range of donor types. Both studies evaluated 
2 belatacept dose regimens, which were compared to CsA. In the studies, belatacept was administered 
in conjunction with basiliximab induction, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and corticosteroids. These 
adjunctive agents were also used in the comparator group. Dose normalised MPA, which is the active 
moiety of MMF, Cmax and AUC were approximately 22% and 41% higher, respectively, in subjects 
receiving belatacept compared to subjects receiving CsA.  
In study IM103034 it was observed that belatacept concentrations were higher in the sirolimus group 
vs. the MPA group, but there were large overlaps in exposure and no relevant interaction between the 
agents was concluded. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 32/85
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Belatacept is a CD28-selective costimulation blocker. It is a fully human, soluble, recombinant fusion 
protein of the extracellular domains of CTLA-4 and a fragment of a modified Fc portion of human IgG. 
It is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a mammalian cell expression system. During the 
development program, belatacept was known as BMS-22481 and as LEA29Y.  
T cells require at least 2 signals for full activation, an antigen-specific signal (signal 1) and a 
costimulatory signal (signal 2). CD28 is a cell surface receptor that is constitutively expressed on T 
cells. It is a counter-receptor for the costimulatory molecules CD80 (B7-1) and CD86 (B7-2), which are 
expressed on APCs. Binding of CD28 to CD80 or CD86, along with the antigen-specific signal described 
above, triggers intracellular signalling pathways that result in the expansion of antigen-specific T cells. 
The CD28 costimulation lowers the threshold for T cell activation. Belatacept binds with high avidity to 
CD80 and CD86 receptors on APCs, thereby inhibiting the interaction of CD80/CD86 with CD28 and, 
thus, CD28-mediated costimulation of T cells.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Belatacept’s capacity to saturate its targets and to inhibit CD28-mediated T-cell costimulation, 
proliferation, and cytokine production in response to antigen was shown in several in vitro studies. 
Belatacept is a potent inhibitor of T-cell activation. These studies demonstrated that the 2 amino acid 
substitutions in belatacept not only enhance binding to CD80 and CD86 as compared to abatacept, but 
also result in a 5-10-fold increase in immunomodulatory activity in vitro. A number of in vitro 
experiments were performed to evaluate the effect of belatacept on T-cell responses stimulated by 
allogeneic monocyte-derived dendritic cells. In these models, approximately 10 μg/mL and above of 
belatacept was necessary for maximal inhibition of both cytokine production and T-cell proliferation in 
these dendritic cell-driven mixed lymphocyte response (MLR) assays. In some of these studies, 
belatacept’s capacity to saturate CD80 and CD86 on the APCs was also evaluated. Concentrations of 
approximately 0.1 μg/mL belatacept maximally saturate CD80 molecules on the surface of APCs in 
whole blood, as well as on cultured dendritic cells in a MLR assay; however, these concentrations are 
insufficient for full inhibition of T-cell responses to allo-antigen. The concentration of belatacept 
required to maximally saturate CD86 is higher, at least 10 μg/ml. This is approximately the 
concentration of belatacept required to fully inhibit both IFNγ production and T-cell proliferation in 
these DC-driven MLRs. These data suggest that to fully inhibit T-cell proliferation and cytokine 
production, the interaction of both CD80 and CD86 with CD28 needs to be blocked by belatacept. 
Based on these in vitro data, the target concentration of belatacept in the clinic are greater than 0.1 
μg/ml and thus would probably be sufficient to fully block CD80 at all times. The trough concentrations 
of belatacept observed clinically in the first month after the transplantation (Cmin > 20 μg/ml) would be 
predicted to fully saturate CD86 and inhibit T cell responses (~90%) during this first period after 
transplantation when the risk of rejection is highest. As the dose of belatacept is attenuated during 
months 2-4, and again during the maintenance phase, the belatacept exposure is reduced, and 
therefore reduced CD86 saturation and T-cell inhibition during these periods could be predicted.  
Additional assays were performed to evaluate the ability of belatacept to inhibit the proliferation and 
cytokine production by T cells in both a primary and secondary MLR assay in vitro. Belatacept was 
found to be 5 - 10-fold more potent at inhibiting these in vitro immune responses than abatacept. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 33/85
 
 
 
 
 
Measurement of IL-2, IL-4 and IFNγ was performed on culture supernatants collected 24 hours post 
primary and secondary stimulation. In the primary MLR assay, only IL-2 was detectable and the EC50 
of belatacept for inhibition of IL-2 production in the primary MLR was 0.04 μg/ml. In the secondary 
MLR IL-2, IL-4 and IFNγ were produced at detectable levels and it appeared that belatacept’s EC50 for 
inhibition of IL-2, IL-4 and IFNγ production in the secondary MLR were 0.03 μg/ml, 0.20 μg/ml and 
0.14 μg/ml respectively. The data suggests that belatacept is an inhibitor of both primary and 
secondary in vitro immune responses to allo-antigens. 
Other in vitro experiments were also performed to evaluate the effect of belatacept on T-cell responses 
stimulated by allogeneic, monocyte-derived, DCs. The potency for inhibition of T-cell proliferation and 
cytokine production in the DC-driven MLR was confirmed in these experiments. The range of belatacept 
concentrations required to inhibit the proliferation of T cells in these MLR assays by 50% was 0.18 - 
0.20 μg/ml and the range to inhibit cytokine production in these assays by 50% was 0.03 - 0.16 
μg/ml. Belatacept also inhibited human memory responses to tetanus toxoid in vitro as measured by 
T-cell proliferation. 
A concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation was observed with belatacept achieving an IC50 
of 0.40 μg/ml. The relationship between these results and the maintenance of an in vivo memory 
response to a pathogen is unclear. The effect of CD28 blockade in vivo on memory immune responses 
would depend on the nature of the protective memory immunity (e.g. antibody-mediated, CD8+ CTL-
mediated etc), which would be pathogen specific. Belatacept effectively inhibited both primary and 
secondary T-cell responses to allogeneic antigen in vitro, confirming that the enhanced binding 
properties of belatacept resulted in high functional potency. Belatacept should therefore potently inhibit 
the T-cell responses against allogeneic antigen in vivo, which are induced following solid organ 
transplantation. 
Selection of dose regimens: The LI and MI dosing regimens of belatacept investigated in the phase 2/3 
studies were constructed using an integrated assessment of belatacept PK, PD and clinical efficacy and 
safety data from in vitro, nonclinical and clinical studies. In the dendritic cell-simulated mixed 
lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay, the maximal inhibition of alloresponse by belatacept began to 
plateau around 10 μg/ml, concentrations that would result in maximal inhibition of CD80- and CD86-
mediated costimulation or allogeneic antigen immune response of CD4+ T cell proliferation and 
maximal inhibition of production of cytokines IFNγ, IL-2 and TNF-α. Based on these data and on 
belatacept concentrations needed to inhibit the alloresponse, the belatacept concentrations were 
selected for the clinical studies, to provide maximal inhibition of the alloimmune response. The 
CD80/86 receptor occupancy assay was then established and the set target concentrations were shown 
to provide high degrees of CD80/86 receptor saturation.  
From the biomarker data generated, the conclusion was drawn by the Applicant that the belatacept 
regimens studied provide a sufficient level of target saturation to inhibit immune responses to the 
graft, in combination with the co-administered other immunosuppressive drugs. These data was the 
basis for the selection of doses for the primate renal transplant study to achieve transplant efficacy. 
The selected target concentrations were ≈20 μg/ml for the first month followed by ≈7 μg/ml up to day 
90 and then ≈2 μg/ml up to day 365. These concentrations provided approximately 80 % inhibition of 
the alloresponse during the first 3 months and approximately 50 % or greater inhibition of the 
alloresponse later. These concentrations were confirmed by the receptor occupancy assay to produce 
about 60 % CD86 receptor occupancy and complete CD80 receptor occupancy in vitro. With belatacept 
monotherapy in doses providing the target concentrations of belatacept, median survival time was  
45 days compared to 6 days for the control treatment in the primate model. When basiliximab, MMF 
and steroids were coadministered with belatacept, survival time was prolonged to 112 days, while a 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 34/85
 
 
 
 
 
combination of basiliximab, MMF and steroids resulted in 22.5 days survival, and CsA plus steroids that 
resulted in a median survival time of 28 days in this primate model. There appeared to be a 
relationship between C min of belatacept and prophylaxis of acute rejection in the primate transplant 
model. A belatacept Cmin of 3 – 30 μg/ml seemed to be adequate during the engraftment phase and 
the initial phase post transplantation while a Cmin of 0.005 – 1.5 μg/ml seemed appropriate during t
maintenance phase to prevent acute rejection.  
he 
Thus, dose selection for phase 2 studies was based on the in vitro data, preclinical study data referred 
to above, data from phase 1 safety/tolerability study IM103001 in healthy subjects, plus a pilot dose 
ranging phase 2 clinical and safety study in subjects with RA (IM103002). No traditional sequential 
dose escalation study was undertaken. The doses selected for initial and maintenance phases following 
transplantation were 10 and 5 mg/kg IV, respectively. Study IM103100 formed part of the basis for 
selection of belatacept dosage schedules brought forward to the two pivotal studies IM103008 and 
IM103027. 
Based on data from study IM103002 and also on data from PK modelling and simulation, it was 
concluded that the belatacept LI and MI dosing regimens with the 10 and 5 mg/kg doses would provide 
the targeted Cmin concentrations. During the maintenance phase after transplantation, a 8 week versus 
a 4 week dosing schedule was evaluated to target maintenance Cmin of 0.25 or 2 μg/ml, respectively. 
The rate of subclinical ARs and the immunogenicity was about 2-fold higher during the long-term 
extension when subjects were reallocated from the 4-week maintenance regimen to the 8-week 
maintenance schedule. Both LI and MI dosing regimens were carried forward to phase 3 studies as 
they were both considered to have shown acceptable efficacy and safety in phase 2. In clinical studies, 
approximately 90 % of the patients treated with the LI dosing regimen achieved target Cmin of 20 
μg/ml during month 1, 5 μg/ml during months 2 and 3, and 2 μg/ml thereafter during the maintenance 
phase. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect: A time-to-event model was developed to 
characterise the E-R relationship between belatacept serum concentrations (as a time-varying variable) 
and time-to-first acute rejection (defined as central biopsy proven rejection that was either clinically 
suspected by protocol defined reasons or clinically suspected by other reasons and treated) up to 1 
year after transplant in patients included in studies IM103008 and IM103027. The hazard 
(instantaneous probability) of acute rejection at a given time was assumed to be related to the serum 
concentration at that time. No time delay in effect was included. The analysis demonstrated that the 
hazard of acute rejection decreases with time, increases with baseline body weight and is higher in 
mismatched HLA (≥2 mismatched) and in North America and Europe (relative to South America, Asia 
and Africa) while belatacept serum concentration was not a significant predictor, i.e. there is 
insufficient evidence of a relationship between serum concentration and the risk of acute rejection.  
Exploratory E-R analysis was performed by graphical examination of the relationship between observed 
trough belatacept serum concentrations and each of the following efficacy or safety endpoints: AR (up 
to 1 year after transplant), CMV infection, PTLD, PML detected up-to database lock (30/Jun/2008 for 
IM103027 and 21/Jul/2008 for IM103008) and cGFR measured within 1 year after transplant. There 
was no obvious relation between exposure and acute rejection or cGFR nor between exposure and 
CMV, PTLD or PML (very limited number). 
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM): Dose was found to be a good predictor of belatacept exposure. 
Renal function is not a covariate of belatacept clearance, meaning that no dose reduction of belatacept 
is necessary during the period directly after renal transplantation even if renal function is impaired. 
Over a 1-year period, the overall mean variability for belatacept Cmax, C avg, and Cmin was 15 %, 23 % 
and 47 %, respectively. On these grounds, the Applicant claims that therapeutic monitoring (TDM) of 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 35/85
 
 
 
 
 
belatacept is not necessary as the drug is not nephrotoxic, does not have a narrow therapeutic index 
and the risk of drug-drug interaction is low.   
Secondary pharmacology 
No clinical studies regarding secondary pharmacology. This is in concordance to non-clinical part of the 
application without experimental studies on secondary pharmacodynamics, since there is no evidence 
of off target biological effects with belatacept. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Across studies, belatacept exhibits a consistent PK profile with a low volume of distribution (similar to 
the vascular space) and a low clearance (leading to an elimination half-life of about 8-10 days). These 
characteristics are as expected given that belatacept is a large therapeutic protein including a domain 
of a human IgG1 antibody.  
The lack of studies on protein binding and metabolism is acceptable as this is a therapeutic protein. 
The POP-PK analysis was developed based on data in healthy subjects and renal transplant patients 
(studies IM103001, IM103008, IM103024, IM103027 and IM103100). A two-compartment model with 
linear elimination could adequately describe the data. No clinically relevant effect of age, race 
(caucasian subjects, black subjects, Asian/Pacific islander subjects), sex, renal function including 
dialysis, diabetes or dose level (5 or 10 mg/kg) was identified in the POP-PK. The only identified 
significant patient factor influencing belatacept pharmacokinetics is body weight. A body weight based 
dosing of belatacept was therefore used in phase 3. As the relation between the CL and V is not 
directly proportional to body weight, there is a slight increase in exposure with increasing body weight 
although dosed by body weight. The Applicant was asked to discuss degree of obesity in the population 
and the risk of overexposure with dosing by total body weight. A number of obese subjects were 
included in the population and the observed increase in exposure was relatively small in this group of 
patients. No difference between non-obese and obese was detected in the subgroup analysis for safety 
(see further discussion on safety below).  
In one study (IM103047), urine data was collected from 4 subjects with proteinuria. All subjects had 
low but measureable belatacept concentrations. Proteinuria was rather frequent in phase 3 and 
therefore a graphical exploration of POP-PK data has been provided indicating a tendency toward 
higher clearance in subjects with proteinuria, but the effect appears limited. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of belatacept seems not notably affected by varying degrees of renal 
function (calculated GFR). Analysis of Ctrough versus measured and calculated GFR at 12 months 
revealed no obvious effects and the data support that no dose adjustments are needed in patients with 
renal impairment. 
No study in hepatically impaired subjects has been performed which is generally acceptable for this 
kind of therapeutic protein. The lack of data is reflected in the SmPC.  
In the Phase 3 studies and with the 4-week schedule of IM103100LTE, 6 subjects had neutralizing 
antibodies. Graphical analyses of effects of antibodies (including specific analysis for neutralizing 
antibodies) on PK parameters have been submitted. No major effects on clearance could be identified 
but the data are very limited. Conclusions on the relationship between antibodies against belatacept 
(neutralising and/or non-neutralising) and efficacy or safety are not very robust due to the low 
numbers of patients with antibodies and more data are to be collected post-approval. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 36/85
 
 
 
 
 
As there were remaining questions on the data presented by the Applicant on timing of infusional 
events in core studies, further assessment to rule out immunogenicity is needed and the Applicant has 
presented an appropriate program for postapproval further follow up of peri-infusional event. 
The interaction potential for belatacept is considered low and the lack of interaction data is acceptable.  
Regarding the interaction between CyA and MPA, it is difficult to determine the contribution of one drug 
or its exposure to the overall safety and efficacy of an immunosuppressant regimen. Accordingly, it is 
unclear whether the increased exposure to MPA has any clinically meaningful contribution to the 
efficacy and safety of a belatacept-based regimen. This was further discussed by the Applicant; the 
circumstance that patients on belatacept (and resulting higher MPA exposure), did not show an 
increase in MPA-related adverse events is an argument against a detrimental effect of this higher MPA 
exposure in belatacept treated subjects.  
The Applicant discussed the possible benefits of therapeutic drug monitoring in order to avoid under- 
or over immunosuppression. In the response no new arguments have been put forward. No potential 
cut-offs for exposure response or safety has been identified. It is agreed that TDM is not warranted. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mechanism of action for belatacept has not been clarified in all details and there is a theoretical 
possibility that different immunological mechanisms could be involved, depending on the dose 
administered. Receptor occupancy for belatacept is higher for CD80 than for CD86. The Applicant has 
discussed if this difference in binding could mean that low concentrations of belatacept could result in 
other types of immune modulation than those that seen with higher concentrations, (e. g. an altered 
balance between Th1 and Th2 cells and/or different lymphokine production). The Applicant has further 
discussed additional possible mechanisms of action, without the occurrence of new data that would 
influence the clinical safety perspective. The effects of CD80/86 blockade on host pathogen defense 
have been studied in several preclinical models. The Applicant has discussed how belatacept affects the 
human host pathogen defense against different classes of pathogens. The CD28 costimulation seems 
to be more important following initial exposure to a pathogen than in the chronic phase of a polyoma 
virus infection and the same is most likely true for exposure to mycobacteria while exposure to other 
kinds of pathogens do not exhibit the same difference between initial exposure and reexposure.  
In the exposure-response analysis, no relation between belatacept serum concentration and efficacy 
(acute rejection and cGFR) or safety (CMV infection, PTLD or PML) has so far been identified. A direct 
relation between exposure and AR could not be verified. Although some minor trends were observed, 
no clear relations or cut-offs for potential monitoring and dose adjustments could be identified based 
on these analyses. In the graphical analysis, it was observed that the cGFR is constantly lower in the 
highest exposure quartile in study IM103008, and the Applicant was asked to discuss possible reasons 
for this. The Applicant provided some additional data on the exposure response. The presented number 
of acute rejections was rather different between the two studies IM103008 and IM103027. Separate 
graphical analysis for the two studies was provided for AR and safety measures. The separate graphical 
analysis was largely consistent with the pooled data. Possible reasons for the higher risk of acute 
rejections in subjects with high body weight and appropriateness of the body weight based dosing in 
obese was discussed but a relation between high dosing in the highest weight group and safety 
parameters could not be verified. 
The Applicant provided reasonable explanations and sufficient data from in vitro studies, preclinical 
studies, and early clinical studies to justify the dosage used in phase 3 studies. The Applicant could 
satisfactorily justify why the 4 week maintenance dose schedule instead of the 8 week maintenance 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 37/85
 
 
 
 
 
dose schedule also investigated in study M103100 was selected, as more acute rejections were seen in 
the 8 week dosing group. 
In light of the outcome of the phase III studies, a post hoc discussion on the adequacy of the targeted 
occupancy levels during the early post-transplantation period was provided by the Applicant, on 
request. Since the CD86 receptor occupancy in a clinical setting correlates well with belatacept serum 
concentration and since AR events do not correlate with belatacept serum concentration in the dose 
ranges studied, it is considered unlikely that receptor occupancy correlates with the AR events. 
The possibility to optimize dosing using biomarkers in the entire target population or in any particular 
subset of patients e.g. IDO phenotype was explored by the Applicant. The only reliable biomarker for 
exposure pointed out was CD86 receptor occupancy. 
Due to the nature and mechanism of action of belatacept, it is not expected to have pharmacodynamic 
interactions with other drugs.  
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The Applicant has presented a comprehensive clinical pharmacology program. There are no 
outstanding issues on clinical pharmacology.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
No conventional dose finding study was undertaken.  
Study IM103002 was a pilot study to evaluate the safety, preliminary clinical activity and 
immunogenicity of multiple doses of abatacept and belatacept to subjects with rheumatoid arthritis. In 
a substudy, the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the two drugs in subjects with RA were 
investigated. Belatacept at doses of 0.5, 2, or 10 mg/kg was administered as a one-hour intravenous 
infusion on study days 1, 15, 29, and 57. At day 85, a positive dose-response was noted for both 
active treatments. A dose-effect relationship could be seen for belatacept, with the best effect on RA 
symptoms for the dose 10 mg/kg. 
For additional information on the selection of dose regimens please also refer to section 
“Pharmacodynamics / Primary pharmacology”. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
The two pivotal studies were IM103008 in patients receiving low risk transplants, and IM103027 in a 
higher risk patient population. Study treatments were the same in both these studies and study 
procedures were very similar.  
Study IM103008: Belatacept Evaluation of Nephroprotection and Efficacy as First-line 
Immunosuppression Trial (BENEFIT) in de novo renal transplant recipients who received grafts from 
standard criteria donors (SCD). 
Methods 
This study was a randomized, partially-blinded, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter clinical 
trial. Subjects were to be randomized in equal numbers to receive belatacept in a more intensive 
regimen (MI), belatacept in a less intensive regimen (LI), or CsA. All subjects also received a 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 38/85
 
 
 
 
background immunosuppressive regimen consisting of basiliximab induction therapy and 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and corticosteroid maintenance therapy. 
Study duration is 3 years with a subsequent 8-week follow-up period for safety evaluations. At the end 
of the 3-year treatment period, subjects may be eligible for a long-term extension study.  
Study procedure 
Protocol biopsies were performed at baseline and at the end of month 12. Biopsies were also 
performed for assessment of clinically suspected acute rejections.  
GFR was assessed as measured GFR, at the end of months 3, 12 and 24 (and the early termination 
visit if applicable).  
Anti-belatacept antibody testing was done at baseline and at weeks 12, 24, 52, 76, 104, 128, and 156. 
The composite cardiorenal disease endpoint (death, graft loss, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and 
stroke) was assessed based upon the adjudication of these events at 12, 24, and 36 months. 
Quality of Life (QoL) was assessed at baseline and at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months by questionnaires. 
Mammograms were done at baseline and then yearly during the study for all female study subjects 
aged 40 or older, and for younger females who had a first line relative with a history of breast cancer. 
The severity of acute rejections were diagnosed according to the Banff -97 classification.  
Study Participants  
Inclusion and exclusion criteria: de novo renal transplant recipients at least 18 years of age and 
receiving a graft from a standard criteria donor (SCD), a living donor or deceased donor with 
anticipated cold ischemic time <24 hours, were to be included. Subjects were excluded from study 
participation if receiving an extended criteria donor organ defined by donor age ≥60 years or donor 
age 50-59 years and two or more of the following: (1) Cerebrovascular accident; (2) Hypertension or 
(3) Serum creatinine ≥1.5 mg/dl or anticipated cold ischemia time ≥24 hours or donor with cardiac 
death (non-heart beating donor). The following categories of patients were also excluded: Subjects 
with previous graft loss due to acute rejection; HLA-identical donor-recipient pairs; and subjects with a 
history of panel-reactive antibodies greater than 20%. 
Treatments 
All study patients were to receive induction therapy with basiliximab (20 mg IV on days 1 and 5) plus a 
background maintenance immunosuppressive regimen of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and 
corticosteroids. An IV dose of 500 mg methylprednisolone was administered on day 1, 250 mg on  
day 2. Steroids were then administered orally and doses were to be gradually tapered to no less than 
2.5 mg daily. The normal dose of MMF was 1 g twice daily. In subjects who had AEs related to MMF, 
the dose could be reduced to the maximally tolerated dose. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) for 
MMF was not done in the study. All study subjects were required to receive at least 6 months of 
Pneumocystis carinii prophylaxis. CMV-negative recipients receiving a CMV-positive transplant received 
CMV prophylaxis for at least 3 months. In addition, subjects treated with T-cell depleting agents were 
treated with antiviral agents prophylactically. 
CsA regimen: Subjects randomised to CsA received doses twice daily, designed to achieve a serum 
concentration of 150-300 ng/ml during the first month, and thereafter a target level of 100-250 ng/ml. 
The use of lymphocyte depleting therapy (LDT) was permitted but not required for subjects 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 39/85
 
 
 
 
randomised to CsA who experienced impaired renal allograft function and anticipated delayed graft 
function (DGF). 
Belatacept treatment: On the day of transplantation (day 1), the first belatacept infusion was started 
before completion of the transplant vessel anastomoses. Study drug was administered over 30 
minutes. 
Belatacept MI regimen: Subjects received IV belatacept (10 mg/kg) on days 1 and 5, then every  
2 weeks through month 3 (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12), and then every 4 weeks through 6 months 
(weeks 16, 20, and 24). After 6 months, subjects in the MI treatment group received the maintenance 
dose of belatacept 5 mg/kg administered every 4 weeks until completion of the trial at 36 months. 
Belatacept LI regimen: Subjects received IV belatacept (10 mg/kg) on days 1 and 5, and then every  
2 weeks through month 1 (weeks 2 and 4), and every 4 weeks through month 3 (weeks 8 and 12). 
After 3 months, subjects in the LI treatment group received the maintenance dose of belatacept  
5 mg/kg administered every 4 weeks until completion of the trial at month 36. The clinical program 
employed a new vial size (250 mg) of belatacept during the study. Clinical study sites could switch 
from the 100 mg to 250 mg vial of belatacept when IRB/EC approval had been obtained and all 
subjects had completed month 12.  
Objectives 
The primary study hypothesis was that treatment with belatacept will result in superior preservation of 
renal function, as compared to CsA, with similar rates of subject and graft survival and no clinically 
important increase in acute rejection by 12 months in subjects receiving a kidney transplant from a 
living or deceased donor with cold ischemia time (CIT) < 24 hours. 
The key secondary hypotheses were: a) Belatacept-treated subjects will have superior measured GFR 
at 12 months as compared with CsA-treated subjects; b) Belatacept-treated subjects will have a lower 
incidence of chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) by 12 months as compared with CsA-treated 
subjects. These two key secondary endpoints are separated from other secondary endpoints. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
This pivotal study had three co-primary endpoints:  
(1)  the composite of subject and graft survival by 12 months; 
(2)  the composite of measured glomerular filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 at month 12 
or a decrease in measured GFR ≥10 ml/min/1.73 m2 from month 3 to month 12 (this endpoint 
was chosen in accordance with advice received from the FDA and from EMEA), and  
(3)  the incidence of acute rejection by 12 months 
Key secondary endpoints were:  
(1)  mean GFR at 12 months, and  
(2)  incidence of biopsy-proven chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) at 12 months. 
Sample size 
A sample size of 220 subjects per treatment arm was chosen, which afforded 93% power to detect one 
belatacept regimen that meets all co-primary endpoints with overall Type I error controlled at the 0.05 
level. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 40/85
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
After informed consent had been obtained, subjects were randomised, via an IVRS system, 1:1:1 to 
receive belatacept in either MI or LI regimen or to receive CsA. Randomisation was stratified by study 
site. Since treatment with belatacept was to be started before the implantation of the renal graft, a 
number of patients were randomised but not transplanted. 
Blinding (masking) 
Blinding was done between the two belatacept treatment groups but not for the CsA group due to the 
need for monitoring CsA blood levels and also the potential use of LDT in CsA-treated subjects. Fully 
blinded adjudication committees, a fully blinded central pathologist and a blinded central GFR 
laboratory were used in the study.  
Statistical methods 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population was defined as all randomised and transplanted subjects. The ITT 
population was used for primary efficacy and safety analyses. The Per-Protocol population (PP) was 
used for secondary efficacy analyses: all randomised and transplanted subjects who did not violate 
terms of the protocol that might affect the efficacy outcome. In the initial statistical analysis plan (SAP) 
patients who never received any study drug were excluded from the PP-analysis. Since the 
administration of CsA but not of betalacept was conditional of allograft function this might bias the PP 
analysis. The SAP was therefore amended to include these patients in the PP population. Bearing in 
mind the primary analyses concerning non-inferiority, it was questioned whether the PP-population 
defined by the Applicant was too generously defined to be a useful alternative to the ITT population. 
The PP population originally defined by the Applicant was later recalculated according to a more strict 
definition; the results of this recalculation did not significantly differ from the original analysis. As-
treated population: All randomised and transplanted subjects who received at least 1 dose of CsA or 
belatacept. A non-inferiority margin of 10% for the co-primary endpoint of subject and graft survival 
was used. The treatment differences between each belatacept treatment group and CsA group was 
tested at the 0.027 significance level for efficacy endpoints including subject and graft survival (based 
on 10% non-inferiority margin), acute rejection (based on 20% non-inferiority margin), measured 
GFR, intensity of anti-hypertension medication, lipid parameters (and incidence of  new onset diabetes 
mellitus (NODM).  
Study IM103027: Belatacept Evaluation of Nephroprotection and Efficacy as First-line 
Immunosuppression Trial - EXTended Criteria Donors (BENEFIT-EXT). 
Methods 
Randomized, partially-blinded, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter clinical study. Post-Month 
12, subjects continued to receive their study treatment regimen: belatacept more intensive regimen 
(MI), less intensive regimen (LI), or CsA according to the randomization assigned at the beginning of 
the study.  
Study duration is 3 years with a subsequent 8-week follow-up period for safety evaluations. At the end 
of the 3-year treatment period, subjects may be eligible for a long-term extension study.  
Study procedure: Same as in study IM103008. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 41/85
 
 
 
 
Study Participants  
Inclusion and exclusion criteria: De novo renal transplant recipients at least 18 years of age who were 
receiving a kidney transplant from an extended criteria deceased donor (ECD) were included. The 
specific ECD criteria are based upon the ‘expanded criteria’ for organ donation issued by UNOS. 
Subjects at varying levels of immunological risk were eligible but subjects of greatest immunological 
risk (positive cross-match, panel reactive antibodies, PRA, of ≥30%, or those previously transplanted) 
were excluded from study participation. 
Treatments 
All study patients were to receive induction therapy with basiliximab plus a background maintenance 
immunosuppressive regimen of MMF and corticosteroids. Details of these medications were the same 
as in study IM103008. Study drug regimens were to be maintained until month 36. 
All study subjects were required to receive at least 6 months of Pneumocystis carinii prophylaxis. CMV-
negative recipients receiving a CMV-positive transplant received CMV prophylaxis for at least 3 months. 
In addition, subjects treated with T-cell depleting agents were treated with antiviral agents 
prophylactically. 
Subjects randomised to CsA received CsA according to the immunosuppressive schedule for the CsA 
arm in study IM 1003008. Target level for CsA trough level was 150-300 ng/ml during the first month 
after transplantation and thereafter it was 100-250 ng/ml. 
The use of LDT was permitted but not required for subjects randomized to CsA who experienced 
impaired renal allograft function and anticipated DGF. 
On the day of transplantation, the first belatacept infusion was started before completion of the 
transplant vessel anastomoses for subjects randomised to belatacept. Study drug was administered 
over 30 minutes. 
a.  The belatacept more intensive (MI) regimen was identical to the belatacept MI regimen in 
study IM103008 
b.  The belatacept less intensive (LI) regimen was identical to the belatacept LI regimen in study 
IM103008 
Objectives 
Primary hypothesis: Treatment with belatacept will result in superior preservation of renal function, as 
compared with CsA, with similar rates of subject and graft survival by 12 months in subjects receiving 
an extended criteria donor (ECD) kidney transplant from a deceased donor. 
Key secondary hypotheses: 
  Belatacept-treated subjects will have superior measured glomerular filtration rate (GFR) at  
12 months as compared with CsA-treated subject 
  Belatacept-treated subjects will have a lower incidence of chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) 
at 12 months as compared with CsA-treated subjects. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary objective was to evaluate the effects of belatacept, relative to CsA, on:  
a)  Composite endpoint of subject and graft survival by 12 months  
b)  Composite endpoint of measured GFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 at month 12 or a decrease in 
measured GFR; ≥10 ml/min/1.73 m2 from month 3 to month 12. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 42/85
 
 
 
 
Key secondary objectives were to evaluate the effects of belatacept, relative to CsA, on:  
a.  Measured GFR at 12 month, by iothalamate clearance method 
b.  Biopsy-proven CAN at 12 months 
Sample size 
A sample size of 180 subjects per treatment group which was chosen considered to afford at least 80% 
power to detect 1 belatacept regimen that meets both co-primary endpoints with overall Type I error 
controlled at the 0.05 significance level (Dunnett adjustment). 
Randomisation 
Same as in study IM103008. 
Blinding (masking) 
Same as in study IM103008. 
Statistical methods 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population: All randomized and transplanted subjects. The ITT population was 
used for primary efficacy and safety analyses. 
Per-Protocol population, used for secondary efficacy analyses: all randomised and transplanted 
subjects who did not violate terms of the protocol that might affect the efficacy outcome.  
As-treated population: all randomised and transplanted subjects who received at least 1 dose of CsA or 
belatacept.  
The primary efficacy data set includes all randomised and transplanted subjects (ITT).   
All safety analyses were performed on the data set that included all randomised and transplanted 
subjects. All available data from belatacept-treated subjects were included in analyses of PK and 
immunogenicity. 
The co-primary and key secondary analyses include, in the order of hierarchy: 
-  assessment of the non-inferiority for the difference between belatacept and CsA in subject and graft 
survival at 12 months 
-  test of the difference between belatacept and CsA on the composite endpoint of renal function 
-  test of the difference between belatacept and CsA on the incidence of CAN by 12 months 
Results 
Study IM103008 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 43/85
 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
Study recruitment was initiated in January 2006 and the study is still ongoing. 
Conduct of the study 
104 study sites enrolled subjects. Study sites were located in the US (34 sites), India (10 sites), South 
America, Australia, South Africa, Israel, Turkey, and Europe.  
Protocol deviations were reported for 31 patients. However the conduct of the study does not indicate 
significant protocol deviations that could invalid the study results. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 44/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 3. Baseline patient demographics, study IM103008 
Table 4. Baseline disease characteristics of donors in study IM103008 ITT population 
Numbers analysed 
The ITT population used for primary efficacy and safety analyses consisted of 219, 226 and 221 
patients in the MI, LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively. 
The PP population analysed for secondary efficacy analyses was 217, 221 and 208 patients in the MI, 
LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively. 
The as-treated population used for secondary efficacy analyses included all randomised subjects who 
received a renal transplant and at least one dose of study medication. This population consisted of 
219, 226 and 215 patients in the MI, LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 45/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study IM103027 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
This study started to recruit patients in March 2005 and the study is still ongoing. 
Conduct of the study 
One hundred and eight study sites received study drug; only 79 sites enrolled subjects. Of these sites 
were 28 in the US, 9 in France, 6 in Brazil, 5 each in Germany, Argentina, and Spain, 4 in Canada, 3 in 
Italy, 2 each in Hungary, Austria, and Poland, 1 each in Belgium, Chile, Czech Republic, Norway, South 
Africa, Sweden, UK, and Australia. 
Ten subjects had at least 1 relevant protocol deviation. These Protocol deviations detected do not 
invalided the study results. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 46/85
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 5. Baseline demographics of recipients, ITT population in study IM103027 
Table 6. Baseline disease characteristics of donors in study IM103027 ITT population 
Numbers analysed 
The ITT population used for primary efficacy and safety analyses consisted of 184, 175, and 184 
patients in the MI, LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 47/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PP population analysed for secondary efficacy analyses was 180, 170 and 183 patients in the MI, 
LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively. 
The as-treated population used for secondary efficacy analyses included all randomised subjects who 
received a transplant and at least one dose of study medication. This population consisted of 183, 174 
and179 patients in the MI, LI and CsA treatment arms, respectively.  
PP analyses were performed on the co-primary endpoint of subject and graft survival. It was also to be 
performed on the co-primary endpoint of measured GFR at month 12, only if >10% of the total 
number of subjects included into the ITT data set at month 12 had significant protocol 
violations/deviations and consequently would be excluded from the PP data set. 
Outcomes and estimation 
There were no major imbalances between treatment groups with respect to risk factors and 
concomitant treatment. Due to the different donor criteria there were obvious differences in risk 
factors between studies (Table 7). Subject and graft survival status was available for 663/666 patients 
in study IM103008 and month 12 biopsies were available from 79% of patients with functioning graft. 
In study IM103027, subject and graft survival status was available for 532/543 subjects and graft 
biopsies at 12 months were available for 70 – 75% of patients alive with a functioning graft. In both 
pivotal studies, measured and calculated GFR data collection rates were 81 – 91%.  
Table 7. Selected comparative baseline demographic data in pivotal belatacept studies (compiled from 
core study reports) 
Phase 3 pivotal study 
 IM103027 
Mean recipient age (yrs) 
56.2 
Mean donor age (yrs) 
57 
% Male recipients 
67.0 
% White recipients  
76.1 
% Black recipients 
13.1 
% Asian recipients 
2.6 
% First transplantation  
100? (re-tx exclusion criterion) 
20 
CIT (hrs) 
% Non heart beating donors  0? (exclusion criterion)  10 
47 
0-3 HLA mismatches (%) 
 IM103008 
43.2  
40 
69.4 
60.7  
8.3 
12.6 
95.5  
16.3 
56 
The results for the primary and key secondary endpoints are given in Tables 8 - 10. In both phase 3 
studies, the belatacept MI/LI immunosuppression regimen met the 10 % non-inferiority margin for the 
composite endpoint subject and graft survival. In both studies, the proportion of deaths up to month 
12 was similar between treatment groups (2 – 3%, equally divided between cardiovascular and non-
cardiovascular causes) and without any discernable pattern for any of the treatment groups. In 
IM103027 only, primary thrombosis as an adjudicated cause of graft loss was more frequent in both 
belatacept groups and accounted for approximately half of the graft losses in the belatacept groups 
(41% in the MI and 50% in the LI group) versus 10 % in the CsA group.  
For the primary composite endpoint of renal function statistically significant differences in favour of the 
belatacept groups were seen in study IM103008 for both belatacept groups and for the MI group in 
IM103027, with a strong positive trend for the LI group. The differences were driven by the incidence 
of GFR<60 at 12 months. However, cumulative distribution plots of calculated GFR at month 36 in both 
pivotal studies showed better cGFRs in belatacept groups, almost irrespective of GFR cutoff level. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 48/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study IM103008 there were significantly more acute reactions in the belatacept groups, mainly 
driven by a higher incidence of severe rejections (Table 9). Almost all cases of AR occurred during the 
first 12 months in the pivotal studies. About half of subjects experiencing an acute rejection episode in 
each group continued study drug at month 12. Most subjects who discontinued study drug after 
rejection were treated with tacrolimus. Higher AR rates were recorded in all treatment groups for 
subjects with 5 or 6 HLA mismatches compared to those with 0 – 2 mismatches. In IM103008, 
subjects with race other than white outside the US, Europe, and South America, and subjects with low 
pretransplant weight had lower AR rates. In study IM103027, subjects with race other than white, 
subjects from South America, non-diabetics, subjects receiving grafts without fibrosis or vasculopathy 
at baseline, subjects receiving a graft from a donor below 60 years of age and subjects with low 
pretransplant weight had lower rates of AR. HLA antibodies did not develop more often in belatacept-
treated subjects than in CsA-treated subjects, irrespective of if the patient had a rejection or not. 
Delayed graft function (DGF) is associated with an increased risk of AR. There were however no 
differences in DGF incidence disfavouring the belatacept groups. The differences in rejection frequency 
did not seem to have any impact on subject and graft survival and the proportion of patients alive with 
a functioning graft was similar for patients with and without an acute rejection.  
There was a clear overall pattern of less chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) on belatacept treatment. 
This difference is mainly driven by a lesser prevalence of mild cases of chronic allograft nephropathy. 
Table 8. Summary of key efficacy outcomes at month 12, study IM103008  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 49/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9. Acute rejections (%) at month 12 by Banff severity in pivotal studies  
IM103008  Belatacept MI 
Grade I 
Grade II-
III 
Belatacept LI  
5.3 
11.9 
CsA 
3.7 
3.6 
4.6 
19.2 
IM103027  
Grade I 
Grade II-
III 
3.3 
14.1 
3.4 
14.3 
2.2 
11.9 
Table 10. Summary of key efficacy outcomes at month 12, study IM103027  
Composite endpoint of acute rejection, death or graft loss: By month 12, the proportion of subjects 
meeting the composite endpoint of AR, death or graft loss was 26%, 20%, and 14% in the belatacept 
MI, LI and CsA groups, respectively, in IM103008; and 29%, 27%, and 25%, respectively, in 
IM103027. Differences between treatment groups were primarily driven by the AR frequencies. 
New onset diabetes mellitus (NODM): The proportion of subjects with NODM in each pivotal study at 
month 12 was lower in the belatacept groups compared with CsA groups, the differences were however 
not statistically significant.  
Blood pressure (BP): Belatacept-treated subjects had lower BP and less anti-hypertensive medications 
than CsA-treated subjects. Subjects in both belatacept groups had clinically meaningful and 
statistically significant decreases in SBP and DBP and were treated with fewer antihypertensive drugs, 
relative to CsA. This effect was noted at month 12 and continued up to month 30. 
Dyslipidemia: Belatacept-treated subjects tended to have lower non-HDL cholesterol and use less lipid 
lowering drugs than CsA-treated subjects. The effect on non-HDL was primarily driven by reduction of 
triglycerides.  
Framingham risk score: At baseline, mean Framingham risk scores were similar across treatment 
groups in both studies and ranged from 2.9 to 5.8. In the pooled analysis (subjects pooled by 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 50/85
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised treatment group across studies), the change from baseline to month 12 in Framingham 
risk score was lower for the belatacept MI (p=0.018) and LI (p<0.001) compared with CsA. A similar 
proportion of subjects in all 3 treatment groups met the composite cardiorenal and composite 
cardiovascular endpoints. 
Quality of Life (QoL): At baseline, the SF-36 subscale and component summary scores for all subjects 
were substantially lower than the population norm. By month 12, both the belatacept and CsA 
treatment groups returned to physical and mental health functioning levels comparable to the general 
population with respect to all SF-36 scores. Greater improvements were seen in the physical domains 
than in the mental domains. 
36 month data from pivotal studies 
The Applicant submitted 36 month data from the pivotal studies. Patient and graft survival were not 
worse with belatacept than with ciclosporin at 36 months in any of the studies. 
Table 11. Patient and Graft survival at 36 months in the ITT population 
Renal function (although not equal between treatment groups at baseline), estimated as calculated 
GFR over time, was sustained during the 36 month study period in both belatacept treatment arms in 
both pivotal studies, although at different levels of GFR in the two studies. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 51/85
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Study IM103008 
Subgroup analyses for subjects and graft survival, composite measured GFR, measured GFR, AR, and 
CAN were performed for the following baseline characteristics: 
• Recipient age, gender, race, region, pre-transplant diabetes status, attributed cause of ESRD, weight, 
PRA, and without prior transplant 
• Donor: fibrosis or vasculopathy in baseline biopsy, age, and donor condition 
• Donor/Recipient HLA mismatch 
Belatacept-treated subjects had a similar or, mostly, a lower proportion of subjects having CAN in most 
subgroups when compared with the CsA group. 
The following subgroups tended to have worse outcomes for the composite endpoint of patient and 
graft survival at month 12 subgroup analyses: In the geographic region of South America, the 
belatacept MI group and the CsA group had worse outcome than the belatacept LI group. Patients with 
diabetes as cause of ESRD had worse outcomes when treated with CsA than with any of the belatacept 
regimens. Patients with 5-6 HLA mismatches also did worse for this primary endpoint when treated 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 52/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with CsA than when treated with belatacept MI or LI regimen. CsA also tended to be less favourable 
than belatacept for this endpoint in patients who got their renal graft from a deceased donor.  
This leads to the conclusion that CsA was less favourable for the composite endpoint of patient and 
graft survival in patient subpopulations with more baseline risk factors.  
Study IM103027 
Subgroup analyses for subject and graft survival, composite measured GFR, measured GFR, AR, and 
CAN were performed for the following baseline characteristics: 
• Recipient: age, gender, race, region, pre-transplant diabetes status, attributed cause of end stage 
renal disease, pretransplant weight, and most recent PRA <20% 
• Donor: fibrosis or vasculopathy in baseline biopsy, CIT, age, and donor condition 
• Donor/Recipient: HLA mismatch 
Subgroup analysis of the composite endpoint of subject and graft survival showed a tendency for lower 
rate in the CsA group in patients from the geographic region of South America or with 5-6 HLA 
mismatches or with pre-transplant diabetes. Otherwise rates were similar between treatment groups. 
A similar or higher proportion of belatacept-treated subjects had AR than CsA-treated subjects in most 
subgroups. This difference was marked in patients from the geographic region of North America, in the 
group of patient who got a kidney from a donor younger than 50 years but with cardiovascular risk 
factors, and in the subgroup of patients with 5 - 6 HLA mismatch. 
Consistent with the overall effect on CAN, belatacept-treated subjects had a similar or lower proportion 
of subjects having CAN in most subgroups compared with the CsA group. The difference between the 
CsA subgroup and the belatacept subgroups tended to be bigger in black subjects and in subjects with 
pretransplant diabetes (in particular if diabetes was the attributed cause of ESRD) or with heavy 
overweight. 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 53/85
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Summary of Efficacy for trial IM103008  
Title: Belatacept Evaluation of Nephroprotection and Efficacy as First-line Immunosuppression Trial 
(BENEFIT) 
Study identifier 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Protocol Number: IM103008 
IND Number: IND BB 9418 
EUDRACT Number 2004-003635-31 
Randomized, partially-blinded, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter 
clinical trial. Subjects were to be randomized in equal numbers (1:1:1) to 
receive belatacept in a more intensive regimen (MI), belatacept in a less 
intensive regimen (LI), or CsA. All subjects also received a background 
immunosuppressive regimen consisting of basiliximab induction therapy and 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and corticosteroid maintenance therapy. 
Subjects receiving low risk transplants: de novo renal transplant recipients at 
least 18 years of age and receiving a graft from a standard criteria donor 
(SCD), a living donor or deceased donor with anticipated cold ischemic time 
<24 hours, were to be included. Subjects were excluded from study 
participation if receiving an extended criteria donor organ defined by donor age 
≥60 years or donor age 50-59 years and two or more of the following: (1) 
Cerebrovascular accident; (2) Hypertension or (3) Serum creatinine  
≥1.5 mg/dl or anticipated cold ischemia time ≥24 hours or donor with cardiac 
death (non-heart beating donor). The following categories of patients were 
also excluded: Subjects with previous graft loss due to acute rejection; HLA-
identical donor-recipient pairs; and subjects with a history of panel-reactive 
antibodies greater than 20%. 
Duration of main phase: 
36 months 
Duration of Follow-up: 
8 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase: 
2 years 
Non-inferiority: for the primary composite endpoint of patient and graft 
survival. 
Belatacept MI  
(More Intensive) 
Treatment: 10 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 5, 
then every 2 weeks through month 3 (weeks 
2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12), and then every 4 
weeks through 6 months (weeks 16, 20, and 
24). After 6 months, subjects in the MI 
treatment group received the maintenance 
dose of belatacept 5 mg/kg administered 
every 4 weeks until completion of the trial at 
36 months. 
Belatacept LI 
(Less Intensive) 
Duration:36 months 
Number randomized: 219 
Treatment: 10 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 5, 
and then every 2 weeks through month 1 
(weeks 2 and 4), and every 4 weeks through 
month 3 (weeks 8 and 12). After 3 months, 
subjects in the LI treatment group received 
the maintenance dose of belatacept 5 mg/kg 
administered every 4 weeks until completion 
of the trial at month 36 
Duration: 36 months 
Number randomized: 226 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 54/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CsA 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
On going 
Treatment: twice daily doses, designed to 
achieve a serum concentration of 150 - 300 
ng/mL during the first month and thereafter 
100 - 250 ng/mL 
Duration: 36 months 
Number randomized: 221 
Composite endpoint of subject and graft 
survival by 12 months 
Composite endpoint of measured glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 at 
Month 12 or a decrease in measured GFR ≥ 
10 mL/min/1.73 m2 from Month 3 to Month 
12 
Incidence of acute rejection (AR) by 12 
months 
Mean GFR measured at 12 months 
Mean GFR calculated at 12 months 
Incidence of biopsy-proven chronic allograft 
nephropathy (CAN) at 12 months 
Subject and 
graft survival 
(n%) 
Composite 
endpoint for 
measured 
GFR 
(mL/min/1.73
m2) 
Acute 
rejection 
(n%) 
Mean (SD) 
GFR 
measured 
(mL/min/1.73
m2) 
Mean (SD) 
GFR 
calculated 
(mL/min/1.73
m2) 
Prevalence of 
CAN (n%) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Intent to treat (ITT): all randomized and transplanted subjects. 
Per-protocol population (PP): all randomised and transplanted subjects who 
did not violate terms of the protocol that might affect the efficacy outcome. 
Secondary efficacy analyses. 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
Balatacept MI 
Balatacept LI 
Number of subject 
219 
226 
CsA 
221 
Subject and graft 
survival (n%) 
Composite endpoint 
for measured GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
Acute rejection 
(n%) 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
measured 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
calculated 
209 (95.4%) 
218 (96.5%) 
206 (93.2%) 
115 (55.0%) 
116 (54.2%) 
166 (77.9%) 
48 (21.9%)  
39 (17.3%)  
16 (7.2%)  
65.0 (30.0%) 
63.4 (27.7%) 
50.4 (18.7%) 
68.3 (19.2%) 
68.1 (19.0%) 
53.6 (16.9%) 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 55/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Prevalence of CAN 
(n%) 
Primary endpoint: 
Subject and graft 
survival (n%) 
Primary endpoint: 
Composite endpoint 
for measured GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
40 (18.3%)  
54 (23.9%) 
71 (32.4%)  
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA  
2.7 
97.3% CI 
(-2.5, 8.1) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
3.7 
97.3% CI 
(-1.1, 9.0) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-22.9 
97.3% CI 
(-32.6, -12.9) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-23.7 
97.3% CI 
(-33.3, -13.7) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
<0.0001 
Primary endpoint: 
Acute rejection 
(n%) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
97.3% CI 
Comparison groups 
14.7 
(7.5, 22.2) 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
measured 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
calculated 
Difference from CsA 
10.0 
97.3% CI 
(3.3, 17.1) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
14.6 
97.3% CI 
P-value (ANOVA) 
(8.8, 20.3) 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
12.9 
97.3% CI 
(7.2, 18.6) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
14.7 
97.3% CI 
(10.5, 18.9) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
14.6 
97.3% CI 
(10.4, 18.8) 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Prevalence of CAN 
(n%) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-14.2 
97.3% CI 
(-23.2, -5.0) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-8.5 
97.3% CI 
(-17.9, 0.9) 
Notes 
Analysis description 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 56/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13. Summary of Efficacy for trial IM103027   
Title: Belatacept Evaluation of Nephroprotection and Efficacy as First-line Immunosuppression Trial - 
EXTended Criteria Donors (BENEFITEXT) 
Study identifier 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Protocol Number: IM103027 
IND Number: IND BB 9418 
EUDRACT Number 2004-002974-48 
Randomized, partially-blinded, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter 
clinical trial. Subjects were to be randomized in equal numbers (1:1:1) to 
receive belatacept in a more intensive regimen (MI), belatacept in a less 
intensive regimen (LI), or CsA. All subjects also received a background 
immunosuppressive regimen consisting of basiliximab induction therapy and 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and corticosteroid maintenance therapy. 
Subjects receiving high risk transplants: de novo renal transplant recipients 
at least 18 years of age who were receiving a kidney transplant from an 
extended criteria deceased donor (ECD) were included. The specific ECD 
criteria are based upon the ‘expanded criteria’ for organ donation issued by 
UNOS. Subjects at varying levels of immunological risk were eligible but 
subjects of greatest immunological risk (positive cross-match, panel reactive 
antibodies, PRA, of ≥30%, or those previously transplanted) were excluded 
from study participation. 
Duration of main phase: 
36 months 
Duration of Follow-up: 
8 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase:  2 years 
Non-inferiority: for the primary composite endpoint of patient and graft 
survival 
Belatacept MI  
(More Intensive) 
Treatment: 10 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 5, 
then every 2 weeks through month 3 (weeks 
2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12), and then every 4 
weeks through 6 months (weeks 16, 20, and 
24). After 6 months, subjects in the MI 
treatment group received the maintenance 
dose of belatacept 5 mg/kg administered 
every 4 weeks until completion of the trial at 
36 months. 
Belatacept LI 
(Less Intensive) 
Duration:36 months 
Number randomized: 184 
Treatment: 10 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 5, 
and then every 2 weeks through month 1 
(weeks 2 and 4), and every 4 weeks through 
month 3 (weeks 8 and 12). After 3 months, 
subjects in the LI treatment group received 
the maintenance dose of belatacept 5 mg/kg 
administered every 4 weeks until completion 
of the trial at month 36 
Duration: 36 months 
Number randomized: 175 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 57/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CsA 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
On going 
Database lock 
Treatment: twice daily doses, designed to 
achieve a serum concentration of 150 - 300 
ng/mL during the first month and thereafter 
100 - 250 ng/mL 
Duration: 36 months 
Number randomized: 184 
Composite endpoint of subject and graft 
survival by 12 months 
Composite endpoint of measured glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 at 
Month 12 or a decrease in measured GFR ≥ 
10 mL/min/1.73 m2 from Month 3 to Month 
12 
Incidence of acute rejection (AR) by 12 
months 
Mean GFR measured at 12 months 
Mean GFR calculated at 12 months 
Incidence of biopsy-proven chronic allograft 
nephropathy (CAN) at 12 months 
Subject and 
graft 
survival 
(n%) 
Composite 
endpoint for 
measured 
GFR 
(mL/min/1.7
3m2) 
Acute 
rejection 
(n%) 
Mean (SD) 
GFR 
measured 
(mL/min/1.7
3m2) 
Mean (SD) 
GFR 
calculated 
(mL/min/1.7
3m2) 
Prevalence 
of CAN (n%) 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Intent to treat (ITT): all randomized and transplanted subjects. 
Per-protocol population (PP): all randomised and transplanted subjects who 
did not violate terms of the protocol that might affect the efficacy outcome. 
Secondary efficacy analyses. 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
Balatacept MI 
Balatacept LI 
Number of subject 
184 
175 
CsA 
184 
Subject and graft 
survival (n%) 
Composite 
endpoint for 
measured GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
Acute rejection 
(n%) 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
measured 
158 (85.9%) 
155 (88.6%) 
157 (85.3%) 
124 (70.5%) 
131 (76.6%) 
151 (84.8%) 
32 (17.4%)  
31 (17.7%)  
26 (14.1%)  
52.1 (21.9%) 
49.6 (25.8%) 
45.2 (21.1%) 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 58/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
calculated 
Prevalence of CAN 
(n%) 
Primary endpoint: 
Subject and graft 
survival (n%) 
50.1 (17.2%) 
49.5 (16.7%) 
42.7 (15.9%) 
82 (44.8%)  
80 (46.0%) 
95 (51.6%)  
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA  
1.1 
97.3% CI 
(-7.2, 9.4) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
3.2 
97.3% CI 
(-5.0, 11.4) 
Primary endpoint: 
Composite 
endpoint for 
measured GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-14.4 
97.3% CI 
(-24.0, -4.7) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
0.0018 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-8.5 
97.3% CI 
(-18.0, 0.9) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
0.0616 
Primary endpoint: 
Acute rejection 
(n%) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
97.3% CI 
Comparison groups 
3.3 
(-5.2, 11.8) 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
measured 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Mean (SD) GFR 
(mL/min/1.73m2) 
calculated 
Secondary 
endpoint: 
Prevalence of CAN 
(n%) 
Difference from CsA 
3.6 
97.3% CI 
(-5.0, 12.3) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
6.9 
97.3% CI 
(1.1, 12.7) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
0.0083 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
4.3 
97.3% CI 
(-1.5, 10.1) 
P-value (ANOVA) 
0.1039 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
7.4 
97.3% CI 
(3.0, 11.8) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
6.8 
97.3% CI 
(2.4, 11.3) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept MI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-6.8 
97.3% CI 
(-18.2, 4.7) 
Comparison groups 
Balatacept LI vs CsA 
Difference from CsA 
-5.7 
97.3% CI 
(-17.2, 6.0) 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 59/85
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
Analysis description 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Such studies have not been performed. There are no data in children or adolescents. 
Supportive studies 
Study IM103100 was an open-label randomised phase 2 controlled multiple-dose study of efficacy 
and safety of belatacept as part of a quadruple drug regimen in renal transplant recipients. The 
primary study objective was to assess the efficacy (prophylaxis of clinically-suspected and biopsy-
proven acute rejection) at 6 months of belatacept vs CsA, when used in combination with MMF, 
corticosteroids, and basiliximab, using a non-inferiority design. Study M103100 formed part of the 
basis for selection of belatacept dosage schedules brought forward to the two pivotal studies. In this 
study, a belatacept LI regimen and a MI regimen were evaluated with either a 5 mg/kg q4week or a  
5 mg/kg q8week maintenance schedule, starting at Month 4 for LI regimen and Month 6 for MI 
regimen. The Applicant has provided a thorough discussion on why the 4 week maintenance dose 
schedule instead of the 8 week maintenance dose schedule also investigated in this study was 
selected.  
Study IM103010 was a phase 2 randomised open-label study of renal transplant subjects on a CNI-
based regimen, randomised to treatment with either belatacept or continued CNI treatment. The 
primary objective was to assess the effects of a belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimen relative 
to a CNI regimen on the change in calculated GFR from baseline to 12 months post-randomisation. 
Altogether 7.2 % of patients experienced an acute rejection after conversion to belatacept while none 
in the CNI continuation group; i.e. rather more rejections than what has been seen in other conversion 
studies. Graft and patient survival were not impaired in the belatacept group. A minor improvement of 
GFR was seen in the belatacept group. More AE, SAEs and treatment related SAEs were seen in the 
belatacept conversion group than in the CNI continuation group. In short, late conversion to belatacept 
from a CNI based regimen after renal transplantation was not advantageous in this study.  
Study IM103034 was a 12 month phase 2 randomised open-label study of belatacept-based 
corticosteroid-free regimens in renal transplant recipients. The primary objective was to determine the 
rate of AR in different corticosteroid-avoiding, belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimens in de 
novo renal transplant subjects by 6 months post transplantation. Based on the PD it was concluded 
that the belatacept dosing regimen used in this study provided sufficient levels of drug to fully saturate 
the target site. It seemed as if a steroid-free and CNI-free belatacept-MMF therapy resulted in more 
rejections and more adverse events but better GFR at 12 months than steroid-free tacrolimus-MMF 
therapy in study IM103034. Significantly more rejections were seen in the belatacept-SRL treatment 
arm than in the other treatment arms. Subject and graft survival in the tacrolimus - MMF treatment 
arm were superior to the other two treatment arms. The composite of AR, death or graft loss by month 
12 was significantly better in the tacrolimus-MMF arm than in belatacept arms. Calculated GFR was 
significantly better in both belatacept groups than in the tacrolimus-MMF group. More patients in the 
belatacept groups than in the tacrolimus-MMF group discontinued due to AEs. 
Study IM103047 is an ongoing phase 2a open, multiple-dose study in de novo renal transplant 
subjects. All subjects are treated with the belatacept LI regimen (10 mg/kg on days 1 and 5 and weeks 
2, 4, 8, and 12, then 5 mg/kg once every 4 weeks for 3 years). The primary objective was the 
evaluation of the pharmacokinetics of belatacept in renal transplant subjects receiving i.v. infusions at 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 60/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 mg/kg and data were presented in the interim PK report. As request by the CHMP the synoptic 
report for IM103047 was provided by the Applicant. 
Study IM103045 is a phase 2 randomised, partially-blinded (for belatacept dose only), active-
controlled, parallel group study in de novo liver transplant subjects to study efficacy, safety, 
immunogenicity, and PK in this category of patients. 
In the liver transplant, belatacept based regimens were less effective compared to standard of care 
regimen, tacrolimus ± MMF + steroids. Two cases of PTLD and one case of PML occurred in belatacept 
treated patients.  
Based on the results from study IM103045, a warning against the use of belatacept in the clinical liver 
transplantation has been introduced into section 4.4 of the Nulojix SmPC and a reference to a short 
information on the results from this study has been included in section 5.1 the SmPC. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The choice of CsA, rather than tacrolimus, as comparator in the pivotal studies is justified by the 
Applicant by stating that more long term data are available from studies that have been performed 
with CsA than with tacrolimus. Although this is true, a majority of renal transplant recipients are 
nowadays treated with tacrolimus as calcineurin inhibitor. As CsA (but not tacrolimus or sirolimus) 
interacts with MMF, a lower exposition to MMF can be foreseen in the CsA arm than in the belatacept 
treatment arms. This could mean that patients in the belatacept treatment arms have a greater 
contribution to their total immunosuppressive pressure from MMF than patients on the combination of 
CsA have. The expected difference in MMF exposure between CsA and belatacept groups was 
confirmed in a pharmacokinetic substudy. In pivotal studies, the use of lymphocyte depleting therapy, 
LDT, was permitted in the early posttransplant period in study subjects randomised to CsA only, but 
not to subjects randomised to belatacept. These differences with respect to MMF exposure and LDT are 
inherent properties of the immunosuppressive strategies that are compared and might be useful in 
explaining some of the findings, but should not question the overall comparison of the strategies. The 
Applicant demonstrated that the rate of MMF-related adverse events was not significantly higher in the 
belatacept treatment groups. 
The CHMP advice given on this study was that, as the expected proportion of patients experiencing 
graft loss or death within one year in this low risk population would be low, the sensitivity of the 
primary endpoint needed to be increased, e. g. by using a composite of death, graft loss and biopsy 
proven acute rejection as the primary endpoint. The Applicant instead chose to include biopsy-proven 
acute rejection as a separate third primary endpoint. Although this approach is also informative, it 
leaves the problem with the lack of sensitivity in the primary endpoint unattended. Although not in 
detail identical to those recommended in the CHMP guideline on the clinical investigation of 
immunosuppressants for solid organ transplantation, the principal study objectives in this study are to 
a great extent in accordance with those recommended in the guideline.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The young age of donors and recipients, the high percentage of living donors and the absence of 
donors with risk factors indicate that patients in IM103008 constitute a renal transplant population at 
an unusually low risk. Study IM103027 with older recipient and donor age, a majority of donors in 
IM103027 with cerebrovascular risk factors, no living donors in IM103027 but instead a considerable 
number of donors with cardiac death appears to be more relevant for European renal transplant 
recipients in general.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 61/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers for death and graft loss are not remarkable but were generally higher in IM103008 than in 
IM103027. Although not significant, there were numerical differences in favour of belatacept with 
respect to subjects surviving with a functioning graft at 12 and 36 months in both studies. There was a 
remarkable difference in the incidence of graft thrombosis between belatacept and CsA treatment 
groups in study IM103027 only, without difference between treatment arms for other types of 
thromboembolic events. This difference was systematically explored by the Applicant but no clear 
explanation could be given. Graft thrombosis is considered as a potential risk in the RMP and 
information about the findings in study IM103027 is given in the SmPC. 
With respect to renal function the difference between the belatacept LI group and the CsA group was 
less pronounced and did not reach formal statistical significance in study IM103027 in contrast to in 
study IM103008. It is difficult to find an obvious explanation to the difference in renal function between 
the two belatacept arms in IM103027 at 12 months, as the total number of acute rejections was not 
higher in the LI group than in the MI group and as the rate of more severe rejections did not 
significantly differ between the two belatacept groups in this study. A main difference between studies 
is of course the worse graft quality in IM103027. The difference in renal function between the 
belatacept treatment arms and the ciclosporin treatment groups was sustained through 36 months of 
treatment in both pivotal studies.  
In study IM103008, patients in both belatacept groups had a much higher incidence of acute 
rejections, in particular more severe rejections, than patients in the CsA group. Of patients who 
experienced an acute rejection, more than half of patients in all treatment groups in both pivotal 
studies had returned to their baseline serum creatinine level at month 12, in belatacept as well as in 
CsA groups. Return to baseline creatinine after an acute rejection is considered to be a good prognostic 
sign for renal transplant recipients. Thus, it could be expected that a higher percentage of patients in 
the belatacept groups should have worse GFR at month 24. This was however not the case. Patients in 
study IM103008 who had not experienced an acute rejection developed more CAN in the CsA group 
than patients in any of the belatacept groups did while this difference between treatments was hardly 
discernable for study patients who had experienced a rejection. In study IM103027, there were no 
differences between treatment groups in the incidence or prevalence of CAN at 12 months, irrespective 
if patients had had a rejection or not. As expected, patients who had a biopsy finding of CAN at 12 
months had worse GFR values, irrespective of treatment group. Belatacept treated patients tended to 
have a better GFR, irrespective of CAN status.  
The differences in acute rejections do not seem to have an impact on subject and graft survival at 12 
months, and the 36 month study data did not point to a significant deterioration with  time up to 3 
years after transplantation. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Belatacept in a less intensive as well as in a more intensive dosing schedule was demonstrated to be 
noninferior to ciclosporin in a low risk as well as in a high risk population with respect to subject and 
graft survival at 12 months. Results from 12 and 24 months were sustained through 36 months.  
For the second co-primary endpoint renal function, superiority was convincingly demonstrated for the 
applied low intensity dosage regimen in study IM103008 only. The results are driven by the incidence 
of patients with GFR< 60 at 12 months, however the results were later demonstrated to be applicable 
for different GFR levels, at least between 45 and 75 ml/min in study IM103008 and 35-65 ml/min in 
study IM103027 although much more pronounced in study IM1030008 with less donor and recipient 
risk factors.  
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 62/85
 
 
 
 
A third co-primary endpoint of acute rejection was included in study IM103008 and showed 
significantly more acute rejections during the first 12 months in both belatacept study arms. This 
finding is not consistent with the results for other endpoints but does not seem to have an impact on 
subject and graft survival or renal function during the first 12 months. Although the excess of early 
acute rejections on belatacept treatment did not seem to have a detrimental impact on the overall 
patient and graft survival or on renal function at 36 months, it should be considered that it may 
increase the need for renal biopsies, hospital care and additional immunosuppressive treatment for 
patients treated with belatacept. 
The patients in study IM103027 had more risk factors than patients in study IM103008, but they still 
achieved an approximately 35 % higher calculated GFR than patients in the CsA group (compared to 
an approximately 45 % higher calculated GFR for patients on belatacept, compared to CsA-treated 
patients, in study IM103008) which is considered as a clinically meaningful effect.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A total of 2347 subjects were enrolled in clinical studies of belatacept. Of these, 1495 subjects received 
belatacept. Within the 3 core studies, safety data are available for 1425 subjects (477, 472, and 476 
subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively).  
The safety analyses were performed using the ITT population for IM103008 and IM103027 and the as-
treated population in IM103100. A total of 365 (77%), 369 (78%) and 350 (75%) subjects had at least 
12 months of exposure to study medication, and 326 (68%), 339 (72%), and 288 (62%) subjects had 
at least 24 months of exposure in belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. The pooled median 
exposure was 864, 867, and 843 days in belatacept MI, LI, and CsA respectively. Approximately 8% 
(77/947) and 4% (42/947) of subjects had exposure to belatacept for at least 5 and 7 years, 
respectively. The median follow-up in the pooled core studies at the time of database lock was 894, 
867, and 813 days in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. Safety data are below 
presented as pooled analyses on data from the pivotal studies + study IM103100, as these studies had 
similar study protocols and the same medication in the same three treatment groups. 
Adverse events  
The most frequently reported AEs among belatacept subjects were anemia, peripheral edema, 
constipation, diarrhea, and UTI. Overall, the majority of common AEs occurred within the first 3 
months. Among the most common AEs (reported for ≥10% of subjects in any treatment group) up to 
month 12, those reported with at least a 2% increased frequency in the belatacept LI group compared 
with the CsA group included hypophosphatemia, hyperkalaemia, hypokalaemia, hypocalcamia, 
diarrhea, vomiting, procedural pain, pyrexia, proteinuria, hypotension, cough, and headache. These 
AEs were reported in the belatacept MI group at similar or lower frequencies compared with the 
belatacept LI group. Among the most common AEs up to month 12, those reported with at least a 2% 
increased frequency in the CsA group compared with the belatacept LI group included dyslipidemia, 
graft dysfunction, hirsutism, incision site pain, peripheral edema, leukopenia, renal tubular necrosis, 
hypertension, increased blood creatinine, dyspnea, tremor, and insomnia. 
Malignancies: The total incidence of malignancy up to database lock in the core studies was 9.6 % in 
the MI group, 5.7 % in the LI group and 7.1 % in the CsA group. Narratives were submitted for all 
subjects who died or discontinued for a diagnosis of malignant neoplasm. All over, patients in the 
belatacept MI and CsA treatment arms tended to have more cancers than patients in the belatacept LI 
arm. Yearly incidence rates of malignancy stayed constant during the study period. Skin cancers, in 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 63/85
 
 
 
 
particular non-melanoma skin cancers, tended to be less common in the belatacept LI group than in 
the other two groups. 5 cases of breast cancer occurred in the belatacept MI group in the core studies, 
1 in the LI group and one in the CsA group. 
Post transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD): An increased frequency of this kind of malignant 
lymphoma was observed in the 3 core belatacept clinical studies and a comprehensive evaluation was 
therefore performed. The cumulative frequency of PTLD up to database lock was higher in the 
belatacept LI group compared with the CsA group, and lower in the belatacept LI compared with the MI 
group: 8 (1.7%), 5 (1.1%), and 2 (0.4%) cases in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. 
Up to database lock, the overall frequency of PTLD in combined belatacept MI and LI groups was 1.4% 
(13/949) compared with 0.4% (2/476) for the CsA group. All subjects with PTLD discontinued 
treatment following the event. Of the 15 subjects with PTLD, 9 died. Of the 8 PTLD cases with CNS 
localisation (6 from the MI and 2 from the LI group), 5 died.  The risk of developing PTLD appears to 
be highest in the first 18 months and to decline thereafter. Median exposure to belatacept was 2.4 
years in phase 3 and 6 years in phase 2 studies. The mean age for patient who developed PTLD was 41 
- 53 years; the majority were males; 8 subjects had EBV-negative and 5 subjects had EBV-positive 
serologies at baseline, and in 2 subjects, EBV status was unknown. All but 1 of the 15 subjects with 
PTLD received CMV prophylaxis post transplant. There were no protocol-mandated specifications for 
the pathological assessment of the PTLD cases; histological characterisation was performed as per local 
guidelines and practice. Local pathology reports were available for all 15 cases. The predominant PTLD 
phenotype was of B cell origin, with the exception of one subject in the belatacept LI group who had a 
predominant T cell PTLD. A post-hoc evaluation was done by a blinded central pathologist for 13 of the 
15 PTLD cases (6, 5, and 2 cases in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively). Local 
histological data were completed on special case report forms by the sites on 14 of the 15 PTLD cases 
(7, 5, and 2 in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively). Central and local pathology 
assessment was comparable for 11 of the 13 PTLD cases. Two centrally assessed cases were classified 
as not compatible with the diagnosis of PTLD. Both cases were in EBV positive recipients in the LI 
group and were diagnosed as PTLD in the renal allograft by the local pathologist. The central 
pathologist assessed one of the cases as acute rejection and the other as reactive T cell proliferation. 
Both subjects received treatment for PTLD based on local assessment and are alive with a functioning 
graft. The analyses related to PTLD presented here were based on all 15 cases of PTLD based on the 
local assessment of PTLD. A multivariate analysis suggested that the use of LDT, rather than BPAR, 
was associated with development of PTLD. The use of LDT was more strongly associated with increased 
risk in EBV-negative subjects compared to EBV-positive subjects; 3 out of 11 subjects who were EBV-
negative and received LDT developed PTLD, whereas out of 102 subjects who were EBV positive and 
received LDT, only 1 developed PTLD. This subject also had an additional risk factor of CMV infection. 
The frequency of PTLD was higher in subjects with >1 risk factor in the belatacept MI group; this 
increase was not observed in the other 2 groups, but the numbers of subjects with >1 risk factor were 
small. A comparison concerning the incidence of PTLD was made between the belatacept pooled core 
study safety database and three large transplant databases: the Europe based CTS database (11000 
transplants/year), the US based UNOS database (16000 transplants/year) and the US based USRDS 
database (6000 transplants/year). Comparisons were made for first single kidney transplants 
performed during the period 1995 – 2006, followed for 3 years after transplantation. In the clinical 
belatacept studies, PTLD commonly occurred in the CNS, while it typically involves the CNS in 
approximately 12% to 18% of cases in external databases. The 3-year incidence of PTLD in belatacept-
treated subjects in these trials was high and manyfold higher than incidences reported from these 
transplant databases. 8/15 patients who developed PTLD were EBV-negative at the time of 
transplantation and EBV-status was unknown for 2. PTLD risk was 12-fold higher for EBV-negative 
patients than for EBV-positive patients in the core belatacept studies while in the external databases 
PTLD was 3 - 10 times higher in EBV-negative than in positive patients. Risk factors for PTLD were also 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 64/85
 
 
 
 
older age, a history of acute rejection, LDT treatment, posttransplant CMV infection, and belatacept MI 
regimen. The incidences of PTLD in CsA-treated subjects were comparable with those in the external 
databases. 
As a consequence of these analyses, the SmPC for belatacept contraindicates its use in patient 
negative for EBV or with unknown EBV status.  
Thrombotic events: A greater number of graft losses independently adjudicated and attributed to graft 
thrombosis was seen in belatacept versus CsA subjects in study IM103027. In the combined core 
studies, results of this evaluation did not identify any increased risk of thrombosis with belatacept. In 
study IM103027, renal vein thrombosis was reported more frequently up to database lock in the 
belatacept LI group compared with the CsA group (1.1% vs. 0), and less frequently for belatacept LI 
compared with the belatacept MI group (1.1% vs. 3.3%). An independent adjudication committee 
reviewed all cases of allograft loss to determine the cause. Up to month 12, the frequency of primary 
allograft thrombosis as an adjudicated cause of allograft loss was reported for 7 (3.8%), 8 (4.6%), and 
2 (1.0%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively, in IM103027; 1 (0.5%), 1 
(0.4%), and 3 (1.3%) subjects, respectively, in IM103008; and 1 (1.4%), 1 (1.4%) and 2 (2.8%) 
subjects, respectively, in IM103100. The frequency of renal vein thrombosis alone reported for 
recipients of extended criteria donor kidneys in the USRDS database was 7.3%. The frequency of all 
thrombotic events was similar across the 3 treatment groups up to month 24 (9% in all groups), and 
up to database lock (10% in all groups). The cumulative frequency of thrombotic events up to 
database lock was higher in study IM103027 (14 - 15%) than in IM103008 (5% - 8%) or IM103100 
(8% - 11%). Within studies, the frequency of thrombotic events was similar across treatment groups. 
In study IM103100, 2 patients in the CsA group lost their grafts due to venous thrombosis while 1 
patient in each belatacept group suffered a graft thrombosis.  
Infections: The incidence rates of infections per 100 patient years of exposure were higher in the first 
year versus cumulatively up to database lock. The frequency of serious infections up to database lock 
was for the belatacept LI group 32%, for the belatacept MI group 37% and for the CsA group 36%. 
Similar results were seen at the earlier time points. The frequency of serious viral infections was 
similar across treatment groups (13%, 10%, and 10% of subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA 
groups, respectively). 
CMV infections: The frequency of CMV infections was similar across treatment groups during the study 
period and up to database lock for the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. Adverse events 
of CMV infection (PT) led to discontinuation of study drug for 5 (1.0%), 5 (1.1%), and 0 subjects in the 
belatacept MI and LI, and CsA groups, respectively. 
Polyoma virus infections: The frequency of polyoma virus infection was lower in the belatacept LI 
group compared with the belatacept MI and CsA groups. One subject who received belatacept MI, MMF 
and corticosteroids developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) that was confirmed to 
be JC-virus positive in year 2. The frequency of polyoma virus infection was lower in the belatacept LI 
group compared with the belatacept MI and CsA groups up to month 12 (5%, 2%, and 5% in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively), up to month 24 (6%, 3%, and 6% in the belatacept 
MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively), and up to database lock (7%, 3%, and 6% in the belatacept MI, 
LI, and CsA groups. Serious polyoma virus infection was reported for 7 (1.5%), 2 (0.4%) and 4 (0.8%) 
subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. AEs of polyoma virus infection led to 
discontinuation of study drug for 3 (0.6%), 3 (0.6%) and 1 (0.2%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, 
and CsA groups, respectively. Three subjects had polyoma virus infections with an outcome of death, 1 
(0.2%) subject in the belatacept MI group and 2 (0.4%) subjects in the belatacept LI group. Polyoma 
virus infection was more frequent in IM103008 and IM103027 studies than in IM103100. Polyoma 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 65/85
 
 
 
 
 
virus-associated nephropathy was reported for 5 (1.0%), 3 (0.6%), 6 (1.3%) subjects in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. These events were reported as serious for 3 (0.6%), 1 
(0.2%), and 2 (0.4%) subjects and led to discontinuation for 1 (0.2%), 2 (0.4%), and 1 (0.2%) 
subject in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. In addition, 1 (0.2%), 3 (0.6%), and 0 
additional subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively, had polyoma virus-
associated nephropathy beyond 56 days after the last dose date; all of these events were serious. 
Including these events, a total of 6 (1.3%), 6 (1.3%), and 6 (1.3%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, 
and CsA groups had polyoma virus associated nephropathy. Five of these subjects experienced graft 
loss (1 MI, 4 LI and 0 CsA), and in all but one of these cases, graft loss was attributed to polyoma 
virus associated nephropathy. Three subjects with polyoma virus-associated nephropathy died; (1 MI, 
2 LI); the primary cause of death in these subjects was B-cell lymphoma and sepsis in the subject in 
the belatacept MI group and disseminated tuberculosis and polyoma virus infection, respectively, in the 
2 subjects in the belatacept LI group. 
Herpes virus infections: The frequency of all herpes virus infections up to database lock was higher in 
the belatacept LI and MI groups than in the CsA group, due to an increased frequency of herpes 
simplex virus infections. Herpes zoster frequency was similar between the belatacept LI and CsA 
groups but higher in the belatacept MI group. Most herpes infections were not serious and only 1 led to 
discontinuation. The majority of subjects had received anti-viral prophylaxis. Up to month 12, the 
frequency of herpes infections was similar across treatment groups (8%, 7%, and 6% in the belatacept 
MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively). The frequency of herpes infection was similar in the belatacept 
MI and LI groups and higher in both belatacept groups compared with the CsA group up to month 24 
(14%, 11%, and 9% in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively) and up to database lock 
(15%, 13%, and 10% in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively). The most common 
herpes virus infections in all 3 treatment groups were herpes zoster and oral herpes. Herpes infections 
were reported as serious in few subjects. The frequency of serious herpes virus infection was lower in 
the belatacept LI group compared with the belatacept MI group and was similar in the belatacept LI 
and CsA groups: 11 (2.3%), 5 (1.1%), and 4 (0.8%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA 
groups, respectively. Serious herpes zoster was reported for 8 (1.7%), 4 (0.8%), and 3 (0.6%) 
subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. Oral herpes led to discontinuation of 1 
subject in the belatacept LI group; no other subjects with herpes infections discontinued. No herpes or 
herpes associated events were reported with the outcome of death. 
CNS infections 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML): This mostly lethal condition is caused by JC virus. A 
case of serious PML was reported for a belatacept MI subject in study IM103027. The patient was a 65-
year old white female who received a kidney from a deceased donor and was treated with basiliximab, 
belatacept MI, MMF and steroids. She experienced left homonymous hemianopsia on day 689 (~23 
months post transplant). A CT scan on day 705 was negative for intracranial bleeding or other acute 
pathology. The cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) examination showed JC virus. Magnetic resonance imaging 
revealed a white matter lesion primarily in the right occipital lobe extending into the posterior right 
temporal lobe, consistent with PML. The patient was hospitalised on day 730 for progressive 
neurological deterioration and further evaluation. Study drug was discontinued on day 704. She died 
on day 754. The investigator-assigned cause of death was PML probably related to belatacept. A 
second lethal case of PML in the belatacept clinical program in a subject receiving an augmented 
belatacept MI regimen was reported after database lock in the liver transplant study IM103045. 
In addition, CNS PTLD was reported more frequently in belatacept subjects than in CsA subjects. In 
response to these reports, a post-hoc evaluation of all potential CNS infections was done. In total, 11 
subjects across all 3 treatment groups were identified as potentially having a CNS infection. Following 
review of these cases, 2 were not considered to be true CNS infections: One subject (CsA group) had 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 66/85
 
 
 
 
toxic encephalitis due to imipenem (leading to death), and one subject in belatacept LI group had 
suspected Lyme disease which was not confirmed (the event was reported as a nonserious AE and the 
patient continued on study drug). Excluding these 2 cases, the frequency of CNS infections was higher 
in the belatacept MI group than in the belatacept LI and CsA groups: 7 (1.5%), 1 (0.2%), and 1 
(0.2%), respectively. CNS infections led to discontinuation in 4 subjects, all in the belatacept MI group, 
and an outcome of death in 2 subjects, both in the belatacept MI group. 
Fungal infections: Fungal infections were reported less frequently in the belatacept LI group than in the 
CsA and belatacept MI groups. The frequency of fungal infections was lower in the belatacept LI group 
compared with the belatacept MI and CsA groups up to month 12 (14%, 11%, and 15% in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively), up to month 24 (20%, 16%, and 19% in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively), and up to database lock (22%, 17%, and 21% in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively). The most common fungal infections were oral 
candidiasis, onychomycosis, and candidiasis not otherwise specified. Fungal infections were reported as 
serious for 10 (2.1%), 5 (1.1%), and 7 (1.5%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups. The 
most common serious fungal infections were Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and cryptococcal 
meningitis. Fungal infections led to discontinuation of study drug in 2 subjects in the belatacept MI 
group (cerebral aspergillosis and cryptococcal meningitis) and 1 subject in the belatacept LI group 
(cryptococcosis). Fungal infections with the outcome of death were reported for 1 subject in the 
belatacept MI group, (bronchopulmonary aspergillosis) and for 1 subject in the belatacept LI group, 
(cryptococcosis), and 1 subject in the CsA group died on day 1473 from severe mucormycosis 
infection.  
Pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PCP): The frequency of this disease was similar in all 3 
treatment groups over time. Up to month 12, PCP was reported across studies for 2 (0.4%) 1 (0.2%), 
and 0 subjects, respectively. Up to month 24, PCP was reported for 3 (0.6%), 1 (0.2%), and 2 (0.4%) 
subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. PCP was reported for 3 (0.6%), 1 
(0.2%), and 2 (0.4%) subjects in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. The study 
protocols required PCP prophylaxis for 6 months following transplant. All subjects with PCP had 
received prophylaxis with trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole except 2 subjects; 1 each in belatacept MI 
and CsA group. All 6 cases of PCP reported up to database lock were serious. Two cases of PCP (1 each 
in the belatacept MI and LI groups) were judged by the investigator to be related to study drug. None 
of the PCP infections led to treatment discontinuation. One subject in the belatacept LI group who 
experienced PCP died due to myocardial infarction. 
Tuberculosis: Tuberculosis (TB) was reported for a total of 10 subjects across the 3 core studies. More 
cases were reported in the belatacept groups compared with the CsA group. Nearly all cases of TB 
were reported in subjects who currently or previously resided in endemic areas. Up to month 12, TB 
was reported for 2 (0.4%), 2 (0.4%), and 1 (0.2%) in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, 
respectively. Tuberculosis was more frequently reported in the belatacept groups compared with the 
CsA group up to month 24: 5 (1.0%) subjects, 3 (0.6%) subjects, and 1 (0.2%) subject in the 
belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. and up to database lock: 5 (1.0%) subjects, 4 (0.8%) 
subjects, and 1 (0.2%) subject in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. Of the 9 cases 
of TB in belatacept subjects, 4 cases were pulmonary, 3 were extra-pulmonary and 2 were 
disseminated. 
All 10 cases of TB were reported as serious. Eight of the 10 subjects with SAEs of TB lived in endemic 
areas at the time of onset of the event (4 in Brazil, 4 in India); 2 lived in France and one of these 2 
had lived in Mali previously. All subjects in the core studies were screened for TB pre-transplant 
according to local guidelines. None had a previous history of TB. History of BCG vaccination in the past 
was positive for 4, negative for 3, and unknown for 3 subjects. The majority of subjects were treated 
with 3 - 4 drug anti-tuberculosis therapy. The event resolved in 7 subjects. Of the 3 events of TB that 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 67/85
 
 
 
 
did not resolve, 1 was in the belatacept MI group (resolution unknown) and 2 were in the belatacept LI 
group. TB infection led to discontinuation in 3 subjects: 1 in the belatacept MI group and 2 in the LI 
group. Two subjects had TB with fatal outcome. The primary cause of death as assigned by the 
investigator was septic shock, bronchopneumonia, and lower digestive hemorrhage in one subject and 
cardiac arrest in one subject. 
Serious adverse event and deaths 
Deaths 
Overall, the total number of deaths in the core studies up to database lock was lower in the belatacept 
LI group than in the belatacept MI and CsA groups.  
AEs with the outcome of death were reported for 21 (4.4%), 16 (3.4%), and 28 (5.9%) of subjects in 
the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively, up to month 24. The causes of death did not 
significantly differ between the 3 treatment groups. Infections and cardiac disorders were the leading 
causes of death in all 3 treatment groups. Death rate during the study period was lower in the 
belatacept LI group than in the two other treatment groups. Infections and infestations accounted for 
the majority of deaths in all treatment groups. In the CsA group, deaths due to cardiac disorders were 
more common than in any of the belatacept treatment groups. During the first year of treatment, the 
frequency of SAEs was lower in the belatacept LI group than in the belatacept MI and CsA groups. 
Infections were the most common SAEs across all 3 treatment groups. Up to month 12, the frequency 
of treatment-related AEs (TEAEs) was lower in the belatacept MI and LI groups (53% and 54%, 
respectively) than in the CsA group (72%) in the pooled analysis. The rate of TEAEs of infection was 
lowest in the LI group and the total number of subjects with a TEAE was also lowest in the LI group. 
TEAEs were less common in the LI group than in the other groups. More subjects in the CsA group 
than in any of the belatacept groups discontinued study drug due to an AE. 
Contrary to what is found in most other studies with new immunosuppressives, discontinuations as 
well as discontinuations due to AEs were more common in the comparator arm than in any of the 
belatacept study arms. Discontinuation due to AEs was less common in the MI group than in the LI 
group which is also noteworthy as the MI group as a whole had more rejections and more SAEs than 
the LI group.  
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory test results were evaluated at a central laboratory. For haematological parameters, 
there were no clinically significant differences between treatment arms for haemoglobin or leukocyte 
counts. Electrolyte values were similar between treatment groups. The proportion of patients for whom 
high bilirubin levels were reported at any time was higher in the CsA treatment groups in clinical 
studies, e. g. in study IM103027, the proportion of subjects with high bilirubin levels up to month 24 
was 0.6%, 4.1%, and 5.5% for belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. In the belatacept MI, 
LI and CsA groups, hypocalcaemia was reported as an AE in 9.4%, 11.0%, and 8.8%, respectively up 
to month 12. The cumulative frequencies of hypophosphatemia reported as an AE up to month 24 were 
17%, 21%, and 13% in belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. The majority of these AEs 
occurred 0 - 3 months post transplant. No events were serious and none led to discontinuation. The 
proportions of subjects taking phosphates as concomitant medications were similar across treatment 
groups. In studies IM103008 and IM103027, proteinuria was defined as central laboratory determined, 
2+ urine protein for at least 2 consecutive visit dates. Up to 36 months, the proportion of subjects with 
proteinuria was 2 to 3 % higher in subjects on belatacept. This difference was primarily due to a slight 
excess of belatacept subjects with urine protein 2+ or greater at month 1. The urine protein profile 
was similar after month 3 across all groups. Urinary protein excretion was not quantified. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 68/85
 
 
 
 
Immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, and IgA) were assessed at baseline and at months 6, 12, 18, and 24 in 
studies IM103008 and IM103027. A greater reduction in mean immunoglobulin was observed from 
baseline to month 24 in belatacept treated subjects compared with CsA treated subjects. No 
association was seen between low immunoglobulin levels and the frequency of serious infections.  
Vital signs: ECG assessments were based upon local evaluations of ECG. As nonclinical studies did not 
detect QTc interval changes, non-standardised locally read ECG assessments only were made in phase 
3 studies. Overall, belatacept had no effect on the QTc interval. 
Blood pressure: The mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure values were lower in the belatacept 
groups than in the CsA group at all time points. 
Heart rate and body temperature were similar among groups and remained within normal range over 
time. 
Mean body weight increased from baseline to database lock in all three study groups (to month 24 in 
IM103008: ~4 to 6 kg; IM103027: ~3 to 4 kg). 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup analyses for SAEs and AEs for individual studies IM103008 and IM103027 were performed 
for the following baseline characteristics: Recipient age, gender, race, pre-transplant diabetes status, 
attributed cause of ESRD, pretransplant weight, most PRA, and without prior transplant; Donor fibrosis 
or vasculopathy in baseline biopsy, age, and donor condition; HLA mismatch donor/recipient. 
The Applicant states that subgroup analyses demonstrated similar frequencies among each of the 
treatment groups that were consistent with the rates for the overall population in each study.  
The frequency of overall infections and serious infections was higher in subjects with AR than in 
subjects without AR in both the LI and CsA groups but lower in the MI group. In subjects with AR, the 
frequency of infections was similar or lower in the LI group compared with the CsA group. 
Safety in liver transplantation 
In the liver transplant study IM103045, recipients of liver transplants from cadaveric donor were 
randomised into 5 treatment groups: Group 1) Basiliximab + Belatacept MI + Mycophenolate mofetil 
(MMF); Group 2) Belatacept (MI) + MMF; Group 3) Belatacept LI + MMF; Group 4) Tacrolimus (TAC) + 
MMF; Group 5) TAC. Dropout rate was highest in the belatacept LI + MMF group. Significantly more 
deaths occurred in the belatacept LI + MMF treatment groups than in the other groups. Key safety 
results at 12 months were the following: 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 69/85
 
 
 
 
More patients in the belatacept LI + MMF and tacrolimus treatment groups discontinued study due to 
AEs than patients in the other 3 treatment groups did. HCV recurrence was more common in the 
belatacept MI + basiliximab + MMF group and TAC+ MMF groups than in the other groups. Higher 
rates of viral and fungal infections were reported in the belatacept LI group. One case of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) occurred in the belatacept MI + MMF group. Two cases of PTLD 
occurred, one in the belatacept LI + MMF group and the other in the basiliximab+belatacept MI+MMF 
group. More thromboembolic events were reported in the belatacept LI 0 MMF and tacrolimus + MMF 
groups than in the other groups. 
On the 10th January 2011, the Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) for this study recommended the 
study to be terminated in a non-urgent but timely manner. The primary reason for this 
recommendation was that there was an observed increase in the number of deaths and graft loss in 2 
of the 3 belatacept treatment groups, which became more evident in the follow-up period extending 
beyond one-year post-transplant.  
Review by the DMC of these individual events did not reveal evidence of a clear causal relationship 
between these events and the use of belatacept. There were also increased numbers of viral and 
fungal infections in patients in the belatacept arms. In addition, due to the large number of 
discontinuations, the number of ongoing subjects in each treatment group is quite small.  
On the 24th of January, the Applicant communicated to the EMA and the CHMP the premature closure 
of the long time extension of study IM103045. 
The patient population as well as the immunosuppressive regimens in study IM103045 were different 
from those used in pivotal studies with belatacept for the renal transplantation indication applied for, 
and the doses of belatacept in the liver study were higher. Since mortality in belatacept treatment 
groups in the renal transplant phase 3 studies was not increased in 36 month data, the findings from 
the liver transplant study is not considered at this stage to be important for evaluation of renal 
transplantation safety data. The MAH committed to submit for evaluation complete study data from the 
extension of the liver transplantation study IM103045 as soon as they are available. 
Pregnancies: Only one woman became pregnant during belatacept treatment in a clinical trial.  
A 31-year-old woman in IM103100 became pregnant after 7 years of treatment with belatacept; she 
had an induced abortion without complications. Two healthy volunteers became pregnant at 12 months 
and 15 months, respectively, after a single dose of subcutaneous belatacept. These pregnancies 
resulted in normal births. All other pregnancies in the renal trials were in partners of subjects with a 
total of 15 pregnancies in 12 partners on belatacept (8 normal births, 2 spontaneous abortions, and 5 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 70/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
without neonatal outcomes reported). There were a total of 6 pregnancies in 6 subjects in the CsA 
treatment group (1 normal birth, 1 normal birth with neonatal jaundice, and 4 without neonatal 
outcome available). 
Immunological events 
Belatacept antibodies: Overall in subjects receiving belatacept as a component of a 4-agent 
immunosuppressive regimen in the phase 3 studies and the 4-week schedule of IM103100LTE, drug 
specific antibodies against belatacept were developed in 4.4 % (37/847) of the subjects during 
treatment. A total of 6 subjects had neutralising antibodies. Few seropositive subjects experienced 
events that might represent loss of efficacy or a safety issue related to development of antibodies to 
belatacept in the phase 3 studies or the long-term extension of IM103100. Immunogenicity appeared 
also to have no impact on elimination of belatacept. In IM103008 and IM103027, 31/796 (3.9%) 
subjects were seropositive during treatment (up to 56 days following the last dose) and approximately 
equal numbers of these seropositive subjects had transient or persistent antibodies. An additional 
8/132 (6%) subjects seroconverted after discontinuation of belatacept for ≥56 days. The 56 day period 
was chosen because it represents approximately 7 half lives of belatacept. Samples positive to the 
modified CTLA4 portion of the molecule were analysed by bioassay in vitro for the presence of 
neutralising antibodies (NAb). Of the 53 subjects in the core renal transplant studies who were 
seropositive, 24 had antibodies against the CTLA4 portion of the molecule. Of these, 6/24 (25%) 
subjects were NAb positive. In IM103008 and IM103100 LTE, no seropositive subject died or 
experienced graft loss. There were 4 seropositive subjects in IM103027 having graft loss during year 
1; all cases of graft loss occurred within 8 days of transplant with the cause being either technical or 
primary graft thrombosis. The occurrence of AR was generally comparable among seropositive, 
seronegative or indeterminate subjects. One seropositive subject developed Guillain-Barré syndrome. 
Antibodies to belatacept appeared only after event onset, and a causal relationship was deemed 
unlikely. Comparison of trough levels of belatacept in individual subjects as well as Bayesian predicted 
clearance of belatacept from population PK analysis in seronegative and seropositive subjects 
suggested that there was no appreciable effect of antibodies on the clearance of belatacept. During the 
initial posttransplantation period, relatively high proportions of subjects with indeterminate antibody 
status occurred due to concentrations of belatacept that exceeded the range of assay validation. 
In the healthy volunteer studies, on the other hand, development of antibodies to belatacept seemed 
very frequent (80-100 %). Relevant data on antibody formation in healthy volunteers may only be 
extracted from studies IM103029 and IM103046 as these studies were the only healthy volunteer 
studies utilising the same (and most recent) method for detection of antibodies as in the phase 3 
studies and the 4-week schedule of IM103100LTE. Study IM103029 was a single dose SC study in 30 
healthy subjects. A total of 23 belatacept-treated subjects developed antibodies to belatacept and a 
total of 13 of the seropositive belatacept-treated subjects were positive for neutralizing antibodies. 
Study IM103029 was a single dose SC and IV study in 41 healthy subjects. Thirty-one subjects 
received a single SC dose (50-250 mg) and 10 subjects received 125 mg as an IV infusion. Between 
80% and 100% of the subjects who received a SC dose and 100% subjects who received the IV 
infusion developed antibodies to belatacept. Among the 39 subjects who developed antibodies against 
the modified CTLA4 region of belatacept, 32 developed neutralising antibodies. 
Hypersensitivty reactions: Those events that occurred within one hour after infusion were defined as 
acute infusional events. Up to database lock, 6 % in the MI group and 4% in the LI group experienced 
acute infusional events (e. g. hypotension, hypertension, flushing, headache). Across all 3 studies, 3 
acute infusional events were reported as SAEs in the MI group, none in the LI group. These events 
resolved on the same day and the subjects continued in the study. No events of anaphylaxis occurred. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 71/85
 
 
 
 
Those hypersensitivity reactions occurring later but no more than 24 hours post infusion were defined 
as peri-infusional events. Approximately 49% of subjects in the MI group and 50% in the LI group 
reported peri-infusional events up to month 24. The most commonly reported events were 
hypertension, nausea, hypotension, cough, and headache. Serious peri-infusional events were reported 
for 1.5% and 2.1% of patients in MI and LI groups, respectively. These SAEs included pyrexia, 
hypotension, and vomiting. There was no association between these events and belatacept antibodies. 
One patient in each of the belatacept groups discontinued due to hypotension. No events lead to 
death. There were no differences in frequency of acute or peri-infusional events between belatacept 
groups and CsA group on days 1 and 5 when all patients received basiliximab. 
Autoimmune events: The frequency of autoimmune events through the studies was similar for the 3 
treatment groups: 8 (1.7%), 9 (1.9%), and 10 (2.1%) in the belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, 
respectively. New onset diabetes mellitus occurred with similar frequency in all 3 treatment groups. 
The predominant autoimmune disorder reported in belatacept subjects was psoriasis: 3 (0.6%) 
subjects each in the belatacept MI and LI groups. The most common autoimmune disorder in CsA 
subjects was hyperthyroidism: 3 (0.6%) subjects). Few autoimmune events were serious: 2 (0.4%), 1 
(0.2%), and 5 (1.1%) subjects in belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively, or led to 
discontinuation: (2 (0.4%), 0, and 0 subjects in belatacept MI, LI, and CsA groups, respectively. Fewer 
autoimmune events were reported in IM103008 and IM103100 than in IM103027. No deaths were 
reported to be related to autoimmune events. One case of Guillain-Barre syndrome was reported in 
IM103027: a 25-year old white male in the MI group developed this complication about posttransplant 
day 200. The patient discontinued the study and underwent plasmapheresis treatment and thereafter 
recovered completely. He had no belatacept antibodies at the time of the event but became 
seropositive after discontinuation (d 380 and onwards). The investigator did not consider the event to 
be treatment related. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
MPA levels in subjects who were also taking MMF in IM103008 and IM103027 were assessed. MPA 
exposure was approximately 41% higher with belatacept than with CsA. The explanation to this is that 
CsA inhibits the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA. 
Table 14. AEs commonly related to MPA toxicity up to database lock in IM103008 and IM103027 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 72/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation due to AEs was more common in the CsA group than in the belatacept groups. Study 
discontinuation due to an AE of infection was more common in the belatacept groups than in the CsA 
group but did not differ between the two belatacept groups. Discontinuation due to malignancy was 
most common in the MI group and least common in the CsA group. Study withdrawal due to 
gastrointestinal disorders was more common in the CsA group than in the belatacept groups. Several 
patients in the CsA group discontinued because of hirsutism; none in the belatacept groups did so.  
Safety data to 36 months were submitted; these additional data did not change any safety conclusions.  
Post marketing experience 
No post marketing data is available. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The total number of patients exposed to belatacept (734 for at least 1 year, 665 for at least 2 years, 
77 for at least 5 years and 42 for at least 7 years is considered acceptable for this application from a 
safety point of view, in accordance with the ICH guideline CPMP/ICH/375/95. Since the belatacept MI 
and LI as well as the CsA treatment arms are identical in the 3 core studies in renal transplantation, 
pooling of data from these studies for safety analyses is justified 
Patients in the belatacept MI and CsA treatment arms tended to have a higher incidence of malignancy 
as compared to the patients in the belatacept LI arm.  
The 3-year incidence of PTLD in belatacept-treated subjects in the performed trials was high and many 
fold higher than incidences reported from three great transplant databases CTS, UNOS and USRDS. Of 
specific concern was that CNS involvement was unexpectedly common. PTLD located in the CNS 
usually has a severe prognosis. Six cases of PTLD in the belatacept MI group were situated in the CNS 
while only two of the cases in the LI group and none in the CsA group had this extremely uncommon 
localisation. The reason for this high incidence of PTLD with CNS localisation was discussed by the 
Applicant from a mechanistic point of view and in the light of experimental studies, but no definite 
reason emerged. Eight of the 15 patients who developed PTLD were EBV-negative at the time of 
transplantation and EBV-status was unknown for two resulting in an estimated PTLD risk that was 12-
fold higher for EBV-negative patients than for EBV-positive patients. Because of this, the Applicant 
suggests that EBV-negative serostatus or serostatus for EBV unknown should be contraindications for 
belatacept which seems reasonable; poatapproval studies are also proposed. These precautionary 
measures are believed to be sufficient to reduce the risk for PTLD to an acceptable level, in level with 
database findings. 
In the pivotal studies, mammograms were done at study inclusion and then yearly. The rationale for 
this routine is probably explained by the finding of breast tumours in a belatacept mouse study. No 
increase incidence of breast cancer was however seen in any of the belatacept and recommendations 
have been updated to follow local guidelines for breast cancer screening also for women on belatacept 
treatment. 
Transplant thrombosis was significantly more common in belatacept groups than in CsA groups in 
study IM103027 only, and these thromboses were seen more frequently in the MI group than in the LI 
group. An obvious explanation is the fact that donors as well as recipients had more risk factors in this 
study than in IM103008. As these background factors were the same in all three treatment groups, the 
fact that so many more graft thromboses occurred in the belatacept treatment groups can however not 
be explained by baseline factors in this study. The Applicant has extensively discussed possible 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 73/85
 
 
 
 
mechanisms for an increased thrombogenicity in the transplant situation with belatacept, and provided 
preclinical and clinical data that did not suggest any mechanism for a connection belatacept and 
activation of coagulation mechanisms in the early posttransplant situation. Information on transplant 
thrombosis is however now given in sections 4.4 and 5.2 of the SmPC, and is an important possible 
risk in the RMP. 
During the first year after transplantation, SAEs of infection were less common in the LI group than in 
the MI and CsA groups. The same was true also for herpes virus infections, polyoma virus infections 
and fungal infections. Polyoma virus infections in the kidney transplant can cause severe harm to the 
transplant as nephropathy is commonly associated with the infection; the increased incidence of 
polyoma virus infections in the MI group could be a sign of overimmunosuppression in this group. The 
increased rate of herpes virus infection in both belatacept groups could also be a sign of impaired 
resistance to viral infectious agents. Herpes infections tended to be more common in the MI group 
than in the LI group. The Applicant discussed, from a mechanistic point of view, the increased 
susceptibility to certain viral infections during belatacept treatment in the pivotal studies.  
CNS infections were reported more frequently in the belatacept MI group than in the belatacept LI and 
CsA groups. Of particular concern are the two lethal cases of PML among the betalacept treated 
patients. A warning has been included in the SmPC regarding PML. This risk is also addressed in the 
RMP.  
Tuberculosis was more common in both belatacept groups than in the CsA group. Based on the data 
provided by the Applicant, it is concluded that CD28 costimulation seems to be more important 
following initial exposure to a pathogen than in the chronic phase of a polyoma virus infection and the 
same is most likely true for the special case of exposure to mycobacteria. Section 4.4 in the SmPC has 
been strengthened with regard to the risk for tuberculosis.  
In subgroup safety analyses, the results on the impact of an acute rejection for risk of malignancies 
and infections are complex. As could be expected, the overall rate of infections and of serious 
infections was in all groups higher in patients who had been treated for an acute rejection. By 
dosing by body weight, the Applicant was asked to discuss the potential risk of overexposure in obese 
patients. The exposure is predicted to be somewhat higher in obese subjects and the Applicant 
submitted safety subgroup analyses for weight and BMI. These subgroup analyses did not reveal a 
systematic increase of adverse events in the highest weight/BMI categories in the belatacept groups. 
Belatacept is a potent immunosuppressive agent and could impair the development of the immune 
system in the fetus if administered to pregnant women. The wording on pregnancies in the SmPC has 
been amended to provide this information.  
In study IM103045, a phase II 12 month study in liver transplantation, there was an increased 
mortality in all three belatacept treatment arms and the long time extension of the study was therefore 
prematurely terminated. The Applicant has subsequently submitted all available data on the deaths in 
the study. There were a wide variety of causes of death. The presence of 2 cases of PTLD and 1 case of 
PML in belatacept treated subjects, together with an increased incidence of viral and fungal infections 
in the belatacept treatment groups are however suggestive of overimmunosuppression in these 
treatment arms. It is noted that one or two more belatacept doses were given in the early 
posttransplant course in this liver study than in the renal transplant studies, which is unexpected as 
liver transplant recipients in general are considered to have less need for immunosuppression than 
renal transplant recipients. The section 4.4 of the SmPC has been updated with a warning against the 
use of belatacept in liver transplantation and a short information on the liver study results has been 
introduced into section 5.1. Furthermore, off label use is identified as a potential risk in the RMP and 
follow-up queries will be sent on spontaneous reports of off-label use and off label use will be studied 
in two planned pharmacoepidemiology studies. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 74/85
 
 
 
 
Antibody formation against belatacept seems to be very frequent in healthy volunteers. For belatacept, 
only limited data from healthy subjects is available for the IV route but data indicate a large potential 
for development of antibodies directed against belatacept (also neutralising). The large difference in 
antibody formation between healthy volunteers and patients is likely a consequence of the absence of 
immunosuppression in healthy subjects. Few seropositive subjects experienced events that might 
represent loss of efficacy or a safety risk related to belatacept antibodies in the phase 3 studies or the 
long-term extension of IM103100. However, conclusions on the relationship between antibodies 
against belatacept (neutralising and/or non-neutralising) and efficacy or safety are not very robust due 
to the low numbers of patients with antibodies. This problem was discussed by the Applicant. More 
data will be collected postapproval. Based on the data from healthy volunteers, one would expect a 
higher risk of developing antibodies, and also neutralising antibodies, against belatacept in stable 
transplant recipients on a low level of maintenance immunosuppression in the late posttransplant 
phase. Especially in a situation when belatacept therapy is temporarily stopped and then resumed (as 
could e.g. be the case if a patient becomes pregnant), one could fear that the risk of developing 
antibelatacept antibodies could be considerable.  
Thus, there are insufficient data on the correlation between antibodies and efficacy or safety and no 
data on the development of antibodies in patients on a low level of immunosuppression or after 
resuming belatacept after an interruption of belatacept therapy. These safety concerns have been 
adequately addressed in the RMP. In addition, adequate information on the risk of developing 
antibodies to belatacept has been included in the section 4.4 of the SmPC.  
Six percent of patients developed belatacept antibodies after discontinuation of belatacept. The 
Applicant has proposed the updates in RMP with a plan designed to improve the understanding of the 
relationship between antibody development and peri-infusional events within the clinical trials. 
Autoimmunity: There is a theoretical concern that treatment with belatacept might increase the risk of 
autoimmune processes and the risk for autoimmunity should be considered. Belatacept treated 
patients in the pivotal studies did not have an increased incidence of autoimmune conditions but 
autoimmunity is identified as an important potential risk in the Risk Management plan and enhanced 
pharmacovigilance, with targeted questionnaires for autoimmunity will be used postapproval.  
New case of PTLD: On 5 April, the Applicant informed the CHMP about a new case of PTLD in the long-
term extension phase of study IM103027. The investigator reported that a 60-year-old black male was 
hospitalized on 21-Feb-2011 with fever and nausea. Work-up revealed that the patient had PTLD. This 
patient underwent kidney transplantation on 19-Jul-2006 and was randomized to the less intensive 
dosing regimen of belatacept. His medical history included Type II diabetes mellitus (1985) 
progressing to insulindependency (2000), diabetic retinopathy, hypertension (Oct-2000), 
dyslipidaemia, gastrointestinal haemorrhage, colonic polyp, gangrene of toes with toe amputation (04-
Aug-2010-04-Sep-2010), end stage renal disease (Oct-2000), nephrolithiasis (1977), sinusitis, 
glaucoma, cataract, arteriovenous grafts (four-with the last in Feb-2002), gastric mucosal tear (2005) 
and shoulder reconstruction (1992). At the time of transplantation, the recipient was CMV positive and 
EBV negative. The donor was CMV positive and EBV unknown. The patient had been receiving oral 
valganciclovir 450 mg daily since 20-Jul-2006 for CMV prophylaxis. The week-52 renal allograft biopsy 
(18-Jul-2007) showed no acute rejection. EBV serologies performed on 21-Dec-2009 showed that the 
patient had seroconverted, and quantitative EBV viral load by PCR was 100 copies/ml. On repeat 
assessment 1 year later (21-Dec-2010), EBV viral load by PCR remained at 100 copies/ml. The patient 
did not experience AR, LDT use or CMV infection. Following presentation with fever and nausea on  
21 Feb 2011, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed an enlarged transplant kidney. PTLD 
was diagnosed by open kidney graft biopsy on 21-Mar-2011 (study day 1707). A subsequent EBV viral 
load by PCR showed that it was positive but levels were too low to quantify. Belatacept and MMF were 
both withdrawn following diagnosis of PTLD and the patient was started on sirolimus 1 mg daily and 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 75/85
 
 
 
 
prednisone 20 mg daily. The fever and nausea resolved on 22-Mar-2011 and the patient was 
discharged from the hospital that day. Serum creatinine was 1.5 mg/dL at the time of discharge. 
Cytogenetic study results are currently pending. 
All transplant recipients, irrespective of immunosuppressive therapy, are at increased risk of PTLD, 
particularly during the first 2 years after transplantation. The absolute size of risk increase for PTLD is 
closely related to the total burden of immunosuppression, and to serostatus for EBV (seronegative 
patients being at increased risk). 
This second case of PTLD reported after the 36 month study period in the belatacept pivotal study. The 
patient in this case had only one risk factor for PTLD, but that was the most important risk factor 
negative EBV status at transplantation. Nulojix is not recommended for patients with a negative or 
unknown EBV serostatus at transplantation.  
The CHMP therefore concluded that this newly reported case of PTLD is not considered to evoke any 
new concerns about the use of belatacept in renal transplant recipients, and is not considered to alter 
the positive total benefit risk balance of the drug. The contraindication for the use of belatacept in 
patients without a confirmed EBV-positive EBV serostatus, together with the measures undertaken in 
the Risk Management Plan, is considered to be adequate to control the risk for posttransplant PTLD 
during  belatacept treatment.  
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The risk profile for belatacept is to a great extent similar to what is seen with other 
immunosuppressive agent, especially risks of developing infections and malignancies. The mechanism 
of action is not completely clarified. There may be specific risks linked to this drug as it has a different 
mechanism of action to the calcineurin inhibitors, namely specific blockade of the co-stimulatory signal. 
Of specific concern is the number of patients that developed posttransplant lymphopfoliferative disease 
which unexpectedly was located in the CNS in several cases. Therefore, a contraindication in EBV-
negative subjects and in addition an amended RMP is warranted. An important safety issue is also the 
two cases of lethal progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in patients on betalacept based 
regimens. Tuberculosis, infections with viruses of the herpes virus family, and polyoma virus infections 
was also seen in increased frequency in belatacept treated patients. The increased number of graft 
thromboses in belatacept treated patients in the high risk transplant population is also notable. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 76/85
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern  Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important Identified Risks: 
Important 
Identified Risk 1 
- PTLD with 
preponderance 
of CNS location 
 
Routine PV  
including- targeted questionnaire for PTLD 
and supplemental case report forms for 
clinical studies 
 
Additional PV - post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology studies (protocols 
IM103089 and IM103075) 
Important 
Identified Risk 
2- Infections 
Serious 
infections 
 
Routine PV  
including targeted questionnaire for select 
infections  
 
Additional PV - post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089) 
Serious viral 
infection 
Serious herpes 
infections 
Serious CMV 
infections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089) 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089)  
Routine PV 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089)  
Assessment report Nulojix 
  Contraindications in patients who are 
EBV-negative or serostatus unknown. (Section 
4.3 of SPC) (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
In the Phase 2 and 3 studies (3 studies), the 
incidence of PTLD was higher in belatacept 
treated patients than in ciclosporin treated 
patients (see section 4.8). Belatacept-treated 
transplant recipients who are EBV 
seronegative are at an increased risk for PTLD 
compared with those who are EBV positive 
(see section 4.8). EBV serology should be 
ascertained before starting administration of 
belatacept. Transplant recipients who are EBV 
seronegative or serostatus unknown should 
not receive belatacept (see section 4.3). 
In addition to EBV seronegative status, other 
known risk factors for PTLD include 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and T cell 
depleting therapy, which was more commonly 
used to treat acute rejection in belatacept-
treated patients in Phase 3 clinical studies 
(see section 5.1). 
PTLD in belatacept treated patients most often 
presented in the central nervous system 
(CNS). Physicians should consider PTLD in the 
differential diagnosis in patients with new or 
worsening neurologic, cognitive or behavioural 
signs or symptoms. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special  Warnings  and  Precautions  for  Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine).  
Use of immunosuppressants including 
belatacept, can increase susceptibility to 
infection, including fatal infections, 
opportunistic infections, tuberculosis, and 
herpes (see Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) warning). 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine) Refer to 
Serious Infections.  
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
CMV prophylaxis is recommended for at least 
Page 77/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious  polyoma 
infections 
 
Routine PV 
CNS infections 
 
Routine PV 
including - targeted questionnaire for 
infections and supplemental case report 
forms for clinical studies 
Serious fungal 
infections 
 
 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089)  
Tuberculosis 
 
Routine PV 
including - targeted questionnaire for 
infections and supplemental case report 
forms for clinical studies 
 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089) 
Important 
Identified  Risk  3 
-PML 
 
Routine PV 
including - targeted questionnaire for 
select infections and supplemental case 
report forms for clinical studies for select 
infections 
 
Additional PV - post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089) 
Assessment report Nulojix 
3 months after transplantation, particularly for 
patients at increased risk for CMV infection. 
Pneumocystis pneumonia prophylaxis is 
recommended for at least 6 months following 
transplantation. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). Refer to 
Serious Infections. 
Tuberculosis was more frequently observed in 
patients receiving belatacept than ciclosporin 
in clinical studies (see section 4.8). The 
majority of cases of tuberculosis occurred in 
patients who currently live or previously lived 
in countries with a high prevalence of 
tuberculosis. Patients should be evaluated for 
tuberculosis and tested for latent infection 
prior to initiating belatacept. Adequate 
treatment of latent tuberculosis infection 
should be instituted prior to belatacept use. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine).  
PML is a rare, often rapidly progressive and 
fatal, opportunistic infection of the CNS that 
is caused by the JC virus. In clinical studies 
with belatacept, 2 cases of PML were reported 
in patients receiving belatacept at doses 
higher than the recommended regimen. In 
the renal transplant studies of belatacept, one 
case of PML was reported in a patient who 
received an IL 2 receptor antagonist, 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and 
corticosteroids as concomitant treatment. In 
the liver transplant study, the patient 
received MMF and corticosteroids as 
concomitant treatment. As an increased risk 
of PML and of other infections has been 
associated with high levels of overall 
immunosuppression, the recommended doses 
of belatacept and concomitant 
immunosuppressives, including MMF or MPA, 
should not be exceeded (see section 4.5). 
Early diagnosis and treatment may mitigate 
Page 78/85
 
 
 
 
the impact of PML. Physicians should consider 
PML in the differential diagnosis in patients 
with new or worsening neurologic, cognitive 
or behavioural signs or symptoms. PML is 
usually diagnosed by brain imaging, including 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or 
computed tomography (CT) scan, and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing for JC viral 
DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 
When the clinical suspicion for PML is high, 
brain biopsy should be considered in subjects 
if the diagnosis of PML cannot be established 
via CSF PCR and neuroimaging. Consultation 
with a neurologist is recommended for any 
suspected or confirmed cases of PML. 
If PML is diagnosed, reduction or withdrawal 
of immunosuppression is recommended 
taking into account the risk to the graft. 
Plasmapheresis may accelerate removal of 
belatacept. 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine). 
  Patient Alert Card (additional). 
Important Potential Risks: 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology studies (protocol 
IM103089)  
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of the SPC) (routine). 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8 of the SPC) 
(routine).  
 
 
Important 
Potential Risk 1 
- Malignancies 
(other than 
PTLD), including 
non-melanoma 
skin cancers 
Important 
Potential Risk 2 
- Autoimmunity 
 
Routine PV  
including - targeted questionnaire for 
autoimmunity 
Routine PV - Monitored in ongoing Phase 3 
clinical trials  
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
Important 
Potential Risk 3 
- 
Immunogenicity 
 
 
Additional PV - monthly collection of 
immunogenicity samples prior to infusion 
during the first year of new clinical trials  
In addition to PTLD, patients receiving 
immunosuppressive regimens, including 
belatacept, are at increased risk of 
malignancies, including skin cancer (see 
section 4.8). Exposure to sunlight and 
ultraviolet (UV) light should be limited by 
wearing protective clothing and using a 
sunscreen with a high protection factor. 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
There is a theoretical concern that treatment 
with belatacept might increase the risk of 
autoimmune processes. 
  Undesirable Effects in Section 4.8 of the SPC 
(routine). 
The safety and efficacy of retreatment with 
belatacept has not been studied. The 
potential impact of pre-existing antibodies to 
belatacept should be taken into account when 
considering retreatment with belatacept 
following prolonged discontinuation, 
particularly in patients who have not received 
continuous immunosuppression. 
  Undesirable Effects in Section 4.8 of the SPC 
(routine). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
Special caution should be exercised in 
patients with a history of allergic reactions to 
belatacept or to any of the excipients. In 
clinical studies, there were no reports of 
anaphylaxis. If any serious allergic or 
anaphylactic reaction occurs, NULOJIX 
therapy should be discontinued immediately 
and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Important 
Potential Risk 4 
- Infusion-
related reactions 
 
Routine PV  
including - targeted questionnaire for 
hypersensitivity/ infusion related reactions  
and module for enhanced collection of 
patient reported events 48 hours post 
infusion (immunogenicity sample collected 
at the time of every infusion in year 1) 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 79/85
 
 
 
 
Important 
Potential Risk 5 
- Off-label use 
 
 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - postmarketing 
pharmacoepidemiology studies (protocol 
IM103077 and IM103074) will capture off 
label use, including use in liver transplant 
recipients and pediatric populations  
 
 
Important 
Potential Risk 6 
- Venous 
thrombosis of 
the allograft 
Routine PV  
including - targeted questionnaire for 
allograft thrombosis  
Important Missing Information: 
Pregnancy and 
lactation 
Children and 
adolescents 
< 18 years old  
 
Routine PV 
 
 
 
 
including - surveillance form for pregnancy 
and supplemental case report forms for 
clinical studies 
Additional PV - Post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study in the US 
protocol IM103061) 
Routine PV 
Additional PV - post-marketing 
pharmacoepidemiology study (protocol 
IM103089, IM103077 and IM103074) 
Pediatric investigational plan (PIP) was 
submitted for review by the PDCO in the 
EU. The plan was accepted (EMEA decision 
P/99/2008) on 03-Nov-2008. The PIP 
compliance check was completed on 24 
July 2009. 
Patients with 
hepatic 
impairment 
 
Routine PV 
  Undesirable Effects (Section 4.8) (routine). 
  Contraindications (Section 4.3 of SPC) 
Contraindication in patients who are EBV 
negative or serostatus unknown (additional) 
and Therapeutic Indications (Section 4.1) in 
adults receiving a kidney transplant (routine). 
  Special Wanings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
The safety and efficacy of belatacept have not 
been established in liver transplant patients, 
and therefore such use is not recommended. 
In a single Phase 2 clinical study in de novo 
liver transplant patients, an increase in the 
number of deaths was observed in 2 of 3 
belatacept containing regimens studied. These 
belatacept dosing regimens differed from 
those studied in renal transplant recipients 
(see section 5.1). 
  Posology and Method of Administration 
(Section 4.2 of SPC) stating the lack of data in 
children and adolescents (routine). 
  Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
An increased incidence of graft thrombosis 
was observed in the post-transplant period in 
recipients of extended criteria donor 
allografts. 
  Undesirable effects (Section 4.8) (routine). 
  Warnings and risk information related to 
pregnancy in Fertility, Pregnancy, and 
Lactation (Section 4.6) (routine). 
Women of child bearing potential should use 
effective contraception during treatment with 
belatacept and up to 8 weeks after the last 
dose of treatment since the potential risk to 
embryonic/foetal development is unknown. 
  Posology and Method of Administration 
(Section 4.2 of SPC) stating the lack of data in 
children and adolescents (routine). 
  Posology and Method of Administration 
(Section 4.2 of SPC) (routine). 
No patients with hepatic impairment were 
studied in renal transplant protocols, therefore 
dose modification of belatacept in hepatic 
impairment can not be recommended.  
  Pharmacokinetic properties (Section 5.2 of 
SPC) (routine). 
There is no data available in patients with 
hepatic impairment. 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 80/85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine PV 
Retreatment 
after prolonged 
discontinuation 
  Special Wanings and Precautions for Use 
(Section 4.4 of SPC) (routine). 
The safety and efficacy of retreatment with 
belatacept has not been studied. The potential 
impact of pre-existing antibodies to belatacept 
should be taken into account when considering 
retreatment with belatacept following 
prolonged discontinuation, particularly in 
patients who have not received continuous 
immunosuppression. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product:  
  Alert Card that refers to SmPC and PL for the important identified risks, raises awareness for 
non-specialists of transplant surgery that a patient is on belatacept and of the time for next 
treatment. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
Belatacept represents a new therapeutic principle for basal immunosuppression, co-stimulatory 
blockade, in the prevention of graft rejection after renal transplantation. It lacks the nephrotoxic 
adverse effects of calcineurin inhibitors that are now the cornerstones of short time as well as long 
time immunosuppression after organ transplantation. Consequently, belatacept could potentially 
provide better long time transplant function, measured as glomerular filtration rate and, in a prolonged 
time perspective, give less chronic allograft nephropathy and thereby also a better long time renal 
graft survival. As it is a protein, a fusion of a modified Fc domain of human IgG1to the extracellular 
domain of human CTLA-4, it does not seem to interact with any of the enzyme systems of the liver, 
making pharmacokinetic interaction less probable. 
As belatacept is administered intravenously once a month, it gives possibilities for a better control of 
patient adherence to therapy. Another benefit is that therapeutic drug monitoring does not seem to be 
required. 
To establish the clinical value of a new immunosuppressive agent with properties hypothesised for 
belatacept, clinically relevant superiority in renal function relative to the existing alternatives without a 
detrimental effect of subject and graft survival should be demonstrated. 
In pivotal clinical studies, belatacept in the applied low intensity dosing regimen was shown to be non-
inferior to ciclosporin for the primary composite endpoint of patient and graft survival at 12 months, in 
a low risk transplant population (96.5% vs 92.8% subject or graft survival for belatacept and CsA, 
respectively, 97.3% CI: -1.1; 9.0) as well as in a high risk transplant population (88.0% vs 84.8%, 
97.3% CI: -5.0; 11.4). At 36 months, the results for patient and graft survival the belatacept treated 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 81/85
 
 
 
 
 
groups remained non-inferior to ciclosporin in the low risk study population (92.2%, 92.0%, and 
88.7%), as well as in the high risk study population (80.4%, 82.3%, and 79.9”, respectively). 
In the low risk transplant population, belatacept was significantly superior to ciclosporin for the 
composite co-primary endpoint proportion of patients with GFR <60 at 12 months or a decrease in 
GFR>10 between month 3 and 12 (54.2% vs 77.9%, 97.3 CI: -33.3; -13.7)), while in a high risk 
transplant population the effect was less pronounced and did not reach formal statistical significance 
for the applied low intensive belatacept regimen (76.3% vs 84.8, 97.3% CI: -18.0; 0.9). However, in 
both studies the mean difference in calculated GFR tended to increase during the 36 month follow-up. 
The positive effects on renal function were shown to be sustained up to 36 months in both pivotal 
studies. Both belatacept treatment arms had better results for GFR than patients in the ciclosporin 
treatment arm in the low risk patient study IM103008, the difference between treatment arms was 
independent of where the cutoff point was applied, between 45 and 75 ml/min. The difference between 
treatments, in favour of belatacept, was also seen in the high risk patient study IM103027 but this 
difference was much less between treatment arms in the latter study.  
A trend towards a lower prevalence of chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) was demonstrated in the 
low risk study (23.9% vs 32.4%, 97.3% CI: -17.9; 0.9) and in the high risk study, although less 
pronounced, (46.0% vs 51.6%, 97.3% CI: -17.2; 6.0). 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the composite endpoint of patient and graft survival in both 
pivotal studies, in spite of more episodes of acute rejection with belatacept treatment.  
With respect to renal function, convincing positive effects on glomerular filtration rate and prevalence 
of chronic allograft nephropathy were observed in the low risk study only while no significant effects in 
the high risk study with patients and donors more representative for renal transplant centres in 
general. The effects were sustained during a 36 month study period but was more evident in a low risk 
patient population than in a high risk patient population. Nevertheless, patients in study IM103027 still 
achieved an approximately 35% higher calculated GFR than patients in the CsA group (compared to an 
approximately 45% higher calculated GFR for patients on belatacept as compared to CsA-treated 
patients, in study low risk study IM103008). Even the smaller difference between treatment groups in 
study IM103027 is considered as a clinically meaningful difference. 
Whether the better renal function at 3 years this will also translate into a better all over survival time 
of renal transplants on belatacept in the very long run remains to be proven. 
There were more acute rejections on belatacept treatment during the first 12 months, especially in the 
low risk study. Although the excess of early acute rejections on belatacept treatment did not seem to 
have a detrimental impact on the overall patient and graft survival or on renal function at 36 months, 
it should be considered that it may increase the need for renal biopsies, hospital care and additional 
immunosuppressive treatment for patients treated with belatacept. 
Results from pivotal studies hint that the cardiovascular risk profile of belatacept seems to be better 
than that of calcineurin inhibitors but a final evaluation of a possible advantage in this area will have to 
await larger and more targeted long-term studies. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 82/85
 
 
 
 
Major deficiencies were identified in the documentation supporting the proposed system for in-process 
control of the drug substance and further documentation was provided to assure that comparability 
between commercial product and product used in clinical studies. 
The selection of these tests is generally considered appropriate, as they cover most of the observed or 
expected variability. There were, however, concerns raised on the performance of some of the 
analytical methods. In process of this procedure, the control in performance of analytical methods has 
been improved and is largely considered acceptable. However, some concerns remain related to the B7 
bioassay and the SDS-PAGE analysis. Although these analyses are considered acceptable for 
confirmation of consistency in production using the currently established and validated process, they 
do not hold acceptable standard for analytical procedures to be used for demonstration of 
comparability of product in conjunction with future introduction of major changes in the commercial 
production process. The applicant is therefore requested to perform optimisation/validation studies to 
further improve the control of biological activity and purity in analysis by the B7 bioassay and the SDS-
PAGE analysis. 
The size of the safety data base and the exposure over time is acceptable for an application for a new 
immunosuppressive regimen in renal transplantation. 
Belatacept, like other immunosuppressives, increases the risk of malignancies and infections (these 
risks are addressed in the SmPC and in the RMP). However there are clear indications that the 
belatacept based regimens are associated with some specific safety issues that warrant further 
evaluation and discussion. Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease, PTLD, was significantly more 
common with belatacept than with ciclosporin, especially in EBV-negative graft recipients, and these 
cases have a bad prognosis with high mortality. A remarkable proportion of the PTLDs were localised in 
the CNS, a localisation otherwise very rare for this kind of disease. The mechanism behind this unusual 
localisation is unknown, as there are no data making plausible that belatacept should be able to cross 
the blood brain barrier. The risk of PTLD is addressed in the SmPC and the RMP. In clinical studies 
there were two cases of the very rare and lethal disease of PML (this risk is addressed in the SmPC and 
the RMP).   
Other infections that were more common in belatacept treated patients than in the control group 
patients were infections with viruses from the herpes virus family, polyoma virus infections and 
tuberculosis. These risks are addressed in the SmPC and in the RMP. 
Furthermore, graft thromboses were more common with the belatacept based regimens than with 
cyclosporine in one of the pivotal studies with high risk recipients and high risk donors.  
In a phase 2 liver transplantation study, with immunosuppressive regimens different from those used 
in pivotal studies with belatacept for the renal transplantation indication applied for, and with a higher 
dose of belatacept, an increased incidence of infections and an increased mortality was seen. This is in 
contrast to renal transplant studies, where there was no increased mortality in belatacept treatment 
groups at 36 months in pivotal studies. The increased mortality on belatacept in the liver transplant 
study is most likely due to overimmunosuppression. A warning against the use of belatacept in liver 
transplantation has been introduced to section 4.4 of the SPC, information on the liver transplant study 
has been amended to section 5.1, and the RMP has been updated with respect to off label use of 
belatacept in liver transplantation. Complete study data from the extension of the liver transplantation 
study IM103045 will be submitted for evaluation as soon as they are available.  
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The CHMP initially raised the potential of belatacept to block the inhibitory receptor CTLA-4 thereby 
enhancing the immune response. This has been adequately addressed through re-assessment of the 
available in vivo or clinical data hence the potential issue of immune enhancement was considered 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 83/85
 
 
 
 
resolved. Autoimmunity is identified as an important potential risk in the RMP, with enhanced 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
As antibody formation, also of neutralising antibodies, was very frequent in healthy volunteers, there is 
a fear that antibodies to belatacept could be more common in patients on a low basal 
immunosuppression or in patients resuming belatacept therapy after a prolonged pause between 
infusions. Such antibodies could possibly cause allergic reactions or autoimmunity and possibly impair 
the therapeutic effect of belatacept. From aspects of immunogenicity and antibody development, 
efficacy and safety of belatacept in the retreatment situation have not been fully clarified, especially in 
the situation when belatacept is restarted after a prolonged period of time, with or without continued 
other immunosuppression. Therefore, a warning against retreatment has been added to section 4.4 of 
the SmPC and these safety concerns have been adequately addressed in the RMP.  
Further assessment to rule out immunogenicity is needed and the RMP has been updated with a plan 
designed to improve the understanding of the relationship between antibody development and peri-
infusional events within the clinical trials. 
In addition, preclinical data shows that belatacept has a negative impact on the developing immune 
system and should therefore not be used in later phases of pregnancy. Thus, pregnancy would lead to 
a recommendation to change to another treatment regimen. It is not clear how to handle a woman 
that becomes pregnant during belatacept treatment and whether belatacept treatment can safely be 
resumed after pregnancy and childbirth or not. Therefore, a warning related to pregnancy and lactation 
has been added to section 4.4 of the SmPC and this safety concern has been addressed in the RMP. 
Even if EBV-negative or unknown transplant recipient status is a contraindication for belatacept, PTLD 
remains as a risk in the Risk Management Plan and will be monitored in postapproval studies. 
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The need for new effective immunosuppressant lacking the adverse nephrotoxic and cardiovascular 
effects of calcineurin inhibitors is great. Therefore, the positive effects of belatacept in terms of 1- and 
3-year patient and graft survival and of renal function at 1, 2 and 3 years are important.  
The increased number of acute rejections with belatacept did not impair the efficacy or safety of in a 
36 month perspective and is therefore considered not to have a severe impact on the risk benefit 
balance for the product.   
The observed increased incidence of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease with severe prognosis 
and often lethal outcome is a safety concern as are the PML cases. These observations could indicate 
increased risks that are carefully dealt with in the SmPC and in the RMP. Belatacept is contraindicated 
in EBV-negative patients. The observed increased risk for other infections such as herpes virus and 
polyoma virus infections and tuberculosis will be managed with appropriate risk minimisation activities.  
Further assessment to rule out immunogenicity is needed and the RMP has been updated with a plan 
designed to improve the understanding of the relationship between antibody development and peri-
infusional events within the clinical trials. 
Safety findings from the phase 2 liver transplantation study are at this stage considered to be confined 
to liver transplantation, as no increased mortality with belatacept was seen up to 36 months in the 
renal transplant studies. The total immunosuppressive burden in the liver transplant study was heavier 
than in the renal transplant studies. Liver transplantation patients are subjected to more complicated 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 84/85
 
 
 
 
and extensive surgery than renal transplant patient but in general have less need for 
immunosuppression than the renal transplant population.  
  Benefit-risk balance 
The overall benefit of belatacept has been sufficiently demonstrated up to 36 months. The 
demonstrated benefits are considered to outweigh the identified and potential risks. The overall 
benefit-risk balance of Nulojix is positive. 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Nulojix “in combination with corticosteroids and a mycophenolic acid 
(MPA), is indicated for prophylaxis of graft rejection in adults receiving a renal transplant (see 
section 5.1 for data on renal function). It is recommended to add an interleukin (IL)-2 receptor 
antagonist for induction therapy to this belatacept-based regimen” was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation . 
Assessment report Nulojix 
Page 85/85
 
 
 
 
