EMA/252902/2021 
EMEA/H/C/002098 
Nulojix (belatacept) 
An overview of Nulojix and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Nulojix and what is it used for? 
Nulojix is a medicine that reduces the activity of the immune system (the body's natural defences) and 
is used in adults to prevent the body from rejecting a transplanted kidney. It contains the active 
substance belatacept. 
How is Nulojix used? 
Nulojix can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has 
experience in the management of kidney transplant patients. 
Nulojix is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein over 30 minutes. It can be used in transplant patients 
from the day of transplantation and then regularly as maintenance treatment. When Nulojix is used 
this way, the patient also receives treatment with basiliximab, corticosteroids and mycophenolic acid 
(other medicines used to prevent organ rejection).  
Nulojix is also used for maintenance treatment in patients who received kidney transplantation at least 
6 months earlier and who had been using a calcineurin inhibitor-based regimen (another type of 
immunosuppressive treatment). Calcineurin inhibitor treatment can then be progressively replaced 
with Nulojix.  
The doses and frequency depend on the context in which Nulojix is used. For more further information 
about using Nulojix, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Nulojix work? 
The active substance in Nulojix, belatacept, is an immunosuppressant medicine. It suppresses the 
activity of ‘T cells’, immune system cells that can become involved in organ rejection.  
T cells must be ‘activated’ before they work. This happens when certain molecules attach to receptors 
on the surface of the T cells. Belatacept has been designed to attach to two of these molecules called 
CD80 and CD86. This stops them activating the T cells, helping to prevent organ rejection. 
What benefits of Nulojix have been shown in studies? 
Nulojix was shown to improve patient and organ survival following kidney transplantation.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In two main studies involving 1,209 patients who had just had a transplant, Nulojix was compared with 
ciclosporin (another medicine used to prevent organ rejection). All patients were also treated with 
corticosteroids, mycophenolic acid and basiliximab (an interleukin-2 receptor antagonist) during the 
first week after transplantation. 
In the first study, 97% of patients receiving Nulojix treatment survived with their kidneys intact (218 
out of 226) compared with 93% of patients receiving ciclosporin (206 out 221). Around 54% of 
patients receiving Nulojix and 78% of those receiving ciclosporin had impaired kidney function. The 
proportion of patients who had an episode of organ rejection within one year was 17% for Nulojix and 
7% for cyclosporine A. 
In the second study, 89% (155 out of 175) of patients on Nulojix and 85% (157 out 184) of those on 
ciclosporin survived with their kidneys intact. The proportion of patients with impaired kidney function 
was 77% in patients on Nulojix and 85% in patients on ciclosporin. Around 18% of patients on Nulojix 
had an episode of organ rejection within one year compared with 14% of patients on ciclosporin. 
Intensive Nulojix treatment with a longer initial phase of six months produced similar results to 
treatment with a three-month initial phase. 
In a further study in 446 patients who underwent kidney transplantation more than 6 months earlier 
and were being treated with a calcineurin inhibitor (ciclosporin or tacrolimus), half of the patients 
continued on calcineurin inhibitor treatment and the other half were progressively switched to Nulojix 
over 4 weeks. After 2 years, 98% of patients (219 out of 223) who were switched to Nulojix were alive 
with a working transplanted kidney, compared with 97% (217 out of 223) of patients who were not 
switched. 
What are the risks associated with Nulojix? 
The most common serious side effects with Nulojix (which can affect more than 2 in 100 people) are 
urinary tract infection (infection of the structures that carry urine), cytomegalovirus infection, pyrexia 
(fever), increased blood creatinine (a marker of kidney problems), pyelonephritis (kidney infection), 
diarrhoea, gastroenteritis (diarrhoea and vomiting), poor functioning of the transplanted kidney, 
leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), pneumonia (infection of the lungs), basal cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), dehydration. For the full list of side effects of 
Nulojix, see the package leaflet. 
Nulojix must not be used in patients who have not been exposed to the Epstein-Barr virus or in whom 
previous exposure is uncertain. This is because patients treated with Nulojix who have had no previous 
exposure to the virus are at higher risk of getting a type of cancer known as post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disorder. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nulojix authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Nulojix does not have the toxic effects on the kidneys seen 
with some immunosuppressant medicines commonly used in transplantation. Although the studies 
showed more acute rejections after one year of treatment with Nulojix compared with ciclosporin, this 
did not lead to reduced patient and organ survival after three years. Overall, the benefits of Nulojix 
compared well with those of the comparator medicine.  
Nulojix is also effective at preventing rejection in patients who had been using calcineurin inhibitor 
treatment and have been switched to Nulojix at least 6 months after transplantation. 
Nulojix (belatacept)  
EMA/252902/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
The Agency decided that Nulojix’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nulojix? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nulojix have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nulojix are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Nulojix are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nulojix 
Nulojix received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 June 2011. 
Further information on Nulojix can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Nulojix. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2021. 
Nulojix (belatacept)  
EMA/252902/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
