EMA/66076/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004959 
Nustendi (bempedoic acid / ezetimibe) 
An overview of Nustendi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nustendi and what is it used for? 
Nustendi is a medicine for lowering levels of cholesterol in the blood. 
It is used in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia (conditions that cause 
high levels of fats, including cholesterol, in the blood). Patients taking the medicine are required to be 
on a low-fat diet. 
Nustendi contains the active substances bempedoic acid and ezetimibe. 
Nustendi is used in combination with a statin in patients whose cholesterol levels are not lowered 
enough by the maximum dose of a statin taken together with ezetimibe. Nustendi can also be used 
alone in patients who cannot take statins and whose cholesterol levels are not lowered enough by 
ezetimibe. The medicine can be used to replace separate tablets of bempedoic acid and ezetimibe in 
patients already taking them. 
How is Nustendi used? 
Nustendi can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets (180 mg bempedoic acid / 
10 mg ezetimibe). The recommended dose of Nustendi is one tablet a day.  
For more information about using Nustendi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nustendi work? 
The active substances in Nustendi, bempedoic acid and ezetimibe, work in different ways to lower 
blood cholesterol. 
Bempedoic acid works by blocking an enzyme in the liver called adenosine triphosphate citrate lyase, 
which is involved in making cholesterol. This leads to a reduction of the level of low-density lipoprotein 
(LDL) cholesterol, known as ‘bad’ cholesterol, in the blood and also reduces other fatty substances 
made by the liver.  
Ezetimibe works by binding to a gut protein called ‘Niemann-Pick C1 Like 1’, preventing cholesterol 
from being absorbed into the blood from the gut. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Nustendi have been shown in studies? 
Two studies showed that bempedoic acid and ezetimibe (the active substances of Nustendi) effectively 
reduced LDL cholesterol levels in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and heart disease or who were 
at high risk of heart disease. High cholesterol is a risk factor for heart disease. 
The first study involved 382 patients also taking the maximum tolerated doses of statins. After three 
months, LDL cholesterol levels were reduced by 36% in patients taking bempedoic acid and ezetimibe 
compared with a reduction of 23% with ezetimibe alone, 17% with bempedoic acid alone and an 
increase of around 2% with placebo (a dummy treatment).  
The second study involved 269 patients with high cholesterol levels who were not able to take a statin 
or were taking a low dose of a statin. All the patients were also taking ezetimibe. After three months, 
LDL cholesterol levels were reduced by 23% in patients taking bempedoic acid in addition to ezetimibe 
compared with an increase of around 5% in patients taking placebo and ezetimibe. 
What are the risks associated with Nustendi? 
The most common side effects with Nustendi (which may affect around 1 in 20 people) are 
hyperuricaemia (high blood levels of uric acid) and constipation. 
Nustendi must not be used in pregnant or breast-feeding women. When Nustendi is taken in 
combination with a statin called simvastatin it can increase the risk of side effects of simvastatin, 
therefore the dose of simvastatin must not be higher than 40 mg daily. Nustendi must not be taken 
with a statin in patients with active liver disease or with unexplained high levels of serum 
transaminases (blood test results that could indicate liver problems). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Nustendi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nustendi authorised in the EU? 
Nustendi was shown to reduce levels of LDL cholesterol and so is expected to help reduce the risk of 
heart disease. The safety profile of Nustendi was considered acceptable. Nustendi may increase the 
risk of side effects of statins and these should be managed appropriately. The European Medicines 
Agency therefore decided that Nustendi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nustendi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nustendi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nustendi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Nustendi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nustendi 
Nustendi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 March 2020. 
Further information on Nustendi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nustendi.  
Nustendi (bempedoic acid / ezetimibe)  
EMA/66076/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 03-2020. 
Nustendi (bempedoic acid / ezetimibe)  
EMA/66076/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
