ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nustendi 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 180 mg of bempedoic acid and 10 mg of ezetimibe. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablet contains 71.6 mg of lactose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Blue, oval, film-coated tablet of approximately 15.00 mm × 7.00 mm × 5.00 mm debossed with “818” 
on one side and “ESP” on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Nustendi is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-
familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
in combination with a statin in patients unable to reach LDL-C goals with the maximum 
tolerated dose of a statin in addition to ezetimibe (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4), 
alone in patients who are either statin-intolerant or for whom a statin is contraindicated, and are 
unable to reach LDL-C goals with ezetimibe alone, 
in patients already being treated with the combination of bempedoic acid and ezetimibe as 
separate tablets with or without statin. 
• 
• 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Nustendi is one film-coated tablet of 180 mg/10 mg taken once daily. 
Coadministration with bile acid sequestrants 
Dosing of Nustendi should occur either at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after administration 
of a bile acid sequestrant. 
Concomitant simvastatin therapy 
When Nustendi is coadministered with simvastatin, simvastatin dose should be limited to 20 mg daily 
(or 40 mg daily for patients with severe hypercholesterolaemia and high risk for cardiovascular 
complications, who have not achieved their treatment goals on lower doses and when the benefits are 
expected to outweigh the potential risks) (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Patients with renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. There are limited 
data available in patients with severe renal impairment (defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate 
[eGFR] < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), and patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on dialysis have not 
been studied with bempedoic acid. Additional monitoring for adverse reactions may be warranted in 
these patients when Nustendi is administered (see section 4.4). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A). Treatment 
with Nustendi is not recommended in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh B) or severe (Child-Pugh C) 
hepatic impairment due to the unknown effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Nustendi in children aged less than 18 years have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration 
Each film-coated tablet should be taken orally with or without food. Tablet should be swallowed 
whole. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
Concomitant use with simvastatin > 40 mg daily (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.5). 
Nustendi coadministered with a statin is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease or 
unexplained persistent elevations in serum transaminases. 
•  When Nustendi is coadministered with a statin, please refer to the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) for that particular statin therapy. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Potential risk of myopathy with concomitant use of statins 
Bempedoic acid increases plasma concentrations of statins (see section 4.5). Statins occasionally cause 
myopathy. In rare cases, myopathy may take the form of rhabdomyolysis with or without acute renal 
failure secondary to myoglobinuria, and can lead to fatality. In postmarketing experience with 
ezetimibe, very rare cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported. Most patients who 
developed rhabdomyolysis were taking a statin concomitantly with ezetimibe. 
Patients receiving Nustendi as adjunctive therapy to a statin should be monitored for adverse reactions 
that are associated with the use of high doses of statins. All patients receiving Nustendi in addition to a 
statin should be advised of the potential increased risk of myopathy and told to report promptly any 
unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. If such symptoms occur while a patient is receiving 
treatment with Nustendi and a statin, a lower maximum dose of the same statin or an alternative statin, 
or discontinuation of Nustendi and initiation of an alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be 
considered under close monitoring of lipid levels and adverse reactions. If myopathy is confirmed by a 
creatine phosphokinase (CPK) level > 10× upper limit of normal (ULN), Nustendi and any statin that 
the patient is taking concomitantly should be immediately discontinued. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myositis with a CPK level > 10× ULN was rarely reported with bempedoic acid and background 
simvastatin 40 mg therapy. Doses of simvastatin > 40 mg should not be used with Nustendi (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
Increased serum uric acid 
Bempedoic acid may raise the serum uric acid level due to inhibition of renal tubular OAT2 and may 
cause or exacerbate hyperuricaemia and precipitate gout in patients with a medical history of gout or 
predisposed to gout (see section 4.8). Treatment with Nustendi should be discontinued if 
hyperuricaemia accompanied with symptoms of gout appear. 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In clinical trials, elevations of > 3× ULN in the liver enzymes alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST) have been reported with bempedoic acid. These elevations have 
been asymptomatic and not associated with elevations ≥ 2× ULN in bilirubin or with cholestasis and 
have returned to baseline with continued treatment or after discontinuation of therapy. In controlled 
coadministration trials in patients receiving ezetimibe with a statin, consecutive transaminase 
elevations (≥ 3× ULN) have been observed. Liver function tests should be performed at initiation of 
therapy. Treatment with Nustendi should be discontinued if an increase in transaminases of > 3× ULN 
persists (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Renal impairment 
There is limited experience with bempedoic acid in patients with severe renal impairment (defined as 
eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), and patients with ESRD on dialysis have not been studied with 
bempedoic acid (see section 5.2). Additional monitoring for adverse reactions may be warranted in 
these patients when Nustendi is administered. 
Hepatic impairment 
Due to the unknown effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe in patients with moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B and C), Nustendi is not recommended in these patients (see 
section 5.2). 
Fibrates 
The safety and efficacy of ezetimibe administered with fibrates have not been established. If 
cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving Nustendi and fenofibrate, gallbladder investigations 
are indicated and this therapy should be discontinued (see sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Ciclosporin 
Caution should be exercised when initiating Nustendi in the setting of ciclosporin. Ciclosporin 
concentrations should be monitored in patients receiving Nustendi and ciclosporin (see section 4.5). 
Anticoagulants 
If Nustendi is added to warfarin, other coumarin anticoagulants, or fluindione, the International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) should be appropriately monitored (see section 4.5). 
Contraception 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment. Patients should be 
advised to stop taking Nustendi before stopping contraceptive measures if they plan to become 
pregnant. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Nustendi contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency, or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablet (daily 
dose), that is to say essentially ‘sodium free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with Nustendi have been conducted. Drug 
interactions that have been identified in studies with bempedoic acid or ezetimibe determine the 
interactions that may occur with Nustendi. 
Effects of other medicinal products on individual components of Nustendi 
Fibrates 
Concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration modestly increased total ezetimibe 
concentrations (approximately 1.5- and 1.7-fold, respectively). Fenofibrate may increase cholesterol 
excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased 
cholesterol in the gallbladder bile (see section 5.3). A lithogenic risk associated with the therapeutic 
use of Nustendi cannot be ruled out. 
If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving Nustendi and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are 
indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered (see section 4.4). 
Ciclosporin 
In a study of eight post-renal transplant patients with creatinine clearance of > 50 mL/min on a stable 
dose of ciclosporin, a single 10 mg dose of ezetimibe resulted in a 3.4-fold (range 2.3- to 7.9-fold) 
increase in the mean area under the curve (AUC) for total ezetimibe compared to a healthy control 
population, receiving ezetimibe alone, from another study (n=17). In a different study, a renal 
transplant patient with severe renal impairment who was receiving ciclosporin and multiple other 
medicinal products demonstrated a 12-fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe compared to concurrent 
controls receiving ezetimibe alone. In a two-period crossover study in twelve healthy subjects, daily 
administration of 20 mg ezetimibe for 8 days with a single 100 mg dose of ciclosporin on day 7 
resulted in a mean 15% increase in ciclosporin AUC (range 10% decrease to 51% increase) compared 
to a single 100 mg dose of ciclosporin alone. A controlled study on the effect of coadministered 
ezetimibe on ciclosporin exposure in renal transplant patients has not been conducted. Caution should 
be exercised when initiating Nustendi in the setting of ciclosporin. Ciclosporin concentrations should 
be monitored in patients receiving Nustendi and ciclosporin (see section 4.4). 
Cholestyramine 
Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe 
plus ezetimibe glucuronide) approximately 55%. The incremental low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-C) reduction due to adding Nustendi to cholestyramine may be lessened by this interaction (see 
section 4.2). 
Transporter-mediated drug interactions 
In vitro drug interaction studies suggest bempedoic acid, as well as its active metabolite and 
glucuronide form, are not substrates of commonly characterised drug transporters with the exception 
of bempedoic acid glucuronide, which is an OAT3 substrate. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Probenecid 
Probenecid, an inhibitor of glucuronide conjugation, was studied to evaluate the potential effect of 
these inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid. Administration of bempedoic acid 
180 mg with steady-state probenecid resulted in a 1.7-fold increase in bempedoic acid AUC and a 
1.9-fold increase in bempedoic acid active metabolite (ESP15228) AUC. These elevations are not 
clinically meaningful and do not impact dosing recommendations. 
Effects of individual components of Nustendi on other medicinal products 
Statins 
The pharmacokinetic interactions between bempedoic acid 180 mg and simvastatin 40 mg, 
atorvastatin 80 mg, pravastatin 80 mg, and rosuvastatin 40 mg were evaluated in clinical trials. 
Administration of a single dose of simvastatin 40 mg with steady-state bempedoic acid 180 mg 
resulted in a 2-fold increase in simvastatin acid exposure. Elevations of 1.4-fold to 1.5-fold in AUC of 
atorvastatin, pravastatin, and rosuvastatin (administered as single doses) and/or their major metabolites 
were observed when coadministered with bempedoic acid 180 mg. Higher elevations have been 
observed when these statins were coadministered with a supratherapeutic 240 mg dose of bempedoic 
acid (see section 4.4). 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were seen when ezetimibe was coadministered 
with atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, fluvastatin or rosuvastatin. 
Transporter-mediated drug interactions 
Bempedoic acid and its glucuronide weakly inhibit OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 at clinically relevant 
concentrations. Coadministration of Nustendi with medicinal products that are substrates of OATP1B1 
or OATP1B3 (i.e., bosentan, fimasartan, asunaprevir, glecaprevir, grazoprevir, voxilaprevir, and 
statins such as atorvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin [see 
section 4.4]) may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products. 
Bempedoic acid inhibits OAT2 in vitro, which may be the mechanism responsible for minor 
elevations in serum creatinine and uric acid (see section 4.8). Inhibition of OAT2 by bempedoic acid 
may also potentially increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products that are substrates of 
OAT2. Bempedoic acid may also weakly inhibit OAT3 at clinically relevant concentrations. 
Anticoagulants 
Concomitant administration of ezetimibe (10 mg once daily) had no significant effect on 
bioavailability of warfarin and prothrombin time in a study of twelve healthy adult males. However, 
there have been postmarketing reports of increased INR in patients who had ezetimibe added to 
warfarin or fluindione. 
If Nustendi is added to warfarin, other coumarin anticoagulants, or fluindione, INR should be 
appropriately monitored (see section 4.4). 
Other interactions studied 
Bempedoic acid had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptive norethindrone/ethinyl 
estradiol. In clinical interaction studies, ezetimibe had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of oral 
contraceptives ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel. Bempedoic acid had no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of metformin. 
In clinical interaction studies, ezetimibe had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of dapsone, 
dextromethorphan, digoxin, glipizide, tolbutamide, or midazolam, during coadministration. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Nustendi is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of Nustendi in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals with bempedoic acid have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Because bempedoic acid decreases cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other cholesterol 
derivatives needed for normal foetal development, Nustendi may cause foetal harm when administered 
to pregnant women. Nustendi should be discontinued prior to conception or as soon as pregnancy is 
recognized (see section 4.3). 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment (see section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether bempedoic acid/metabolites or ezetimibe/metabolites are excreted in human 
milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions, women taking Nustendi should not breast-
feed their infants. Nustendi is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
No data on the effect of Nustendi on human fertility are available. Based on animal studies, no effect 
on reproduction or fertility is expected with Nustendi (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nustendi has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or using 
machines, it should be taken into account that dizziness has been reported with bempedoic acid and 
ezetimibe (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are hyperuricaemia (4.7%) and constipation (4.7%). 
In pooled placebo-controlled clinical trials with bempedoic acid, more patients on bempedoic acid 
compared to placebo discontinued treatment due to muscle spasms (0.7% versus 0.3%), diarrhoea 
(0.5% versus < 0.1%), pain in extremity (0.4% versus 0), and nausea (0.3% versus 0.2%) although 
differences between bempedoic acid and placebo were not significant. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported with Nustendi are displayed by system organ class and frequency in 
table 1. Any additional adverse reactions that have been reported with bempedoic acid or ezetimibe 
have also been presented to provide a more comprehensive adverse reaction profile for Nustendi. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); and not known (cannot 
be estimated from the available data). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
System organ class (SOC) 
Adverse reactions 
Frequency categories 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Adverse reactions with Nustendi 
Anaemia 
Decreased haemoglobin 
Hyperuricaemiaa 
Decreased appetite 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Hypertension 
Cough 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Nausea 
Dry mouth 
Flatulence 
Gastritis 
Liver function test increasedb 
Back pain 
Muscle spasms 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
Arthralgia 
Blood creatinine increased 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Additional adverse reactions with bempedoic acid 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Gout 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased 
Blood urea increased 
Glomerular filtration rate 
decreased 
Additional adverse reactions with ezetimibe 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Thrombocytopaenia 
Hypersensitivity, including 
rash, urticaria, anaphylaxis and 
angio-oedema 
Depression 
Paraesthesiac 
Hot flush 
Dyspnoea 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
8 
System organ class (SOC) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Adverse reactions 
Dyspepsia 
Gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease 
Pancreatitis 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased 
Gammaglutamyltransferase 
increased 
Hepatitis 
Cholelithiasis 
Cholecystitis 
Pruritusc 
Erythema multiform 
Blood CPK increased 
Neck pain 
Muscular weaknessc 
Myopathy/rhabdomyolysis 
Chest pain 
Pain 
Oedema peripheralc 
Frequency categories 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
a.  Hyperuricaemia includes hyperuricaemia and uric acid increased 
b.  Liver function test increased includes liver function test increased and liver function test abnormal 
c.  Adverse reactions with ezetimibe coadministered with a statin 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Increased serum uric acid 
Nustendi increases serum uric acid possibly due to inhibition of renal tubular OAT2 by bempedoic 
acid (see section 4.5). A mean increase of 0.6 mg/dL (35.7 micromole/L) in uric acid compared to 
baseline was observed with Nustendi at week 12. The elevations in serum uric acid usually occurred 
within the first 4 weeks of treatment and returned to baseline following discontinuation of treatment. 
There were no reports of gout with Nustendi. In the pooled placebo-controlled trials of bempedoic 
acid, gout was reported in 1.4% of patients treated with bempedoic acid and 0.4% of patients treated 
with placebo. In both treatment groups, patients who reported gout were more likely to have a medical 
history of gout and/or baseline levels of uric acid above the ULN (see section 4.4). 
Effects on serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen 
Nustendi increases serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN). A mean increase of 0.02 mg/dL 
(1.8 micromole/L) in serum creatinine and a mean increase of 2.7 mg/dL (1.0 mmol/L) in BUN 
compared to baseline was observed with Nustendi at week 12. The elevations in serum creatinine and 
BUN usually occurred within the first 4 weeks of treatment, remained stable, and returned to baseline 
following discontinuation of therapy. 
The observed elevations in serum creatinine may be associated with bempedoic acid inhibition of 
OAT2-dependent renal tubular secretion of creatinine (see section 4.5), representing a drug-
endogenous substrate interaction, and does not appear to indicate worsening renal function. This effect 
should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients on 
Nustendi therapy, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving medicinal products that 
require monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance. 
9 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic enzyme elevations 
Hepatic transaminase (AST and/or ALT) elevations of ≥ 3× ULN were reported in 2.4% of patients 
treated with Nustendi compared with no patients on placebo. In four controlled clinical trials of 
bempedoic acid, the incidence of elevations (≥ 3× ULN) in hepatic transaminase levels (AST and/or 
ALT) was 0.7% for patients treated with bempedoic acid and 0.3% for placebo. In controlled clinical 
combination trials of ezetimibe initiated concurrently with a statin, the incidence of consecutive 
elevations (≥ 3× ULN) in hepatic transaminase levels was 1.3% for patients treated with ezetimibe 
administered with statins and 0.4% for patients treated with statins alone. The elevations in 
transaminases with bempedoic acid or ezetimibe were not associated with other evidence of liver 
dysfunction (see section 4.4). 
Decreased haemoglobin 
In the pooled placebo-controlled trials of bempedoic acid, a decrease in haemoglobin from baseline of 
≥ 20 g/L and < lower limit of normal (LLN) was observed in 4.6% of patients in the bempedoic acid 
group compared with 1.9% of patients on placebo. Greater than 50 g/L and < LLN decreases in 
haemoglobin were reported at similar rates in bempedoic acid and placebo groups (0.2% versus 0.2%, 
respectively). The decreases in haemoglobin usually occurred within the first 4 weeks of treatment and 
returned to baseline following discontinuation of treatment. Among patients who had normal 
haemoglobin values at baseline, 1.4% in the bempedoic acid group and 0.4% in the placebo group 
experienced haemoglobin values below LLN while on treatment. Anaemia was reported in 2.5% of 
patients treated with bempedoic acid and 1.6% of patients treated with placebo. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In the event of overdose, the patient should be treated symptomatically, and supportive measures 
instituted as required. 
Bempedoic acid 
Doses up to 240 mg/day (1.3 times the approved recommended dose) have been administered in 
clinical trials with no evidence of dose limiting toxicity. No adverse events were observed in animal 
studies at exposures up to 14-fold higher than those in patients treated with bempedoic acid at 180 mg 
once daily. 
Ezetimibe 
In clinical studies, administration of ezetimibe, 50 mg/day to 15 healthy subjects for up to 14 days, or 
40 mg/day to 18 patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia for up to 56 days, did not result in an 
increase in the rate of adverse events. In animals, no toxicity was observed after single oral doses of 
5000 mg/kg of ezetimibe in rats and mice and 3000 mg/kg in dogs. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Lipid modifying agents in combination with other drugs, ATC code: 
C10BA10 
Mechanism of action 
Nustendi contains bempedoic acid and ezetimibe, two LDL-C lowering compounds with 
complementary mechanisms of action. Nustendi reduces elevated LDL-C through dual inhibition of 
cholesterol synthesis in the liver and cholesterol absorption in the intestine. 
Bempedoic acid 
Bempedoic acid is an adenosine triphosphate-citrate lyase (ACL) inhibitor that lowers LDL-C by 
inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in the liver. ACL is an enzyme upstream of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-
glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Bempedoic acid 
requires coenzyme A (CoA) activation by very long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 1 (ACSVL1) to 
ETC-1002-CoA. ACSVL1 is expressed primarily in the liver and not in skeletal muscle. Inhibition of 
ACL by ETC-1002-CoA results in decreased cholesterol synthesis in the liver and lowers LDL-C in 
blood via upregulation of low-density lipoprotein receptors. Additionally, inhibition of ACL by 
ETC-1002-CoA results in concomitant suppression of hepatic fatty acid biosynthesis. 
Ezetimibe 
Ezetimibe reduces blood cholesterol by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol by the small intestine. 
The molecular target of ezetimibe has been shown to be the sterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 
1 (NPC1L1), which is involved in the intestinal uptake of cholesterol and phytosterols. Ezetimibe 
localizes at the brush border of the small intestine and inhibits the absorption of cholesterol, leading to 
a decrease in the delivery of intestinal cholesterol to the liver. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Administration of bempedoic acid and ezetimibe alone and in combination with other lipid modifying 
medicinal products decreases LDL-C, non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), 
apolipoprotein B (apo B), and total cholesterol (TC) in patients with hypercholesterolaemia or mixed 
dyslipidaemia. 
Because patients with diabetes are at elevated risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, the 
clinical trials of bempedoic acid included patients with diabetes mellitus. Among the subset of patients 
with diabetes, lower levels of HbA1c were observed as compared to placebo (on average 0.2%). In 
patients without diabetes, no difference in HbA1c was observed between bempedoic acid and placebo 
and there were no differences in the rates of hypoglycaemia. 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
A QT trial has been conducted for bempedoic acid. At a dose of 240 mg (1.3 times the approved 
recommended dose), bempedoic acid does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant 
extent. 
The effect of ezetimibe or the combination regimen Nustendi on QT interval has not been evaluated. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Ezetimibe 10 mg has been shown to reduce the frequency of cardiovascular events. The effect of 
bempedoic acid on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy of Nustendi was assessed in a sensitivity analysis of 301 patients who received treatment 
in Study 1002-053. This analysis excluded all data from 3 sites (81 patients) due to systematic patient 
non-compliance with all the four treatments. The study was a 4-arm, multi-centre, randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group, 12-week trial in patients with high cardiovascular risk and 
hyperlipidaemia. Patients randomised 2:2:2:1, received either Nustendi orally at a dose of 
180 mg/10 mg per day (n=86), bempedoic acid 180 mg per day (n=88), ezetimibe 10 mg per day 
(n=86), or placebo once daily (n=41) as add-on to a maximum tolerated statin therapy. Maximum 
tolerated statin therapy could include statin regimens other than daily dosing or no statin. Patients were 
stratified by cardiovascular risk and baseline statin intensity. Patients on simvastatin 40 mg per day or 
higher were excluded from the trial. 
Demographics and baseline disease characteristics were balanced between the treatment arms. Overall, 
the mean age at baseline was 64 years (range: 30 to 87 years), 50% were ≥ 65 years old, 
50% were women, 81% White, 17% were Black, 1% Asian, and 1% other. At the time of 
randomisation, 61% of patients on Nustendi, 69% of patients on bempedoic acid, 63% of patients on 
ezetimibe and 66% of patients on placebo were receiving statin therapy; 36% of patients on Nustendi, 
35% of patients on bempedoic acid, 29% of patients on ezetimibe and 41% of patients on placebo 
were receiving high intensity statin therapy. The mean baseline LDL-C was 149.7 mg/dL 
(3.9 mmol/L). Most patients (94%) completed the study. 
Nustendi significantly reduced LDL-C from baseline to week 12 compared with placebo (-38.0%; 
95% CI: -46.5%, -29.6%; p < 0.001). The maximum LDL-C lowering effects were observed as early 
as week 4 and efficacy was maintained throughout the trial. Nustendi also significantly reduced 
non-HDL-C, apo B, and TC (see table 2). 
Table 2: Treatment effects of Nustendi on lipid parameters in patients with high cardiovascular 
risk and hyperlipidaemia on background statin regimens (mean % change from baseline to 
week 12) 
Nustendi 
180 mg/10 mg 
n=86 
86 
-36.2 (2.6) 
86 
-31.9 (2.2) 
82 
-24.6 (2.4) 
86 
-26.4 (1.9) 
Bempedoic acid 
180 mg 
n=88 
88 
-17.2 (2.5) 
88 
-14.1 (2.2) 
85 
-11.8 (2.2) 
88 
-12.1 (1.8) 
Ezetimibe 
10 mg 
n=86 
86 
-23.2 (2.2) 
86 
-19.9 (2.1) 
84 
-15.3 (2.0) 
86 
-16.0 (1.6) 
Placebo 
n=41 
41 
1.8 (3.5) 
41 
1.8 (3.3) 
38 
5.5 (3.0) 
41 
0.7 (2.5) 
LDL-C, n 
LS Mean (SE) 
non-HDL-C, n 
LS Mean (SE) 
apo B, n 
LS Mean (SE) 
TC, n 
LS Mean (SE) 
apo B=apolipoprotein B; HDL-C=high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, LDL C=low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; 
LS=least squares; TC=total cholesterol. 
Background statin: atorvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin. 
Administration of bempedoic acid on background ezetimibe therapy 
Study 1002-048 was a multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week trial 
evaluating the efficacy of bempedoic acid versus placebo in lowering LDL-C when added to ezetimibe 
in patients with elevated LDL-C who had a history of statin intolerance and were unable to tolerate 
more than the lowest approved starting dose of a statin. The trial included 269 patients randomised 2:1 
to receive either bempedoic acid (n=181) or placebo (n=88) as add-on to ezetimibe 10 mg daily for 
12 weeks. 
Overall, the mean age at baseline was 64 years (range: 30 to 86 years), 55% were ≥ 65 years old, 
61% were women, 89% White, 8% were Black, 2% Asian, and 1% other. The mean baseline LDL-C 
was 127.6 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L). At the time of randomisation, 33% of patients on bempedoic acid 
versus 28% on placebo were receiving statin therapy at less than or equal to lowest approved doses. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration of bempedoic acid to patients on background ezetimibe therapy significantly reduced 
LDL-C from baseline to week 12 compared with placebo and ezetimibe (p < 0.001). Administration of 
bempedoic acid with background ezetimibe therapy also significantly reduced non-HDL-C, apo B, and 
TC (see table 3). 
Table 3: Treatment effects of bempedoic acid compared with placebo in statin intolerant 
patients on background ezetimibe therapy (mean percent change from baseline to week 12) 
Study 1002-048 
(N=269) 
Bempedoic acid 180 mg + 
Background Ezetimibe 
10 mg 
n=181 
175 
-23.5 
175 
-18.4 
180 
-14.6 
176 
-15.1 
Placebo + Background 
Ezetimibe 10 mg 
n=88 
82 
5.0 
82 
5.2 
86 
4.7 
82 
2.9 
LDL-Ca, n 
LS Mean 
non-HDL-Ca, n 
LS Mean 
apo Ba, n 
LS Mean 
TCa, n 
LS Mean 
apo B=apolipoprotein B; HDL-C=high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; LDL C=low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; LS=least 
squares; TC=total cholesterol. 
Background statin: atorvastatin, simvastatin, rosuvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin 
a.  Percent change from baseline was analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), with treatment and randomisation 
strata as factors and baseline lipid parameter as a covariate. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Nustendi in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of elevated cholesterol (see section 
4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Nustendi 
The bioavailability of Nustendi tablets was similar relative to that from the individual tablets, 
coadministered. Cmax values for bempedoic acid and its active metabolite (ESP15228) were similar 
between formulations, but ezetimibe and ezetimibe glucuronide Cmax values were approximately 13% 
and 22% lower, respectively, for Nustendi relative to the individual tablets, coadministered. Given a 
similar overall extent of ezetimibe and ezetimibe glucuronide exposure (as measured by AUC), a 22% 
lower Cmax is unlikely to be clinically significant. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction was seen when ezetimibe was coadministered 
with bempedoic acid. Total ezetimibe (ezetimibe and its glucuronide form) and ezetimibe glucuronide 
AUC and Cmax increased approximately 1.6- and 1.8-fold, respectively, when a single dose of 
ezetimibe was taken with steady-state bempedoic acid. This increase is likely due to inhibition of 
OATP1B1 by bempedoic acid, which results in decreased hepatic uptake and subsequently decreased 
elimination of ezetimibe-glucuronide. Increases in the AUC and Cmax for ezetimibe were less than 
20%. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bempedoic acid 
Pharmacokinetic data indicate that bempedoic acid is absorbed with a median time to maximum 
concentration of 3.5 hours when administered as Nustendi 180 mg tablets. Bempedoic acid 
pharmacokinetic parameters are presented as the mean [standard deviation (SD)] unless otherwise 
specified. Bempedoic acid can be considered a prodrug that is activated intracellularly by ACSVL1 to 
ETC-1002-CoA. The steady-state Cmax and AUC following multiple dose administration in patients 
with hypercholesterolaemia were 24.8 (6.9) microgram/mL and 348 (120) microgram∙h/mL, 
respectively. Bempedoic acid steady-state pharmacokinetics were generally linear over a range of 
120 mg to 220 mg. There were no time-dependent changes in bempedoic acid pharmacokinetics 
following repeat administration at the recommended dose, and bempedoic acid steady-state was 
achieved after 7 days. The mean accumulation ratio of bempedoic acid was approximately 2.3-fold. 
Ezetimibe 
After oral administration, ezetimibe is rapidly absorbed and extensively conjugated to a 
pharmacologically active phenolic glucuronide (ezetimibe-glucuronide). Mean Cmax occur within 1 to 
2 hours for ezetimibe-glucuronide and 4 to 12 hours for ezetimibe. The absolute bioavailability of 
ezetimibe cannot be determined as the compound is virtually insoluble in aqueous media suitable for 
injection. Ezetimibe undergoes extensive enterohepatic cycling, multiple peaks of ezetimibe can be 
observed. 
Effect of food  
After the administration of Nustendi with a high-fat, high calorie breakfast in healthy subjects, the 
AUC for bempedoic acid and ezetimibe were comparable to the fasted state. Compared to the fasted 
state, the fed state resulted in 30% and 12% reductions in Cmax of bempedoic acid and ezetimibe, 
respectively. Relative to the fasted state, the fed state resulted in 12% and 42% reductions in ezetimibe 
glucuronide AUC and Cmax, respectively. This effect of food is not considered to be clinically 
meaningful. 
Distribution 
Bempedoic acid 
The bempedoic acid apparent volume of distribution (V/F) was 18 L. Plasma protein binding of 
bempedoic acid, its glucuronide and its active metabolite, ESP15228, were 99.3%, 98.8% and 99.2%, 
respectively. Bempedoic acid does not partition into red blood cells. 
Ezetimibe 
Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide are bound 99.7% and 88% to 92% to human plasma proteins, 
respectively. 
Biotransformation 
Bempedoic acid 
In vitro metabolic interaction studies suggest that bempedoic acid, as well as its active metabolite and 
glucuronide forms are not metabolised by and do not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes. 
The primary route of elimination for bempedoic acid is through metabolism to the acyl glucuronide. 
Bempedoic acid is also reversibly converted to an active metabolite (ESP15228) based on aldo-keto 
reductase activity observed in vitro from human liver. Mean plasma AUC metabolite/parent drug ratio 
for ESP15228 following repeat-dose administration was 18% and remained constant over time. Both 
bempedoic acid and ESP15228 are converted to inactive glucuronide conjugates in vitro by UGT2B7. 
Bempedoic acid, ESP15228 and their respective conjugated forms were detected in plasma with 
bempedoic acid accounting for the majority (46%) of the AUC0-48h and its glucuronide being the next 
most prevalent (30%). ESP15228 and its glucuronide represented 10% and 11% of the plasma 
AUC0-48h, respectively. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The steady-state Cmax and AUC of the equipotent active metabolite (ESP15228) of bempedoic acid in 
patients with hypercholesterolaemia were 3.0 (1.4) microgram/mL and 54.1 (26.4) microgram∙h/mL, 
respectively. ESP15228 likely made a minor contribution to the overall clinical activity of bempedoic 
acid based on systemic exposure and pharmacokinetic properties. 
Ezetimibe 
In preclinical studies, it has been shown that ezetimibe does not induce cytochrome P450 drug 
metabolising enzymes. No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed 
between ezetimibe and drugs known to be metabolised by cytochromes P450 1A2, 2D6, 2C8, 2C9, 
and 3A4, or N-acetyltransferase. Ezetimibe is metabolised primarily in the small intestine and liver via 
glucuronide conjugation (a phase II reaction) with subsequent biliary excretion. Minimal oxidative 
metabolism (a phase I reaction) has been observed in all species evaluated. Ezetimibe and ezetimibe-
glucuronide are the major drug-derived compounds detected in plasma, constituting approximately 
10% to 20% and 80% to 90% of the total drug in plasma, respectively. Both ezetimibe and ezetimibe-
glucuronide are slowly eliminated from plasma with evidence of significant enterohepatic recycling. 
Elimination 
Bempedoic acid 
The steady-state clearance (CL/F) of bempedoic acid determined from a population PK analysis in 
patients with hypercholesterolaemia was 12.1 mL/min after once-daily dosing; renal clearance of 
unchanged bempedoic acid represented less than 2% of total clearance. The mean (SD) half-life for 
bempedoic acid in humans was 19 (10) hours at steady-state. 
Following single oral administration of 240 mg of bempedoic acid (1.3 times the approved 
recommended dose), 62.1% of the total dose (bempedoic acid and its metabolites) was recovered in 
urine, primarily as the acyl glucuronide conjugate of bempedoic acid, and 25.4% was recovered in 
faeces. Less than 5% of the administered dose was excreted as unchanged bempedoic acid in faeces 
and urine combined. 
Ezetimibe 
Following oral administration of 14C-ezetimibe (20 mg) to human subjects, total ezetimibe (ezetimibe 
and ezetimibe-glucuronide) accounted for approximately 93% of the total radioactivity in plasma. 
Approximately 78% and 11% of the administered radioactivity were recovered in the faeces and urine, 
respectively, over a 10-day collection period. After 48 hours, there were no detectable levels of 
radioactivity in the plasma. The half-life for ezetimibe and ezetimibe-glucuronide is approximately 
22 hours. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Bempedoic acid 
Pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid was evaluated in a population PK analysis performed on pooled 
data from all clinical trials (n=2,261) to assess renal function on the steady-state AUC of bempedoic 
acid and in a single-dose pharmacokinetic study in subjects with varying degrees of renal function. 
Compared to patients with normal renal function, the mean bempedoic acid exposures were higher in 
patients with mild or moderate renal impairment by 1.4-fold (90% PI: 1.3, 1.4) and 1.9-fold 
(90% PI: 1.7, 2.0), respectively (see section 4.4). 
There is limited information in patients with severe renal impairment; in a single dose study, the 
bempedoic acid AUC was increased by 2.4-fold in patients (n=5) with severe renal impairment 
(eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared to those with normal renal function. Clinical studies of 
Nustendi did not include patients with ESRD on dialysis (see section 4.4). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ezetimibe 
After a single 10 mg dose of ezetimibe in patients with severe renal disease (n=8; mean 
CrCl ≤ 30 mL/min/1.73 m2), the mean AUC for total ezetimibe was increased approximately 1.5-fold, 
compared to healthy subjects (n=9). This result is not considered clinically significant. An additional 
patient in this study (post-renal transplant and receiving multiple medicinal products, including 
ciclosporin) had a 12-fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe. 
Hepatic impairment 
Nustendi is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment due to the 
unknown effects of increased exposure to ezetimibe. 
Bempedoic acid 
The pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid and its metabolite (ESP15228) was studied in patients with 
normal hepatic function or mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A or B) following a 
single dose (n=8/group). Compared to patients with normal hepatic function, the bempedoic acid mean 
Cmax and AUC were decreased by 11% and 22%, respectively, in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment and by 14% and 16%, respectively, in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. This is 
not expected to result in lower efficacy. Bempedoic acid was not studied in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). 
Ezetimibe 
After a single 10 mg dose of ezetimibe, the mean AUC for total ezetimibe was increased 
approximately 1.7-fold in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A), compared with 
healthy subjects. In a 14-day, multiple-dose study (10 mg daily) in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh B), the mean AUC for total ezetimibe was increased approximately 4-fold on 
Day 1 and Day 14 compared with healthy subjects. 
Other special populations 
Bempedoic acid 
Of the 3,621 patients treated with bempedoic acid in the placebo-controlled studies, 2,098 (58%) were 
> 65 years old. No overall differences in safety or efficacy were observed between these patients and 
younger patients. 
The pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid were not affected by age, gender, or race. Body weight was a 
statistically significant covariate. The lowest quartile of body weight (< 73 kg) was associated with an 
approximate 30% greater exposure. The increase in exposure was not clinically significant and no 
dose adjustments are recommended based on weight. 
Ezetimibe 
Geriatrics 
In a multiple-dose study with ezetimibe given 10 mg once daily for 10 days, plasma concentrations for 
total ezetimibe were about 2-fold higher in older (≥ 65 years) healthy subjects compared to younger 
subjects. LDL-C reduction and safety profile are comparable between elderly and young subjects 
treated with ezetimibe. 
Gender 
Plasma concentrations for total ezetimibe are slightly higher (approximately 20%) in women than in 
men. LDL-C reduction and safety profile are comparable between men and women treated with 
ezetimibe. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Nustendi 
Coadministration of bempedoic acid with doses of ezetimibe in rats at systemic total exposures 
> 50 times the human clinical exposure did not alter the toxicologic profile of either bempedoic acid or 
ezetimibe. Bempedoic acid in combination with ezetimibe did not alter the effects on embryo-fetal 
development profile of bempedoic acid or ezetimibe. 
Bempedoic acid 
The standard battery of genotoxicity studies have not identified any mutagenic or clastogenic potential 
of bempedoic acid. In full lifetime carcinogenicity studies in rodents, bempedoic acid increased the 
incidence of hepatocellular and thyroid gland follicular tumours in male rats and hepatocellular 
tumours in male mice. Because these are common tumours observed in rodent lifetime bioassays and 
the mechanism for tumourigenesis is secondary to a rodent-specific PPAR alpha activation, these 
tumours are not considered to translate to human risk. 
Increased liver weight and hepatocellular hypertrophy were observed in rats only and were partially 
reversed after the 1-month recovery at ≥ 30 mg/kg/day or 4 times the exposure in humans at 180 mg. 
Reversible, non-adverse changes in laboratory parameters indicative of these hepatic effects, decreases 
in red blood cell and coagulation parameters, and increases in urea nitrogen and creatinine were 
observed in both species at tolerated doses. The NOAEL for adverse response in the chronic studies 
was 10 mg/kg/day and 60 mg/kg/day associated with exposures below and 15 times the human 
exposure at 180 mg in rats and monkeys, respectively. 
Bempedoic acid was not teratogenic or toxic to embryos or foetuses in pregnant rabbits at doses up to 
80 mg/kg/day or 12 times the systemic exposure in humans at 180 mg. Pregnant rats given bempedoic 
acid at 10, 30, and 60 mg/kg/day during organogenesis had decreased numbers of viable foetuses and 
reduced foetal body weight at ≥ 30 mg/kg/day or 4 times the systemic exposure in humans at 180 mg. 
An increased incidence of foetal skeletal findings (bent scapula and ribs) were observed at all doses, at 
exposures below the systemic exposure in humans at 180 mg. In a pre- and post-natal development 
study, pregnant rats administered bempedoic acid at 5, 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg/day throughout pregnancy 
and lactation had adverse maternal effects at ≥ 20 mg/kg/day and reductions in numbers of live pups 
and pup survival, pup growth and learning and memory at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day, with maternal exposures at 
10 mg/kg/day, less than the exposure in humans at 180 mg. 
Administration of bempedoic acid to male and female rats prior to mating and through gestation day 7 
in females resulted in changes in estrous cyclicity, decreased numbers of corpora lutea and implants at 
≥ 30 mg/kg/day with no effects on male or female fertility or sperm parameters at 60 mg/kg/day (4 and 
9 times the systemic exposure in humans at 180 mg, respectively). 
Ezetimibe 
Animal studies on the chronic toxicity of ezetimibe identified no target organs for toxic effects. In 
dogs treated for four weeks with ezetimibe (≥ 0.03 mg/kg/day) the cholesterol concentration in the 
cystic bile was increased by a factor of 2.5 to 3.5. However, in a one-year study in dogs given doses of 
up to 300 mg/kg/day no increased incidence of cholelithiasis or other hepatobiliary effects were 
observed. The significance of these data for humans is not known. A lithogenic risk associated with 
the therapeutic use of ezetimibe cannot be ruled out. 
In coadministration studies with ezetimibe and statins the toxic effects observed were essentially those 
typically associated with statins. Some of the toxic effects were more pronounced than observed 
during treatment with statins alone. This is attributed to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
interactions in coadministration therapy. Myopathies occurred in rats only after exposure to doses that 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were several times higher than the human therapeutic dose (approximately 20 times the AUC level for 
statins and 500 to 2,000 times the AUC level for the active metabolites). 
In a series of in vivo and in vitro assays ezetimibe, given alone or coadministered with statins, 
exhibited no genotoxic potential. Long-term carcinogenicity tests on ezetimibe were negative. 
Ezetimibe had no effect on the fertility of male or female rats, nor was it found to be teratogenic in rats 
or rabbits, nor did it affect prenatal or postnatal development. Ezetimibe crossed the placental barrier 
in pregnant rats and rabbits given multiple doses of 1,000 mg/kg/day. The coadministration of 
ezetimibe and statins was not teratogenic in rats. In pregnant rabbits a small number of skeletal 
deformities (fused thoracic and caudal vertebrae, reduced number of caudal vertebrae) were observed. 
The coadministration of ezetimibe with lovastatin resulted in embryolethal effects. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
Sodium starch glycolate (Type A grade) 
Hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous (E551) 
Sodium laurilsulfate (E487) 
Povidone (K30) (E1201) 
Film-coating 
Partially hydrolyzed poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203) 
Talc (E553b) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Indigo Carmine Aluminium Lake (E132) 
Glycerol monocaprylocaprate 
Sodium laurilsulfate (E487) 
Brilliant Blue FCF Aluminium Lake (E133) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
36 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)/PCTFE/aluminum blisters. 
Pack sizes of 10, 14, 28, 30, 84, 90, 98 or 100 film-coated tablets. 
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)/PCTFE/aluminum perforated unit dose blisters. 
Pack sizes of 10 x 1, 50 x 1 or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Zielstattstrasse 48 
81379 Munich 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1424/001 - 011 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27/03/2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Luitpoldstrasse 1 
85276 Pfaffenhofen 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 months 
following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nustendi 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablets 
bempedoic acid / ezetimibe 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 180 mg of bempedoic acid and 10 mg of ezetimibe. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
84 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets 
10 x 1 film-coated tablet 
50 x 1 film-coated tablet 
100 x 1 film-coated tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
81366 Munich, 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1424/001 10 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/007 14 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/002 28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/003 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/008 84 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/004 90 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/005 98 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/006 100 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/20/1424/009 10 x 1 film-coated tablet 
EU/1/20/1424/010 50 x 1 film-coated tablet 
EU/1/20/1424/011 100 x 1 film-coated tablet 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nustendi 180 mg/10 mg 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nustendi 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablets 
bempedoic acid / ezetimibe 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Daiichi-Sankyo (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Nustendi 180 mg/10 mg film-coated tablets 
bempedoic acid / ezetimibe 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Nustendi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Nustendi 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Nustendi 
Possible side effects 
How to store Nustendi 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Nustendi is and what it is used for 
What Nustendi is and how it works 
Nustendi is a medicine that lowers levels of ‘bad’ cholesterol (also called “LDL-cholesterol”), a type 
of fat, in the blood. 
Nustendi contains two active substances, which reduce your cholesterol in two ways: 
• 
bempedoic acid decreases the production of cholesterol in the liver and increases the removal of 
LDL-cholesterol from the blood; 
ezetimibe works in your bowel by reducing the amount of cholesterol absorbed from food. 
• 
What Nustendi is used for 
Nustendi is given to adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia, which are 
conditions that cause a high cholesterol level in the blood. It is given in addition to a cholesterol-
lowering diet. 
Nustendi is given: 
• 
if you have been using a statin (such as simvastatin, a commonly used medicine that treats high 
cholesterol) together with ezetimibe and this does not lower your LDL-cholesterol sufficiently; 
if you have been using ezetimibe and this does not lower your LDL-cholesterol sufficiently; 
to replace bempedoic acid and ezetimibe if you have been using these medicines as separate 
tablets. 
• 
• 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Nustendi 
Do not take Nustendi: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to bempedoic acid, ezetimibe or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6); 
if you are pregnant; 
if you are breast-feeding; 
if you take more than 40 mg of simvastatin daily (another medicine used to lower cholesterol); 
with a statin if you currently have liver problems. 
Nustendi contains ezetimibe. When Nustendi is given together with a statin, you should also 
read the information relating to ezetimibe in the Package leaflet of that specific statin. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Nustendi: 
• 
• 
• 
if you ever had gout; 
if you have severe kidney problems; 
if you have moderate or severe liver problems. Nustendi is not recommended in this case. 
Your doctor should do a blood test before you start taking Nustendi with a statin. This is to check how 
well your liver is working. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give Nustendi to children and adolescents under 18 years of age. The use of Nustendi has not 
been studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Nustendi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking medicine(s) with any of the following active 
substances: 
• 
atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin (used to lower 
cholesterol and known as statins). 
The risk of muscle disease may increase when taking both a statin and Nustendi. Tell your 
doctor immediately about any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. 
bosentan (used to manage a condition called pulmonary artery hypertension). 
fimasartan (used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure). 
asunaprevir, glecaprevir, grazoprevir, voxilaprevir (used to treat hepatitis C). 
fenofibrate (also used to lower cholesterol). 
No information is available on the effects of using Nustendi with cholesterol-lowering 
medicines called fibrates. 
ciclosporin (often used in organ transplant patients). 
colestyramine (also used to lower cholesterol), because it affects the way ezetimibe works. 
medicines to prevent blood clots, such as warfarin as well as acenocoumarol, fluindione, and 
phenprocoumon. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take this medicine if you are pregnant, trying to get pregnant, or think you may be pregnant, as 
there is a possibility that it could harm an unborn baby. If you get pregnant while taking this medicine, 
call your doctor immediately and stop taking Nustendi. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Pregnancy 
Before starting treatment, you should confirm you are not pregnant and are using effective 
contraception, as advised by your doctor. If you use contraceptive pills and suffer from an 
episode of diarrhoea or vomiting that lasts more than 2 days, you must use an alternative method 
of contraception (e.g. condoms, diaphragm) for 7 days following resolution of symptoms. 
If, after you have started treatment with Nustendi, you decide that you would like to become 
pregnant, tell your doctor, as your treatment will need to be changed. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not take Nustendi if you are breast-feeding because it is not known if Nustendi passes into 
milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Nustendi has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, some people may get dizzy after taking Nustendi. Avoid driving or using machines if you 
think your ability to react is reduced. 
Nustendi contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Nustendi 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one tablet once daily. 
If you are taking colestyramine, take Nustendi either at least 2 hours before or at least 4 hours after 
taking colestyramine. 
Swallow the tablet whole with food or between meals. 
If you take more Nustendi than you should 
Contact your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
If you forget to take Nustendi 
If you notice that you forgot: 
• 
a dose late in a day, take the missed dose and take the next dose at your regular time the next 
day. 
the previous day’s dose, take your tablet at the regular time and do not make up for the forgotten 
dose. 
• 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop taking Nustendi 
Do not stop taking Nustendi without your doctor’s permission as your cholesterol may rise again. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have any of the following serious side effects (frequencies 
are unknown): 
• 
• 
muscle pain or weakness 
yellowish skin and eyes, abdominal pain, dark urine, swollen ankles, decreased appetite, and 
feeling tired that could be signs of liver problems 
allergic reactions including rash and hives; raised red rash, sometimes with target-shaped lesions 
(erythema multiforme) 
gallstones or inflammation of the gallbladder (which may cause abdominal pain, nausea, 
vomiting), inflammation of the pancreas often with severe abdominal pain 
reduction in blood platelets, which may cause bruising/bleeding (thrombocytopenia) 
• 
• 
• 
Other side effects can occur with the following frequencies: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lower number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
decreased haemoglobin (a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen) 
increased levels of uric acid in blood, gout 
decreased appetite 
dizziness, headache 
high blood pressure 
cough 
constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal pain 
nausea 
dry mouth 
abdominal bloating and gas, inflammation of the stomach lining (gastritis) 
blood test results indicating liver abnormalities 
muscle spasm, muscle pain, pain in shoulders, legs or arms, back pain, blood test showing raised 
creatine kinase (a laboratory test of muscle damage), muscle weakness, joint pain (arthralgia) 
raised creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (laboratory tests of kidney function) 
unusual tiredness or weakness 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hot flush 
pain in the upper part of stomach, heartburn, indigestion 
itching 
swelling of the legs or hands 
neck pain, chest pain, pain 
decreased glomerular filtration rate (a measure of how well your kidneys are working) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data) 
• 
• 
• 
tingling sensation 
depression 
shortness of breath 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Nustendi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicine via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nustendi contains 
• 
• 
lactose monohydrate (see end of section 2 under ‘Nustendi contains lactose and sodium’) 
The active substances are bempedoic acid and ezetimibe. Each film-coated tablet contains 
180 mg of bempedoic acid and 10 mg of ezetimibe. 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
-  microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
- 
sodium starch glycolate (Type A grade) (see end of section 2 under ‘Nustendi contains 
lactose and sodium’) 
hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463) 
- 
-  magnesium stearate (E470b) 
- 
- 
silica, colloidal anhydrous (E551) 
sodium laurilsulfate (E487) (see end of section 2 under ‘Nustendi contains lactose and 
sodium’) 
povidone (K30) (E1201) 
partially hydrolysed poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203), talc (E553b), titanium dioxide (E171), 
Indigo Carmine Aluminium Lake (E132), glycerol monocaprylocaprate, Brilliant Blue FCF 
Aluminium Lake (E133) 
- 
- 
What Nustendi looks like and contents of the pack 
Film-coated tablets are blue, oval, debossed with “818” on one side and “ESP” on the other side. 
Tablet dimensions: 15 mm × 7 mm × 5 mm. 
Nustendi is supplied in plastic/aluminium blisters in cartons of 10, 14, 28, 30, 84, 90, 98 or 100 film-
coated tablets or unit dose blisters in cartons of 10 x 1, 50 x 1, or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in your country. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Zielstattstrasse 48 
81379 Munich 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Luitpoldstrasse 1 
85276 Pfaffenhofen 
Germany 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Daiichi Sankyo Belgium N.V.-S.A 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0) 2 227 18 80 
България 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
тел.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
Danmark 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tlf: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Deutschland 
Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Eesti 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Ελλάδα 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Τηλ: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
España 
Daiichi Sankyo España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 91 539 99 11 
France 
Daiichi Sankyo France S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 (0) 1 55 62 14 60 
Hrvatska 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Ireland 
Daiichi Sankyo Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +353-(0) 1 489 3000 
Ísland 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Sími: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Italia 
Daiichi Sankyo Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-06 85 2551 
Κύπρος 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Τηλ: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Latvija 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Lietuva 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Daiichi Sankyo Belgium N.V.-S.A 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0) 2 227 18 80 
Magyarország 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Malta 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Nederland 
Daiichi Sankyo Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31-(0) 20 4 07 20 72 
Norge 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tlf: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Österreich 
Daiichi Sankyo Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 485 86 42 0 
Polska 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel.: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Portugal 
Daiichi Sankyo Portugal, Unip. LDA 
Tel: +351 21 4232010 
România 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Slovenija 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
Suomi/Finland 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Puh/Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
Sverige 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0) 89 7808 0 
This leaflet was last revised in {month YYYY}. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
