10 December 2020 
DOC_REF_ID  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): somatropin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002772/202003 
Period covered by the PSUR: 31/03/2017 To: 31/03/2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex I 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing 
Authorisation(s) 
1 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for somatropin, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on risk(s) from clinical trial(s), the literature, spontaneous reports including 
in some cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge, the PRAC 
Rapporteur considers a causal relationship between somatropin and acute pancreatitis is at least a 
reasonable possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur concludes that Section 4.4 of the SmPC of products 
containing somatropin should be amended to add a warning on pancreatitis. 
Additionally, the PRAC Rapporteur considers a causal relationship between somatropin and 
gynecomastia is established and concludes that section 4.8 of the SmPC of products containing 
somatropin should be amended, to add the adverse reaction gynecomastia with a frequency 
uncommon.  
The Package leaflet is updated accordingly.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for somatropin the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing somatropin is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
2 
 
 
 
 
Annex II 
Amendments to the product information of the nationally authorised medicinal product(s) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendments to be included in the relevant sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(new text underlined and in bold, deleted text strike through) 
For all MAHs, which do not have this or a similar wording: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
• 
Section 4.4 
A warning should be added as follows: 
[For both adults and children] 
Pancreatitis 
Although rare, pancreatitis should be considered in somatropin-treated patients who develop 
abdominal pain, especially in children. 
Amendments to be included in the relevant sections of the Package Leaflet (new text underlined 
and in bold, deleted text strike through) 
Package Leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you use [product] 
Warnings and precausions 
Talk to your doctor before using [product] 
<product name> may cause an inflammation of the pancreas, which causes severe pain in the 
abdomen and back. Contact your doctor if you or your child develops stomach ache after taking 
<product name>. 
For all MAHs: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
[For both adults and children] 
• 
Section 4.8 
The following adverse reaction should be added under the SOC Reproductive system and breast 
disorders with a frequency uncommon.   
Gynecomastia 
Package Leaflet 
4. Possible side effects 
[Frequency uncommon] 
[For both adults and children] 
Breast enlargement (gynaecomastia) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
