European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc.Ref.:  EMEA/CHMP/207328/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Nymusa 
International Nonproprietary Name: caffeine  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001014 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 12 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 40 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 43 
Page 2 of 47 
  
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Chiesi  Farmaceutici  SpA  submitted  on  06  May  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
Nymusa,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/03/132  on  17  February  2003. 
Nymusa  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  treatment  of 
primary  apnoea  of  premature  newborns.  The  prevalence  of  the  condition  “Primary  apnoea  of 
premature newborns” is in the range of 0.5-1.2 per 10.000 individuals in the EU. The Orphan Drug 
Designation has been transferred to Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. on 18 January 2007. 
Despite  existing  authorised  methods  of  treatment,  the  sponsor  has  satisfactorily  justified  the 
assumption  that  the  medicinal  product  subject  of  the  application  might  be  of  potential  significant 
benefit  for  the  treatment  of  primary  apnoeas  of  premature  newborns,  particularly  in  terms  of 
availability of caffeine citrate throughout the European Union. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 10(a) / Well-established use application. 
Article  10(a)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  –  relating  to  applications  relying  on  well 
established medicinal use supported by bibliographic literature. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on bibliographic literature substituting all non-clinical 
tests and clinical studies. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  Treatment  of  primary  apnoea  of  premature 
newborns. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant did not seek Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
Nymusa was not approved in any country at the time of application. 
A formulation of caffeine citrate 25 mg/ml (12.5 mg caffeine base per ml), Caféine Cooper, has been 
authorised in France for injectable and oral use in the treatment of apnoea of prematurity in newborn 
children  since  31st  December  1997.  The  formal  indication  stated  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) is “Traitement de l’apnée du nouveau-né prématuré.”  
A caffeine citrate formulation was approved in UK in 2008 for “Treatment of apnoea of prematurity” 
(Caffeine 5mg/ml Solution for Injection, Viridian Pharma Ltd). 
Cafcit  injection  (caffeine  citrate  injection  60  mg/3  ml)  and  Cafcit  oral  solution  (caffeine  citrate 
solution  60  mg/3  ml)  were  granted  orphan  status  in  the  U.S.  on  20  September  1998  and  received 
marketing authorisation from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the orphan indication “The 
short term treatment of apnoea of prematurity in infants between 28 and < 33 weeks gestational age” 
on 21 September 1999. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:   Andrea Laslop  
Co-Rapporteur: Cristina Sampaio 
1.2 
• 
• 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The application was received by the EMEA on 06 May 2008. 
The procedure started on 28 May 2008. 
Page 3 of 47 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 August 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 
August 2008. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur 
and  Co-Rapporteur  declared  that  they  had  completed  their  assessment  report  in  less  than  80 
days.   
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 26 September 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  12 
December 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 03 February 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 February 2009, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  list  of  outstanding  issues  on  18  March 
2009. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  list  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 17 April 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 April 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Nymusa  on  23  April  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 22 April 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Apnoea of prematurity (AOP) is defined as “cessation of breathing for 20 seconds or longer, or as a 
brief  episode  if  associated  with  bradycardia  (HR<100  beats/min),  cyanosis,  or  pallor”.  Primary  (or 
idiopathic)  apnoea  of  prematurity  is  a  diagnosis  of  exclusion  and  implies  that  underlying  causes  of 
apnoea have been excluded.  
Brief  pauses  in  breathing  (five  to  ten  seconds)  are  a  common  event  in  preterm  infants.  Prolonged 
pauses  can  lead  to  hypoxaemia,  decreased  peripheral  perfusion,  cyanosis,  reflex  vagal  bradycardia, 
and hypotonia. 
AOP  appears  to  be  due  to  central  immaturity  of  brainstem  respiratory  centres  with  an  attenuated 
respiratory response to carbon dioxide (CO2), a paradoxical response to hypoxia (resulting in apnoea 
rather  than  hyperventilation),  and  an  exaggerated  inhibitory  response  to  airway  (e.g.  laryngeal) 
stimulation.  
AOP is a common condition in preterm neonates affecting approximately 90% of extremely low birth 
weight  infants  (<1000g).  The  incidence  varies  inversely  with  gestational  age  (GA).  The  onset  of 
primary  AOP  presents  between  the  2nd  and  7th  day  of  life.  It  usually  resolves  by  36  weeks  post-
menstrual age and does not predict future episodes of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). 
Infants  at  risk  for  apnoea  should  be  monitored  with  apnoea  monitors.  Gentle  cutaneous  stimulation 
may  suffice  for  infants  with  mild  and  intermittent  episodes.  Prolonged  and  recurrent  apnoeas  may 
result in a need for supplemental oxygen, bag and mask ventilation, or intubation and positive pressure 
ventilation.  
Methylxanthines such as theophylline and caffeine act as effective respiratory stimulants. Caffeine and 
its salts, in the form of magisterial preparations, have been extensively used in Europe for more than 
two decades for the short-term treatment of apnoea of prematurity in neonates. 
Page 4 of 47 
Caffeine Citrate Chiesi, 60 mg/3 ml solution for intravenous infusion and oral solution was developed 
to meet the need often expressed in the scientific literature for a standardised preparation of caffeine 
citrate  of  suitable  quality.  Marketing  authorization  of  the  product  will  permit  the  European-wide 
availability of a preparation of caffeine citrate which is subject to the full assurances of an authorised 
product. 
Caffeine  is  a  trimethylxanthine  structurally  related  to  the  methylxanthines  theophylline  and 
theobromine.  Most  of  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  caffeine  are  attributed  to  adenosine  receptor 
antagonism  at  both  A1  and  A2  receptor  subtypes.  Other  mechanisms,  such  as  phosphodiesterase 
inhibition, may play a role in some of caffeine’s effects at higher plasma concentrations.  
In the treatment of AOP, caffeine acts by increasing the sensitivity and probably also decreasing the 
threshold  of  the  medullary  respiratory  centre  to  CO2.  In  particular,  caffeine  can  increase  minute 
ventilation. Caffeine decreases the frequency of apnoeic episodes, increases respiratory rate and blood 
pH, decreases pCO2, and improves the function of the respiratory muscles in premature infants with 
recurrent apnoea. 
Nymusa (formerly Caffeine Citrate Chiesi) 60 mg/3 ml is a solution for intravenous infusion and for 
oral administration in the strength 20 mg caffeine citrate/ml. Caffeine citrate 20 mg/ml is equivalent to 
10 mg caffeine base/ml. 
The recommended posology is: 
In  preterm  infants  with  insufficient  clinical  response  to  the  recommended  loading  dose,  a  second 
loading dose of 10 - 20 mg/kg maximum may be given after 24 hours.  
Higher  maintenance  doses  of  10mg/kg  body  weight  could  be  considered  in  case  of  insufficient 
response,  taking  into  account  the  potential  for  accumulation  of  caffeine  due  to  the  long  half-life  in 
premature  neonates  and  the  progressively  increasing  capacity  to  metabolise  caffeine  in  relation  to 
post-menstrual  age  (see  section  5.2  of  the  SPC).  Where  clinically  indicated,  caffeine  plasma  levels 
should be monitored. The diagnosis of AOP may need to be reconsidered if patients do not respond 
adequately  to a  second loading  dose  or  a  maintenance  dose  of  10  mg/kg/day  (see  section  4.4  of  the 
SPC). 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Nymusa  is  presented  as  a  solution  for  infusion  and  oral  solution.  It  contains  caffeine  as  the  active 
substance. Other ingredients include citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate and water for injections. 
The finished product is filled into clear 4 ml Pharm. Eur. type I glass ampoules containing a claimed 
volume of 3 ml of caffeine citrate solution (20mg/ml). To guarantee the claimed volume an overfilling 
is applied. The ampoules are packed in cardboard boxes.  
Drug Substance  
Caffeine  is  a  well  known  active  substance  described  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (monograph 
number 0267). The chemical name of caffeine is 1,3,7-Trimethyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione. It 
is  a  white  or  almost  white,  crystalline  powder  that  is  sparingly  soluble  in  water,  freely  soluble  in 
boiling  water,  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol  (96  per  cent).  It  also  dissolves  in  concentrated  solution  of 
alkali benzoates or salicylates. 
Page 5 of 47 
 
BASF Pharmachemikalien, the manufacturer of the active substance, has been granted a Certificate of 
Suitability  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  for  Caffeine  (R1-CEP  1998-022-Rev  01)  that  has  been 
provided  within  the  current  Marketing  Authorisation  Application.  Therefore  no  further  information 
about the manufacture, characterisation and stability of the active substance has been provided. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  is  analysed  according  to  the  Pharm.  Eur.  monograph.  In  addition  the  finished 
product  manufacturer  is  testing  the  microbiological  characteristics  the  active  substance  of  caffeine, 
since the finished product is sterile. 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identification, assay, acidity, related 
substances,  sulphates,  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash,  loss  on  drying,  total  viable  aerobic  count  and 
bacterial endotoxins.  
Batch analysis data from 3 batches have been provided. The results demonstrated compliance to the 
Pharm. Eur. monograph and have shown suitable microbiological purity. 
•  Stability 
The  proposed  re-test  period,  storage  conditions  and  containers  are  according  to  the  certificate  of 
suitability. 
Drug Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Nymusa is presented as a sterile solution for infusion and oral solution. Caffeine is dissolved in water 
for injection. The pH of the aqueous solution is adjusted and controlled by citric acid monohydrate and 
sodium citrate. Addition of the buffering agents citric acid monohydrate and sodium citrate results in 
in situ formation of the highly water soluble caffeine citrate salt.  
The  chosen  excipients  are  regarded  to  be  suitable  for  their  intended  use.  All  excipients  are 
monographed  substances  and  are  tested  against  monographed  limits  by  Pharm.  Eur.  methods.  In 
addition  to  the  tests  described  in  the  monograph  the  excipients  have  been  analysed  for  total  viable 
aerobic  count.  Limits  have  been  set  in  accordance  to  requirements  of  the  Pharm.  Eur.  for 
microbiological quality of pharmaceutical preparations. 
The medicinal product is provided in single dose containers covering a volume of 3 ml. The chosen 
ampoule  size  is  based  on  the  required  loading  dose,  which  may  vary  from  0.5  to  3ml.  Since  the 
formulation does not contain any preservatives any unused portions must be discarded after opening of 
the ampoules, which is clearly addressed in the SPC. The risk of withdrawal of more than one dose of 
the ampoules has been appropriately addressed by the risk management plan of the company. Since 
Nymusa  is  intended  to  be  administered  in  a  neonatal  intensive  care  unit  only,  the  overall  risk  is 
considered acceptable. 
Caffeine  citrate  solution  is  filled  into  ampoules  of  colourless  neutral  glass  with  a  high  hydrolytic 
resistance. The glass complies with the requirements of Pharm. Eur. for Type I glass.  
Since the product is intended to be administered by infusion after dilution, compatibility studies have 
been performed for the caffeine citrate solution and three possible solutions for infusion (5% Dextrose, 
0.9% Sodium Chloride and 10% Calcium gluconate) for a total of 24 hours after dilution.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard process for these kinds of formulations. Terminal sterilisation 
is performed in line with the requirements of the Ph.Eur. 
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in process controls, 
i.e. control of pH of the bulk solution, filter integrity before and after filtration, test of filling weight 
and filling height, control of the physical conditions within the autoclave and control of labelling and 
packaging of the ampoules.  
Page 6 of 47 
The  validation  report  from  3  production  scale  batches  demonstrates  that  the  process  is  reproducible 
and provides a product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications.  
•  Product Specification 
The finished product specification includes tests for appearance of solution, colour of solution, final 
packaging, extractable volume, pH, identification and content of drug substance, uniformity of dosage 
unit, degradation products, sterility and particulate contamination. 
Batch  analysis  data  from  3  production  scale  batches  have  been  presented.  All  batches  met  the  test 
limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the time of batch release. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Data from stability studies on three production scale batches have been provided. Samples were stored 
for twelve months at long term and intermediate conditions and for 6 months at accelerated conditions 
in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements  All  batches  have  been  investigated  for  physical  and 
technological parameters.  
In addition, supporting stability data of pilot scale batches have been performed covering the proposed 
shelf-life of 36 months. 
In all cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life for the 
commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Nymusa is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well known and has is described in a Ph. Eur. monograph. The quality of the 
drug  substance  is  regarded  to  be  suitable  for  the  intended  use  and  appropriately  controlled  by  the 
applicant. The excipients are commonly used in these types of formulations and comply with Ph. Eur. 
requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The  manufacturing 
process of the finished product is a standard process that includes terminal sterilisation that has been 
adequately  described.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is 
chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Due  to  the  bibliographic  nature  of  this  application  and  the  date  of  origin  of  some  of  the  submitted 
studies GLP aspects are not fully covered according to the present regulatory standards. 
This is however acceptable due to the well established use of the product. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
A  thorough  review  of  the  mechanisms  of  action  of  caffeine  in  relation  to  the  expected  respiratory 
effects  as  well  as  proof  of  concept  studies  in  newborn  and  adult  animals  has  been  provided  in  the 
application based on published studies. Proof of concept studies are available in different species and 
ages. 
In  newborn  rabbits,  the  facilitatory  effect  of  caffeine  on  the  central  mechanisms  controlling  the 
breathing  pattern  was  indicated  by:  1)  the  enhanced  Hering-Breuer  expiratory  promoting  effect;  2) 
lack  of  effect  on  the  Hering-Breuer  deflation  reflex;  3)  qualitatively  similar  effects  of  caffeine 
postvagotomy and prevagotomy. In rabbits, the respiratory system is in a more advanced stage than in 
humans at birth. Despite this fact that implies that the model here discussed is not ideal for preterm 
infants, the main effects intended for caffeine have been shown. 
Page 7 of 47 
The  Authors  also  discussed  the  potential  clinical  relevance  of  the  increase  in  the  strength  of  the 
Hering-Breuer expiratory promoting reflex following caffeine injection. This reflex may be elicited by 
a  continuous  airway  distending  pressure  which  is  currently  used  to  treat  apnea  in  premature  infants 
who  have  a  strong  inflation  reflex  as  compared  to  adults.  This  could  lead  to  decrease  in  minute 
ventilation  as  expiratory  time  is  prolonged.  In  the  presence  of  caffeine,  this  prolongation  could  be 
increased.  Therefore,  the  Authors  concluded  that  both  types  of  treatment  for  apnoea  should  not  be 
used  together  unless  blood  gases  are  checked  to  ensure  that  alveolar  ventilation  has  not  decreased. 
However, this preclinical issue has sufficiently been considered on a clinical level (Study 5.3.4.2.1., 
Laubsher B. et. al).   
In piglets aged 1-5 days, the effects of caffeine 20 mg/kg iv infusion were also shown in situations of 
hypocapnic  and  hypercapnic  hypoxia.  The  domestic  pig  reveals  a  similar  developmental  pattern  of 
histological and ultrastructural lung maturation (term at approx. 115 days) during pregnancy to that of 
humans.  Differentiation  of  fetal  lungs  follows  similar  steps  and  time-windows  known  from  humans 
[Baskerville  1976].  However,  pig  fetuses  are  not  viable  when  delivered  preterm  (e.g.  90  days  of 
gestation). Therefore the newborn animals at term are expected to be at a more advanced stage of lung 
development  than  the  intended  target  premature  infants.  In  addition,  lung  tissue  and  function  in  the 
piglets  would  have  been  normal,  which  may  not  be  the  case  in  some  target  babies.  Therefore,  this 
model can be considered as partially relevant only for the patient condition in discussion. This study 
was designed on the basis of the adenosine receptor blocking properties of caffeine. It did not address 
the clarification of the mechanism of action of the methylxanthine. Anyway, it has shown that caffeine 
ameliorated  the  ventilatory  depression  in  the  biphasic  response  to  hypoxia,  at  the  dose  which  is 
proposed also in the current file. Therefore, despite the insufficiencies highlighted here, the study may 
be considered as supportive of the proposed use of caffeine citrate.    
In premature baboons the respiratory benefits of 20 mg/kg given at 20 min and 24 h of age to very 
premature animals (D125 gestation) treated with surfactant, has also been shown. The animal model 
using extremely premature baboons  delivered at 125 days (67% of term which is roughly equivalent 
to human gestation of 26-27 weeks) and treated with exogenous surfactant, mechanical ventilation and 
appropriate  oxygen  supply  is  described  as  a  relevant  model  for  BPD  in  premature  newborn  infants[ 
Coalson et al, 1999, Am J resp Crit Care, 160:133].  
These animals develop structural lesions characterized by severe alveolar hypoplasia with decreased 
and  dysmorphic  vascular  growth.  The  baboon  model  shows  similarities  in  pathology  and  ontogeny 
comparable  to  preterm  infants.  In  this  study,  the  dose  of  caffeine  citrate  used  was  the  same  as  the 
proposed for the current indication. Since the animal model is relevant and the dose used is the same 
as that proposed in the target patient population, this study seems to be the most relevant as proof of 
concept.  However,  only  24  hours  effects  were  covered  while  up  to  one  month  is  possible  with  this 
treatment. Possibility for changes in the response pattern, including development of tolerance, was not 
addressed. However, since clinical data is available from the approximately 25 years of caffeine use in 
this situation, this type of uncertainty is superseded by the findings in the clinical setting.    
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The  effects  of  Caffeine  on  renal  function  have  been  studied  in  comparison  with  theophylline  in  4 
groups of 5 to 10-day old New Zealand rabbits. 
The neonatal rabbit is described as a good model for renal function in newborn infants. Renal effects 
observed with the 10mg/Kg of caffeine, decreased diuresis and increased tubular water absorption are 
relevant for treated premature infants. Nevertheless, only one high dose of caffeine is in principle to be 
given,  followed  by  5mg/Kg  which  might  be  expected  to  be  safer.  6mg/Kg  caffeine  had  no  relevant 
effect in renal function in the rabbit model.    
Caffeine influenced T4 and TSH release in the premature animals. This may be of clinical relevance, 
particularly  because  preterm  infants  depend  on  maternal  thyroid  hormones.  The  impact  of  caffeine 
treatment on the thyroid and pituitary functions of the preterm infants under long term treatment was 
discussed  by  the  Applicant  and  is  part  of  the  Risk  management  plan  (long-term  effect  on 
neurodevelopment and growth). 
Page 8 of 47 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No conventional safety pharmacology studies on Caffeine were found in the literature. However, 
studies on behaviour, gastric tolerance and effects on necrotizing enterocolitis in rats as well as effects 
on  cardiovascular  system  in  rats  and  dogs  are  cited  and  discussed  in  the  toxicology  section  of  this 
report. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No conventional pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies on Caffeine were found in the literature. 
Interactions data are discussed in the clinical setting. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Analysis  of  the  extensive  literature  allowed a  full characterization  of  the pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
Caffeine  in  the  most  relevant  species  used  in  pharmaco-toxicological  studies  and  in  particular  in 
neonatal animals. Dose-dependent kinetics have been reported in humans, as in animals, suggesting a 
saturation of metabolic transformations. In the neonatal period, elimination of Caffeine is impaired in 
animals  and  humans,  due  to  the  immaturity  of  the  hepatic  enzyme  systems.  In  mature  animals, 
Caffeine  is  metabolised  in  the  liver,  mostly  in  microsomes.  There  are  some  interspecies  differences 
between Caffeine metabolism in experimental animals and humans. Some metabolites of Caffeine also 
have  marked  pharmacological  activity.  Thus,  1,3-dimethylxanthine  (theophylline)  and  1,7-dimethyl-
xanthine  (paraxanthine)  are  to  be  taken  into  account  when  considering  the  biological  actions  of 
Caffeine.  
Due to the high solubility of caffeine in water, different routes of administration (oral or parenteral) 
had  no  relevant  impact  on  the  PK  characteristics.  Metabolic  differences  between  different  animal 
species (rodents) and humans were identified. However, a progressive increase in the activity of the 
hepatic  enzyme  system  is  evident  during  neonatal  development.  I.e.  this  effect  is  the  same  in 
premature neonatal animals and humans, as caffeine undergoes very little biotransformation and - in 
the neonatal period of humans and animals - the caffeine half-life is increased. 
A potential of caffeine to induce its own metabolism has been shown only for doses above 100mg/kg 
– and therefore seems to out of clinical relevance for the intended indication. 
In summary preclinical aspects on pharmacokinetics were appropriately reviewed and considerations 
on PK drug interactions were addressed accordingly in the SPC. 
Toxicology 
No  toxicological  studies  have  been  conducted  by  Chiesi  on  Caffeine  or  Caffeine  Citrate.  There  are, 
however, numerous published data on acute, repeated, mutagenicity and oncogenicity studies as well 
as  reproductive  toxicities  defining  the  safety  profile  of  Caffeine.  The  more  significant  published 
studies  are  summarized  and  discussed  below.  For  the  evaluation  of  the  safety  profile  of  Caffeine 
particular attention was paid to the “Cafcit (Caffeine Citrate) - Summary Basis for Approval. NDA-
FDA  20-793,  1997”  (Study  4.2.3.1.2)  and  to  “Caffeine  monograph  issued  by  OECD  SIDS 
(Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development - Screening Information Data Set) UNEP 
Publications  2003”  (Study  4.2.3.1.3),  where  the  toxicity  profile  of  Caffeine  is  well  defined  and 
discussed.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
Due  to  the  lack  of  reliable  toxicokinetic  investigations  in  the  published  toxicity  studies,  the  safety 
margins  with respect to the  clinical  dose have  been calculated  on  mg/kg  basis considering  the  daily 
intravenous or oral clinical doses: 10 mg/kg of Caffeine base by infusion on day 1 as a loading dose 
followed by 2.5 mg/kg, orally or by infusion, as the maintenance dose. 
The  acute  toxicity  of  caffeine  expressed  as  LD50  seemed  similar  in  different  species,  rodents  and 
nonrodents.  The  information  in  newborns  has  only  been  collected  in  one  study  in  rats,  where  the 
neonatal animals (2 days of age) were more sensitive than the adult ones. In terms of CNS, 2 days old 
rats  are  less  mature  than  term  infants,  and  therefore  the  young  animals  used  may  be  relevant  as  a 
model of premature infants, in terms of CNS immaturity. The fact that after oral and intravenous bolus 
administration  the  blood  levels  at  LD50  were  similar  despite  the  different  values  obtained  for  each 
Page 9 of 47 
route  supports  the  need  for  discussion  on  whether  blood  concentrations  need  to  be  monitored  in 
neonates, particularly the younger ones. This is reinforced for the suggestion that in neonatal rats the 
metabolisation is slower. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  revised  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  of  caffeine  were  not  in  compliance  with  current 
international guidelines and the experimental designs of several differed from those currently required 
for regulatory purposes. Nevertheless the studies may be considered as contributive to the description 
of the toxicity of Caffeine following repeated treatment. They allowed the identification of the main 
clinical signs at high doses, including convulsions and psychotic like reactions (animal biting and self 
mutilation  more  often  in  younger  animals),  anorexia  and  loss  of  body  weight  gain.  The  main 
morphological  changes  seen  at  lethal  doses  were:  lung  (congestion,  oedema,  thrombosis  and 
haemorrhage) and gastrointestinal effects (mild hyperaemia, mild to moderate inflammation with some 
ulcers). An effect on spermatogenic cells with testicular atrophy was also seen.  
The NOAEL appeared to be 5 and 20 times the clinical loading (10 mg/kg on day 1) and maintenance 
(2.5 mg/kg up to 12 days) doses. These safety margins were calculated on a mg/kg basis dividing the 
NOAEL  for  the  clinical  doses  and  adjusting  the  value  obtained  by  3.  This  correction  was  made 
because the animals were treated via drinking water or diet, routes of administration which result in a 
lower absorption of the drug substance and are influenced by several factors (stability of the substance, 
spilling and pollution of food or water, etc). Consequently the safety margins are only indicative. With 
the exception of one study, the information discussed derives from adult animals. 
The main targets of concern raised from these studies are the gastro-intestinal tract, the kidney and the 
lung where haemorrhages were observed in animals treated with high doses of caffeine. 
Since the target population will be premature infants, some studies in juvenile animals addressing the 
potential  safety  of  caffeine  when  administered  to  immature  systems,  have  been  included  in  the  file.  
Three  studies  where  the  effects  of  postnatal  Caffeine  exposure  on  growth,  and/or  activity  and/or 
learning are included in the Application.  
Oral  by  gavage:  the  effects  of  low  dose  Caffeine  exposure  during  the  first  week  of  life  was 
investigated  in  rats  from  day  1  to  day  6  of  age.  This  time  period  is  proposed  to  provide  an  animal 
model equivalent to the human third trimester or premature infant exposure.  
•  Treated animals grew more slowly, were hypoactive at two weeks of age, and were impaired 
on an operant spatial learning task as adults. 
•  The timing of the appearance of developmental landmarks, adult body weight and adult brain 
weight, however, were not affected by postnatal Caffeine exposure. 
•  Neither  of  the  two  developmental  measures  of  behaviour  (eye-opening  and  righting  reflex) 
were altered by Caffeine treatment.  
Oral  through  maternal  milk:  Sprague  Dawley  rat  pups  were  exposed  to  caffeine  in  maternal  milk 
through exposure of 23-30 mg/kg, or 94-135 mg/kg to the dams throughout lactation for 21 days.  
•  No significant difference between weights of treated and untreated animals were seen.  
•  Offspring of Caffeine-treated dams showed significantly earlier onset of auditory startle and 
air righting reflexes. 
•  There  were  no  dose-related  effects  and  no  difference  in  eye-opening  between  treated  and 
control groups. 
•  No direct effects of treatment were observed on eight measures of open field activity.  
• 
locomotor activity in animals exposed to Caffeine via dam milk was not different to control 
group. 
Subcutaneous route: The behavioural responses of 1- and 10-day-old Long Evans rats to Caffeine (0, 
5, 20, 40 and 80 mg/kg subcutaneously) were determined using several behaviours readily exhibited 
by the neonatal rat. 
Page 10 of 47 
•  After  single  doses,  in  pups  of  both  ages  activity  as  well  as  attachment  latencies  in  the  on 
nipple suckling test increased, while weight gain and attachment frequencies in on mother and 
on nipple suckling tests decreased.  
• 
In addition, the home orientation of 10-day-old rats was disrupted.  
•  Similar effects were found in l-day-old pups exposed to theophylline. 
•  Long term exposure (9 days) to Caffeine during gestation (l-day-old pups) or on Days 1-9 of 
lactation (10-day-old pups) increased the pup activity levels and altered the activity increase 
observed following an acute Caffeine challenge. 
Additionally, other studies suggest an effect of caffeine in thyroid and pituitary function which may be 
of relevance in premature infants who are highly dependent on maternal hormones and therefore will 
be deficient on these.  
In conclusion, the potential for caffeine to affect the cardiovascular system in a dose-dependent way is 
well known, and the studies described above in rats and dogs have reiterated this knowledge. 
•  Genotoxicity 
In their literature search, the Applicant has identified more than 150 in vitro and in vivo mutagenicity 
tests  on  caffeine  reported  in  the  literature.  Multiple  tests  have  been  included  and  discussed  in  the 
submitted file. The main battery including Ames test and chromosomal aberration was negative. The 
in  vivo  micronucleus  test  was  positive  only  at  substantially  high  dose  of  300mg/Kg.  No  specific 
concern is raised from the studies discussed in the file. Furthermore, caffeine is a component of dietary 
coffee and is present in multiple pharmaceutical formulations. The available information is considered 
sufficient to support the nongenotoxic potential of caffeine. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
In view of the maximal intended duration of the caffeine treatment of premature newborns (37 days at 
maximum), carcinogenicity studies would not be needed unless a cause of concern exists, taking into 
consideration the fact that the target population is low age pediatric. From the studies here discussed, 
no  concern  on  pro-carcinogenic  potential  for  caffeine  is  raised.  When  applied  concomitantly  with 
different carcinogens, caffeine administration has reduced the number of tumors for some carcinogens, 
increased for other or had no effect. This information is of difficult interpretation and its relevance for 
the current application may be limited. Indeed, it may be more important in relation to widespread use 
of caffeine in the multiple dietary components available. 
The CHMP was of the opinion that there is no concern of tumorigenesis by caffeine in the context of 
indication and use proposed in this application.   
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  from  literature  allow  the  understanding  of  effects  of  caffeine  in  male 
fertility,  on  embryofetal  development  and  on  pre-post  natal  development.  As  a  conclusion,  adverse 
testicular  and  sperm  effects  that  may  affect  fertility  of  males  exposed  even  in  premature  stage  to 
caffeine cannot be excluded. Also growth retardation especially on ossification may be expected after 
administration of caffeine to premature infants.  
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  studies  at  the  gastrointestinal  tract in rodents have  shown  a  potential for  caffeine  to 
increase the development of gastric ulcers in adult animals when these have been exposed postnatally 
to caffeine. Aminophyline aggravated the signals and consequences including mortality associated to a 
rat  model  of  necrotising  enterocolitis.  This  may  represent  a  risk  for  preterm  babies  treated  with 
caffeine, but has been addressed on a clinical level and was noted in the SPC.  
Page 11 of 47 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The effect of caffeine on the cardiovascular system was investigated in a rat (Sprague Dawley) study 
which  results  demonstrated  that  long  term  administration  (117  weeks)  of  caffeine  (50mg/Kg/day) 
markedly reduced lifespan due to cardiovascular disease. 
In  dogs  ,  dose-dependent  arritmogenic  potential  was  also  seen.  At  low  doses  (1.25  mg/Kg)  benign 
arrytmias (sinus arritmia, atrial ectopics, tachycardia) due to vagal stimulation, and at a higher dose of 
5mg/Kg more severe pattern was observed (ventricular tachycardia, multifocal ventricular premature 
contractions, atrial flutter and fibrillation).  
No skin or eye irritancy potential was identified for caffeine in rabbits. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment has been provided. A revised PECsurfacewater (0.008 µg/L) below 
the  action  limit  was  obtained  for  a  Fpen  of  0.0008%.  The  revised  Fpen  was  based  on  a  disease 
prevalence of 1.18/10000 inhabitants per year and assuming 20 mg of caffeine citrate as the maximum 
daily dose and a 25 days mean treatment duration. No published data was provided by the applicant to 
justify  either  the  disease  prevalence  or  the  assumption  of  1kg  as  the  maximum  body  weight  of 
premature newborns or even the treatment duration. However, natural substances are exempted from 
an  environmental  risk  assessment  because  they  are  unlikely  to  result  in  significant  risk  to  the 
environment. Consequently no further steps in ERA were required. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The toxicological profile of caffeine has been appropriately described in the file in the multiple studies 
presented in the extensive bibliographic revision performed.  
The information included suggests a higher toxicity in caffeine in low ages and as compared to adults. 
Death due to acute toxicity is related to respiratory arrest and convulsions. The need for monitoring of 
plasma levels, particularly in the younger prematures is discussed in the clinical section.  
Under  repeated  treatment,  target  organs  of  toxicity  were  the  stomach,  the  kidney,  the  lung  and  the 
reproductive tract. Behavioural changes could be seen in some studies in young animals at therapeutic 
levels. Consequently section 5.3 of the SPC was amended accordingly.  
Growth  and  ossification  retardation  is  suggested  from  reproductive  toxicity  studies,  where 
embryotoxicity was observed, as well as increased toxicity on lactating animals. In addition, decreased 
male fertility with sperms decrease and testicular changes of treated males was observed, irrespective 
of  age.  Also,  embryotoxicity  was  observed  in  association  to  treated  males.  No  genotoxic  or 
carcinogenic concerns are raised from studies revised. The limited duration of treatment and the life 
threatening condition here discussed would not require carcinogenicity studies to be conducted in the 
absence  of  a  specific  concern.  Increased  propensity  for  ulcer  development  in  the  adult  stage,  and 
higher susceptibility to necrotising enterocolitis is also raised form the published information revised.  
The main safety aspects of caffeine administration to premature newborns have been highlighted in the 
extensive literature publications submitted. Some of these aspects would have benefited from further 
discussion.  However,  since  there  is  an  extensive  clinical  experience  with  caffeine,  including  in 
premature newborns, additional nonclinical studies were not required.  
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
Due  to  the  bibliographic  nature  of  this  application  and  the  date  of  origin  of  some  of  the  submitted 
studies  GCP  aspects  are  not  fully  covered  according  to  the  present  regulatory  standards.  The  GCP 
status of the different studies is unknown.  
According  to  Article  8.3  (ib)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  a  statement  to  the  effect  that 
clinical  trials  carried  out  outside  the  European  Union  meet  the  ethical  requirements  of  Directive 
Page 12 of 47 
2001/20/EC  was  provided.  This  statement  indicates  that  “clinical  trials  carried  out  outside  the 
European Union meet the ethical requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC” together with a listing of all 
trials  (protocol  number)  and  third  countries  involved  (see  LoQ).  For  the  main  trial  (study  5.3.5.1.1) 
and  for  the  CAP-study  (study  5.3.5.1.6)  this  statement  was  provided  by  the  Applicant;  for  the 
supportive trials the information is confined to declaration of protocol approval by an ethical board or 
compliance with the declaration of Helsinki. 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Absorption  
Literature  data  on  caffeine  pharmacokinetics  in  young  infants  indicate  that  orally  administered 
caffeine  citrate  is  rapidly  and  completely  bioavailable  for  preterm  neonates;  supporting  data  are, 
however, scarce and inconsistent (tmax 0.5 -2 hours in one study and 4.6 hours in another). 
Absolute  bioavailability  was  not  fully  examined  in  preterm  neonates.  Comparison  of  the  PK 
parameters obtained in studies where IV and oral doses of caffeine citrate were administered suggests 
that oral and IV pharmacokinetics of caffeine citrate are similar and absolute bioavailability of orally 
administered caffeine citrate is nearly 100%.  
No effect of formula feeding on the extent of absorption of caffeine citrate in premature infants has 
been detected. Mean tmax was, however, prolonged from 3.4 hours in the fasted state to 5.9 hours after 
feeding.  
•  Distribution 
Plasma protein binding is ca. 35% and almost exclusively to albumin. 
Cerebrospinal fluid caffeine levels in treated preterm neonates are close to and appear to be in rapid 
equilibrium with their plasma levels. 
Caffeine  ingested  by  the  mother  crossed  the  placenta  and  caffeine  concentrations  that  are  close  to 
therapeutic levels are often found in cord blood of preterm infants at birth. 
Caffeine  ingested  by  nursing  mothers  appears  in  breast  milk  within  about  15  minutes  of  maternal 
ingestion  in  concentrations  comparable  to  those  in  plasma.  Monitoring  of  serum  caffeine  levels  is 
advisable when caffeine therapy is planned in infants born to mothers who consumed caffeine prior to 
delivery or in infants whose mothers consume caffeine while breast-feeding. This is reflected in the 
SPC. 
The mean volume of distribution of caffeine in infants is about 0.8-0.9 L/kg, which is slightly higher 
than that in adults (0.6 L/kg). 
•  Elimination 
In  adults,  biotransformation  of  caffeine  occurs  in  the  liver  via  microsomal  cytochrome  P450  mono-
oxygenases (CYP1A2) and via the soluble enzyme xanthine oxidase. In premature neonates CYP1A2 
is not yet expressed. 
The predominant process of caffeine metabolism in preterm infants is conversion to theophylline via 
N7-demethylation.  As a result, caffeine metabolism and excretion is very slow in premature neonates. 
Interconversion  between  caffeine  and  theophylline  has  been  reported  with  25%  of  theophylline 
converted  to  caffeine  via  methylation  and  between  3-8%  of  caffeine  converted  to  theophylline  via 
CYP1A2.  Because  theophylline  is  metabolised  to  caffeine  in  neonates,  it  is  essential  that  baseline 
plasma concentrations of caffeine are measured in infants previously treated with theophylline when 
caffeine therapy is planned. 
A delay in caffeine elimination has been observed in breast-fed as compared to formula fed infants. 
No  proper  dose  escalation  studies  were  performed.  There  is  only  limited  information  on  dose 
proportionality  from  three  of  the  submitted  studies.  However,  results  give  supporting  evidence  to 
assume dose linearity for the investigated dose-range (2.5 - 3mg/kg to 30mg/kg). 
Page 13 of 47 
Inter-patient  variability,  as  determined  based  on  population  pharmacokinetics,  was  approx.  25%  for 
clearance and approx. 11% for volume of distribution. Intra-patient error (standard deviation, SD) was 
3.9 mg/L. Interpretability of reported intra-subject variability is very limited. 
In neonates, caffeine is eliminated predominantly via renal excretion according to first-order kinetics; 
approximately 86% of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine within 6 days, compared with 4% in 
adults. 
In infants, mean elimination half-life (t½) of caffeine and fraction excreted unchanged in urine (Ae) 
are inversely related to gestational age.  
Maturation  of  different  caffeine  metabolising  systems  from  birth  to  ca.  9  months  of  age  follows  a 
pattern based on the following findings: 
•  The caffeine elimination half-life and CL varied linearly with GA and exponentially with PNA, 
the plateau being reached during the second trimester of life.  
•  Half-life  is  prolonged  during  the  neonatal  period  and  for  as  many  as  38  weeks  gestation  in 
premature babies: Half-lives approximately 20-fold longer (102.9 h, range 40 - 230 h) than in 
adults (5-6 hours) and an 11-fold decrease in body clearance relative to adult are observed. 
•  It is suggested that N3-demethylation is more important in young infants than in adults and that 
maturation of N1-demethylation occurs later than 19 months of age. 
•  8-hydroxylation is mature as early as 1 month of age and may be higher in infants than in adults. 
•  By 9 months of age, the metabolism of caffeine approximates that seen in adults (t½ = 5h; Ae = 
1%) and correlates closely with the rise in metabolite production. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No  proper  dose  escalation  studies  were  performed.  There  is  only  limited  information  on  dose 
proportionality from three of the submitted publications. However, results give supporting evidence to 
assume dose linearity for the investigated dose-range (2.5 - 3mg/kg to 30mg/kg).   
In theory, repeated daily dosing as proposed for the maintenance of caffeine citrate treatment in AOP 
could result in accumulation of caffeine, due to its long elimination half-life in premature newborns. In 
the submitted clinical studies that applied once daily maintenance regimens and reported PK data, no 
accumulation of caffeine in plasma of premature infants was however observed.   
In the main efficacy study by Erenberg, measurement of PK parameters in the course of the 10 – 12 
day study period was a secondary objective. It is described that for 17 infants who completed double-
blind caffeine treatment, plasma samples obtained on day 10 (n=14) and on day 8 (n=3) were within 
the reported therapeutic range of 8-20µg/ml. 
In  the  PK  study  by  JV  Aranda  (J  Pediatr  1979;  repeated  dosing  with  a  maintenance  dose  of 
2.5mg/kg/day  was  carried  out  in  10  infants  for  a  mean  of  19  days,  yielding  steady  state  plasma 
concentrations between 7.4 and 19.4mg/L.   
The SPC section 4.2 therefore states that:  
The recommended dose regimen in previously untreated infants is a loading dose of 20 mg caffeine 
citrate per kg body weight administered by slow intravenous infusion over 30 minutes, using a syringe 
infusion pump or other metered infusion device. After an interval of 24 hours, maintenance doses of 5 
mg per kg body weight may be administered by slow intravenous infusion over 10 minutes every 24 
hours.  Alternatively,  maintenance  doses  of  5  mg  per  kg  body  weight  may  be  administered  by  oral 
administration, such as through a nasogastric tube every 24 hours. 
The  recommended  loading  dose  and  maintenance  doses  of  caffeine  citrate  are  provided  in  the 
following  table  which  clarifies  the  relationship  between  injection  volumes  and  administered  doses 
expressed as caffeine citrate. The dose expressed as caffeine base is one-half the dose when expressed 
as caffeine citrate (20 mg caffeine citrate are equivalent to 10 mg caffeine base). 
Page 14 of 47 
The CHMP discussed whether a second loading dose of 20mg/kg body weight might be appropriate if 
an infant shows insufficient response to the first loading dose, i.e. at the beginning of treatment with 
caffeine citrate. This approach was supported by data from the Erenberg study. After further 
discussion at CHMP, it was agreed to propose a second loading dose of 10-20mg/kg maximum.   
It  was  however  doubtful  whether this approach  would  be successful  if insufficient response  became 
evident in the course of the treatment (in an infant that previously responded well to caffeine citrate).  
In the large Schmidt study in 2006 premature infants, the adjustment strategy was to increase the daily 
maintenance  dose  up  to  10mg/kg.  Although  no  specific  efficacy/safety  data  for  this  subgroup  is 
available,  there  were  no  safety  concerns  in  this  study  overall,  and  only  23  of  1006  infants  in  the 
caffeine group had doses of caffeine citrate withheld or reduced due to suspected toxicity. Therefore, 
the  CHMP  concluded  that  for  infants  with  caffeine  plasma  levels  below  or  at  the  lower  end  of  the 
therapeutic  range  this  option  might  be  considered,  given  the  ICU  conditions  of  monitoring  of  heart 
rate,  blood  pressure,  renal  function,  body  weight,  etc.,  and  under  continuous  monitoring  of  caffeine 
plasma levels to recognise and minimise the risk of accumulation. 
The  following  wording  was  agreed  upon  for  Section  4.2  in  the  SPC  (to  follow  after  the  above- 
mentioned paragraph):  
In  preterm  infants  with  insufficient  clinical  response  to  the  recommended  loading  dose,  a  second 
loading dose of 10 - 20 mg/kg maximum may be given after 24 hours.  
Higher  maintenance  doses  of  10mg/kg  body  weight  could  be  considered  in  case  of  insufficient 
response,  taking  into  account  the  potential  for  accumulation  of  caffeine  due  to  the  long  half-life  in 
premature  neonates  and  the  progressively  increasing  capacity  to  metabolise  caffeine  in  relation  to 
post-menstrual  age  (see  section  5.2).  Where  clinically  indicated,  caffeine  plasma  levels  should  be 
monitored. The diagnosis of AOP may need to be reconsidered if patients do not respond adequately 
to a second loading dose or a maintenance dose of 10 mg/kg/day (see section 4.4). 
•  Special populations 
No specific studies concerning renal, hepatic impairment are provided. This is adequately reflected in 
the SPC: 
The  safety  of  caffeine  citrate  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  has  not  been  established.  In  the 
presence  of  renal  impairment,  there  is  increased  potential  for  accumulation.  A  reduced  daily 
maintenance  dose  of  caffeine  citrate  is  required  and  the  dose  should  be  guided  by  plasma  caffeine 
measurements.  
In very premature infants, clearance of caffeine does not depend on hepatic function. Hepatic caffeine 
metabolism  develops  progressively  in  the  weeks  following  birth  and  for  the  older  infants,  hepatic 
disease may indicate a need for monitoring caffeine plasma levels and may require dose adjustments  
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
A publication referring that the female neonate demonstrates a higher rate of caffeine metabolism than 
the male is cited. The clinical significance of this finding was considered doubtful by the CHMP. 
A  population  pharmacokinetic  study  in  Asian  populations  shows  that  PK  parameters  values  are 
comparable to other studies involving Caucasian populations. 
Based on the therapeutic indication the section on elderly patients is not applicable. 
Page 15 of 47 
 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Caffeine  has  the  potential  to  interact  with  active  substances  that  are  substrates  for  CYP1A2,  inhibit 
CYP1A2,  or  induce  CYP1A2.  Even  though  in  premature  newborns  metabolism  is  limited,  it 
nevertheless seems prudent to advise caution, including the use of plasma caffeine monitoring, in the 
case of concomitant use of potential interacting drugs such as cimetidine and ketoconazole. 
Phenobarbitone  therapy  concomitantly  with  caffeine  citrate  was  reported  to  possibly  induce  the 
hepatic metabolism of caffeine at 44-45 weeks post-conceptional age. 
Dexamethasone  may  increase  caffeine  clearance  by  enzyme  induction.  Mexiletine  is  known  to  alter 
the disposition of caffeine and theophylline in adults. Caffeine is reputed to inhibit iron absorption in 
adults. 
The stimulatory effects of caffeine and doxapram on the cardio-respiratory and central nervous system 
might mutually potentiate. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  caffeine  has  been  extensively  studied.  The  pharmacological  effects  of 
caffeine  are  mediated  primarily  via  the  antagonism  of  the  actions  of  adenosine  at  A1  and  A2A 
receptors in the CNS. At high (potentially toxic) concentrations, caffeine increases cyclic 3,5 AMP by 
inhibition  of  phosphodiesterase,  and  translocates  intracellular  calcium  via  inhibition  of  ryanodine 
receptors. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  ventilated neonates, caffeine increased respiratory system compliance and reduced supplementary 
oxygen  requirements.  A  respiratory  effect  of  caffeine  (increased  ventilation,  tidal  volume  and 
respiratory  flow)  in  premature  neonates  was  obtained  at  very  low  doses:  2.5mg/kg  caffeine,  with 
corresponding caffeine plasma concentrations of about 3 mg/L. 
The demonstrated cardiovascular effects were increased left ventricular output and stroke volume and, 
transiently, mean arterial blood pressure.  
Information  on  the  relation  between  plasma  concentration  and  effect  is  fragmentary.  The  PK/PD 
relationship between caffeine plasma levels and frequency of apnoea per day was not addressed.  
Clinical efficacy  
Only  one  of  the  submitted  publications  was  a  study  specifically  performed  for  regulatory  purposes 
(study  5.3.5.1.1)  to  support  an  application  to  the  FDA  for  marketing  authorization  for  Cafcit,  a 
preparation of caffeine citrate solution 20 mg/ml. This study is regarded by the Applicant as the main 
study for the current submission.  
The  remainder  of  the  dossier  comprises  publications  of  investigator-led  clinical  scientific  trials,  and 
this is reflected in the heterogeneity of their approach. They are summarized in the table below. 
Study 
ID 
No. of 
study 
centres 
Erenberg 
Study 
5.3.5.1.1 
9 
neonatal 
ICU 
Design 
Study Posology 
Caffeine: 
caffeine citrate 
loading dose of 
20 mg/kg IV, 
followed by 5 
mg/kg/day IV or 
orally 
Prospective, 
randomised, 
double-
blind, 
parallel, 
placebo –
controlled,  
open label 
rescue arm 
Subjects by 
arm entered/ 
completed 
Caffeine 45/21 
Placebo 37/12 
Study 
duration 
Up to 10 
(12) 
days 
Gender M/F 
GA (weeks),  
Mean ± SD 
(range) 
51/31 
Caffeine  
29.8 ± 1.7 
Placebo 
29.9 ± 1.4 
(25 – 32) 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Success =50% 
reduction in 
apnoea episodes 
from baseline on 
each study day 
(1 to 10) 
Diagnosis 
Incl. 
criteria 
28-32wks 
post- 
conception 
and ≥ 24h 
after birth, 
6 or more 
apnoea 
episodes 
within 24h 
Page 16 of 47 
 
 
Gender M/F 
GA (weeks),  
Mean ± SD 
(range) 
---- 
Caffeine 
30.1 ± 0.6 
Control 
29.8 ± 0.5 
(29 - 35) 
---- 
Caffeine  
30.3 ± 0.8 
Theophylline 
30.5 ± 1.5 
(range not 
indicated) 
---- 
Caffeine  
30.5 ± 0.7 
Theophylline 
ethylenediamine 
30.5 ± 0.4 
(range not 
indicated) 
24/20 
Caffeine 
Group A 
28.7 ± 1.2 
Group B 
28.2 ± 1.1 
Theophylline 
27.9 ± 1.4 
(range not 
indicated) 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Apnoea attacks, 
Apnoea index: 
number of 
apnoea attacks 
per 100 minutes 
Number of 
cardiorespiratory 
abnormalities 
(apnoea ≥15 sec, 
bradycardia <80 
beats/min, 
apnoea plus 
bradycardia 
<100 beats/min) 
at baseline and 
days 3 and 7 
Apnoea 
frequency; 
average number 
of severe apnoea 
attacks per 100 
minutes on days 
0, 1 and 5 
Number of 
apnoeas in 24 
hours at baseline 
(day 0) to days 1 
and 2 
Number of 
severe apnoea 
attacks per 100 
minutes on days 
0, 1 and 5 
Diagnosis 
Incl. 
criteria 
Premature 
infants with 
≥3 apnoea 
attacks 
(≥20sec), 
with 
bradycardia, 
within 24 
hours 
Premature 
infants with 
≥3 apnoea 
episodes 
(≥15sec) 
within 24 
hours or ≥6 
within 
2hours or 
≥8 within 6 
hours 
recording 
3 or more 
severe 
apnoeic 
attacks 
(apnoea for 
>10sec with 
bradycardia 
<80bpm for 
≥30 sec or 
<60bpm for 
≥15seconds) 
Infants of 
less than 31 
weeks 
gestation 
who had 
either 10 or 
more 
apnoeic 
attacks in 8 
hours or 4 
apnoeas in 
one hour 
Study 
ID 
No. of 
study 
centres 
1 
Murat 
Study 
5.3.5.1.2 
Design 
Study Posology 
Prospective, 
randomised, 
parallel, no 
treatment-
controlled 
comparison 
Caffeine citrate 
loading dose of 
20 mg/kg IM, 
followed by 5 
mg/kg/day orally 
Subjects by 
arm entered/ 
completed 
Caffeine 9/9 
No treatment 
9/3 
Study 
duration 
Up to 15 
days 
1 
Bairam 
Study 
5.3.5.1.3 
Prospective, 
randomised, 
double-
blind, 
parallel, 
active-
controlled  
1 
Brouard 
Study 
5.3.5.1.4 
Prospective, 
randomised, 
parallel, 
active-
controlled 
1 
Scanlon 
Study 
5.3.5.1.5 
Prospective, 
randomised, 
parallel, 
active-
controlled 
comparison 
Caffeine 10 
Theophylline 10 
Up to 7 
days 
Caffeine 8 
Theophylline 
ethylenediamine 
10 
Up to 5 
days 
Up to 5 
days 
Caffeine: 
Group A 16 
Group B 14 
Theophylline: 
14 
Caffeine: 
loading dose  10 
mg/kg IV, 
maintenance 
dose 1.25 mg/kg 
twice daily 
Theophylline: 
loading dose  6 
mg/kg IV, 
maintenance 
dose 2 mg/kg 
twice daily 
Caffeine citrate 
loading dose 20 
mg/kg IM, 
maintenance 
dose 5 
mg/kg/day orally  
Theophylline 
ethylenediamine: 
loading dose of 
5.5 mg/kg IV, 
maintenance 
dose range 0.8 to 
2.5 mg/kg tid 
Caffeine:  
Group A: 
loading dose of 
caffeine citrate 
25 mg/kg orally, 
maintenance 
dose 6 
mg/kg/day 
Group B: 
loading dose 50 
mg/kg orally, 
maintenance 
dose 12 
mg/kg/day 
Theophylline: 
loading dose of 
7.5 mg/kg orally, 
maintenance 
dose 3 mg/kg 
three times daily 
Page 17 of 47 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
ID 
No. of 
study 
centres 
1 
Aranda 
Study 
5.3.5.2.1 
Design 
Study Posology 
Prospective, 
non-
controlled 
study 
Caffeine citrate 
loading dose of 
20 mg/kg IV 
followed within 
two to three days 
by 5 to 10 mg/kg 
once or twice 
daily 
Subjects by 
arm entered/ 
completed 
Study 
duration 
18 
6 days 
(mean) 
Gender M/F 
GA (weeks),  
Mean ± SD 
(range) 
---- 
27.5 ± 0.6 
(range not 
indicated) 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Number of 
apnoeic spells 
before and after 
caffeine 
treatment 
Diagnosis 
Incl. 
criteria 
preterm 
neonates 
with at least 
3 recurrent 
apnoeic 
spells per 
day (apnoea 
>30 seconds 
and 
bradycardia 
<100 bpm) 
•  Dose response studies 
No dose-response studies are reported. The dose is proposed on the basis on the most common dose 
used in available studies which is also the dose used in the Cafcit study. 
•  Main studies  
Study 5.3.5.1.1 Erenberg A et al. Caffeine citrate for the treatment of apnea of prematurity: a double-
blind, placebo-controlled study. Pharmacotherapy 2000; 20 (6): 644-52 
This prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre trial studied the effects of 
caffeine citrate treatment in 85 preterm infants with AOP (82 patients -45 assigned to caffeine and 37 
to placebo -were included in the efficacy analysis and 85 in the safety analysis).  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Infants between 28 and 32 weeks post-conception and more than 24 hours after birth who had six or 
more apnoea episodes (defined as cessation of breathing for more than 20 seconds) in 24 hours were 
eligible. Eligible infants were randomly assigned to treatment with caffeine citrate or placebo for up to 
12 days.  
Exclusion criteria: 
• 
Infants with identifiable causes of apnoea (CNS disorders, primary lung disease, generalized, 
metabolic and cardiovascular disturbances, abnormal temperature, obstructive apnoea); 
•  BUN  >20mg/dl,  serum  creatinine  >1.5mg/dl,  urine  output  <1ml/kg/hour  after  the  first  48 
hours of life; 
•  Serum AST/ALT >3-times the upper limit of normal; 
• 
Infants required mechanically assisted ventilation; 
•  Received  methylxanthines  or  H2  antagonists  for  regurgitation  within  last  7  days  before 
enrolment; 
•  Current use of (or effects of) CNS active drugs at the time of enrolment. 
Treatments 
Double-blind  treatment:  Caffeine  citrate  20  mg/kg  or  equal  volume  of  placebo was  administered  IV 
over  30  minutes,  followed  after  approximately  24  hours  by  once  daily  administration  of  caffeine 
citrate solution 5 mg/kg/day orally or IV, or an equal volume of placebo. Initially, up to 10 days of 
double-blind therapy were planned, but the protocol was amended to allow for up to 12 days. 
Open-label rescue: Infants failing double-blind therapy were eligible to receive open-label rescue with 
caffeine citrate after treatment day 1 and before treatment day 8. In the open-label phase of the study, a 
loading  dose  of  20mg/kg  caffeine  citrate  was  administered  IV,  followed  by  a  maintenance  dose  of 
Page 18 of 47 
 
6mg/kg/day, orally or IV. Duration of treatment of open-label caffeine was up to 12 days, including 
the double- blind treatment days. 
Study treatments: 
Caffeine  citrate:  10mg/ml  caffeine  base,  5mg/ml  citric  acid  (monohydrate)  and  8.3mg/ml  sodium 
citrate (dehydrate). 
Placebo: 5mg/ml citric acid (monohydrate) and 8.3mg/ml sodium citrate (dehydrate).  
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of caffeine citrate for the 
treatment of apnoea of prematurity.  
The secondary objective was to obtain plasma concentrations of caffeine citrate in premature infants 
receiving the product for up to 12 days. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  ‘success’  which  was  defined  as  50%  or  greater  reduction  in  apnoea 
episodes from baseline and elimination of apnoea. It was summarised as number (%) of infants who 
were successes on each study day, and number of days (0-10) that an infant was classified as success. 
The primary endpoint was changed in a final amendment of the study protocol, and was defined as the 
difference  in  the  number  of  apnoea  episodes  (rates)  between  caffeine  citrate  and  placebo  treatment 
groups  during  24-48  hours  after  the  double-blind  loading  dose;  results  of  this  endpoint  have  not, 
however, been reported in the publication.  
Sample size 
The sample size was based on the assumption that 70% or more of caffeine-treated infants and 20% or 
less of placebo-treated infants would experience at least a 50% reduction of apnoea events within 24-
48 hours after the double-blind loading dose, compared with baseline rates. 
A significance level of 5% and a power of 95% required 23 infants per group, for a total of 46 infants. 
As there was no information on placebo success rates, it was decided to recruit 39 infants per group. 
85 preterm infants were included in the study. 
Randomisation 
Infants were randomised to treatments using computer-generated random numbers in blocks of six. 
Blinding (masking) 
There  is  no  information  on  precautions  to  maintain  blinding  in  the  publication  of  the  study. 
Determination  of  caffeine  plasma  concentrations  could  have  led  to  unblinding.  It  is  stated  that  a 
contract laboratory  assessed  the  caffeine  blood levels  but the  results  were  not made  available to the 
investigator.  
Statistical methods 
The  applicant  states  that  Chi-square  (χ2)  and  analysis  of  variance  tests  were  used  to  compare 
demographic  data  between  groups.  Data  were  adjusted  for  length  of  baseline  period  and  length  of 
study day by scaling to 24 hours. The number (%) of successes and failures was analysed by χ2 test for 
each study day. A subject withdrawn from the study or moved to open-label caffeine was classified as 
success or failure, and this classification was carried forward on subsequent days until the end of the 
double-blind period (LOCF). The number of days that infants were classified as success or failure was 
analysed  by  t-test.  In  relation  to  baseline  characteristics,  the  analysis  was  based  on  3  success 
categories among infants randomised to caffeine citrate: no days with zero apnoea, 1-6 days of zero 
apnoea events, and at least 7 days of zero apnoea events. 
PK  data  was  described  using  a  one-compartment  open  model  with  first-order  absorption  and 
elimination. 
Page 19 of 47 
The CHMP noted that the description of statistical methods does not reflect the finally defined primary 
efficacy  endpoint  (difference  in  apnoea  rate  during  second  day  of  treatment).  The  description  of 
methods  above  refers to  group  comparisons  of the  proportion  of  patients fulfilling  a  certain  success 
criterion. The performed “success”-comparisons on a day-by-day basis using the Chi-square test can 
not be considered the optimal analysis method for a dataset with repeated measurement structure. The 
chosen  approach  of  consecutive  tests  ignores  the  correlation  structure  of  the  data.  Moreover,  no 
adjustments for multiplicity were considered. For the analyses of aggregated success endpoints (such 
as “at least 7 days of 50% or greater reduction in apnoea episodes comp. to baseline) the Chi-square 
test can be considered adequate.  
The use of LOCF to impute missing success-information for withdrawals and for patients transferred 
to open label treatment is seen very problematic, because of two reasons: 
o  Several patients who were transferred to open label caffeine or were permanently discontinued … 
had a reduction of ≥50% in their apnoea rate the day they were transferred or discontinued from 
the trial. No information was provided regarding the reasons for transferring patients to open label 
treatment.  Under  such  circumstances,  “success”  was  carried  forward  until  day  10.  However, 
additional data analysis from patients staying under blinded conditions could not justify carrying 
forward success information. Less than 50% of patients who once achieved a reduction of apnoea 
rate ≥50% could maintain this “success” until the end of treatment. Hence, it can not be excluded 
that the LOCF leads to an anti-conservative analysis approach, introducing substantial bias when 
estimating the treatment effect.    
o  The choice of the imputation method in this specific case was considered to have a major impact 
on the efficacy results and their interpretation, as missing data from 49 patients (~60% from the 
defined  efficacy  analysis  set)  had  to  be  imputed  (carried  forward).  In  such  a  situation,  usually 
sensitivity  analyses  (using  alternative  imputation  strategies,  e.g.  classification  of  all  transferred 
and withdrawn patients as non-success patients as worst case scenario) should be carried out. 
Page 20 of 47 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
/
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=…)  
Randomised (n=87) 
Excluded (n=…) 
Refused to participate (n=…) 
Other reasons (n=…) 
Not reported 
Allocated to caffeine (n=46) 
Allocated to placebo (n=41) 
Received allocated intervention (n=46)
Received allocated intervention (n=39) 
Excluded from efficacy analysis due to less than 6 
baseline apnoeas (n=1), included for safety analysis 
Excluded from efficacy analysis due to less than 6 
baseline apnoeas (n=2), included for safety analysis  
Analysed (n=45)  
Completed 10 days of double blind treatment (n=21) 
Transferred to open label caffeine (n=14, LOCF) 
Discontinued double blind intervention (n=10, LOCF)
Analysed (n=37)  
Completed 10 days of double blind treatment (n=12) 
Transferred to open label caffeine (n=16, LOCF) 
Discontinued double blind intervention (n=9, LOCF) 
There were many switches to open label and withdrawals (see table below). By the use of the LOCF 
method  the  authors  were  able  to  include  all  but  5  of  the  randomised  patients  in  the  final  efficacy 
analysis.  The  concerns  associated  with  this  approach  are  expressed  in  the  comments  on  Statistical 
methods, above. 
Conduct of the study 
The study was conducted in nine neonatal intensive care units (ICU) in the U.S.  
Page 21 of 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The  groups  were  comparable  for  baseline  characteristics  except  for  some  imbalance  with  respect  to 
gender and race (see table below). 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 82 patients (45 assigned to caffeine and 37 to placebo) were included in the efficacy analysis 
and 85 in the safety analysis.  
Outcomes and estimation 
The  safety  outcomes  were  assessed  by  means  of  vital  signs,  laboratory  values  and  adverse  events 
(AEs). 
Caffeine citrate was significantly more effective than placebo in reducing apnoea episodes by at least 
50%  in  six  days  (p<0.05),  and  approached  statistical  significance  (p<0.10)  in  three  days.  Caffeine 
citrate  was  also  significantly  better  at  eliminating  apnoea  in  5  days  (p<0.05)  and  approached 
significance in two days (p<0.10). 
The number of infants with an aggregate of 7-10 days of at least a 50% reduction in apnoea events or 
elimination of apnoea was significantly higher in the caffeine citrate group than in the placebo group 
(68.9% versus 43.2%, p=0.02, and 24.4% versus 0%, p=0.005, respectively). This additional endpoint 
has apparently not been specified as primary outcome measure a priori, however.   
In  an  additional  analysis  of  the  subset  of  data  obtained  exclusively  under  double  blind  conditions 
without  imputation  (FDA  review,  ref.5.4.32),  almost  none  of  the  reported  statistical  significances 
could  be  maintained.  According  to  FDA  reviewer’s  report  and  analysis,  there  was  no  statistically 
Page 22 of 47 
 
 
 
 
significant difference in the primary endpoint as specified in the protocol between caffeine citrate and 
placebo, and no difference in the efficacy of caffeine and placebo on the secondary endpoints. 
However, it has to be noted that the group comparison of estimates of treatment effects consistently 
indicates an advantage of caffeine treatment. Further important signals indicating efficacy of caffeine 
citrate  treatment  could  be  revealed  by  the  FDA  review:  there  were  more  days  without  any  apnoea 
under  caffeine  citrate  treatment  (3.0  days,  versus  1.2  days  for  placebo;  p=0.005);  also,  there  was  a 
higher percentage of patients with no apnoeas for ≥8 days (caffeine 22% versus placebo 0%).  
Noticeably,  there  was  a  high  percentage  of  patients  with  >50%  reduction  of  apnoea  in  the  placebo 
group.  
Several  flaws  and  methodological  problems  were  identified  during  assessment  of  this  trial: 
change/choice/analysis of primary efficacy endpoint finally reported, applied imputation methods for 
withdrawn and transferred patients, no correction for multiplicity. 
There  is  some  uncertainty  about  the  representativeness  of  the  studied  population  in  terms  of 
comorbidities  and  comedications.  Additionally,  another  flaw  is  the  absence  of  double-blind  data 
beyond 10 days. 
The study gives some evidence for the efficacy of caffeine citrate treatment in premature infants with 
AOP.  Study  results  support  to  a  certain  extent  the  claim  that  caffeine  citrate  is  able  to  reduce  the 
number of apnoea episodes in preterm infants.  
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Ref. 5.4.42  Henderson-Smart DJ, Steer P. Methylxanthine treatment for apnea in preterm infants. 
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2004; (4). 
The review included 5 randomised studies: 3 studies with theophylline and 2 studies (Erenberg, study 
5.3.5.1.1; Murat, study 5.3.5.1.2) using caffeine for apnoea treatment, enrolling a total of 192 infants. 
Outcome measures were treatment failure (<50% reduction in apnoea, or use of intermittent positive 
pressure ventilation (IPPV), or death during study), use of IPPV, death before hospital discharge, and 
side effects; efficacy was assessed after 2-10 days.  
The  authors  found  that  compared  with  control  (placebo  or  no  drug  therapy),  methylxanthine 
administration  to  premature  infants  with  AOP  was  followed  by  less  treatment  failure:  summary 
relative  risk  (RR)  0.43  (95%  CI  0.31-  0.60),  risk  difference  (RD)  -0.40  (95%  CI  -0.16,  -0.01),  and 
number  needed  to treat  (NNT)  13  (95%  CI  6  -  100).  The  observed  effects  were  similar  for  the  two 
trials evaluating caffeine.  
The  systematic  Cochrane  Review  concludes  short-term  efficacy  of  methylxanthines  in  reduction  of 
apnoea frequency and use of mechanical ventilation in premature infants with AOP. As the review is 
based on data from the published trials it must be assumed that the limitations of the Erenberg study 
were  not  accounted  for.  The  authors  also  conclude  that  it  is  not  clear  whether  merely  reducing  the 
number of apnoeic episodes alters longer-term outcome.  
Another Cochrane Collaboration Systematic Review by Steer PA (ref. 5.4.79) compared caffeine with 
theophylline for apnoea in preterm infants (see Supportive Studies below). 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
None 
•  Supportive studies 
Five publications of non regulatory studies of efficacy and safety of caffeine citrate/methylxanthines 
in the proposed indication are regarded as supportive studies. 
Study  5.3.5.1.2  Murat  I  et  al.  Efficacy  of  caffeine  in  the  treatment  of  recurrent  idiopathic  apnea  in 
premature infants. J. Pediatr. 1981; 99 (6): 984-9. 
The  prospective,  randomised  controlled  study  investigated  the efficacy  of caffeine  citrate in treating 
recurrent apnoea in 18 premature infants (29-35 weeks gestation). Infants received a loading dose of 
Page 23 of 47 
20 mg/kg of caffeine citrate by intramuscular injection followed by oral maintenance doses of 5 mg/kg 
daily. There was no placebo blinding, treated patients were compared with an untreated control group. 
Treatment  was  discontinued  on  day  15  if  <3  apnoeic  episodes  were  recorded,  and  a  follow  up  was 
performed one week after the end of treatment. 
The apnoea index (defined as the average number of apnoeic attacks per 100 minutes, obtained from 
the total number recorded in 24 hours) was compared between the groups on day 0, day 1 and day 5.  
Caffeine treatment resulted in a significant decrease of severe apnoea and of mild apnoea in the treated 
group compared with the control group (see table below). 
The  study  was  not  blinded,  but  as  the  apnoea  index  was  calculated  from  24-hours  recordings  the 
potential for bias appears small. In spite of some uncertainties (small patient numbers, composition of 
study  drug  not  indicated,  intramuscular  application  of  loading  dose),  the  study  provides  supportive 
evidence for efficacy of caffeine citrate in the sought indication.  
Study  5.3.5.1.3  Bairam  A  et  al.  Theophylline  versus  caffeine:  comparative  effects  in  treatment  of 
idiopathic apnea in the preterm infant. J Pediatr. 1987; 110 (4): 636-9. 
Study 5.3.5.1.4 Brouard C et al. Comparative efficacy of theophylline and caffeine in the treatment of 
idiopathic apnea in premature infants. Am J Dis Child. 1985; 139 (7): 698-700. 
Study 5.3.5.1.5 Scanlon JE et al. Caffeine or theophylline for neonatal apnoea? Arch Dis Child 1992; 
67: 425-8. 
The three trials applied random or quasi-random patient allocation of premature neonates to caffeine 
treatment  compared  with  theophylline  and  aminophylline.  They  excluded  patients  in  whom  apnoea 
was attributable to a specific underlying cause. Measures of the severity of apnoea and of the response 
to treatment were similar to the definitions in the main study. 
Page 24 of 47 
 
 
The efficacy results of the three active-controlled studies were evaluated in a Cochrane Collaboration 
Systematic Review. Steer PA, Henderson-Smart DJ. Caffeine versus theophylline for apnea in preterm 
infants. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2004;(2) (ref. 5.4.79). 
The review did not include the high dose caffeine group (n=14) in the Scanlon study, and therefore 
reviewed the data of 66 infants. The overall quality of the studies is described as fair/good. 
There was no difference in the failure rate (<50% reduction in apnoea/bradycardia) of treatment with 
caffeine or theophylline at 1 to 3 days (two studies) or 5 to 7 days (one study). The authors concluded 
that  caffeine  appears  to  have  similar  short-term  effects  on  apnoea/bradycardia  as  theophylline,  but 
caffeine has a better safety profile. 
Study  5.3.5.2.1  Aranda  JV  et  al.  Efficacy  of  caffeine  in  treatment  of  apnea  in  the  low-birth-weight 
infant. J Pediatr. 1977; 90: 467-72. 
The  prospective  non-controlled  study  was  the  first  trial  to  explore  the  efficacy  of  caffeine  in  the 
treatment  of  APO  in  premature  infants  and  to  establish  a  dose  schedule  appropriate  for  the  limited 
elimination  of  caffeine  in  this  population.  18  preterm  neonates  with  at  least  three  recurrent  apnoeic 
spells  per  day  (apnoea  >30  seconds  and  bradycardia  <100  bpm  with  or  without  cyanosis)  were 
included in the study. Mean birth weight and gestational age were 1065g and 27.5 weeks, respectively, 
mean  post-natal  age  at  start  of  caffeine  citrate  treatment  was  18.2  days.  Caffeine  citrate  was 
administered with a loading dose of 20 mg/kg IV followed within two to three days by 5 to 10 mg/kg 
once or twice daily, for a mean of 6 days.  
Page 25 of 47 
  
 
 
 
All infants except one showed a significant decrease in the frequency of apnoeic episodes associated 
with  caffeine  therapy.  Mean  (±  SEM)  frequencies  of  apnoea  spells  were  13.6  ±  2.5  and  2.1  ±  0.6 
apnoea episodes per day before and after initiation of caffeine treatment, respectively (p<0.001). 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
According  to  the  publication  of  the  main  efficacy  study  (5.3.5.1.1),  Nymusa  was  significantly  more 
effective  than  placebo  in  reducing  apnoea  episodes  by  at  least  50%  in  six  days  (p<0.05),  and 
approached statistical significance (p<0.10) in three days. Caffeine citrate was also significantly better 
at eliminating apnoea in 5 days (p<0.05) and approached significance in two days (p<0.10). 
The number of infants with an aggregate of 7-10 days of at least a 50% reduction in apnoea events or 
elimination of apnoea was significantly higher in the caffeine citrate group than in the placebo group 
(68.9% versus 43.2%, p=0.02, and 24.4% versus 0%, p=0.005, respectively).  
The key efficacy findings come from a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The main 
study (report and data analysis) has a number of limitations, however: 
•  The primary endpoint was changed in a final amendment of the study protocol; results of this 
endpoint  have  not  been  reported,  however.  The  additional  endpoint  “percentage  of  infants 
with success for an aggregate of 7-10 days” (see above) has apparently not been specified as 
primary outcome measure a priori.   
•  The imputation method (LOCF) used in the final efficacy analysis introduces substantial bias 
when estimating the treatment effect. Missing data from 49 patients (~60% from the defined 
efficacy  analysis  set)  had  to  be  imputed.  An  additional  data  analysis  (FDA  review)  from 
patients  staying  under  blinded  conditions  reveals  that  carrying  forward  success  information 
was  not  justified,  however:  Less  than  50%  of  patients  who  once  achieved  a  reduction  of 
apnoea  rate  ≥50%  could  maintain  this  “success”  until  the  end  of  treatment.  No  sensitivity 
analyses  using  alternative  imputation  strategies,  e.g.  classification  of  all  transferred  and 
withdrawn patients as non-success patients as worst case scenario, were carried out. 
•  Only  46.7%  of  infants  in  the  caffeine  group  and  32.4%  in  the  placebo  group  completed  10 
days of double-blind therapy; a large number of infants in both groups were switched to open 
label  caffeine  citrate  and  withdrawn.  No  information  is  provided  regarding  the  reasons  for 
transferring patients to open label treatment. 
Efficacy  of  caffeine  citrate  treatment  in  reducing  the  frequency  of  apnoea  episodes  in  premature 
infants is supported by the results of several small studies, either RCT controlled with no-treatment, or 
RCT  comparing  2  active  treatments.  The  small  patient  numbers  however  preclude  a  confirmatory 
approach. 
The data supporting efficacy of caffeine citrate in treating primary apnoea of prematurity are scant. In 
fact there is a single, small RCT demonstrating this efficacy, study 5.3.5.1.1. Therefore, small trials 
might  give  false,  large  positive  effects  and  publication  bias  might  affect  the  positive  picture 
constructed by the data discussed in this report.  
The CAP study (Caffeine for Apnoea of Prematurity trial group, NEJM 2006) submitted in support of 
the  safety  of  caffeine  citrate  is  a  large  RCT  regarded  as  extremely  important  in  support  of  the 
benefit/risk conclusions. It finds a beneficial effect of caffeine citrate in terms of clinically relevant, 
disability  related  outcomes.  The  data  from  this  trial  are  clearly  robust.  Of  937  infants  assigned  to 
caffeine for whom adequate data at a corrected age of 18-21 months were available, 377 (40.2%) died 
or  survived  with  a  neurodevelopmental  disability,  compared  with  431  of  the  932  infants  (46.2%) 
assigned  to  placebo  (OR  adjusted  for  centre  0.77;  95%  CI  0.64  to  0.93;  p=0.008).  The  effect  was 
mainly driven by lower rates of cerebral palsy (4.4% and 7.3% for caffeine and placebo, respectively; 
adjusted OR 0.58, 95% CI 0.39 – 0.87; p=0.009). The rates of death before 18 months, deafness, and 
blindness did not differ significantly between the groups.  
From a regulatory point of view, the major draw-back of the CAP study is that approximately 60% of 
infants received caffeine for prevention of apnoea and for facilitation of extubation, and, apparently, 
infants with apnoea secondary to underlying diseases were not excluded.  
Page 26 of 47 
 
Following  CHMP´s  request,  a  post  hoc  subgroup  analysis  published  by  the  CAP  investigators  was 
submitted  by  the  Applicant.  It  is  reassuring  that  there  was  little  evidence  of  a  differential  treatment 
effect of caffeine over subgroups defined by the clinical indication for starting the study. 
Another important finding of the subgroup analysis was that the size and the direction of the caffeine 
effect on death or disability differed depending on the degree of respiratory support infants needed at 
randomisation (p=0.032). The OR (95% CI) was 1.32 (0.81 – 2.14) for no support, 0.73 (0.52 – 1.03) 
for non-invasive support and 0.73 (0.57 – 0.94) for endotracheal tube, respectively. The most severely 
affected infants, i.e. infants receiving respiratory support, appeared to have more neurodevelopmental 
benefit from caffeine treatment than unsupported infants. Also, infants who started treatment early had 
a greater reduction in time on ventilation. 
Page 27 of 47 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The actual numbers of infants enrolled and exposed in clinical studies with caffeine citrate, according 
to the indication, are given in the tables below.  
Page 28 of 47 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 29 of 47 
 
 
 
In the clinical pharmacology studies a total of 474 premature neonates or infants received at least one 
dose of caffeine; 81 received only single doses and 393 had repeated administrations of caffeine. In 
total, 130 premature neonates or infants received a loading dose of 20 mg/kg caffeine citrate followed 
by maintenance at 5 mg/kg at least initially. 
To support the safety of caffeine citrate treatment in premature infants, the Applicant submitted two 
publications of a large study (Study 5.3.5.1.6):  
Schmidt B A et al. Caffeine therapy for apnea of prematurity. N Engl J Med 2006; 354: 2112-21. and 
Schmidt B et al. Long-term effects of caffeine therapy for apnea of prematurity. N Engl J Med 2007; 
357(19): 1893-902 
The  objective  of  this study  (the  CAP  study:  Caffeine  for  Apnoea of  Prematurity  trial  group)  was to 
evaluate the short- and long-term efficacy and safety of caffeine therapy in infants of very low birth 
weight. The study was a multicentre, randomised, blinded, placebo-controlled trial.  
Infants with a birth weight of 500 to 1250g were eligible for enrolment if their clinicians considered 
them candidates for caffeine therapy in the first 10 days of life. Caffeine was given for treatment of 
apnoea, for prophylaxis of apnoea, and for prophylaxis of apnoea following extubation. 
2006 infants were randomly assigned to receive caffeine (20mg/kg caffeine citrate bolus followed by 
5-10  mg/kg/d  maintenance)  or  placebo;  1006  were  assigned  to  caffeine  citrate and  1000  to  placebo. 
The median number of treatment days was 37 in the caffeine and 36 in the placebo group. The groups 
were comparable for baseline characteristics (see table below). 
Short-term outcome 
Caffeine  citrate  significantly  reduced  the  frequency  of  bronchopulmonary  dysplasia  (defined  as  the 
need for supplemental oxygen at a post-menstrual age of 36 weeks). The rates of death before the first 
discharge  home,  ultrasonographic  signs  of  brain  injury,  and  necrotising  enterocolitis  (NEC)  did  not 
differ significantly between the two groups (see table below).  
Only 37 (1.8%) of infants, 23 in the caffeine group and 14 in the placebo group, had doses of the study 
drug withheld or reduced because of clinical symptoms suggesting caffeine-induced toxicity; caffeine 
plasma levels were not monitored in the study. 
Long-term outcome 
Page 30 of 47 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The final publication of the study (Schmidt, NEJM 2007) reported that of the 937 infants assigned to 
caffeine citrate for whom adequate data on the primary outcome at a corrected age of 18 to 21 months 
were  available,  377  (40.2%)  died  or  survived  with  a  neurodevelopmental  disability,  compared  with 
431 of the 932 infants (46.2%) assigned to placebo. Treatment with caffeine citrate as compared with 
placebo  reduced  the  incidence  of  cerebral  palsy  (4.4%  versus  7.3%)  and  of  cognitive  delay  (33.8% 
versus  38.3%).  The  rates  of  death  before  18  months,  deafness,  and  blindness  did  not  differ 
significantly between the two groups (see table below). 
The  study  addressed  several  longstanding  concerns  about  possible  risks  due  to  the  pharmacological 
effects of caffeine: the long-term risk concerning neurodevelopment due to possible effects of caffeine 
on cerebral blood flow and to inhibition of adenosine receptors, and the potential failure to thrive due 
to increased metabolic rate and oxygen consumption with caffeine (see also Serious Adverse Events 
and Deaths below).  
Evidence of a small but significant improvement in the rate of survival without neurodevelopmental 
disability in premature infants treated with caffeine citrate was provided. The effect was mainly driven 
by  significantly  lower rates  of  cerebral  palsy  at  18 to  21  months  in the  caffeine  group  as  compared 
with  the  placebo  group.  Also,  a  significant  contribution  of  the  component  cognitive  delay  was 
observed.  
Except  for  a  temporary  reduction  in  weight  gain,  caffeine  treatment  had  no  apparent  short-term  or 
long-term risks.  
Apparently, infants with secondary apnoea due to underlying conditions were not excluded from the 
study.  Infants  treated  for  documented  apnoea  were  only  about  40%  of  the  study  population; 
approximately 20% received caffeine for the prevention of apnoea and 35-40% for the facilitation of 
extubation. A post-hoc subgroup analysis revealed little evidence of a differential treatment effect of 
caffeine over these subgroups. 
Further  safety  information  is  available  from  studies  in  premature  neonates  using  caffeine  citrate  for 
prevention of apnoea (Studies 5.3.5.4.1, Bucher, Eur J Pediatr 1988; 5.3.5.4.2, Romagnoli, Ther Drug 
Monit  1992;  and  5.3.5.4.3  Larsen,  Acta  Paediatr  1995),  or  in  the  prophylaxis  of  apnoea  following 
general anaesthesia  (Studies  5.3.5.4.4 and  5.3.5.4.5, Welborn,  Anesthesiology 1988  and  1989),  or  in 
the prevention of extubation failure (Studies 5.3.5.4.6 , Steer, Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed 2004; 
and 5.3.5.4.7, Steer, J Paediatr. Child Health 2003).  
516 infants were exposed to caffeine. Caffeine citrate was used for prevention of apnoea in premature 
infants  in  different  clinical  settings  for  short  time  periods,  up  to  ten  days  (5.3.5.4.3),  and  in  dose 
regimens  deviating  from  that  presently  proposed  (see  IV.2  Patient  Exposure,  Studies  with  caffeine 
citrate  in  other  indications,  D80AR-Clinical).  In  study  5.3.5.4.6,  a  follow  up  after  12  months  was 
performed. Studies 5.3.5.4.1, 5.3.5.4.4 and 5.3.5.4.5 compared caffeine with placebo, but only study 
5.3.5.4.1  reported  safety  data  (no  side  effects,  such  as  tachycardia,  jitteriness  or  vomiting  in  either 
group). Studies 5.3.5.4.2, 5.3.5.4.6 and 5.3.5.4.7 compared different dosing groups of caffeine citrate; 
their results indicate dose dependence of some side effects of caffeine, such as tachycardia and feed 
Page 31 of 47 
 
 
 
intolerance (see Adverse Events below). Caffeine had a better safety profile than aminophylline (less 
tachycardia, smaller amount of gastric aspirate) in study 5.3.5.4.3.  
Studies  where  caffeine  was  compared  with  other  xanthines  were  too  small  and  not  powered  for  a 
formal  statistical  analysis,  either  as  non-inferiority  or  superiority.  The  results  on  efficacy  measured 
from baseline are of limited value given that there is no placebo group and the placebo effect can be 
sizable. 
The data on prevention of apnoea are of low quality. Even though the studies were not submitted to 
support efficacy of caffeine citrate, it is relevant that the Cochrane review does not point to an effect; 
this  might  be  due  to  the  low  power  of  the  studies  or  the  inadequacy  of  the  population  studied  or 
because  in  fact  there  is  no  effect.  This  cannot  be  overruled  by  a  study  with  historical  controls  that 
suggests  a  beneficial  effect.  In  fact,  the  data  on  prevention  of  apnoea  is  rather  limited  and 
unconvincing.  However,  in  the  large  RCT  (5.3.5.1.6)  40%  of  the  population  received  caffeine  for 
prevention of AOP. Data from these collateral indications has little value for the discussion of efficacy 
in  primary  apnea;  positive  results,  however,  might  suggest  the  sharing  of  a  common  mechanism  of 
action  for  the  different  apnoeas/indications  and  might  imply  efficacy  of  caffeine  treatment  across 
categories/indications. It is also important because study 5.3.5.1.6 includes all these types of apnoeas 
and does not separate the subgroups. 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse Events (AEs) in the Main study 5.3.5.1.1 (Erenberg, 2000) 
The number of infants discontinued from double-blind phase because of an AE did not differ between 
the groups. Two (4.4%) infants in the caffeine citrate group were discontinued, one for dyspnoea and 
the  other  one  for  septicaemia,  while  one  (2.7%)  infant  in  the  placebo  group  was  discontinued  for 
necrotising enterocolitis (NEC). 
4 infants receiving caffeine citrate and 2 receiving placebo experienced NEC after discontinuation of 
the study drug. NEC was assessed to be possibly related to caffeine citrate in one of the 4 infants.  
Three  deaths  due  to  NEC  occurred  within  30  days  after  discontinuation  of  the  study  drug;  all  three 
infants  had  underlying  disorders  in  addition  to  AOP.  Two  of  these  infants  had  been  assigned  to 
caffeine; one was originally in the placebo group but was transferred to the open-label caffeine group 
on the same day that he required small bowel resection.  
The  most  common  AE  in  the  caffeine  group  was  constipation  (17%  of  infants);  the  incidence  was 
similar for the placebo group (21%). Rash was also a common event in both groups.  
A table of AEs by study phase, System Organ Class (SOC) and Preferred Term (MedDRA) is given 
below. 
Page 32 of 47 
Page 33 of 47 
 
Table 10, continued 
Assessment of adverse events in the study is complex due to different study phases and differences in 
length of treatment. The FDA performed a post hoc safety data analysis of AEs for all patients who 
ever  received  caffeine  versus  those  who  never  received  caffeine,  by  treatment  for  the  double-blind 
phase  only  and  by  original  randomisation.  These  analyses  revealed  no  significant  differences  in  the 
incidence of AEs between study groups except for sepsis. The reason for the higher incidence of sepsis 
in the caffeine group was not clear. 
Page 34 of 47 
 
 
 
 
 
The  higher  incidence  of  NEC  in  the  caffeine  group,  though  statistically  not  significant,  raises 
awareness,  as  NEC  is  a  serious  emergency  event  in  premature  infants.  NEC  is  further  discussed  in 
Serious AEs and Deaths below. 
Adverse Events in Supportive Study 5.3.5.1.6 (Schmidt, 2006 and 2007)  
Adverse  event  data  were  obtained  from  the  primary  caregiver  at  follow-up,  or  from  the  children’s 
medical charts, where possible. The data obtained are summarised in the following table. The profile 
for caffeine was similar to that of placebo.  
Page 35 of 47 
 
Adverse Events in other submitted studies  
The Cochrane review by Steer (ref. 5.4.79) of studies comparing caffeine citrate versus theophylline in 
the treatment of AOP (studies 5.3.5.1.3, 5.3.5.1.4, and 5.3.5.1.5) found that side effects, as indicated 
by tachycardia or feed intolerance leading to change in dosing, were lower in the caffeine group (RR 
0.17,  95%  CI    0.04  –  0.72;  RD  -0.29,  95%  CI  -0.47  –  -0.10).  This  was  consistent  across  the  three 
studies.  Similar  results  are  reported  in  study  5.3.5.4.3  comparing  aminophylline  and  caffeine  in  the 
prevention of AOP. 
In  study  5.3.5.4.1  investigating  caffeine  prophylaxis  of  apnoea  in  preterm  neonates,  no  side  effects 
such as tachycardia, jitteriness or vomiting were observed in either group (caffeine or placebo). Study 
5.3.5.4.2  reported  a  higher  frequency  of  side  effects,  such  as  hyperglycaemia  (5  of  13  infants), 
hypertension  (1/13),  tachycardia  >180bpm  (11/13)  and  vomiting/feeding  problems  (11/13),  in  the 
group receiving the higher maintenance dose of caffeine compared with the lower maintenance dose 
group and a previous non-treated control group.  
No  AEs  were  reported  in  the  trials  of  caffeine  treatment  to  prevent  apnoea  following  general 
anaesthesia in premature neonates (studies 5.3.5.4.4 and 5.3.5.4.5).  
Two studies report the effects of caffeine citrate in the prevention of extubation failure. Study 5.3.5.4.7 
was  a  trial  of  three  dose  regimens  of  caffeine  citrate  (3,  15  and  30  mg/kg  orally  or  IV  following 
loading doses of caffeine citrate of 6, 30 or 60 mg/kg IV, respectively, for up to six days). Tachycardia 
and feeding intolerance were higher, and weight gain was lower in the 15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg groups, 
but  these  differences  were  not  statistically  significant.  The  second  study  (5.3.5.4.6)  compared  the 
efficacy and safety of two caffeine citrate dose regimens (5 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg IV following a loading 
dose of 20mg/kg or 80 mg/kg IV, respectively).  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  two  dosing  regimens  with  regard  to 
tachycardia, jitteriness, feeding intolerance, duration of intravenous nutrition, major morbidity or pre-
discharge mortality. No difference in the overall weight gain between the groups was observed over 
the duration of therapy, while the time to regain birth weight was significantly longer for infants in the 
higher dose group (14.8 ± 5.3 vs. 12.9 ± 5.0 days, mean ± SD; p<0.01). At 12 months, there was no 
statistically significant difference in death, disability or mean general quotient between the groups. 
Page 36 of 47 
 
 
AEs  reported  in  publications  of academic  clinical  trials can  be  unreliable due to  underreporting  and 
non-systematic  approach  to  the  listing.  This  is  more  so  in  older  and  small  trials.  Thus,  the  data 
available  is  to  be  taken  with  some  caution. The  CHMP  noticed  that  the  rates are  usually  higher  for 
placebo, when this is present. There are many supportive studies without any mention to AEs, which is 
a  sign  of  underreporting.  Still  we  consider  the  database  generated  by  study  5.3.5.1.6  an  important 
database due to its size and duration of follow-up. Furthermore it contains a placebo arm for control, 
which  is  also  relevant.  Taking  into  consideration  the  data  of  this  study  the  CHMP  considered  there 
was no important, unexpected safety sign. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Data  from  the  submitted  studies  were  not  collected  in  a  uniform  way  and  serious  adverse  events 
(SAEs) are not detailed as such. 
The most common AEs considered likely to be serious by the Applicant were: deafness (9.1%), brain 
injury  (7.9%),  necrotising  colitis  (4.4%),  tachycardia  (2.0%)  and  sepsis  (1.8%).  The  following  AEs 
were also reported in the placebo group and at a higher incidence than in the caffeine citrate group: 
deafness (14.4%), brain injury (12.7%) and necrotising colitis (6.2%); tachycardia and sepsis were not 
reported in the placebo group. With the exception of failure to thrive, all other SAEs in the caffeine 
citrate group were reported at an incidence below 1.0%. 
Necrotising enterocolitis (NEC) 
NEC is a serious emergency event occurring in about 10% of infants weighing less than 1500 g, and 
prematurity is the most important risk factor for NEC. Reports of decreased splanchnic blood flow in 
newborns  after  supra-therapeutic  doses  of  caffeine  (Lane,  1999;  ref.  5.4.54)  led  to  speculations  that 
this  effect  might  contribute  to  gut  ischaemia  and  to  NEC.  A  causal  relationship  between 
caffeine/methylxanthine treatment and NEC has not been established, however. 
There  was  a  higher  incidence  of  NEC  in  the  caffeine  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  in  the  main 
efficacy study (5.3.5.1.1). Overall, 6 cases of NEC were observed: 4 cases of NEC   occurred in 46 
infants assigned to caffeine (8.6%); 2 infants received caffeine in the double-blind treatment phase and 
2 were switched to open-label caffeine. 2 cases of NEC occurred in 39 infants assigned to placebo; one 
infant received only placebo treatment, while the other infant developed NEC after being switched to 
open label caffeine. 
In  the  CAP  study  in  2006 premature infants  (5.3.5.1.6),  there  was  no  difference  in  the rate  of  NEC 
between the caffeine and the placebo group at the first discharge home: 6.3% and 6.7% for caffeine 
and placebo, respectively. 
Neurological development and growth  
The long-term results of the CAP study (NEJM 2006) showed an improved rate of survival without 
neurodevelopmental  disability  (the  primary  endpoint  of  the  trial)  in  infants  randomly  assigned  to 
caffeine  therapy,  assessed  at  a  corrected  age  of  18  to  21  months.  In  particular,  the  incidences  of 
cerebral palsy and cognitive delay were reduced in the caffeine treatment group.  
Growth, as indexed by height, weight, and head circumference, was not affected by caffeine treatment.  
Cerebral haemorrhage, brain injury 
One case of cerebral haemorrhage is reported in the caffeine group in the Erenberg study; no cerebral 
haemorrhage occurred in the placebo group.  
The publication of the Schmidt study does not report cerebral haemorrhage specifically, but analysed 
the  rates  of  brain  injury  assessed  by  cranial  ultrasonography  at  hospital  discharge.  The  rates  were 
comparable  for  both  groups  (13.0%  and  14.3%  for  infants  in  the  caffeine  and  placebo  group, 
respectively).  
Only two of the supportive studies report intraventricular haemorrhage (5.3.5.4.6 and 5.3.5.4.7). 
Page 37 of 47 
 
 
 
Deaths 
Three  deaths  were  reported  in  the  main  study  (Erenberg,  2000):  2  patients  randomised  to  caffeine 
treatment  and  1  patient  randomised  to  placebo.  This  last  patient  received  open-label  caffeine  for  8 
days. All deaths were secondary to complications from NEC. 
In  the  supportive  study  by  Aranda (5.3.5.2.1),  one  infant  in the  caffeine  group died  of  disseminated 
cytomegalovirus infection at a PNA of 59 days, 30 days after the last dose of caffeine. 
In  the  large  study  by  Schmidt  (5.3.5.1.6),  there  was  no  difference  in  the  rate  of  death  between  the 
caffeine  and  the  placebo  group  at  the  first  discharge  home  (5.2%  versus  5.5%,  for  caffeine  and 
placebo,  respectively)  and  death  at  18  months  (6.4%  versus  6.5%,  for  caffeine  and  placebo, 
respectively). 
•  Laboratory findings 
In  the  main  study  by  Erenberg  (5.3.5.1.1),  values  for  sodium,  potassium,  calcium,  chloride,  carbon 
dioxide,  blood  urea  nitrogen,  creatinine,  glucose,  AST,  ALT,  gamma-GTP,  and  haematocrit  were 
compared  between  the  caffeine  and  the  placebo  groups.  No  clinically  significant  differences  were 
identified between infants in the double-blind caffeine and the placebo groups or those who received 
open-label caffeine. 
There was no information from other submitted studies. 
•  Safety in special populations 
N/A 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
N/A 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  the  clinical  programme,  11  of  the  14  studies  reported  either  that  no  adverse  events  (AEs)  had 
occurred that led to discontinuation, or quoted the incidence. Overall, the rate of discontinuation due to 
AEs on caffeine for these studies combined was 2.8% (45/1611), compared with 1.4% (15/1087) on 
placebo and 16.7% (5/30) on theophylline. 
In  the  main  study  (5.3.5.1.1),  two infants (4.4%)  in  the  caffeine  group  and  one  infant (2.7%) in the 
placebo group were withdrawn from the double-blind treatment due to adverse events. Discontinuation 
due to AEs is not reported in the Schmidt study; it is only stated that 1.8% of infants, 23 in the caffeine 
group and 14 in the placebo group, had doses of the study drug withheld or reduced because of clinical 
symptoms suggesting caffeine-induced toxicity. 
In the PK study by Lee TC (Ref. 5.3.3.5.1) 119 preterm infants received maintenance doses of caffeine 
of 3mg/kg, 15mg/kg and 30mg/kg after a loading dose of 6mg/kg, 30mg/kg or 60mg/kg for up to 6 
days.  It  is  reported  that  there  were  no  untoward  effects  necessitating  discontinuation  of  caffeine 
treatment before the scheduled end of treatment. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  data  on  the  acute  use  of  Nymusa  are  scant.  This  is  mostly  due  to  the  lack  of  complete 
databases and the need to rely on published reports of clinical trials, which are known to be affected 
by under- and selective reporting.  
The large, CAP study is reassuring from a safety point of view, showing that there is no relevant safety 
issue for the use of caffeine citrate. Additionally, PMS data from authorised caffeine citrate products 
reveal no new or unsuspected safety issues. 
Duration  of  treatment  in  the  main  placebo-controlled  trial  was  10  to  12  days.  Median  duration  of 
caffeine treatment was 37 days in the CAP study. In clinical practice, treatment is usually continued 
until  the  child  has  reached  a  post-menstrual  age  of  37  weeks,  by  which  time  apnoea  of  prematurity 
usually resolves spontaneously. This limit may however be revised according to clinical judgment in 
Page 38 of 47 
individual  cases  depending  on  the  response  to  treatment,  persistence  of  apnoeas  and  other  clinical 
considerations; this is now reflected in the SPC. There still remains some uncertainty concerning the 
optimal duration of treatment; this is addressed in the RMP.  
Necrotising enterocolitis was identified as a potential risk of caffeine treatment in the main efficacy 
study. NEC is a relatively common serious emergency event occurring in approximately 10% of very 
low birth weight infants (<1500g). It is life-threatening and can result in long-term consequences, such 
as  strictures  and  short  bowel  syndrome  due  to  intestinal  resection.  Studies  indicating  reduced 
splanchnic blood flow in newborns who received 50mg/kg of caffeine citrate (Lane, 1999; ref. 5.4.54) 
had  raised  the  possibility  of  a  causal  relationship.  In  the  CAP  study  in  2006  premature  infants, 
however, there was no difference in the rate of NEC between the caffeine and the placebo group at the 
first discharge home: 6.3% versus 6.7%, for caffeine and placebo, respectively. NEC is addressed as a 
potential risk in the RMP. 
In the non-clinical setting, behavioural deficits were observed in newborn rats in the therapeutic dose 
range,  most  likely  caused  by  persistence  of  upregulated  adenosine  receptors  into  adulthood.  The 
clinical relevance of this finding for humans is unclear. There is no data on intellectual, behavioural 
and somatic development of treated infants in childhood or adulthood. 
Risk Management plan  
The Applicant presented the Safety Specification summarizing following important identified risks of 
a  medicinal  product,  important  potential  risks,  and  important  missing  information,  structured  as 
follows: 
Identified risks for caffeine citrate include those which are known adverse effects characteristic of the 
methylxanthine class. Some have been further identified in clinical trials: 
- Toxicity due to maternal caffeine ingestion; 
- Increase in caffeine plasma levels in premature infants with cholestatic hepatitis; 
- Irritability, restlessness and jitteriness at higher caffeine levels; 
- Cardiac compromise in infants with pre-existing cardiac disease, including arrhythmias; 
- Increased sodium and calcium excretion which may be associated with increased urine 
  flow rate and increased creatinine clearance; 
- Hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia; 
- Phlebitis and local inflammatory changes following inadvertent infiltration of skin and 
   subcutaneous tissues at the site of infusion; 
- Treatment-related convulsions/seizures; 
- Reactions suggesting hypersensitivity. 
Important identified risks are defined in Volume 9A  as “An identified risk that could impact on the 
risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product  or  have  implications  for  public  health”.  According  to  this 
definition, the following might reasonably be considered as important identified risks: 
- Toxicity due to maternal caffeine ingestion; 
- Increase in caffeine plasma levels in premature infants with cholestatic hepatitis; 
- Cardiac compromise in infants with pre-existing cardiac disease, including arrhythmias. 
- Treatment-related convulsions/seizures. 
Potential risks are defined in Volume 9A as “An untoward occurrence for which there is some basis 
for suspicion of an association with the medicinal product of interest but where this association has not 
been confirmed”.  
According to this definition, the following might reasonably be considered as potential risks: 
- Decrease in weight gain / failure to thrive; 
Page 39 of 47 
- Caffeine withdrawal; 
- Necrotising enterocolitis; 
- Medication errors. 
Important  potential  risks  are  defined  in Volume  9A  as  “An  identified risk,  potential risk  or  missing 
information  that  could  impact  on  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product  or  have  implications  for 
public health”. 
According  to  this  definition,  all  of  the  above  risks  might  reasonably  be  considered  as  important 
potential risks. 
Evaluation of the need for a Risk Minimisation plan: 
In considering the need for risk minimisation activities, the Applicant pointed out that extemporaneous 
preparations of caffeine have been used for many years by neonatologists and that the proposed SPC 
requires  initiation  to  be  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  experienced  in  neonatal  intensive  care 
and that treatment should be administered only in a NICU.  
A  laminated  card  highlighting  the  appropriate  dosing  regimen,  the  approved  therapeutic  indications 
and the key warning and precautionary statements from the SPC will be made available for neonatal 
units  that  may  use  the  product.  Further,  sales  representatives  will  be  specifically  briefed  on  these 
points and encouraged to emphasise the relevant messages to the relevant HCPs that they meet. 
The laminated card is annexed to the RMP.  
As a part of the communication of the identified and potential risks, and to inform of the availability of 
an  approved  product  within  the  EU,  a  single  presentation  that  can  be  used  for  either  infusion  or 
oral/nasogastric administration, the material planned for HCP communication including the laminated 
card highlighting the appropriate dosing regimen, approved therapeutic indications and key warnings 
has been in general endorsed by CHMP.  
The restricted prescription status should be regarded as an additional risk minimisation activity 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan  
Proposed 
Safety concern 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
-  Routine 
to  maternal 
due 
Toxicity 
caffeine ingestion 
pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up; 
-  Study/Registry to monitor 
normal use and collect 
ADRs. 
Page 40 of 47 
Proposed 
activities 
risk  minimisation 
-  Warnings  in  Sections  4.4  and 
4.6  of  SPC  that  in  neonates 
born to mothers who consumed 
large quantities of caffeine prior 
to  delivery,  baseline  plasma 
caffeine  concentrations  should 
be  measured  prior  to  initiation 
treatment  with  caffeine. 
of 
feeding  mothers  of 
Breast 
neonates  treated  with  caffeine 
should  not 
ingest  caffeine 
containing foods and beverages 
 
 
medicinal 
or 
containing caffeine). 
products 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card for neonatal intensive care 
units stating precautions; 
use 
to 
in 
care 
only 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Warning  in  Section  4.4  and 
in 
additional 
the  SPC 
Section  5.2  of 
concerning  use 
in  preterm 
neonates  with  impaired  hepatic 
function); 
information 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
to 
in 
care 
only 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Warning  in  Section  4.4  and 
in 
additional 
Section  5.2  of  SPC  concerning  
use  in  preterm  neonates  with 
impaired renal function); 
information 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
to 
in 
care 
only 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
in 
administration 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Warning  in  Section  4.4  of SPC 
concerning  use    in  newborns 
cardiovascular 
with 
disease 
of 
risk 
the 
tachyarrhythmias  in  susceptible 
individuals); 
known 
and 
-  Labelled  in  section  4.8  of  the 
SPC 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
limiting 
use 
to 
Increase 
in  caffeine  plasma 
levels in premature infants with 
cholestatic hepatitis 
-  Routine 
pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up; 
-  Study/Registry to monitor 
normal use and collect 
ADRs. 
Increase 
in  caffeine  plasma 
levels in premature infants with 
clinically 
renal  
insufficiency 
relevant 
-  Routine 
pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up; 
-  Study/Registry to monitor 
normal use and collect 
ADRs. 
Cardiac disorder in infants with 
pre-existing  cardiac  disease, 
including arrhythmias 
-  Routine 
pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up; 
-  Study/Registry to monitor 
normal use and collect 
ADRs. 
Page 41 of 47 
 
 
 
Treatment-related  convulsions / 
seizures 
-  Routine 
pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up; 
-  Study/Registry to monitor 
normal use and collect 
ADRs. 
Decrease 
failure to thrive 
in  weight  gain 
/ 
Routine pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up if ADRs of 
special interest reported 
Caffeine withdrawal 
Routine pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up if ADRs of 
special interest reported 
Necrotising enterocolitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up if ADRs of 
special interest reported 
Page 42 of 47 
in 
care 
only 
neonatal 
and 
a 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Warning  in  Section  4.4  of SPC 
that  extreme  caution  must  be 
exercised  if  caffeine  citrate  is 
used  in  newborns  with  seizure 
disorders); 
-  Labelled  in  section  4.8  of  the 
SPC 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Labelled  in  section  4.8  of  the 
to 
in 
care 
only 
SPC 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
to 
in 
care 
only 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
to 
in 
care 
only 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
in 
administration 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Warning  in  section  4.4  and  4.8 
of  SPC  that  those  treated  with 
should  be 
caffeine 
carefully  monitored 
the 
for 
development  of  necrotising 
enterocolitis); 
citrate 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
to 
in 
care 
use 
 
Medication errors 
Routine pharmacovigilance, 
targeted follow-up if errors 
reported. 
a 
only 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
-  Content  as  caffeine  citrate/base 
clearly  stated  in  SPC,  package 
leaflet and label. 
 Warning in section 4.2 of SPC 
and 
labelling  about  caffeine 
citrate/base. 
- 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Card  for  neonatal  ICUs  stating 
precautions; 
use 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
administration 
in 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
to 
in 
care 
only 
Rare adverse drug reactions 
Drug interactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
None 
-  Warnings  in  Sections  4.4  and 
4.5  of  SPC  (Caffeine  citrate 
should  not  be  used  with 
doxapram; 
theophylline 
or 
potential 
interactions 
for 
through cytochrome P450 1A2) 
-  Dear  Healthcare  Professional 
Communication; 
-  Additional:  card  for  neonatal 
ICUs stating precautions; 
use 
-  Restricted  prescription  status 
physician 
neonatal 
and 
a 
limiting 
experienced 
intensive 
in 
administration 
neonatal intensive care unit. 
to 
in 
care 
only 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.4 of this CHMP Assessment Report.  
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Nymusa  (formerly  Caffeine  Citrate  Chiesi)  is  intended  for  the  “Treatment  of  primary  apnoea  of 
premature newborns”.  
Severe  apnoea  may  lead  to  hypoxaemia  and  hypotension,  and  ultimately  to  brain  hypoxia  and/or 
ischemia, and thus negatively affect the newborn’s neurodevelopment and survival. Premature infants 
with  severe  and frequent  apnoeic  episodes  require intensive  care treatment,  supplemental  oxygen  or 
intubation and positive pressure ventilation.  
AOP  treatment  aims  at  avoidance  of  hypoxaemic/ischaemic  brain  damage  in  the  newborn.    On  the 
other hand, early discontinuation of positive pressure ventilation and oxygen supplementation should 
be targeted, because of the risks associated with these interventions (e.g. bronchopulmonary dysplasia 
and  retinopathy  of  prematurity).  This  is  all  the  more  important  as  apnoea  of  prematurity  is  a  self-
limiting  condition;  it  usually  resolves  by  36  weeks  post-menstrual  age  and  does  not  predict  future 
episodes of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). 
Caffeine citrate, in form of magisterial formulations, is widely used as a respiratory stimulant in the 
treatment of AOP in Europe.  
Page 43 of 47 
 
Quality 
The quality of Nymusa is considered to be acceptable, when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The toxicological profile of caffeine has been appropriately described in the file in the multiple studies 
presented in the extensive bibliographic revision performed.  
The information included suggests a higher toxicity in caffeine in low ages and as compared to adults. 
Death due to acute toxicity is related to respiratory arrest and convulsions. The need for monitoring of 
plasma levels, particularly in the younger prematures is discussed in the clinical section.  
Under  repeated  treatment,  target  organs  of  toxicity  were  the  stomach,  the  kidney,  the  lung  and  the 
reproductive tract. Behavioural changes could be seen in some studies in young animals at therapeutic 
levels. Consequently section 5.3 of the SPC was amended accordingly.  
Growth  and  ossification  retardation  is  suggested  from  reproductive  toxicity  studies,  where 
embryotoxicity was observed, as well as increased toxicity on lactating animals. In addition, decreased 
male fertility with sperms decrease and testicular changes of treated males was observed, irrespective 
of  age.  Also,  embryotoxicity  was  observed  in  association  to  treated  males.  No  genotoxic  or 
carcinogenic concerns are raised from studies revised. The limited duration of treatment and the life 
threatening condition here discussed would not require carcinogenicity studies to be conducted in the 
absence  of  a  specific  concern.  Increased  propensity  for  ulcer  development  in  the  adult  stage,  and 
higher susceptibility to necrotising enterocolitis is also raised form the published information revised.  
Efficacy 
According  to  the  publication  of  the  main  efficacy  study  (5.3.5.1.1),  Nymusa  was  significantly  more 
effective  than  placebo  in  reducing  apnoea  episodes  by  at  least  50%  in  six  days  (p<0.05),  and 
approached  statistical  significance  (p<0.10)  in  three  days.  These  efficacy  findings  come  from  a 
randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trial.  The  main  study  has  however  a  number  of 
limitations: 
•  The primary endpoint was changed in a final amendment of the study protocol 
•  The imputation method (LOCF) used in the final efficacy analysis introduces substantial bias 
when estimating the treatment effect. No sensitivity analyses were carried out. 
•  Only  46.7%  of  infants  in  the  caffeine  group  and  32.4%  in  the  placebo  group  completed  10 
days of double-blind therapy; a large number of infants in both groups were switched to open 
label caffeine citrate and withdrawn.. 
Efficacy  of  caffeine  citrate  treatment  in  reducing  the  frequency  of  apnoea  episodes  in  premature 
infants was also supported by the results of several small published studies. 
The  CAP  study  (5.3.5.1.6)  submitted  in  support  of  the  safety  of  caffeine  citrate  is  a  large  RCT 
regarded by the CHMP as extremely important. It finds a beneficial effect of caffeine citrate in terms 
of clinically relevant, disability related outcomes. The data from this trial are clearly robust. Of 937 
infants  assigned  to  caffeine  for  whom  adequate  data  at  a  corrected  age  of  18-21  months  were 
available, 377 (40.2%) died or survived with a neurodevelopmental disability, compared with 431 of 
the 932 infants (46.2%) assigned to placebo.  
From a regulatory point of view, the major draw-back of the CAP study is that approximately 60% of 
infants received caffeine for prevention of apnoea and for facilitation of extubation, and, apparently, 
infants with apnoea secondary to underlying diseases were not excluded.  
Following  CHMP´s  request,  a  post  hoc  subgroup  analysis  published  by  the  CAP  investigators  was 
submitted  by  the  Applicant  It  is  reassuring  that  there  was  little  evidence  of  a  differential  treatment 
effect of caffeine over subgroups defined by the clinical indication for starting the study. 
Page 44 of 47 
Another important finding of the subgroup analysis was that the size and the direction of the caffeine 
effect on death or disability differed depending on the degree of respiratory support infants needed at 
randomisation (p=0.032). The OR (95% CI) was 1.32 (0.81 – 2.14) for no support, 0.73 (0.52 – 1.03) 
for non-invasive support and 0.73 (0.57 – 0.94) for endotracheal tube, respectively. The most severely 
affected infants, i.e. infants receiving respiratory support, appeared to have more neurodevelopmental 
benefit from caffeine treatment than unsupported infants. Also, infants who started treatment early had 
a greater reduction in time on ventilation. 
Overall therefore the CHMP considered that the efficacy of Nymusa in reducing apnoea episodes is 
established. 
Safety 
The  safety  data  on  the  acute  use  of  Nymusa  are  scant.  This  is  mostly  due  to  the  lack  of  complete 
databases and the need to rely on published reports of clinical trials, which are known to be affected 
by under- and selective reporting.  
The large, CAP study is reassuring from a safety point of view, showing that there is no relevant safety 
issue for the use of caffeine citrate. Additionally, PMS data from authorised caffeine citrate products 
reveal no new or unsuspected safety issues. 
Duration  of  treatment  in  the  main  placebo-controlled  trial  was  10  to  12  days.  Median  duration  of 
caffeine treatment was 37 days in the CAP study. In clinical practice, treatment is usually continued 
until  the  child  has  reached  a  post-menstrual  age  of  37  weeks,  by  which  time  apnoea  of  prematurity 
usually resolves spontaneously. This limit may however be revised according to clinical judgment in 
individual  cases  depending  on  the  response  to  treatment,  persistence  of  apnoeas  and  other  clinical 
considerations; this is now reflected in the SPC. There still remains some uncertainty concerning the 
optimal duration of treatment; this is addressed in the RMP.  
Necrotising enterocolitis was identified as a potential risk of caffeine treatment in the main efficacy 
study and is addressed as a potential risk in the RMP. 
In the non-clinical setting, behavioural deficits were observed in newborn rats in the therapeutic dose 
range,  most  likely  caused  by  persistence  of  upregulated  adenosine  receptors  into  adulthood.  The 
clinical relevance of this finding for humans is unclear. There are no data on intellectual, behavioural 
and somatic development of treated infants in childhood or adulthood.   
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these  
•  User consultation 
The  section  intended  for  healthcare  professionals  (HCP)  of  neonatal  intensive  care  units  in  the 
proposed Package Leaflet is only an excerpt of the proposed SPC. For safety reasons, HCP should be 
offered  access  to  the  full  information  on  the  product;  therefore,  it  was  recommended  to  enclose  the 
complete  SPC  in  the  packages.  This  is  in  line  with  the  updated  Guideline  on  the  readability  of  the 
labelling and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use (Revision 1, January 2009). 
Although  Nymusa  is  intended  to  be  administered  exclusively  at  neonatal  intensive  care  units,  an 
additional Package leaflet for lay persons (primarily parents), as proposed, was considered useful to 
inform them about their baby’s medication.  
The  validated  questionnaire  consisted  of  15  questions  concerning  the  information  in  the  Package 
Leaflet,  1  question  concerning  the  healthcare  professional  section  and  4  questions  concerning  the 
layout and design. 
After a pilot phase with 3 subjects, 10 males and 10 females in the age of 21 to 78 years were recruited 
by an advertisement.  
The  age  range  of  the  selected  test  population  was  not  considered  representative  for  care-givers 
(parents) of newborn babies (40% of the subjects were older than 50 years), but, since this population 
Page 45 of 47 
will  receive  the  Package  Leaflet  only  on  special  request  and  just  for  information,  the  provided  user 
testing was considered sufficient. 
According  to  the  Guideline  on  the  readability  the  result  of  the  user  testing  is  sufficient,  since  each 
question  was  correctly  answered  (information  correctly  found  and  understood)  by  at  least  85%  of 
participants. Due to the outcome of the pilot phase and the test round, it was considered necessary to 
better emphasize that Caffeine Citrate Chiesi “should only be used in a neonatal intensive care unit”, 
in the first paragraph of section 3 in the PL: this was the aspect with the lowest readability index in the 
test. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Caffeine is  a  well-known  pharmacological  product.  Caffeine  citrate  is  currently  used  in  the  form  of 
magisterial  formulations  in  the  treatment  of  AOP  in  Europe  (except  for  France  and  UK,  where 
formulations  of  caffeine  citrate  have  been  authorised  in  1997  and  2008,  respectively).  The  use  of  a 
well standardised caffeine citrate formulation could lessen the risk of preparation errors as compared 
to magisterial preparations. 
According to the publication of the main efficacy study (5.3.5.1.1), caffeine citrate was significantly 
more  effective  than  placebo  in  reducing  apnoea  episodes  by  at  least  50%  in  six  days  (p<0.05),  and 
approached  statistical  significance  (p<0.10)  in  three  days.  These  efficacy  findings  come  from  a 
randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trial.  The  main  study  has  however  a  number  of 
limitations, which were discussed above 
The submission of the CAP study (5.3.5.1.6), a large RCT, in support of the safety of caffeine citrate 
was regarded by the CHMP as extremely important for the assessment of the benefit risk balance. The 
CAP  study  showed  a  beneficial  effect  of  caffeine  citrate  in  terms  of  clinically  relevant,  disability 
related outcomes. The data from this trial are clearly robust. Of 937 infants assigned to caffeine for 
whom adequate data at a corrected age of 18-21 months were available, 377 (40.2%) died or survived 
with  a  neurodevelopmental  disability,  compared  with  431  of  the  932  infants  (46.2%)  assigned  to 
placebo.  
From a regulatory point of view, the major draw-back of the CAP study is that infants with apnoea 
secondary  to  underlying  diseases  were  not  excluded.  The  post  hoc  subgroup  analysis  reassured  the 
CHMP  that  there  was  little  evidence  of  a  differential  treatment  effect  of  caffeine  over  subgroups 
defined by the clinical indication for starting the study. 
Another  important  finding  of  the  subgroup  analysis  was  that  he  most  severely  affected  infants,  i.e. 
infants receiving respiratory support, appeared to have more neurodevelopmental benefit from caffeine 
treatment than unsupported infants. Also, infants who started treatment early had a greater reduction in 
time on ventilation. 
The  target  population  of  premature  newborns  is  particularly  fragile.  The  frequency  and  severity  of 
known AEs of caffeine citrate is not well characterized. However, as the product will be applied by 
specialists under intra-hospital conditions of monitoring, the risks associated with these uncertainties 
seem  manageable.  Also,  the  Applicant  agreed  to  install  a  study/registry  which  will  help  to  better 
define  the  frequency  and  severity  of  adverse  drug  reactions  and  address  areas  of  remaining 
uncertainties related to duration of treatment and conditions of use. 
Overall therefore the CHMP considered that the efficacy of Nymusa in reducing apnoea episodes is 
established. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
• 
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 
2.3. 
Page 46 of 47 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Nymusa  in  the  treatment  of  apnoea  of  prematurity  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 47 of 47 
