ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions.
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nyvepria 6 mg solution for injection
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim* in 0.6 mL solution for injection. The 
concentration is 10 mg/mL based on protein only**. 
*Produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA technology followed by conjugation with 
polyethylene glycol (PEG). 
**The concentration is 20 mg/mL if the PEG moiety is included. 
The potency of this medicinal product should not be compared to the potency of another pegylated or 
non-pegylated protein of the same therapeutic class. For more information, see section 5.1.
Excipients with known effect
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 mg sorbitol (E420) (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear, colourless, free from visible particles, solution for injection. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 Therapeutic indications 
Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients 
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia 
and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
4.2
Posology and method of administration 
Nyvepria therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology and/or 
haematology.
Posology
One 6 mg dose (a single pre-filled syringe) of Nyvepria is recommended for each chemotherapy cycle, 
given at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
2
Special populations
Renal impairment
No dose change is recommended in patients with renal impairment, including those with end-stage 
renal disease. 
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim in children and adolescents have not yet been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Method of administration
Nyvepria is injected subcutaneously. 
The injections should be given into the thigh, abdomen or upper arm. 
For instructions on handling of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3 Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Limited clinical data suggest a comparable effect on time to recovery of severe neutropenia for 
pegfilgrastim to filgrastim in patients with de novo acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (see section 5.1). 
However, the long-term effects of pegfilgrastim have not been established in AML; therefore, it should 
be used with caution in this patient population. 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and 
similar effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukaemia, and in patients with secondary AML; therefore, it should 
not be used in such patients. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast 
transformation of chronic myeloid leukaemia from AML.
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim administration in de novo AML patients aged < 55 years with 
cytogenetics t(15;17) have not been established. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been investigated in patients receiving high dose 
chemotherapy. This medicinal product should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy beyond established dose regimens. 
Pulmonary adverse events
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial pneumonia, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of pulmonary infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher 
risk (see section 4.8). 
3
The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever, and dyspnoea in association with radiological 
signs of pulmonary infiltrates, and deterioration in pulmonary function along with increased neutrophil 
count may be preliminary signs of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). In such circumstances 
pegfilgrastim should be discontinued at the discretion of the physician and the appropriate treatment 
given (see section 4.8). 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome
Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after G-CSF administration and is characterised by 
hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration. Patients who develop symptoms of 
capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, 
which may include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture, including some fatal 
cases, have been reported following administration of pegfilgrastim (see section 4.8). Therefore, 
spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A diagnosis of 
splenic rupture should be considered in patients reporting left upper abdominal pain or shoulder tip 
pain. 
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia
Treatment with pegfilgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia because full 
dose myelosuppressive chemotherapy is maintained on the prescribed schedule. Regular monitoring of 
platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should be taken when administering 
single or combination chemotherapeutic agents which are known to cause severe thrombocytopenia. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients
In the post-marketing observational study setting, pegfilgrastim in conjunction with chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy has been associated with development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in breast and lung cancer patients (see section 4.8). Monitor breast 
and lung cancer patients for signs and symptoms of MDS/AML.
Sickle cell anaemia
Sickle cell crises have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or 
sickle cell disease (see section 4.8). Therefore, physicians should use caution when prescribing 
pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease, should monitor appropriate clinical 
parameters and laboratory status and be attentive to the possible association of this medicinal product
with splenic enlargement and vaso-occlusive crisis. 
Leukocytosis
White blood cell (WBC) counts of 100×109/L or greater have been observed in less than 1% of 
patients receiving pegfilgrastim. No adverse events directly attributable to this degree of leukocytosis 
have been reported. Such elevation in white blood cells is transient, typically seen 24 to 48 hours after 
administration and is consistent with the pharmacodynamic effects of this medicinal product. 
Consistent with the clinical effects and the potential for leukocytosis, a WBC count should be 
4
performed at regular intervals during therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50×109/L after the expected 
nadir, this medicinal product should be discontinued immediately. 
Hypersensitivity
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment, have 
been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. Permanently discontinue pegfilgrastim in patients 
with clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer pegfilgrastim to patients with a history 
of hypersensitivity to pegfilgrastim or filgrastim. If a serious allergic reaction occurs, appropriate 
therapy should be administered, with close patient follow-up over several days. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, has been reported rarely in 
association with pegfilgrastim treatment. If the patient has developed SJS with the use of 
pegfilgrastim, treatment with pegfilgrastim must not be restarted in this patient at any time (see also 
section 4.8).
Immunogenicity
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against pegfilgrastim are generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain, and increased 
inflammatory markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and WBC count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed 
by computed tomography (CT) scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF (see also 
section 4.8).
Other warnings
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim for the mobilisation of blood progenitor cells in patients or 
healthy donors have not been adequately evaluated. 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient positive bone-imaging findings. This should be considered when interpreting 
bone-imaging results. 
Sorbitol
Nyvepria contains 30 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe which is equivalent to 50 mg/mL. The 
additive effect of concomitantly administered medicinal products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and 
dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account.
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, that is to say
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Due to the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy‚ 
pegfilgrastim should be administered at least 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
In clinical studies, pegfilgrastim has been safely administered 14 days before chemotherapy. 
5
Concomitant use of pegfilgrastim with any chemotherapy agent has not been evaluated in patients. In 
animal models concomitant administration of pegfilgrastim and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or other 
antimetabolites has been shown to potentiate myelosuppression. 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not been 
specifically investigated in clinical studies. 
The potential for interaction with lithium, which also promotes the release of neutrophils, has not been 
specifically investigated. There is no evidence that such an interaction would be harmful. 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim have not been evaluated in patients receiving chemotherapy 
associated with delayed myelosuppression e.g. nitrosoureas. 
Specific interaction or metabolism studies have not been performed, however, clinical studies have not 
indicated an interaction of pegfilgrastim with any other medicinal products. 
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of pegfilgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Pegfilgrastim is not recommended during 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding
There is insufficient information on the excretion of pegfilgrastim/metabolites in human milk. A risk 
to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue 
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from pegfilgrastim therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility
Pegfilgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at cumulative 
weekly doses approximately 6 to 9 times higher than the recommended human dose (based on body 
surface area) (see section 5.3). 
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nyvepria has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were bone pain (very common [≥1/10]) and 
musculoskeletal pain (common [≥1/100 to ˂1/10]). Bone pain was generally of mild to moderate 
severity, transient, and could be controlled in most patients with standard analgesics. 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions, including skin rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea, erythema, 
flushing, and hypotension occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim (uncommon 
[≥1/1,000 to <1/100]). Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis can occur in patients receiving 
pegfilgrastim (uncommon) (see section 4.4). 
Capillary leak syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported as 
uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100) in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy following administration 
of G-CSFs; see section 4.4 and section “Description of selected adverse reactions” below. 
6
Splenomegaly, generally asymptomatic, is uncommon. 
Splenic rupture including some fatal cases is uncommonly reported following administration of 
pegfilgrastim (see section 4.4). 
Uncommon pulmonary adverse reactions including interstitial pneumonia, pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary infiltrates and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported. Uncommonly, cases have resulted in 
respiratory failure or ARDS, which may be fatal (see section 4.4). 
Isolated cases of sickle cell crises have been reported in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell 
disease (uncommon in sickle cell patients) (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The data in the table below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical studies and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(incl cysts and 
polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic
system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Adverse reactions
Very 
common
(≥1/10)
Common
(≥1/100 to <1/10)
Thrombocytopenia1;
Leukocytosis1
Headache1
Rare
(≥1/10,000 to 
<1/1,000)
Aortitis
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage
Uncommon
(≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100)
Myelodysplastic 
syndrome1;
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia1
Sickle cell anaemia 
with crisis2;
Splenomegaly2;
Splenic rupture2
Hypersensitivity 
reactions;
Anaphylaxis
Elevations in uric 
acid
Capillary leak 
syndrome1
Acute respiratory 
distress syndrome2;
Pulmonary adverse 
reactions 
(interstitial 
pneumonia, 
pulmonary oedema, 
pulmonary 
infiltrates and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis);
Haemoptysis
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Nausea1
7
MedDRA 
system organ 
class
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
Adverse reactions
Rare
(≥1/10,000 to 
<1/1,000)
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome
Uncommon
(≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100)
Sweet’s syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis)1,2;
Cutaneous 
vasculitis1,2
Very 
common
(≥1/10)
Common
(≥1/100 to <1/10)
Bone pain Musculoskeletal 
pain (myalgia, 
arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, back 
pain, 
musculoskeletal 
pain, neck pain)
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders
General 
disorders and 
administrative 
site conditions
Investigations
Glomerulonephritis2
Injection site pain1;
Non-cardiac chest 
pain
Injection site 
reactions2
Elevations in lactate 
dehydrogenase and 
alkaline 
phosphatase1;
Transient elevations 
in LFTs for ALT or 
AST1
1 See section “Description of selected adverse reactions” below.
2 This adverse reaction was identified through post-marketing surveillance but not observed in 
randomised, controlled clinical studies in adults. The frequency category was estimated from a 
statistical calculation based upon 1,576 patients receiving pegfilgrastim in nine randomised clinical 
studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions
Uncommon cases of Sweet’s syndrome have been reported, although in some cases underlying 
haematological malignancies may play a role. 
Uncommon events of cutaneous vasculitis have been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. 
The mechanism of vasculitis in patients receiving pegfilgrastim is unknown. 
Injection site reactions, including injection site erythema (uncommon) as well as injection site pain 
(common) have occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim. 
Common cases of leukocytosis (WBC >100×109/L) have been reported (see section 4.4). 
Reversible, mild to moderate elevations in uric acid and alkaline phosphatase, with no associated 
clinical effects, were uncommon; reversible, mild to moderate elevations in lactate dehydrogenase, 
with no associated clinical effects, were uncommon in patients receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Nausea and headaches were very commonly observed in patients receiving chemotherapy. 
8
Uncommon elevations in liver function tests (LFTs) for alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), have been observed in patients after receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. These elevations are transient and return to baseline. 
An increased risk of MDS/AML following treatment with pegfilgrastim in conjunction with 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy has been observed in an epidemiological study in breast and lung 
cancer patients (see section 4.4). 
Common cases of thrombocytopenia have been reported. 
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported in the post-marketing setting with G-CSF use. 
These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking multiple 
chemotherapy medications or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population
The experience in children is limited. A higher frequency of serious adverse reactions in younger 
children aged 0-5 years (92%) has been observed compared to older children aged 6-11 and 
12-21 years respectively (80% and 67%) and adults. The most common adverse reaction reported was 
bone pain (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 Overdose 
Single doses of 300 mcg/kg have been administered subcutaneously to a limited number of healthy 
volunteers and patients with non-small cell lung cancer without serious adverse reactions. The adverse 
events were similar to those in subjects receiving lower doses of pegfilgrastim. 
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunostimulants, colony stimulating factors; ATC Code: L03AA13.
Nyvepria is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
Human G-CSF is a glycoprotein, which regulates the production and release of neutrophils from the 
bone marrow. Pegfilgrastim is a covalent conjugate of recombinant human G-CSF (r-metHuG-CSF) 
with a single 20 kd PEG molecule. Pegfilgrastim is a sustained duration form of filgrastim due to 
decreased renal clearance. Pegfilgrastim and filgrastim have been shown to have identical modes of 
action, causing a marked increase in peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor 
increases in monocytes and/or lymphocytes. Similarly to filgrastim, neutrophils produced in response 
to pegfilgrastim show normal or enhanced function as demonstrated by tests of chemotactic and 
phagocytic function. As with other haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro
stimulating properties on human endothelial cells. G-CSF can promote growth of myeloid cells, 
including malignant cells, in vitro and similar effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
In two randomised, double-blind, pivotal studies in patients with high-risk stage II-IV breast cancer 
undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin and docetaxel, use of 
9
pegfilgrastim, as a single once per cycle dose, reduced the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia similarly to that observed with daily administrations of filgrastim (a median of 
11 daily administrations). In the absence of growth factor support, this regimen has been reported to 
result in a mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia of 5 to 7 days, and a 30-40% incidence of febrile 
neutropenia. In one study (n=157), which used a 6 mg fixed dose of pegfilgrastim the mean duration of 
grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.8 days compared with 1.6 days in the filgrastim 
group (difference 0.23 days, 95% CI -0.15, 0.63). Over the entire study, the rate of febrile neutropenia 
was 13% of pegfilgrastim-treated patients compared with 20% of filgrastim-treated patients (difference 
7%, 95% CI of -19%, 5%). In a second study (n=310), which used a weight-adjusted dose 
(100 mcg/kg), the mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.7 days, 
compared with 1.8 days in the filgrastim group (difference 0.03 days, 95% CI -0.36, 0.30). The overall 
rate of febrile neutropenia was 9% of patients treated with pegfilgrastim and 18% of patients treated 
with filgrastim (difference 9%, 95% CI of -16.8%, -1.1%). 
In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study in patients with breast cancer the effect of pegfilgrastim on 
the incidence of febrile neutropenia was evaluated following administration of a chemotherapy 
regimen associated with a febrile neutropenia rate of 10-20% (docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 
4 cycles). Nine hundred and twenty-eight patients were randomised to receive either a single dose of 
pegfilgrastim or placebo approximately 24 hours (day 2) after chemotherapy in each cycle. The 
incidence of febrile neutropenia was lower for patients randomised to receive pegfilgrastim compared 
with placebo (1% versus 17%, p < 0.001). The incidence of hospitalisations and IV anti-infective use 
associated with a clinical diagnosis of febrile neutropenia was lower in the pegfilgrastim group 
compared with placebo (1% versus 14%, p <0.001; and 2% versus 10%, p <0.001). 
A small (n=83), phase II, randomised, double-blind study in patients receiving chemotherapy for 
de novo acute myeloid leukaemia compared pegfilgrastim (single dose of 6 mg) with filgrastim, 
administered during induction chemotherapy. Median time to recovery from severe neutropenia was 
estimated as 22 days in both treatment groups. Long-term outcome was not studied (see section 4.4). 
In a phase II (n=37) multicentre, randomised, open-label study of paediatric sarcoma patients receiving 
100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim following cycle 1 of vincristine, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide 
(VAdriaC/IE) chemotherapy, a longer duration of severe neutropenia (neutrophils <0.5×109/L) was 
observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (8.9 days) compared to older children aged 6-11 years 
and 12-21 years (6 days and 3.7 days, respectively) and adults. Additionally a higher incidence of 
febrile neutropenia was observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (75%) compared to older children 
aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (70% and 33%, respectively) and adults (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties 
After a single subcutaneous dose of pegfilgrastim, the peak serum concentration of pegfilgrastim 
occurs at 16 to 120 hours after dosing and serum concentrations of pegfilgrastim are maintained during 
the period of neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The elimination of pegfilgrastim is 
non-linear with respect to dose; serum clearance of pegfilgrastim decreases with increasing dose. 
Pegfilgrastim appears to be mainly eliminated by neutrophil-mediated clearance, which becomes 
saturated at higher doses. Consistent with a self-regulating clearance mechanism, the serum 
concentration of pegfilgrastim declines rapidly at the onset of neutrophil recovery (see figure 1).
10
Figure 1. Profile of median pegfilgrastim serum concentration and absolute neutrophil count 
(ANC) in chemotherapy treated patients after a single 6 mg injection
Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. In an open-label, single dose study (n=31) 
various stages of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease, had no impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim. 
Elderly
Limited data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim in elderly subjects (> 65 years) is 
similar to that in adults.
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim was studied in 37 paediatric patients with sarcoma, who 
received 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of VAdriaC/IE chemotherapy. The youngest 
age group (0-5 years) had a higher mean exposure to pegfilgrastim (AUC) (± standard deviation) (47.9 
± 22.5 mcg·hr/mL) than older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (22.0 ± 13.1 mcg·hr/mL and 
29.3 ± 23.2 mcg·hr/mL, respectively) (see section 5.1). With the exception of the youngest age group 
(0-5 years), the mean AUC in paediatric subjects appeared similar to that for adult patients with 
high-risk stage II-IV breast cancer and receiving 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of 
doxorubicin/docetaxel (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
5.3
Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data from conventional studies of repeated dose toxicity revealed the expected 
pharmacological effects including increases in leukocyte count, myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, 
extramedullary haematopoiesis and splenic enlargement. 
There were no adverse effects observed in offspring from pregnant rats given pegfilgrastim 
subcutaneously, but in rabbits pegfilgrastim has been shown to cause embryo/foetal toxicity (embryo 
loss) at cumulative doses approximately 4 times the recommended human dose, which were not seen 
when pregnant rabbits were exposed to the recommended human dose. In rat studies, it was shown that 
pegfilgrastim may cross the placenta. Studies in rats indicated that reproductive performance, fertility, 
oestrous cycling, days between pairing and coitus, and intrauterine survival were unaffected by 
pegfilgrastim given subcutaneously. The relevance of these findings for humans is not known. 
11
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 List of excipients 
Sodium acetate trihydrate
Glacial acetic acid
Sorbitol (E420) 
Polysorbate 20 
Water for injections 
6.2
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, particularly with sodium 
chloride solutions. 
6.3
Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4
Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Nyvepria may be exposed to room temperature (not above 25°C) for a maximum single period of up to 
15 days. Nyvepria left at room temperature for more than 15 days should be discarded. 
Do not freeze. Accidental exposure to freezing temperatures for a single period of less than 24 hours 
does not adversely affect the stability of Nyvepria. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5 Nature and contents of container 
Pre-filled syringe (type I glass), with a rubber stopper, stainless steel needle and needle cover with an 
automatic needle guard. The Nyvepria syringe plunger stopper and needle cover are not made with 
natural rubber latex.
Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.6 mL of solution for injection. 
Pack size of one pre-filled syringe, in a carton. 
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Before use, Nyvepria solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter. Only a solution that 
is clear and colourless should be injected. 
Excessive shaking may aggregate pegfilgrastim, rendering it biologically inactive. 
Allow the pre-filled syringe to come to room temperature for 30 minutes before using the syringe. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
12
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1486/001
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 November 2020
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
13
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
14
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o.
Prudnička cesta 60
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko
Croatia
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o.
Prudnička cesta 60
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko
Croatia
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 

Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 


At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
15
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
16
A. LABELLING
17
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nyvepria 6 mg solution for injection 
pegfilgrastim 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 0.6 mL (10 mg/mL) solution for injection. 
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20, water for 
injections. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection
1 single use pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Important: read the package leaflet before handling pre-filled syringe.
For subcutaneous use. 
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Avoid vigorous shaking. 
8.
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
18
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1486/001
13. BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
Lift here to open.
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nyvepria
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN 
19
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON UNIT SYRINGE CARTON
UNIT SYRINGE CARTON WITH SYRINGE WITH AUTOMATIC NEEDLE GUARD
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nyvepria 6 mg solution for injection 
pegfilgrastim 
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
3.
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Important: read the package leaflet before handling pre-filled syringe.
For subcutaneous use. 
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Avoid vigorous shaking. 
8.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
Lift here to open.
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
20
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nyvepria 6 mg injection
pegfilgrastim 
SC 
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3.
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.6 mL
6.
OTHER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
21
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Nyvepria 6 mg solution for injection 
pegfilgrastim
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 

What is in this leaflet 
1. What Nyvepria is and what it is used for 
2. What you need to know before you use Nyvepria
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to use Nyvepria
Possible side effects 
How to store Nyvepria
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. What Nyvepria is and what it is used for 
Nyvepria contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. It is used in patients treated with cytotoxic 
chemotherapy (medicines that destroy rapidly growing cells) to reduce the duration of neutropenia 
(low neutrophil count, a type of white blood cell) and to help prevent febrile neutropenia (low white 
blood cell count with a fever). Nyvepria is for use in adults aged 18 years and over.
White blood cells are important for fighting off infection. If the white blood cell count to fall too low, 
due to your cytotoxic chemotherapy, your body may not be able to fight off microorganisms and this 
will increase the chances of an infection. Pegfilgrastim, is very similar to a natural protein in the body 
called granulocyte colony stimulating factor and it works by encouraging your bone marrow to 
produce more white blood cells that help your body fight off infections. 
2. What you need to know before you use Nyvepria
Do not use Nyvepria

if you are allergic to pegfilgrastim, filgrastim, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine
(listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Nyvepria:

If you have recently had a serious lung infection (pneumonia), fluid in the lungs (pulmonary 
oedema), inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease), or an abnormal chest x-ray (lung 
infiltration). 
If you are aware of any altered blood cell counts (e.g. increase in white blood cells or anaemia) 
or decreased blood platelet counts (thrombocytopenia), which reduces the ability of your blood 
to clot. Your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. 

23

If you have sickle cell anaemia. Your doctor may monitor your condition more closely. 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse while using Nyvepria: 

If you are a patient with breast cancer or lung cancer, pegfilgrastim in combination with 
chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may increase your risk of a precancerous blood condition
called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML). Symptoms may include tiredness, fever, and easy bruising or bleeding.
If you get an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty breathing, 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or other parts of the body (anaphylaxis), redness and flushing, 
skin rash or hives on the skin and areas of the skin that itch.
If you get a cough or fever, and have difficulty breathing. This can be a sign of acute respiratory 
distress syndrome (ARDS).
If you have any of the following side effects: 

swelling or puffiness, passing urine less frequently, difficulty breathing, abdominal (belly)
swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of tiredness.
These could be symptoms of condition called capillary leak syndrome which causes blood to 
leak from the small blood vessels into your body. See section 4. 
If you get left upper abdominal pain or pain at the tip of your shoulder. This may be a sign of a 
problem with your spleen (splenomegaly).
If you get fever, abdominal pain, malaise, and back pain as these may be symptoms of 
inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body). This disorder can occur rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors.





Your doctor will check your blood and urine regularly as Nyvepria can damage your kidneys 
(glomerulonephritis). 
Severe skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome; a skin condition that causes painful blisters and 
sores of the skin and mucous membranes, especially in the mouth) have been reported with the use of 
pegfilgrastim. Stop using Nyvepria and get medical attention immediately if you notice any of these 
symptoms: reddish target like or circular patches often with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, 
ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes possibly with fever and flu-like symptoms beforehand. 
See section 4.
You should talk to your doctor about your risks of developing cancers of the blood. If you have a 
cancer of the blood or have been told by your doctor that you are at risk of one, you should not use 
Nyvepria, unless instructed by your doctor. 
Loss of response to pegfilgrastim 
If pegfilgrastim treatment does not work or stops working, your doctor will investigate why this has 
happened including whether you have developed antibodies which neutralise pegfilgrastim’s activity. 
Children and adolescents
Nyvepria is not recommended for use in children and adolescents because there is insufficient 
information on its safety and effectiveness.
Other medicines and Nyvepria
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Nyvepria has not been studied in pregnant women. Therefore, your doctor may decide that you should 
not use this medicine.
24
If you become pregnant during Nyvepria treatment, speak with your doctor.
Unless your doctor tells you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Nyvepria. 
Driving and using machines 
Nyvepria has no or negligible effect on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Nyvepria contains sorbitol (E420) and sodium 
This medicine contains 30 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe which is equivalent to 50 mg/mL. The 
additive effect of concomitantly administered medicines containing sorbitol (or fructose) and dietary 
intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account.
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 6 mg dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Nyvepria
Nyvepria is for use in adults aged 18 years and over. 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one 6 mg subcutaneous injection (injection under your skin) using a 
pre-filled syringe and it should be given at least 24 hours after your last dose of chemotherapy at the 
end of each chemotherapy cycle. 
Injecting Nyvepria yourself 
Your doctor may decide that you can inject Nyvepria yourself. Your doctor or nurse will show you 
how to inject it yourself. Do not try to inject it yourself if you have not been trained. 
For instructions on how to inject Nyvepria, read the section at the end of this leaflet.
Do not shake Nyvepria vigorously as this may affect its activity.
If you use more Nyvepria than you should 
If you use more Nyvepria than you should contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for advice. 
If you forget to inject Nyvepria
If you have forgotten a dose of Nyvepria, contact your doctor to discuss when you should inject the 
next dose.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4.
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following side effects: 

swelling or puffiness, passing urine less frequently, difficulty breathing, abdominal (belly)
swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of tiredness. These symptoms generally 
develop quickly. 
They could be symptoms of an uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) condition called 
capillary leak syndrome which causes blood to leak from the small blood vessels into your body and 
needs urgent treatment. 
25
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people


bone pain. Your doctor will tell you what you can take to ease the bone pain. 
nausea and headaches. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people
pain at the site of injection. 

general aches and pains in the joints and muscles. 

some changes may occur in your blood, but these will be detected by routine blood tests. Your 

white blood cell count may become high for a short period. Your platelet count may become low 
which might result in bruising. 
chest pain not related to heart disorders.

Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 

allergic-type reactions, including redness and flushing, skin rash, and raised areas of the skin 
that itch. 
serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face). 
increased spleen size (the spleen is an organ located in the belly to the left of the stomach 
involved in the production and removal of blood cells and forming part of the immune system). 
Tell your doctor if you have an increase of volume in the upper left side of your abdomen.
spleen rupture, which can be fatal. It is important that you contact your doctor immediately if 
you get pain in the upper left side of the abdomen or left shoulder pain since this may relate to a 
problem with your spleen. 
breathing problems. If you have a cough, fever and difficulty breathing tell your doctor. 
Sweet’s syndrome (plum-coloured, raised, painful damage on the limbs and sometimes the face 
and neck with fever). 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin). 
damage to your kidneys (called glomerulonephritis). 
redness at the site of injection. 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis).
blood disorders (myelodysplastic syndrome [MDS] or acute myeloid leukaemia [AML]).
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1000 people

inflammation of aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body). 
See section 2.
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage).
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which can appear as reddish target-like or circular patches often 
with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes 
possibly with fever and flu-like symptoms beforehand. Stop using Nyvepria if you develop these 
symptoms and contact your doctor or get medical attention immediately. See also section 2.












Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.
How to store Nyvepria
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the syringe label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
26
You may take Nyvepria out of the refrigerator and keep it at room temperature (not above 25°C) for no 
longer than 15 days. Once a syringe has been removed from the refrigerator and has reached room 
temperature (not above 25°C) it must either be used within 15 days or disposed of. 
Do not freeze. Nyvepria may be used if it is accidentally frozen for a single period of less than 
24 hours. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy or there are particles in it. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6.
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nyvepria contains 


The active substance is pegfilgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 
0.6 mL of solution.
The other ingredients are sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, sorbitol (E420), 
polysorbate 20 and water for injections (see section 2 “Nyvepria contains sorbitol (E420) and 
sodium acetate”).
What Nyvepria looks like and contents of the pack 
Nyvepria is a clear, colourless, free from visible particles, solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe 
(6 mg/0.6 mL). 
Each pack contains 1 glass pre-filled syringe with an attached stainless-steel needle, needle cover and
an automatic needle guard. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o.
Prudnička cesta 60
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko
Croatia
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer NV/SA
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Česká Republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420-283-004-111
Kύπρος
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)
T: +357 22 817690
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel: +36 1 488 3700
27
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,
Клон България
Teл: +359 2 970 4333
Malta
Drugsales Ltd
Tel: +356 21 419 070/1/2
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)10800 4063 434 01636
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E.
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
France
Pfizer
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free)
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Tel: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel: +386 (0) 1 52 11 400
Slovenská Republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel. +371 67035775
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel. +3705 2514000
28
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
29
Instructions for using Nyvepria:
Guide to parts:
Before use
After use
Important
Before you use a Nyvepria pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard, read this important 
information:




It is important that you do not give yourself the injection unless you have received training 
from your doctor or healthcare provider. If you have questions about how to inject, please ask 
your doctor or healthcare provider for help.
Make sure the name Nyvepria appears on the carton and pre-filled syringe label.
Check the carton and pre-filled syringe label to make sure the dose strength is 6 mg
(6 mg/0.6 mL).
Nyvepria is given as an injection into the tissue just under the skin (subcutaneous injection).
 Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the date has passed the last day of the month shown.
 Do not remove the needle cover from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to inject.
 Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface. Use a new pre-
filled syringe and call your doctor or healthcare provider.
 Do not activate the pre-filled syringe before injection.
 Do not remove the clear automatic needle guard from the pre-filled syringe.
30
 Do not remove the peelable label on the pre-filled syringe barrel before injecting the 
medicine.
Call your doctor or healthcare provider if you have any questions.
Step 1: Prepare
A Remove the pre-filled syringe carton from the refrigerator. Remove the pre-filled syringe inner 
carton from the outer carton by peeling away the cover and gather the supplies needed for your 
injection: alcohol wipes, a cotton ball or gauze pad, a plaster and a sharps disposal container (not 
included).
For a more comfortable injection, leave the pre-filled syringe at room temperature (not above 25°C)
for about 30 minutes before injecting. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.
On a clean, well-lit work surface, place the new pre-filled syringe and the other supplies.
 Do not warm the syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave.
 Do not leave the pre-filled syringe exposed to direct sunlight.
 Do not shake the pre-filled syringe.

Keep pre-filled syringes out of the sight and reach of children.
B
Open the inner syringe carton by peeling away the cover. Grab the pre-filled syringe automatic 
needle guard to remove the pre-filled syringe from the carton.
For safety reasons:
 Do not grasp the plunger rod.
 Do not grasp the needle cover.
C Inspect the medicine and pre-filled syringe.
 Do not use the pre-filled syringe if:




The medicine is cloudy or there are particles in it. It must be a clear and colourless liquid.
Any part appears cracked or broken.
The needle cover is missing or not securely attached.
The expiry date printed on the label has passed the last day of the month shown.
In all cases, call your doctor or healthcare provider.
31
A Wash your hands thoroughly. Prepare and clean your injection site.
Step 2: Get ready
You can use:
Upper part of your thigh.
Belly, except for a 5 cm (2-inch) area right around your belly button.
Outer area of upper arm (only if someone else is giving you the injection).



Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe. Let your skin dry.
 Do not touch the injection site before injecting.
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard. Avoid injecting into 
areas with scars or stretch marks.
32
B Hold the pre-filled syringe by the automatic needle guard. Carefully pull the needle cover straight 
out and away from your body. Throw away the needle cover into the sharps disposal container. Do 
not recap.
C Pinch your injection site to create a firm surface.
It is important to keep the skin pinched when injecting.
33
          
A Hold the pinch. INSERT the needle into skin at 45 to 90 degrees.
Step 3: Inject
 Do not touch the cleaned area of the skin.
B PUSH the plunger rod with slow and constant pressure until it reaches the bottom.
34
C When the syringe is empty, LIFT the syringe off skin.
After releasing the plunger rod, the pre-filled syringe automatic needle guard will safely cover the 
injection needle.
 Do not put the needle cover back on used pre-filled syringes.
When you remove the syringe, if it looks like the medicine is still in the syringe barrel, this 
means you have not received a full dose. Call your doctor or healthcare provider right away.
35
Healthcare providers only
The trade name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded in the 
patient file.
Remove and save the pre-filled syringe label.
Turn the plunger rod to move the label into a position where you can remove the syringe label.
A Discard the used pre-filled syringe and other supplies in a sharps disposal container.
Step 4: Finish
Medicines should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment.
Keep the syringe and sharps disposal container out of sight and reach of children.
 Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe.
 Do not recycle pre-filled syringes or throw them into household waste.
B Check the injection site.
If there is blood, press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site. Do not rub the injection site. 
Apply a plaster if needed.
36
