Summary of risk management plan for Obiltoxaximab SFL 
(obiltoxaximab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Obiltoxaximab SFL. The RMP describes 
important risks of Obiltoxaximab SFL, and how more information will be obtained about Obiltoxaximab 
SFL’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Obiltoxaximab SFL's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Obiltoxaximab SFL should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Obiltoxaximab SFL should be read in the context of all this information, 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Obiltoxaximab 
SFL's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Obiltoxaximab SFL is authorised for the treatment of inhalational anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis in 
combination with appropriate antibacterial medicinal products. Obiltoxaximab SFL is also indicated in 
adults and paediatric patients for the post-exposure prophylaxis of inhalational anthrax due to Bacillus 
anthracis when alternative therapies are not available or are not appropriate (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains obiltoxaximab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous (IV) 
infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Obiltoxaximab SFL’s benefits can be found in 
Obiltoxaximab SFL’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/obiltoxaximab-sfl). 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Obiltoxaximab SFL, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Obiltoxaximab SFL's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Obiltoxaximab SFL, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Obiltoxaximab SFL is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Obiltoxaximab SFL are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Obiltoxaximab SFL. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Hypersensitivity (including rash) and anaphylaxis 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Safety profile in patients with inhalational anthrax disease 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Summary of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risk 1: Hypersensitivity (including rash) and anaphylaxis 
Evidence for linking the risk 
To assess the safety of Obiltoxaximab SFL, all side effects were 
to the medicine 
monitored in clinical study participants. Because Obiltoxaximab SFL 
is an antibody and it is known that this type of medicines can cause 
hypersensitivity reactions, special attention was paid to side effects 
related to hypersensitivity reactions. 
A specific search for AEs consistent with any form of 
“hypersensitivity” was performed by medical review of all the 
reported AEs in the pooled data from all clinical studies to identify 
the proportion of subjects who experienced hypersensitivity 
reactions. ‘Rash’ and similar terms, regardless of time of onset and 
drug relationship were included in the search. The impact of pre-
treatment with an antihistamine medicine (diphenhydramine) on 
occurrence and severity of said hypersensitivity reactions was also 
investigated. 
Hypersensitivity and rash were more common in subjects who 
received obiltoxaximab compared to subjects who received placebo. 
“Hypersensitivity (including rash)” is considered to be sufficiently 
characterised based on clinical studies in healthy volunteers. 
Risk factors and risk groups  No analysis has been performed to investigate whether there are any 
groups of people at higher risk of hypersensitivity reactions, 
including anaphylaxis. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8. 
PL section 2, 3 and 4 
Additional 
None 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Missing information 1: Safety profile in patients with inhalational anthrax disease 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8 
Additional 
None 
pharmacovigilance activities 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Study Short Name 
Purpose of the Study 
An open-label field study of obiltoxaximab in 
Primary: To evaluate the clinical response in 
subjects exposed to B. anthracis (study AH501) 
subjects with suspected, probable, or confirmed 
cases of inhalational anthrax treated with 
obiltoxaximab. 
Secondary: To evaluate safety and tolerability in 
subjects with suspected, probable, or confirmed 
cases of inhalational anthrax treated with 
obiltoxaximab. 
Clinical pharmacology: To evaluate PK of 
obiltoxaximab and, if possible, anti-therapeutic 
antibodies (ATA) of obiltoxaximab.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no other studies required for Obiltoxaximab SFL. 
 
