EMA/515658/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Obizur 
(susoctocog alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Obizur, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Obizur is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Obizur, which can be found on Obizur’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Obizur is a medicine used to stop bleeding in adults with acquired haemophilia caused by the 
spontaneous development of antibodies that inactivate factor VIII, one of the proteins needed for 
normal clotting of the blood. This form of haemophilia is significantly more rare than the inherited 
form, and affects approximately 1.5 people per million per year worldwide. Acquired haemophilia 
generally develops later in life, occurring very infrequently in children. Most patients are middle-aged 
or elderly and have other illnesses. The incidence is similar in males and females, with an increase of 
female cases in early adulthood in women who have recently given birth or are in later stages of 
pregnancy. There is often an underlying illness associated with acquired haemophilia caused by 
antibodies to factor VIII, including diseases where the body’s immune system attacks itself 
(autoimmune conditions) and, cancer; the use of certain medicines and pregnancy may also be linked 
to the disease. In about half of patients, there is no clear underlying illness and the condition is 
considered to have started on its own without a known cause. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Obizur contains the active substance susoctocog alfa which works similarly to natural factor VIII but is 
not as easily recognised by antibodies. It has been investigated in one main study involving 28 adult 
patients with acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII who were experiencing a 
severe bleeding episode. Obizur was not compared with any other medicine. The response to Obizur 
was considered positive if bleeding stopped or was reduced, while a negative response meant that the 
bleeding continued or worsened. All 28 patients showed a positive response within 24 hours of starting 
treatment with Obizur; in 24 patients, the bleeding stopped completely. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Clinical studies did not include patients aged less than 18 years old. It is not known whether these 
patients would respond differently to Obizur compared with older patients. There is no information on 
the effects of Obizur on pregnancy, breastfeeding, or on fertility. There is insufficient information on 
off-label (unauthorised) use of this product, especially in patients born with haemophilia A who have 
developed antibodies (inhibitors) against factor VIII used for treatment. 
Page 1/5 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Antibodies which may 
Antibodies against Obizur may 
If bleeding does not stop as expected, 
reduce the effectiveness 
result in the medicine not 
the doctor will do a blood test to check if 
of Obizur 
working effectively with the 
there are sufficient levels of Obizur in the 
(inhibitory antibodies to 
Obizur) 
potential for serious bleeding 
blood and also if the patient has 
which may be life threatening. 
developed antibodies (inhibitors) against 
Obizur. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Allergic reactions to the 
As with any intravenous protein product, potentially life-threatening 
main ingredient or any of 
reactions (anaphylaxis) and other allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) can 
the other components of 
occur. The infusion must be stopped and emergency medical care sought 
the medicine 
immediately if patients experience early signs of hypersensitivity/allergic 
(hypersensitivity and 
allergic reactions to the 
active substance, any of 
the excipients or to baby 
hamster kidney (BHK) 
proteins) 
reactions like hives, rash, tightness of the chest, wheezing, low blood 
pressure or anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction that can cause difficulty in 
swallowing and/or breathing, red or swollen face and/or hands). Doctors 
should treat patients promptly for these reactions. Obizur should not be 
used in patients allergic to Obizur or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine; because the active substance is produced in hamster cells it 
should also not be used in patients who are allergic to hamster proteins. 
The medicine does not 
If a significant increase in the amount of Obizur is needed to control 
stop the bleeding 
bleeding, doctors should check plasma factor VIII levels to confirm that 
(lack of efficacy due to 
neutralising inhibitory 
antibodies) 
adequate levels have been achieved and maintained if necessary. 
Blood clots in veins that 
Problems from excessive blood clotting (thromboembolic episodes) have 
may detach and travel in 
not been observed with Obizur, but may occur. These could include heart 
the blood stream 
attack, stroke, blood clots in the veins or blood clots in the lung. 
(thromboembolic events) 
Problems related to the 
Obizur is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. Problems related to the 
infusion catheter 
infusion catheter have not been observed with Obizur, but may occur. 
(catheter-related 
complications) 
These may include infection, blood clots (thrombosis), bruising, blood that 
collects and pools under the skin (haematoma), and injury to the arteries. 
It is possible for a blood clot to form in the vein at the tip of the catheter 
line. This may lead to a blocked catheter line requiring medication to 
dissolve the clot or removal of the line. If left untreated, blood clots in 
veins may detach and travel in the blood stream (thromboembolic events). 
Errors prescribing and/or 
Obizur is intended for use in the hospital setting only and should be 
preparing the medicine 
administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
Page 2/5 
 
Risk 
What is known  
(dose dispensing errors) 
treatment of haemophilia. There have been no dose dispensing errors 
reported with use of Obizur. The healthcare professional should follow 
dosing and administration instructions for Obizur to avoid medication 
errors. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use during pregnancy 
Acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII occurs 
and breastfeeding; effect 
equally in men and women and mostly develops later in life when women 
on fertility 
are likely not able to become pregnant anymore. However, acquired 
haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII may also occur after 
pregnancy. There is no information on the use of Obizur in pregnant or 
breastfeeding women or on its impact on fertility. 
Use in patients less than 
Acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII typically 
18 years of age 
occurs in middle age or later in life and very rarely occurs in children. It is 
not known whether patients younger than 18 years of age would respond 
differently to the medicine. 
Use in patients born with 
Obizur can be used in patients with acquired haemophilia caused by 
haemophilia A 
antibodies against factor VIII. However, there is the potential that patients 
(congenital haemophilia 
who were born with haemophilia A (congenital haemophilia A) with 
A) with antibodies 
antibodies against factor VIII given them for treatment may be given 
against Obizur 
Obizur. There is not enough information from clinical studies with Obizur to 
demonstrate that Obizur is safe and effective for congenital haemophilia A 
with antibodies against factor VIII. 
(use of Obizur in patients 
with congenital 
haemophilia A with 
inhibitors (CHAWI)) 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Obizur can be found on Obizur’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Obizur’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Page 3/5 
 
 
Dose dispensing errors 
Risk minimisation measure: To inform healthcare professionals of the risk of dose dispensing errors 
with Obizur. Make tools available to healthcare professionals informing of the proper method for dose 
calculation and administration of the medicine. 
Objective and rationale: Ensure that all healthcare professionals prescribing/ordering Obizur are 
provided with an educational brochure that shall inform about the method for calculation of the dose 
taking into account the patient’s weight. 
Description: Key points: 
•  Healthcare professional brochure including a detailed calculation of the number of vials needed 
taking into account the patient’s weight. 
•  An on-line video to further elaborate on the required calculation and administration of the 
medicine. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
241302: Post-
Describe the 
Inhibitory antibodies to 
Planned 
Completion of final 
marketing non-
immune profile 
Obizur 
interventional 
during treatment 
safety evaluation 
of bleeding 
of Obizur in the 
episodes. Assess 
treatment of 
the safety and 
bleeding episodes 
effectiveness of 
for patients with 
Obizur in the 
Hypersensitivity and 
allergic reactions to the 
active substance, any of 
the excipients or to baby 
hamster (BHK) protein 
acquired 
treatment of 
Thromboembolic events 
hemophilia A 
bleeding episodes. 
(United States) 
report: 
approximately 31 
January 2020 
241501:Prospectiv
Describe the 
Inhibitory antibodies to 
Planned 
Completion of final 
e, Non-
immune profile 
Obizur 
Interventional 
during treatment 
Study to Evaluate 
of bleeding 
the Safety and 
episodes. Assess 
Effectiveness of 
the safety and 
Obizur in Real Life 
effectiveness of 
Practice (EU) 
Obizur in the 
Hypersensitivity and 
allergic reactions to the 
active substance, any of 
the excipients or to baby 
hamster (BHK) protein 
treatment of 
Thromboembolic events 
bleeding episodes. 
No data on pregnant and 
lactating women or 
fertility 
Insufficient data on off-
report: 6 months 
after last subject 
out 
Page 4/5 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
label use of Obizur 
particularly in patients 
with congenital 
haemophilia A with 
inhibitors (CHAWI) 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
The ‘Prospective, Non-Interventional Study to Evaluate the Safety and Effectiveness of Obizur in Real 
Life Practice (EU)’, to be conducted in the EU, is a condition of marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
