EMA/505987/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002792 
EPAR summary for the public 
Obizur 
susoctocog alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Obizur. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Obizur. 
For practical information about using Obizur, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Obizur and what is it used for? 
Obizur is a medicine used for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired haemophilia, a 
bleeding disorder caused by the spontaneous development of antibodies that inactivate factor VIII. 
Factor VIII is one of the proteins needed for normal clotting of the blood.  
Obizur contains the active substance susoctocog alfa.  
How is Obizur used? 
Obizur can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor with 
experience in the treatment of haemophilia. Obizur is available as a powder and solvent that are mixed 
together to make a solution for injection into a vein. The dose, and how often it is given, as well as the 
length of treatment, are adjusted depending on the patient’s condition and requirements, and the 
degree of danger posed by the bleeding. For further information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Obizur work? 
Patients with acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII have blood clotting 
problems, such as bleeding in the joints, muscles or internal organs. The active substance in Obizur, 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
susoctocog alfa, works in the body in the same way as human factor VIII, but has a slightly different 
shape. As a result, it will not be as easily recognised by the antibodies and it can replace the human 
factor VIII that has been inactivated, thereby helping the blood to clot and controlling the bleeding. 
What benefits of Obizur have been shown in studies? 
Obizur has been investigated in one main study involving 28 adult patients with acquired haemophilia 
caused by antibodies against factor VIII who were experiencing a serious bleeding episode. Obizur was 
not compared with any other medicine. The response to Obizur was considered positive if bleeding 
stopped or was reduced, while a negative response meant that the bleeding continued or worsened. All 
28 patients showed a positive response within 24 hours of starting treatment with Obizur; in 24 out of 
28 patients, the bleeding stopped completely. 
What are the risks associated with Obizur? 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions may occur with Obizur, and can include angioedema (swelling of 
tissues under the skin), burning and stinging at the injection site, chills, flushing, itchy rash, headache, 
hives, hypotension (low blood pressure), feeling tired or restless, nausea (feeling sick) or vomiting, 
tachycardia (rapid heartbeat), tightness of the chest, wheezing and tingling sensations. In some cases, 
reactions become severe (anaphylaxis) and may be associated with dangerously steep falls in blood 
pressure. Obizur must not be used in patients who have had a severe allergic reaction to susoctocog 
alfa, any of its other ingredients, or hamster protein. Patients with acquired haemophilia caused by 
antibodies against factor VIII may develop antibodies against susoctocog alfa. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Obizur, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Obizur approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that the benefits of 
Obizur are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
noted the lack of specific treatments for acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies against factor VIII. 
The results of the main study showed that Obizur was effective in treating serious bleeding episodes in 
adults with the disorder. With regard to safety, the Committee considered that the potential for allergic 
reactions and the development of antibodies against the medicine is expected, and is outweighed by 
the beneficial effects. 
Obizur has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been possible 
to obtain complete information about Obizur due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the European 
Medicines Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this summary will be 
updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Obizur? 
Since Obizur has been approved under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets the 
medicine will establish and maintain a patient registry to collect and analyse short- and long-term data 
on the effectiveness and safety of Obizur in patients with acquired haemophilia caused by antibodies 
against factor VIII. 
Obizur  
EMA/505987/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Obizur? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Obizur is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Obizur, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Additionally, the company that markets Obizur will provide healthcare professionals who are expected 
to use Obizur with educational material containing information on how to calculate the dose.  
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Obizur 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Obizur on 11 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Obizur can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Obizur, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Obizur  
EMA/505987/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
