11 November 2015 
EMA/770206/2015 
Educational brochure and video to be given to healthcare 
professionals to ensure Obizur is used correctly 
Measures will help avoid medication errors 
All healthcare professionals who are expected to prescribe and dispense Obizur (susoctocog alfa) will 
be provided with an educational package to ensure that the medicine is dispensed correctly. 
Obizur is a medicine used for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired haemophilia, a 
bleeding disorder caused by the spontaneous development of antibodies that inactivate factor VIII. 
Factor VIII is one of the proteins needed for normal clotting of the blood. 
Obizur is available in vials containing a powder and solvent to make a solution for injection into a vein. 
It is for hospital use only.  
The dose, and how often and for how long it is given, is adjusted depending on the patient’s condition 
and requirements, and the degree of danger posed by the bleeding. During treatment with Obizur, the 
activity of factor VIII will be monitored and subsequent doses will be calculated on the basis of the 
clinical response and factor VIII activity. Injections may need to be repeated several times, until the 
bleeding has resolved. 
The unusually high number of vials of Obizur that are needed for one injection may lead to confusion 
and errors during preparation. This could lead to the patient receiving either too much (overdose) or 
too little (underdose) of the medicine. Under-dosing may result in insufficient bleeding control. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  When prescribing and preparing Obizur, healthcare professionals should follow the instructions 
provided in the summary of product characteristics and the educational material for Obizur 
(brochure and on-line video).  
•  Obizur is available in vials containing 500 units (U) of susoctocog alfa and the recommended initial 
dose is 200 U/kg. To calculate how many vials are needed to make up one injection, healthcare 
professionals should use the following formula: 
Initial dose (U/kg) ÷ Product strength (U/vial) × Body weight (kg) = Number of vials 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Example: for a 70 kg subject the number of vials for the recommended initial dose of 200 U/kg is 
calculated as follows:  
200 U/kg ÷ 500 U/vial × 70 kg = 28 vials 
• 
• 
The activity of factor VIII and the clinical condition of the patient should be monitored 30 minutes 
after the first injection, and after three hours. 
The activity of factor VIII should be monitored immediately before and 30 minutes after each 
subsequent dose of Obizur. 
•  Subsequent doses and frequency of Obizur administration should be based on results of factor VIII 
activity (to be maintained within recommended limits) and on the clinical response achieved.  
Type of Bleeding 
Target Factor VIII 
Trough Activity (% of 
normal) 
Initial Dose 
(Units per 
kg) 
Subsequent 
Dose 
Mild and moderate 
superficial muscle/no 
neurovascular 
compromise and 
joint bleeding 
Major moderate to 
severe 
intramuscular, 
retroperitoneal, 
gastrointestinal, 
intracranial bleeding 
>50% 
>80% 
Titrate 
subsequent 
doses based on 
clinical 
response and 
to maintain 
target factor 
VIII trough 
activity  
200 
Frequency 
and Duration 
of 
Subsequent 
Dosing 
Dose every 4 
to 12 hours, 
frequency may 
be adjusted 
based on 
clinical 
response and 
measured 
factor VIII 
activity 
•  Once bleeding has responded to treatment, usually within the first 24 hours, treatment with Obizur 
should be continued with a dose that maintains the trough factor VIII activity at 30-40% until 
bleeding is controlled. The maximum blood factor VIII activity must not exceed 200%. 
• 
The length of treatment depends on clinical judgement. 
More about the medicine 
Obizur is a medicine used for the treatment of bleeding episodes in adults with acquired haemophilia, a 
bleeding disorder caused by the spontaneous development of antibodies that inactivate factor VIII. 
Factor VIII is one of the proteins needed for normal clotting of the blood.  
Obizur contains the active substance susoctocog alfa. 
More information on Obizur can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
Educational brochure and video to be given to healthcare professionals to ensure 
Obizur is used correctly  
EMA/770206/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
