Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for OCALIVA (obeticholic acid) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for OCALIVA. The RMP details important risks of OCALIVA, 
how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  OCALIVA's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
OCALIVA's  summaries  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  package  leaflets  give  essential  information  to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how OCALIVA should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  OCALIVA  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Reports (EPARs).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of OCALIVA's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
OCALIVA is authorised for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (also known as PBC) in combination with 
ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults with an inadequate response to UDCA or as monotherapy in adults unable 
to tolerate UDCA (see OCALIVA SmPC for the full indication). It contains OCA as the active substance and it is 
given by mouth.  
Further information about the evaluation of OCALIVA’s benefits can be found in OCALIVA’s EPAR, including in its 
the  medicine’s  webpage 
plain-language 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ocaliva. 
the  EMA  website,  under 
available  on 
summary, 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of OCALIVA, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning 
more about OCALIVA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
• 
Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of OCALIVA is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing 
information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  OCALIVA  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified 
or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of OCALIVA. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on 
the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important 
risks 
identified 
Liver injury 
Important potential risks  Atherosclerotic cardiovascular events secondary to changes in lipids 
Missing information 
Use in patients with other concomitant liver diseases 
Use in patients with HCC 
Use post liver transplantation 
Long-term safety 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Liver injury 
Evidence  for 
medicine 
linking  the  risk  to  the 
Non-clinical  studies:  Hepatobiliary  toxicity  in  animal  models 
included  mild  transient  elevations  in  liver  enzymes  and/or 
bilirubin as well as a mild increase in liver weight. 
Clinical trials: Cases of hepatic events were observed in clinical 
trials. 
From study 747-302 it was observed that of the 168 patients in 
the Ocaliva group, 2 patients (1.2%) developed drug-induced liver 
injury,  5  patients  (3.0%)  developed  jaundice,  2  patients  (1.2%) 
devolped hepatic failure  
From study 747-401 it was observed that of the 10 patients in the 
Ocaliva group, 1 patient (10%) developed Hepatic failure and 1 
patient  (10%)  developed  Blood  bilirubin  increased  which  was 
deemed to have ‘definite’, ‘probable’, or ‘possible’ relationship 
to Ocaliva treatment. 
During  the  period  (27  May  2021  -  26  May  2022),  a  total  of  40 
reports with liver related AEs were identified from clinical trials. 
Six initial reports were received from clinical studies in patients 
with  PBC  and  15  initial  reports  were  received  in  patients  in 
ongoing NASH studies. 
failure 
carcinoma,  hepatic 
In  the  six  cases  from  patients  with  PBC,  the  events  of 
hepatocellular 
(n=2  each), 
oesophageal  varices  haemorrhage  and  hepatic  cirrhosis  (n=1 
each) were reported. In 15 initial cases from patients with NASH, 
the events of hepatic failure, hepatic encephalopathy (n=6 each), 
hepatocellular  carcinoma  (n=5),  hyperbilirubinaemia,  hepatic 
lesion,  hepatic  cirrhosis,  ascites,  blood  bilirubin  increased  (n=2 
each), and hepatectomy (n=1) were reported. 
Post-marketing  experience:  Cases  of  hepatic  events  were 
observed post-marketing 
During the period (27 May 2021 - 26 May 2022), a total of 505 
post-marketing reports were received. Of the 360 initial reports, 
140 were serious and 220 were non-serious. Of the 140 serious 
reports, 139 cases included AEs with non-fatal outcomes and the 
remaining one report with a fatal outcome. 
Risk factors for drug-induced hepatic effects are in general poorly 
understood  in  patients  with  chronic  liver  disease.  Pre-existing 
Risk factors and risk groups 
 
Important identified risk: Liver injury 
liver disease is not likely to increase the risk of developing drug 
induced liver-related AEs, however, if liver-related AEs occurs it 
might be more severe. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 
PL section 2,3, 4 
Contraindication for use of drug in patients with PBC with either 
compensated  or  decompensated  cirrhosis  is  included  in  SmPC 
section 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4. . 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risk: Atherosclerotic cardiovascular events secondary to changes in lipids 
Evidence  for 
medicine 
linking  the  risk  to  the 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Clinical trials: Atherosclerotic cardiovascular events secondary to 
changes in lipids were reported in clinical trials. 
During 27 May 2021 to 26 May 2022, 36 clinical trial reports (28 
initial and 8 follow up cases) were received. Two initial reports 
were received from clinical studies in patients with PBC and 26 
were received from patients in ongoing NASH studies. 
Post-marketing  experience:  Atherosclerotic  cardiovascular 
events  secondary  to  changes  in  lipids  were  reported  post-
marketing.  During  27  May  2021  to  26  May  2022,  26  post-
marketing  reports  (21  initial  and  5  follow-ups)  were  received 
reporting  13  ADRs  of  Atherosclerotic  CV  Events  Secondary  to 
Changes in Lipids. 
In the general population, hyperlipidaemia is an established risk 
factor  for  increased  mortality  from  CVD,  the  leading  cause  of 
death in the US. However, elevated cholesterol levels in patients 
with  PBC  are  not  known  to  be  associated  with  increased 
cardiovascular  risk.  An  Italian  study  found  that  hypertension 
significantly increased the risk of cardiovascular events in a PBC 
population.  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 4 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use in patients with other concomitant liver diseases 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Use in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use post liver transplantation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Study short name 
Purpose of the study  
Study 747-302 
Primary objectives:  
To assess the effect of OCA compared to placebo, in conjunction with established local 
standard of care, on clinical outcomes in subjects with PBC as measured by time to first 
occurrence of any of the following adjudicated events, derived as a composite event 
endpoint:  Death  (all-cause),  liver  transplant,  MELD  score  ≥15,  hospitalisation  for 
variceal  bleed,  hepatic  encephalopathy, 
spontaneous  bacterial  peritonitis, 
uncontrolled ascites  
Secondary objectives:  
To assess the effect of OCA compared to placebo on time to first occurrence of each 
individual component of the primary endpoint as listed above.  
To assess the effect of OCA compared to placebo on time to occurrence of liver related 
death. 
To assess the effect of OCA compared to placebo on progression to cirrhosis.  
To assess the effect of OCA compared to placebo on time to occurrence of HCC. 
To  assess  the  effect  of  OCA  compared  to  placebo  on  disease  progression  via  the 
following: 
Liver biochemistry and markers of inflammation and fibrosis 
To  assess  the  effect  of  OCA  compared  to  historical  controls  on  liver-related  clinical 
outcomes. 
To characterise the PK of OCA and its conjugates in a subset of subjects. 
 
 
 
 
Study 747-401 
To  assess  health  outcomes  and  pharmacoeconomics  including  cost-effectiveness, 
resource  utilisation,  and  quality  of  life  measures  in  subjects  treated  with  OCA 
compared to placebo. 
To assess the safety and tolerability in subjects treated with OCA compared to placebo. 
Summary/Conclusion:  
Overall,  administration  of  OCA  was  generally  well  tolerated  in  subjects  with  PBC, 
including subjects with predominantly cirrhotic liver disease. 
The overall incidence of treatment emergent adverse event was similar between OCA 
and placebo groups. The incidence of treatment-emergent serious adverse event was 
generally similar across treatment groups: 31.5% in the OCA group and 31.9% in the 
placebo  group.  Seven  subjects  had  a  treatment  emergent  adverse  event  leading  to 
death  (5  in  OCA-treated  subjects:  acute  respiratory  failure,  respiratory  failure, 
subarachnoid  hemorrhage,  sepsis,  and  lower  respiratory  tract  infection;  and  2  in 
placebo-treated subjects: sarcopenia and hepatocellular carcinoma). All TEAEs leading 
to death were considered not related or unlikely related to the investigational product.  
The  incidence  of  severe  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse  event,  treatment-
emergent  serious  adverse  events,  deaths,  and  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse 
event leading to discontinuation of investigational product was higher in OCA-treated 
subjects with more advanced stage PBC than subjects with earlier stage PBC. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  total-OCA  was  relatively  consistent  overtime  (having 
reached steady state) with multiple moderate peaking, characteristic of enterohepatic 
recycling of bile acids in general at steady state. Due to the limited sample size in each 
dose regimen and the high variability, no clear conclusions were determined from the 
mean PK parameters for total OCA plasma concentrations. 
Overall, the safety data remain consistent with the known safety profile of OCA and 
anticipated for subjects with PBC. 
Primary objectives: 
To  evaluate  the  PK  of  OCA  and  its  conjugates,  glyco-OCA  and  tauro-OCA,  and 
metabolite OCA glucuronide compared with placebo 
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of OCA treatment compared with placebo 
Secondary objectives:  
To evaluate the effect of OCA treatment compared to placebo on: The MELD score and 
its components, Child-Pugh score and its components, liver biochemistry including total 
and direct bilirubin, ALP, and aminotransferases (ALT, AST, and GGT), INR, creatinine, 
albumin, platelets, biomarkers of bile acid synthesis and homeostasis including FGF19, 
7α hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one, and plasma bile acids 
Additional Objectives: 
To evaluate the effect of OCA treatment compared to placebo on: Noninvasive markers 
of liver fibrosis (ELF™ score), noninvasive measurement of liver stiffness (TE) 
To  assess  the  PK/PD  relationship  of  OCA  with:  PK  parameters  compared  to  PD 
parameters and safety and tolerability assessments 
To assess patient reported outcomes (Pruritus VAS, PBC-40, EQ 5D-5L, CLDQ) 
To assess clinical events consistent with end-stage liver disease: Death (all-cause), liver 
transplant, MELD score ≥15 (for patients with MELD ≤12 at baseline), hospitalization 
(as defined by a stay of 24 hours or greater) for new onset or recurrence of: variceal 
bleed, hepatic encephalopathy (as defined by a West Haven score of ≥2), spontaneous 
bacterial  peritonitis,  uncontrolled  ascites  (diuretic  resistant  ascites  requiring 
therapeutic paracentesis at a frequency of at least twice in a month), HCC. 
Summary/Conclusion:  
Twenty-two subjects of a planned 50 subjects were randomized into the study: 10 in 
the OCA and 12 in the placebo groups. PK information was limited with only 6 subjects 
having  adequate  plasma  concentration  data  to  derive  PK  parameters  for  OCA  5  mg 
once weekly;  4 subjects titrated to OCA  5 mg twice  weekly and of the 4 subjects, 2 
subjects  titrated  to  OCA  10  mg  twice  weekly.  Despite  these  limitations,  and  as 
expected,  total  OCA  exposure  was  consistent  with  the  expectation  that  exposure  is 
higher in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (CP-B) versus subjects without 
hepatic impairment. The The PK results of this study demonstrated the accuracy of the 
simulation to predict total OCA exposure, at steady-state, following OCA 5 mg once 
weekly. The observed mean AUC0-24h (2970 ng∙h/mL) and Cmax (293 ng/mL) for total 
OCA  at  Week  12  (i.e.,  steady-state)  were  similar  to  the  simulated  predicted  mean 
AUC0-24h (2633 ng∙h/mL) and Cmax (300 to 330 ng/mL) of values from the simulation 
for the OCA 5 mg once weekly dose demonstrating that the modified OCA dose regimen 
of 5 mg once weekly achieved targeted OCA exposure. 
Following  dose  titration  to  OCA  5  mg  twice  weekly  and  10  mg  twice  weekly  dose 
proportional increases were observed. It should be noted that PK was not assessed in 
subjects  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  (CP-C)  as  originally  planned.  Based  on 
previous  studies  in  hepatic  impairment  exposure  to  total  OCA  would  be  higher  in 
subjects with CP-C than subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (CP-B). 
No clear efficacy conclusions could be drawn in this study given that the number of 
subjects  was  small,  and  the  study  was  not  designed  to  detect  differences  between 
treatments  for  efficacy  endpoints.  No  clinically  meaningful  differences  were  noted 
between  OCA  and  placebo  for  composite  outcome  of  death,  including  liver-related 
death,  liver  transplant,  MELD  score,  refractory  ascites,  and  hospitalizations  for 
decompensating events. Variceal bleeding was the only individual component with a 
nominal  p-value  of  <0.05.  No  clear  differences  were  detected  between  OCA  and 
placebo over time for MELD-Na, CP score, or clinical liver biochemistry results. A trend 
towards improving LSM over time among OCA compared to placebo-treated subjects 
was noted. 
Overall, the administration of OCA was generally well tolerated in this population of 
patients  with  PBC  with  moderate  to  advanced  cirrhosis.  Reported  TEAEs  were,  in 
general, consistent with the known safety profile of OCA and anticipated for subjects 
with advanced PBC. The most commonly reported TEAEs in OCA-treated subjects were 
ascites,  pruritus,  anemia,  esophageal  varices  hemorrhage,  pneumonia,  and  urinary 
tract  infection.  The  frequency  of  SAEs  in  the  study  was  similar  among  placebo-  and 
OCA-treated subjects. Five deaths were reported in the study, 3 in placebo and 2 in the 
OCA  arm;  all  were  considered  unlikely  or  not  related  to  study  treatment.  Hepatic-
related safety findings were consistent with that reported in previous studies with OCA, 
and  no  new  relevant  safety  findings  were  noted.  Based  on  a  broad  set  of  highly 
sensitive  pre-specified  triggers,  a  total  of  20  subjects  had  events  assessed  by  the 
Hepatic  Safety  Adjudication  Committee  as  potential  hepatic  injury  for  further 
assessment of causality to drug and event severity. Of the 20 subjects, 2 subjects (1 
placebo, 1 OCA) had events assessed as possibly related to study treatment. 
Due to limited availability of clinical data in patients with PBC with more advanced liver 
disease, the CCDS and product information was revised to contraindicate use of OCA in 
patients  with  decompensated  cirrhosis  or  a  prior  decompensation  event  and  those 
with compensated cirrhosis with evidence of portal hypertension. 
Acknowledging  the  limitations  of  the  small  sample  size  in  the  study  and  based  on 
clinical outcomes, biochemistry results, predictor models (i.e., MELD, MELD-NA, and CP 
score),  and  markers  of  fibrosis,  OCA  demonstrated  no  clear  clinical  benefit  or  new 
safety concern in this advanced patient population compared to placebo. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
None. 
 
 
