EMA/10371/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004043 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ocrevus 
ocrelizumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ocrevus. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ocrevus. 
For practical information about using Ocrevus, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ocrevus and what is it used for? 
Ocrevus is a medicine for treating multiple sclerosis – an inflammatory disease of the nervous system 
that causes symptoms such as weakness, difficulty walking and problems with vision. 
Ocrevus is used in two types of patients: 
• 
• 
adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS), where the patient has flare-ups (relapses) 
followed by periods with milder or no symptoms; 
adults with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS), where symptoms get steadily worse 
over time. 
Ocrevus contains the active substance ocrelizumab. 
How is Ocrevus used? 
Ocrevus is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. The first two infusions are given two weeks apart and 
subsequent infusions are given every six months. 
Before each infusion, the patient is given other medicines (a corticosteroid and an antihistamine) to 
help to prevent potentially dangerous reactions. If reactions occur during an infusion it may be stopped 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
or given more slowly. The patient should be monitored during the infusion and for at least an hour 
afterwards, and facilities to manage severe reactions should be readily available.  
Ocrevus can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must only be started and supervised 
by a doctor experienced in treating diseases of the nerves. For further information, see the package 
leaflet. 
How does Ocrevus work? 
The active substance in Ocrevus, ocrelizumab, is a monoclonal antibody designed to recognise and 
attach to a target called CD20 on the surface of certain types of white blood cells (so called B cells). 
These white blood cells play a role in multiple sclerosis by attacking the sheaths around the nerves in 
the brain and spinal cord, causing inflammation and damage. By targeting the B cells, Ocrevus helps to 
reduce their activity and thereby relieves symptoms or slows down the worsening of the disease. 
What benefits of Ocrevus have been shown in studies? 
Studies have shown that Ocrevus is effective at reducing the number of relapses and it can also reduce 
the worsening of symptoms in some patients. 
In two studies of 1,656 patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS), the average number 
of relapses in patients treated with Ocrevus was about half that in patients treated with another 
medicine interferon beta-1a (0.16 versus 0.29 relapses per year). 
A third study, in 732 patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS), showed that fewer 
patients taking Ocrevus had worsening symptoms lasting 12 weeks or more (30%) compared with 
those taking a placebo (34%). 
What are the risks associated with Ocrevus? 
The most important and most frequently reported side effects with Ocrevus are infusion reactions 
(such as itching, rash, and difficulty breathing) and infections. These occur in more than 1 in 10 
people. For the full list of side effects reported with Ocrevus, see the package leaflet. 
Ocrevus must not be used in patients with active infections or severely weakened immune systems or 
in patients with cancer. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ocrevus approved? 
Studies showed that Ocrevus was more effective than interferon beta-1a at reducing the number of 
relapses in patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Ocrevus treatment also provided some 
benefit in patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis, a condition for which treatments are 
urgently needed. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits seen with Ocrevus outweighed its risks 
and recommended that it be authorised in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ocrevus? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ocrevus have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Ocrevus  
EMA/10371/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Ocrevus 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ocrevus on 8 January 2018. 
The full EPAR for Ocrevus can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Ocrevus, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2018. 
Ocrevus  
EMA/10371/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
