EMA/322559/2016  
EMEA/H/C/004156 
EPAR summary for the public 
Odefsey 
emtricitabine / rilpivirine / tenofovir alafenamide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Odefsey. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Odefsey. 
For practical information about using Odefsey, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Odefsey and what is it used for? 
Odefsey is an antiviral medicine used to treat adults and adolescents (aged over 12 years and 
weighing at least 35 kg) infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that 
causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
Odefsey contains the active substances emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir alafenamide. It is only 
used in patients where the virus has not developed resistance to a class of HIV medicines called non-
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, tenofovir or emtricitabine, and who have HIV levels in the 
blood (viral load) of no more than 100,000 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml. 
How is Odefsey used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
who is experienced in managing HIV infection. Odefsey is available as tablets, each containing 200 mg 
emtricitabine, 25 mg rilpivirine, and 25 mg tenofovir alafenamide. The recommended dose is one 
tablet a day, taken with food. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Odefsey work? 
Odefsey contains three active substances. Tenofovir alafenamide is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning 
that it is converted into the active substance tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir and emtricitabine are 
related antiviral agents called reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Rilpivirine is an antiviral agent called 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor.  
All three active substances block the activity of reverse transcriptase, a virus enzyme that allows HIV-1 
to replicate in the cells it has infected. By blocking this enzyme, Odefsey reduces the amount of HIV-1 
in the blood and keeps it at a low level. 
Odefsey does not cure HIV-1 infection or AIDS, but it may delay the damage to the immune system 
and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Odefsey have been shown in studies? 
The combination of active substances in Odefsey (emtricitabine, rilpivirine and tenofovir) is already 
approved in the EU as Eviplera to treat HIV-1 infection, although in Eviplera tenofovir is present as 
tenofovir disoproxil whereas in Odefsey it is present as tenofovir alafenamide.  
To support the use of tenofovir alafenamide, the company provided data from studies showing that 
combination medicines containing tenofovir alafenamide are as effective in reducing the amount of 
HIV-1 in the blood as those containing tenofovir disoproxil. 
In addition, to support its application, the company performed a ‘bioequivalence’ study comparing 
Odefsey with two other HIV medicines: Edurant (rilpivirine) and Genvoya (elvitegravir, cobicistat, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide). This study showed that Odefsey produces the same levels of 
rilpivirine in the body as Edurant, and the same levels of emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide as 
Genvoya. This means that the effects of these components in Odefsey should be similar to their effects 
in other medicines. 
What are the risks associated with Odefsey? 
The most common side effects seen with the active substance rilpivirine and with the combination of 
emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are headache, 
dizziness and nausea (feeling sick). Very common side effects with rilpivirine also include increased 
cholesterol levels (total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol), insomnia (difficulty sleeping) and increased 
liver and pancreas enzymes. For the full list of all side effects, see the package leaflet. 
Odefsey must not be used with the following medicines as they may lead to reduced blood levels of 
rilpivirine, and thereby reduce the effectiveness of Odefsey: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy); 
rifabutin, rifampicin, rifapentine (antibiotics); 
omeprazole, esomeprazole, dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, rabeprazole (medicines 
for reducing stomach acid); 
dexamethasone (a corticosteroid medicine used to treat inflammation and suppress the immune 
system) except when used as a single dose treatment; 
•  St John’s wort (a herbal preparation used for depression and anxiety).  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Odefsey  
EMA/322559/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Odefsey approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) considered that Odefsey is an 
alternative treatment option to Eviplera with similar effectiveness. In terms of safety, tenofovir 
alafenamide is effective at a lower dose than tenofovir disoproxil and may lead to reduced side effects 
in the kidneys and bones. The CHMP therefore decided that Odefsey’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Odefsey? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Odefsey have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Odefsey 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Odefsey on 21. June 2016. 
The full EPAR for Odefsey can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Odefsey, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2016. 
Odefsey  
EMA/322559/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
