PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ODEFSEY 
(EMTRICITABINE/RILPIVIRINE/TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Odefsey. The RMP details important 
risks of Odefsey, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Odefsey’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Odefsey’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Odefsey should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Odefsey should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Odefsey’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for 
Odefsey is authorized for the treatment of adults and adolescents (aged 12 years and older with 
body weight at least 35 kg) infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains emtricitabine (FTC; F), rilpivirine (RPV) and 
tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Odefsey’s benefits can be found in Odefsey’s EPAR, 
including its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/004156/WC500209992.pdf. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Odefsey, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Odefsey’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Odefsey is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Odefsey are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Odefsey. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table Part VI.1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
None 
None 
Missing Information 
Long-term safety information in adolescents 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table Part VII.2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risk 
None 
Important Potential Risk 
None 
Missing information 
Long-term safety information in adolescents 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
No routine risk minimization measures are considered necessary for this 
population  
Missing information 
Safety in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Risk Minimization Measure(s) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Additional Pharmacovigilance activities 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorization 
development plan. 
 
 
 
II.C. 
II.C.1. 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Odefsey. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Table Part VI.3. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry 
(APR) 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects in patients exposed to 
antiretroviral drugs (ARVs), including ODE, during pregnancy 
 
 
