17 April 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-459924 
EMA/OD/0000005310  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Ofev (Nintedanib) 
Treatment of systemic sclerosis 
EU/3/16/1724 
Sponsor: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 3 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 3 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 19 March 2020 ............................................... 9 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Nintedanib 
designation 
Other names 
Nintedanib, Ofev  
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Nintedanib 
Tradename 
orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Ofev 
Treatment of systemic sclerosis  
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
Binger Strasse 173 
55216 Ingelheim Am Rhein 
Germany  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH  
13 July 2016 
29 August 2016 
EU/3/16/1724 
Marketing authorisation type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Peter Kiely / Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
CHMP opinion date 
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH   
27 August 2019 
14 September 2019 
EMEA/H/C/003821/II/0026 
Ofev 
Ofev is indicated in adults for the treatment of 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF). 
Further information on Ofev can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
R/ Ofev  
27 February 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Martin Mozina / Eva Malikova 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
15 March 2019  
COMP discussion  
COMP opinion date 
17-19 March 2020 
19 March 2020 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2016 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH submitted on 19 May 2016 an application for 
designation as an orphan medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a medicinal product 
containing nintedanib for treatment of systemic sclerosis (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”). 
The application was submitted on the basis of Article 3(1)(a) first paragraph of Regulation (EC) No 
141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing nintedanib was considered 
justified based on in vivo preclinical data demonstrating antifibrotic effects; 
• the condition is chronically debilitating and life-threatening due to the deposition of collagen in the 
skin and in internal organs such as kidneys, heart, lungs and gastrointestinal tract, leading to severe 
complications such as pulmonary hypertension, progressive dysphagia, sclerodermal renal crisis and 
cardiac failure; 
• the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 3.5 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at 
the time the application was made. 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing nintedanib will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The 
sponsor has provided preclinical data that demonstrate an antifibrotic effect of the proposed product 
which is directly associated with the condition and not targeted by the currently authorised treatment. 
The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing nintedanib as an orphan medicinal product for the 
orphan indication: treatment of systemic sclerosis. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Condition 
The approved therapeutic indication “Treatment of Systemic Sclerosis associated Interstitial Lung 
Disease (SSc-ILD)” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of systemic 
sclerosis”. 
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a generalized disorder of connective tissue characterized by thickening and 
fibrosis of the skin (scleroderma) and by distinctive forms of involvement of internal organs, notably 
the heart, lungs, kidneys and gastrointestinal tract. Vascular injury dominates the clinical 
manifestations in all forms of the disorder. The aetiology and pathogenesis are unknown.  
SSc is rapidly progressive. Excessive collagen deposition, with scleroderma and widespread 
microvascular damage, results in the occurrence of Raynaud’s phenomenon, the episodic vasospasms 
of the peripheral arteries (80-95% of patients) and typically precedes the onset of systemic disease by 
several years.  
SSc is more common in women and can be divided into limited cutaneous SSc and diffuse cutaneous 
SSc. Limited cutaneous SSc primarily affects the hands, arms and face and is associated with 
Raynaud’s phenomenon. Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is common in adult patients with SSc. Up to 
90% of adult patients develop abnormalities on high resolution computer tomography (HRCT) and 40-
75% of patients will show lung function abnormalities.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Please see EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no changes in the seriousness of the condition since the time of orphan designation.  
The condition is chronically debilitating due to the deposition of collagen in the skin and, less 
commonly, in the kidneys, heart, lungs and stomach. This deposition presents in two forms: diffuse 
scleroderma which affects the skin as well as the heart, lungs, gastrointestinal tract and kidneys and 
localized scleroderma which affects the skin of the face, neck, elbows and knees and late in the disease 
causes isolated pulmonary hypertension. Common complications seen with the diffuse form are 
pulmonary hypertension, reflux esophagitis and dysphagia, as well as the appearance of sclerodermal 
renal crisis. Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is also common in systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients. Patients 
with SSc suffer from a significant impairment of health-related quality of life when compared to the 
general population. Pulmonary involvement (interstitial lung disease or pulmonary hypertension) is 
currently the leading causes of death (ILD accounting for 33% of deaths and PAH for 28%). 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor performed an extensive review of the literature on the prevalence of the condition. 
Specific databases for the condition were not retrieved that report the prevalence of the condition.  
A number of studies were retrieved that had assessed the prevalence rate of SSc in the general 
population. Estimates vary across studies, from 9.9 per 100,000 in Norway for the year 2009 [R16-
1346] to 34.8 per 100 000 in Sardinia, Italy in 2012. Such variation may be partly due to differences 
in the design and methods used to calculate these estimates, but also explained by differences in the 
diagnostic criteria for SSc used in the different studies. As an example, the most recent estimates of 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SSc prevalence reported for Sweden in 2010 are 23.5 per 100,000 and 30.5 per 100,000, using 
respectively, the 1980 ACR diagnostic criteria and the 2012 proposed ACR/EULAR criteria 
According to the literature search performed, the maximum prevalence rate for SSc is estimated to be 
below 3.5 per 10,000 persons in the EU, which is in line with previous designations.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Bosentan (Tracleer), an endothelin receptor antagonist, is authorised in the EU for primary pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH) and PAH secondary to SSc without significant interstitial pulmonary disease 
to improve exercise capacity and symptoms in patients with WHO functional class II.  Bosentan is also 
indicated to reduce the number of new digital ulcers in patients with SSc and ongoing digital ulcer 
disease (Tracleer). No other drugs are currently authorised in the EU for the treatment of SSc or SSc-
related symptoms or sequelae.  
International treatment recommendations, initiated by EULAR/EUSTAR, were updated in 2017 and they 
mention several drugs approved in other indications to treat SSc-related symptoms including 
immunosuppressive treatments, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and mycophenolate. These 
products are not specifically approved for SSc-ILD.  
The use of immunosuppressive therapies, particularly cyclophosphamide (CYC) and mycophenylate 
mofetil (MMF) in SSc-ILD is based on the results of two pivotal clinical trials. The Scleroderma Lung 
Study I showed a 1% change in FVC with placebo and 2.6% in patients treated with CYC at 12 and 18 
months, even though however no differences between groups were shown after 24 months of 
treatment. In the Scleroderma Lung Study II comparing CYC vs. MMF, the results showed that MMF 
was as effective and safer than CYC over a 24-month time period. Although this trial had a large 
dropout rate and lacked a placebo arm, MMF became part of the standard of care for SSc-ILD. 
 Significant benefit 
The significant benefit of nintedanib in relation to Tracleer, authorized for PAH secondary to SSc 
without significant interstitial pulmonary disease, and to reduce the number of new digital ulcers in 
patients with SSc, is justified based on the different therapeutic indication, as OFEV targets SSc-ILD.  
The significant benefit in patients with SSc-ILD was demonstrated in the pivotal trial at the basis of the 
marketing authorization, a single large Phase III trial (SENSCIS) on 580 patients, randomised 1:1 to 
receive nintedanib 150 mg/twice daily or placebo. Randomisation was stratified based on the 
antitopoisomerase antibody (ATA) status (positive or negative).   
The primary endpoint was the annual rate of decline in forced vital capacity (FVC) in mL over 52 
weeks. FVC is used as endpoints in most trials in ILDs and it has recently been reported that changes 
in quantitative fibrosis scoring of HRCT in the Scleroderma Lung Study II correlated with FVC and the 
transition dyspnoea index.  The results of the SENCIS trial showed that the decline in the nintedanib 
group was 43.8% lower than in the placebo group, with an adjusted difference between the groups of 
40.95 mL/year (95% CI 2.88, 79.01) and a p-value of 0.0350 (Table 1). The annual rate of decline in 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FVC over 52 weeks was also investigated in subgroups defined by ATA status, gender, age, race, 
region, mycophenolate use at baseline, and SSc subtype. The analyses showed a consistent treatment 
effect across all subgroups. 
In the subgroup of patients with mycophenolate use at baseline, the adjusted annual rate of decline in 
FVC over 52 weeks was -40.2 mL/year in the nintedanib group and -66.5 mL/year in the placebo 
group; the difference between the groups was 26.33 mL/year (95% CI -27.93, 80.59). In the 
subgroup without mycophenolate at baseline, the adjusted annual rate of decline in FVC over 52 weeks 
was -63.9 mL/year in the nintedanib group and -119.3 mL/year in the placebo group; the difference 
between the groups was 55.40 mL/year (95% CI 2.30, 108.50). 
Figure 1 below shows the curves of treatment and placebo separating after 12 weeks of treatment and 
continuing to diverge up to Week 52. 
Figure 1 (from CHMP assessment report) 
As ILD is the major cause of mortality in SSc and decline in FVC has been associated with morbidity 
and mortality in patients with SSc, the effect of nintedanib was considered consistent with slowing 
progression of SSc-ILD, also supported by a scientific advisory group convened by the CHMP.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  summary,  the  only  approved  treatment  for  SSc  targets  PAH  and  digital  ulcers  associated  with  the 
disease, and there are no approved treatments which can modify or prevent progression of SSc-ILD and 
allow long term treatment in this chronic disease.  Products that are not specifically authorized for the 
condition  but  used  as  standard  of  care,  including  immunosuppresants  such as  cyclophosphamide  and 
mycophenolate, have shown limited benefits while carrying safety and tolerability issues that limit their 
use and, in case of cyclophosphamide, preclude chronic use.  
In  the  SENCIS  study,  the  treatment  effect  of  nintedanib  compared  with  placebo  was  observed 
irrespective of mycophenolate background treatment. Thus, nintedanib offers a viable treatment option 
for patients with SSc-ILD, with different mode of action and clinical improvement of lung function also 
on background of mycophenolate. As such the product is considered to be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 19 March 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication ‘treatment of interstitial lung disease in systemic sclerosis’ falls 
entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the designated Orphan Medicinal Product: 
‘systemic sclerosis’. 
the prevalence of systemic sclerosis (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be less than 3.5 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the deposition of collagen in the 
skin and in internal organs such as kidneys, heart, lungs and gastrointestinal tract, leading to 
severe complications such as pulmonary hypertension, interstitial lung disease, progressive 
dysphagia, sclerodermal renal crisis and cardiac failure; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Ofev may be of potential significant benefit to those affected 
by the orphan condition still holds. This is based on a pivotal clinical trial showing clinically relevant 
improvement of lung function measured over 52 weeks in patients treated with Ofev as compared 
to those taking placebo, on background treatment with mycophenolate. Ofev acts on the interstitial 
lung disease in systemic sclerosis, differently from the currently authorized products, which target 
other aspects of the condition. The committee considers that this constitutes a clinically relevant 
advantage for the patients affected by the condition. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Ofev, nintedanib, for treatment 
of systemic sclerosis (EU/3/16/1724) is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
