Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Ogivri® 
(Trastuzumab)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ogivri®. The RMP details important risks of 
Ogivri®, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Ogivri® 's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ogivri®’ s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Ogivri® should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ogivri® 's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ogivri® is authorised for the treatment of: 
Breast cancer 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Ogivri®  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  HER2  positive  metastatic  breast  cancer 
(MBC): 
 
 
 
 
as  monotherapy  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  received  at  least  two 
chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at 
least  an  anthracycline  and  a  taxane  unless  patients  are  unsuitable  for  these  treatments. 
Hormone receptor positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are 
unsuitable for these treatments 
in  combination  with  paclitaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable 
in  combination  with  docetaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients with 
hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
Early breast cancer 
Ogivri® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer (EBC): 
 
 
 
 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable). 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination with 
paclitaxel or docetaxel 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant Ogivri® therapy, for locally 
advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter. 
Ogivri®  should  only  be  used  in  patients  with  metastatic  or  early  breast  cancer  whose  tumours  have 
either  HER2  overexpression  or  HER2  gene  amplification  as  determined  by  an  accurate  and  validated 
assay. 
 
 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Ogivri® in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of 
adult  patients  with  HER2  positive  metastatic  adenocarcinoma  of  the  stomach  or  gastroesophageal 
junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic disease. 
Ogivri® should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours have HER2 
overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ result. 
Accurate and validated assay methods should be used. 
It contains MYL-1401O (trastuzumab) as the active substance and it is given as powder for concentrate 
for solution for infusion. One vial contains 150 mg of trastuzumab. The reconstituted Ogivri® solution 
contains 21 mg/mL of trastuzumab. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ogivri® ’s benefits can be found in Ogivri® ’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s Webpage.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ogivri®, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet 
 
 
 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  public  (e.g.  with  or  without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and  is 
regularly  analysed,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Ogivri® is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important  risks  of  Ogivri®  are  those  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  them,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered  to  patients. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ogivri®. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but the definite causal association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table - Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
  Cardiac dysfunction 
  Administration-related reactions 
  Oligohydramnios 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
  Safety of docetaxel 75 mg/m2 versus 100 mg/m2 
II.B Summary of important risks  
Important Identified Risk: Cardiac Dysfunction 
Evidence  for  linking  the 
risk to the medicine 
factors  and  risk 
Risk 
groups 
Cardiac  dysfunction  or  failure  has  been  commonly  reported  in  clinical 
trials and the scientific literature, which is also reflected in the SmPC of 
the reference product. Clinical courses ranging from mild to fatal have 
been  reported  in  association  with  the  reference  product,  whereby 
higher-grade cardiac dysfunction or failure of any cause is a potentially 
life-threatening condition. This event has been classified as important 
identified  risk  for  MYL-1401O  based  on  its  seriousness,  severity  and 
frequency of occurrence as per the proposed SPC. 
The risk factors described for the development of trastuzumab-induced 
include  age  >50  years,  borderline  LVEF  before 
cardiotoxicity 
disease, 
treatment, 
trastuzumab 
cardiovascular risk factors such as diabetes, dyslipidaemia or elevated 
body  mass  index  (>30),  sequence  in  which  chemotherapy  is 
administered and prior treatment with anthracyclines (cumulative doses 
>300 mg/m2). 
cardiovascular 
history 
of 
Risk 
measures 
minimisation 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
Important Identified Risk: Administration-related reactions 
Evidence  for  linking  the 
risk to the medicine 
Administration-related  reactions  such  as  shortness  of  breath,  low  or 
high  blood  pressure,  wheezing  or  skin  rash  during  or  shortly  after 
administration (mostly within 2-3 hours but sometimes later) have been 
very  commonly  reported  in  clinical  trials  and  the  scientific  literature, 
which  is  also  reflected  in  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  product.  These 
reactions  are  usually  self-limited  or  respond  to  standard  medicines. 
However,  in  rare  cases,  life-threatening  allergic  reactions  may  occur. 
This  event  has  been  classified  as  important  identified  risk  for  MYL-
1401O based on its seriousness, severity and frequency of occurrence 
as per the proposed SPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
factors  and  risk 
Risk 
groups 
No  risk  groups  or  risk  factors  are  known.  However,  patients  with 
dyspnoea  at  rest  due  to  complications  of  advanced  malignancy  and 
comorbidities may be at increased risk of a fatal outcome in the event 
that an infusion reaction occurs. 
Risk 
measures 
minimisation 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
SmPC Sections: 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
Important Identified Risk: Oligohydramnios 
Evidence  for  linking  the 
risk to the medicine 
factors  and  risk 
Risk 
groups 
Oligohydramnios and  anhydramnios  are severe complications,  usually 
associated with abnormal foetal outcomes, such as intrauterine growth 
retardation,  post-maturity  syndrome,  lung  hypoplasia,  soft  tissue 
deformities, and foetal distress in labour, and may be fatal. This event 
has been classified as important identified risk for MYL-1401O based on 
its seriousness. 
No risk factors for trastuzumab-associated oligohydramnios have been 
established  with  certainty.  In  the  above-mentioned  literature  review, 
oligohydramnios  occurred  only  in  women  who  were  exposed  to 
trastuzumab (also) during the second and/or third trimester (11 cases/ 
15  pregnancies)  but  did  not  complicate  any  of  the  3  pregnancies 
exposed only during the first trimester. 
Risk 
measures 
minimisation 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2 and 4.6. 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
Missing Information: Safety of docetaxel 75 mg/m2 versus 100 mg/m2 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Section: 4.2. 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Ogivri®/ 
MYL-1401O.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ogivri®.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
