ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OKEDI 75 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection  
OKEDI 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
OKEDI 75 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe contains 75 mg of risperidone. 
OKEDI 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg risperidone. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection. 
Pre-filled syringe of powder 
White to white-yellowish non-aggregated powder. 
Pre-filled syringe of solvent for reconstitution 
Clear solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
OKEDI is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults for whom tolerability and 
effectiveness have been established with oral risperidone. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
OKEDI should be administered every 28 days by intramuscular (IM) injection.  
OKEDI should be initiated according to the patient’s clinical context: 
Patients with history of previous response to Risperidone who are currently stabilised with oral 
antipsychotics (mild to moderate psychotic symptoms)  
Patients stabilised with oral risperidone can be switched to OKEDI without previous titration.  
Patients stabilised on other oral antipsychotics (different from risperidone) should be titrated with 
oral  risperidone  before  initiating  treatment  with  OKEDI.  The  duration  of  the  titration  period 
should  be  sufficiently  long  (at  least  6  days)  to  confirm  the  tolerability  and  responsiveness  to 
risperidone. 
Patients never treated before with oral Risperidone  
Patients who are candidates to receive OKEDI and have NOT been previously treated with 
risperidone, the tolerability and responsiveness to risperidone must be confirmed with a period 
of oral risperidone treatment before initiating treatment with OKEDI. The duration of the 
titration period is recommended to be at least 14 days.  
Switching from oral risperidone to OKEDI 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended doses of oral risperidone and OKEDI needed to maintain a similar active 
moiety steady-state exposure are as follows: 
Previous oral risperidone dose of 3 mg/day to OKEDI injection 75 mg every 28 days 
Previous oral risperidone dose of 4 mg/day or higher to OKEDI injection 100 mg every 28 
days 
OKEDI must be initiated approximately 24 hours after the last oral risperidone dose. Dose 
adjustments of OKEDI may be made every 28 days. A maintenance dose of OKEDI 75 mg 
every 28 days is generally recommended. However, some patients may benefit from OKEDI 
100 mg every 28 days, according to the patient’s clinical response and tolerability. Neither a 
loading dose nor any supplemental oral risperidone is recommended when using OKEDI. 
Switching from Risperidone bi-weekly long-acting injection to OKEDI 
When switching from Risperidone bi-weekly long-acting injection, OKEDI should be initiated 
in place of the next regularly scheduled injection of risperidone bi-weekly long-acting injection 
(i.e., two weeks after the last risperidone bi-weekly long-acting injection). OKEDI should then 
be continued at 28-day intervals. No oral concomitant risperidone is recommended. 
When switching patients previously stabilised on risperidone bi-weekly long-acting injection to 
OKEDI, the recommended dose to maintain a similar active moiety steady-state exposure is as 
follows: 
Risperidone bi-weekly long-acting 37.5 mg to OKEDI injection 75 mg every 28 days 
Risperidone bi-weekly long-acting 50 mg to OKEDI injection 100 mg every 28 days 
Switching from OKEDI to oral risperidone 
When switching patients from OKEDI injection back to oral risperidone therapy, the prolonged 
release characteristics of the OKEDI formulation must be considered. In general, it is 
recommended to start oral risperidone treatment 28 days after the last OKEDI administration. 
Missed doses 
Avoiding missed doses 
To avoid a missed 28-day dose, patients may be given the injection up to 3 days before the 28-
day time point. If a dose is delayed by 1 week, the median trough concentration decreases by 
approximately 50% during that week. The clinical relevance of this is unknown. If the dose is 
delayed, the next 28-day interval injection should be scheduled according to the last injection 
date. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Efficacy and safety of OKEDI in elderly > 65 years have not been established for the OKEDI 
prolonged-release suspension for injection. OKEDI should be used with caution in elderly. 
Tolerability to ≥ 3 mg daily oral risperidone should be reliably established prior to 
administration of OKEDI. 
In general, recommended dosing of risperidone for elderly patients with normal renal function is 
the same as for adult patients with normal renal function. However, if it is considered clinically 
appropriate, starting with 75 mg OKEDI should be considered (see Renal impairment below for 
dosing recommendations in patients with renal impairment). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
OKEDI has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment. 
For patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 60 to 89 mL/min) no dose 
adjustment is required for OKEDI. 
OKEDI is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 60 mL/min). 
Hepatic impairment 
OKEDI has not been systematically studied in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Patients with impaired hepatic function have increases in plasma concentration of the free 
fraction of risperidone. 
OKEDI should be used with caution in these groups of patients. A careful titration with oral 
risperidone (halving starting doses and slowing titration) before initiating treatment with 
OKEDI at a dose of 75 mg is recommended, if tolerability of an oral dose of at least 3 mg is 
confirmed. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of OKEDI in children and adolescents less than 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
OKEDI is only intended for intramuscular use and should not be administered intravenously or 
subcutaneously (see sections 4.4 and 6.6) or by any other route. It should be administered by a 
healthcare professional. 
OKEDI should be administered by deep intramuscular deltoid or gluteal injection using the 
appropriate sterile needle. For deltoid administration, the 1-inch needle should be used 
alternating injections between the two deltoid muscles. For gluteal administration, the 2-inch 
needle should be used alternating injections between the two gluteal muscles. 
The pre-filled syringe of OKEDI powder should be reconstituted with the pre-filled syringe of 
accompanying solvent immediately prior to administration by injection. 
The reconstitution process should be done accordingly to the Instructions for Use, see section 
6.6. An incorrect reconstitution could affect the correct dissolution of the powder and in case of 
administration a higher peak of risperidone could appear in the initial hours (overdose) and a 
lower AUC of the entire dose treatment (underdose).  
4.3 
Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
For risperidone-naive patients, it is recommended to establish tolerability with oral risperidone 
prior to initiating treatment with OKEDI (see section 4.2). Consideration should be given to the 
prolonged release nature of the medicinal product and the long elimination half-life of 
risperidone when assessing treatment needs and the potential need to be able to discontinue 
treatment. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly patients with dementia  
Increased mortality in elderly people with dementia 
OKEDI has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia, hence it should not be used in 
this group of patients. In a meta-analysis of 17 controlled trials of atypical antipsychotics, 
including risperidone, elderly patients with dementia treated with atypical antipsychotics have 
an increased mortality compared to placebo. In placebo-controlled trials with oral risperidone in 
this population, the incidence of mortality was 4% for risperidone-treated patients compared to 
3.1% for placebo-treated patients. The odds ratio (95% exact confidence interval) was 1.21 (0.7; 
2.1). The mean age (range) of patients who died was 86 years (range 67-100). Data from two 
large observational studies showed that elderly people with dementia who are treated with 
conventional antipsychotics are also at a small increased risk of death compared with those who 
are not treated. There are insufficient data to give a firm estimate of the precise magnitude of the 
risk and the cause of the increased risk is not known. The extent to which the findings of 
increased mortality in observational studies may be attributed to the antipsychotic active 
substance as opposed to some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear. 
Concomitant use with furosemide 
In the risperidone placebo-controlled trials in elderly patients with dementia, a higher incidence 
of mortality was observed in patients treated with furosemide plus risperidone (7.3%; mean age 
89 years, range 75-97) when compared to patients treated with risperidone alone (3.1%; mean 
age 84 years, range 70-96) or furosemide alone (4.1%; mean age 80 years, range 67-90). The 
increase in mortality in patients treated with furosemide plus risperidone was observed in two of 
the four clinical trials. Concomitant use of risperidone with other diuretics (mainly thiazide 
diuretics used in low dose) was not associated with similar findings. 
No pathophysiological mechanism has been identified to explain this finding, and no consistent 
pattern for cause of death observed. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised and the risks and 
benefits of this combination or co-treatment with other potent diuretics should be considered 
prior to the decision to use. There was no increased incidence of mortality among patients 
taking other diuretics as concomitant treatment with risperidone. Irrespective of treatment, 
dehydration was an overall risk factor for mortality and should, therefore, be carefully avoided 
in elderly patients with dementia. 
Cerebrovascular adverse reactions 
An approximately 3-fold increased risk of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (CVAEs) have 
been seen in randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials in the dementia population with some 
atypical antipsychotics. The pooled data from six placebo-controlled studies with risperidone in 
mainly elderly patients (> 65 years of age) with dementia showed that CVAEs (serious and non-
serious, combined) occurred in 3.3% (33/1009) of patients treated with risperidone and 1.2% 
(8/712) of patients treated with placebo. The odds ratio (95% exact confidence interval) was 
2.96 (1.34; 7.50). The mechanism for this increased risk is not known. An increased risk cannot 
be excluded for other antipsychotics or other patient populations.  
OKEDI should be used with caution in patients with risk factors for stroke. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orthostatic hypotension  
Due to the alpha-blocking activity of risperidone, (orthostatic) hypotension can occur. Some 
cases of hypotension or orthostatic hypotension have been reported during the clinical 
development program of OKEDI at doses that ranged from 50 mg to 100 mg. Clinically 
significant hypotension has been observed post-marketing with concomitant use of risperidone 
and antihypertensive treatment. OKEDI should be used with caution in patients with known 
cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, myocardial infarction, conduction abnormalities, 
dehydration, hypovolaemia, or cerebrovascular disease). The risk/benefit of further treatment 
with OKEDI should be assessed if clinically relevant orthostatic hypotension persists. 
Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis  
Events of leukopenia, neutropenia and agranulocytosis have been reported with risperidone. 
Agranulocytosis has been reported very rarely (< 1/10,000 patients) during post-marketing 
surveillance. 
Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-
induced leukopenia/neutropenia should be monitored during the first few months of therapy and 
discontinuation of OKEDI should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant 
decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. 
Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other 
symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients 
with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1 × 109/L) should discontinue OKEDI and 
have their WBC followed until recovery.  
Tardive dyskinesia/extrapyramidal symptoms (TD/EPS) 
Medicines with dopamine receptor antagonistic properties have been associated with the 
induction of tardive dyskinesia (TD) characterised by rhythmical involuntary movements, 
predominantly of the tongue and/or face. The onset of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) is a risk 
factor for TD. If signs and symptoms of TD appear, the discontinuation of all antipsychotics 
should be considered. 
Caution is warranted in patients receiving both psychostimulants (e.g. methylphenidate) and 
risperidone concomitantly, as EPSs could emerge when adjusting one or both medicines. 
Gradual withdrawal of stimulant treatment is recommended (see section 4.5). 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) 
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), characterised by hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, 
autonomic instability, altered consciousness and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels 
has been reported to occur with antipsychotics. Additional signs may include myoglobinuria 
(rhabdomyolysis) and acute renal failure. In this event, OKEDI should be discontinued. 
Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies  
Physicians should weigh the risks versus the benefits when prescribing OKEDI to patients with 
Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). Parkinson's Disease may worsen 
with risperidone. Both groups may be at increased risk of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome as 
well as having an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medicinal products; these patients were 
excluded from clinical trials. Manifestation of this increased sensitivity can include confusion, 
obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, in addition to extrapyramidal symptoms. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus  
Hyperglycaemia, diabetes mellitus, and exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes have been reported 
during treatment with risperidone. In some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been 
reported which may be a predisposing factor. Association with ketoacidosis has been reported 
very rarely and rarely with diabetic coma. Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in 
accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines. Patients treated with OKEDI should be 
monitored for symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored regularly for worsening of 
glucose control. 
Weight gain  
Significant weight gain has been reported with risperidone use. Weight should be monitored 
regularly.  
Hyperprolactinaemia  
Hyperprolactinaemia is a common side effect of treatment with risperidone. Evaluation of the 
prolactin plasma level is recommended in patients with evidence of possible prolactin-related 
side effects (e.g., gynaecomastia, menstrual disorders, anovulation, fertility disorder, decreased 
libido, erectile dysfunction, and galactorrhoea).  
Tissue culture studies suggest that cell growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by 
prolactin. Although no clear association with the administration of antipsychotics has so far 
been demonstrated in clinical and epidemiological studies, caution is recommended in patients 
with relevant medical history. OKEDI should be used with caution in patients with pre-existing 
hyperprolactinaemia and in patients with possible prolactin-dependent tumours. 
QT prolongation  
QT prolongation has very rarely been reported. Caution should be exercised when risperidone is 
prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular disease, family history of QT prolongation, 
bradycardia, or electrolyte disturbances (hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia), as it may increase 
the risk of arrhythmogenic effects, and in concomitant use with medicines known to prolong the 
QT interval. 
Seizures  
OKEDI should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that 
potentially lower the seizure threshold. 
Priapism  
Priapism may occur with OKEDI treatment due to its alpha-adrenergic blocking effects.  
Body temperature regulation  
Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to 
antipsychotic medicines. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing OKEDI to patients who 
will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, 
e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant treatment with 
anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antiemetic effect  
An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with risperidone. This effect, if it 
occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain medicines or 
of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumour. 
Venous thromboembolism  
Cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE) have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal 
products. Since patients treated with antipsychotics often present with acquired risk factors for 
VTE, all possible risk factors for VTE should be identified before and during treatment with 
OKEDI and preventative measures undertaken. 
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome  
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in 
patients treated with risperidone (see section 4.8). 
IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. Current or past 
use of medicines with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect should be made known to the 
ophthalmic surgeon in advance of surgery. The potential benefit of stopping alpha 1-blocking 
therapy prior to cataract surgery has not been established and must be weighed against the risk 
of stopping the antipsychotic therapy. 
Hypersensitivity 
Although tolerability of oral risperidone should be established prior to initiating treatment in 
patients who have not been previously treated with risperidone, rarely anaphylactic reactions 
have been reported during post-marketing experience with parenteral risperidone in patients 
who have previously tolerated oral risperidone. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, the use of 
OKEDI should be discontinued and general supportive measures should be initiated as clinically 
appropriate and the patient should be monitored until signs and symptoms resolve.  
Reconstitution and administration 
A lack of efficacy can occur in case of incorrect reconstitution (see sections 4.2 and 6.6).  
Care must be taken to avoid inadvertent injection of OKEDI into a blood vessel or subcutaneous 
tissue. If administered intravenously, it is expected that a solid formation will be formed 
immediately due to the characteristics of OKEDI, producing a blockage of the needle. 
Consequently a bleeding could occur at the injection site. In case the administration is 
subcutaneous, the injection might be more painful, and a slower release of risperidone is 
expected. 
If a dose is incorrectly administered by intravenous or subcutaneous route, the dose should not 
be repeated since it is difficult to estimate the resulting exposure to the medicine. The patient 
should be closely monitored and managed as clinically appropriate until the next scheduled 28-
day interval injection of OKEDI.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The interactions of OKEDI with co-administration of other medicinal products have not been 
systematically evaluated. The interaction data provided in this section are based on studies with 
oral risperidone. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic-related interactions 
Medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval 
Caution is advised when prescribing OKEDI with medicinal products known to prolong the QT 
interval, such as antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, propafenone, 
amiodarone, sotalol), tricyclic antidepressants (i.e., amitriptyline), tetracyclic antidepressants 
(i.e., maprotiline), some antihistamines, other antipsychotics, some antimalarials (i.e., quinine 
and mefloquine), and with medicines causing electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hypomagnesaemia), bradycardia, or those which inhibit the hepatic metabolism of risperidone. 
This list is indicative and not exhaustive. 
Centrally-acting medicinal products and alcohol 
OKEDI should be used with caution in combination with other centrally-acting substances, 
notably including alcohol, opiates, antihistamines and benzodiazepines due to the increased risk 
of sedation. 
Levodopa and dopamine agonists 
OKEDI may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination 
is deemed necessary, particularly in end-stage Parkinson's disease, the lowest effective dose of 
each treatment should be prescribed. 
Medicinal products with hypotensive effect 
Clinically significant hypotension has been observed post-marketing with concomitant use of 
risperidone and antihypertensive treatment. 
Psychostimulants 
The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g. methylphenidate) with OKEDI can lead to 
extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4). 
Paliperidone 
Concomitant use of OKEDI with paliperidone is not recommended as paliperidone is the active 
metabolite of risperidone and the combination of the two may lead to additive active moiety 
exposure. 
Pharmacokinetic-related interactions 
OKEDI is mainly metabolised through Cytochrome P (CYP) 2D6, and to a lesser extent through 
CYP3A4. Both risperidone and its active metabolite 9-hydroxy-risperidone are substrates of P-
glycoprotein (P-gp). Substances that modify CYP2D6 activity, or substances strongly inhibiting 
or inducing CYP3A4 and/or P-gp activity, may influence the pharmacokinetics of the 
risperidone active moiety. 
Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors 
Co-administration of OKEDI with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor may increase the plasma 
concentrations of risperidone, but less so of the active moiety. Higher doses of a strong 
CYP2D6 inhibitor may elevate concentrations of the risperidone active moiety (e.g., paroxetine, 
see below). It is expected that other CYP2D6 inhibitors, such as quinidine, may affect the 
plasma concentrations of risperidone in a similar way. When concomitant paroxetine, quinidine, 
or another strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, especially at higher doses, is initiated or discontinued, the 
physician should re-evaluate the dosing of OKEDI. 
CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of OKEDI with a strong CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inhibitor may substantially 
elevate plasma concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. When concomitant itraconazole 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or another strong CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inhibitor is initiated or discontinued, the physician 
should re-evaluate the dosing of OKEDI. 
CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducers 
Co-administration of OKEDI with a strong CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducer may decrease the 
plasma concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. When concomitant carbamazepine or 
another strong CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducer is initiated or discontinued, the physician should 
re-evaluate the dosing of OKEDI. CYP3A4 inducers exert their effect in a time-dependent 
manner and may take at least 2 weeks to reach maximal effect after introduction. Conversely, on 
discontinuation, CYP3A4 induction may take at least 2 weeks to decline. 
Highly protein-bound medicinal products 
When risperidone is taken together with highly protein-bound medicinal products, there is no 
clinically relevant displacement of either medicine from the plasma proteins. 
When using concomitant medicinal products, the corresponding label should be consulted for 
information on the route of metabolism and the possible need to adjust dosage. 
Examples  
Examples of medicinal products that may potentially interact or that were shown not to interact 
with risperidone are listed below:  
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of risperidone  
Antibacterials: 
•  Erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and P-gp inhibitor, does not change the 
pharmacokinetics of risperidone and the active moiety. 
•  Rifampicin, a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer, decreased the plasma 
concentrations of the active moiety. 
Anticholinesterases: 
•  Donepezil and galantamine, both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrates, do not show a 
clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of risperidone and the active moiety. 
Antiepileptics: 
•  Carbamazepine, a strong CYP3A4 inducer and a P-gp inducer, has been shown to 
decrease the plasma concentrations of the active moiety. Similar effects may be observed 
with e.g., phenytoin and phenobarbital which also induce CYP3A4 hepatic enzyme, as 
well as P-glycoprotein. 
•  Topiramate modestly reduced the bioavailability of risperidone, but not that of the active 
moiety. Therefore, this interaction is unlikely to be of clinical significance. 
Antifungals: 
•  Itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, at a dosage of 200 mg/day 
increased the plasma concentrations of the active moiety by about 70%, at risperidone 
doses of 2 to 8 mg/day. 
•  Ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-gp inhibitor, at a dosage of 200 mg/day 
increased the plasma concentrations of risperidone and decreased the plasma 
concentrations of 9-hydroxy-risperidone. 
Antipsychotics: 
•  Phenothiazines may increase the plasma concentrations of risperidone but not those of the 
active moiety. 
Antivirals: 
•  Protease inhibitors: No formal study data are available; however, since ritonavir is a 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor, ritonavir and ritonavir-boosted 
protease inhibitors potentially raise concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beta-blockers: 
•  Some beta-blockers may increase the plasma concentrations of risperidone but not those 
of the active moiety.  
Calcium channel blockers: 
•  Verapamil, a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and an inhibitor of P-gp, increases the 
plasma concentration of risperidone and the active moiety. 
Gastrointestinal drugs: 
•  H2-receptor antagonists: Cimetidine and ranitidine, both weak inhibitors of CYP2D6 and 
CYP3A4, increased the bioavailability of risperidone, but only marginally that of the 
active moiety. 
SSRIs and tricyclic antidepressants: 
•  Fluoxetine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, increases the plasma concentration of risperidone, 
but less so of the active moiety. 
•  Paroxetine, a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor, increases the plasma concentrations of 
risperidone, but, at dosages up to 20 mg/day, less so of the active moiety. However, 
higher doses of paroxetine may elevate concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. 
•  Tricyclic antidepressants may increase the plasma concentrations of risperidone but not 
those of the active moiety. Amitriptyline does not affect the pharmacokinetics of 
risperidone or the active antipsychotic fraction. 
•  Sertraline, a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6, and fluvoxamine, a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, 
at dosages up to 100 mg/day are not associated with clinically significant changes in 
concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. However, doses higher than 100 mg/day 
of sertraline or fluvoxamine may elevate concentrations of the risperidone active moiety. 
Effect of risperidone on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products 
Antiepileptics: 
•  Risperidone does not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
valproate or topiramate.  
Antipsychotics: 
•  Aripiprazole, a CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 substrate: Risperidone tablets or injections did not 
affect the pharmacokinetics of the sum of aripiprazole and its active metabolite, 
dehydroaripiprazole. 
Digitalis glycosides: 
•  Risperidone does not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
digoxin.  
Lithium: 
•  Risperidone does not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium.  
Concomitant use of risperidone with furosemide  
See section 4.4 regarding increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia concomitantly 
receiving furosemide. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of risperidone in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Neonates exposed to antipsychotics (including risperidone) during the third trimester of 
pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal 
symptoms that may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. 
Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. 
OKEDI should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding 
Physico-chemical data suggest excretion of risperidone/metabolites in breast milk. 
A risk to the breastfed child cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
OKEDI therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Risperidone elevates prolactin level. Hyperprolactinaemia may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, 
resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive 
function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. 
There were no relevant effects observed in the non-clinical studies. 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
OKEDI can have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines due to 
potential nervous system and visual effects (see section 4.8). Therefore, patients should be 
advised not to drive or operate machinery until their individual susceptibility is known. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs) that were reported in a phase 3 
clinical trial are: blood prolactin increased (11.7%), hyperprolactinaemia (7.2%), akathisia 
(5.5%), headache (4.8%), somnolence (4.1%), weight increased (3.8%), injection site pain 
(3.1%) and dizziness (3.1%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following are all the ADRs that were reported in clinical trials and post-marketing 
experience with risperidone by frequency category estimated from risperidone clinical trials. 
The following terms and frequencies are applied: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and very rare 
(< 1/10,000). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
System 
Organ Class 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Very 
Common 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
pneumonia, 
bronchitis, upper 
respiratory tract 
infection, 
respiratory tract 
infection, cystitis, 
eye infection, 
tonsillitis, 
infection 
Very 
Rare 
Not 
known 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very 
Common 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
Rare 
Not 
known 
sinusitis, urinary 
tract infection, ear 
infection, 
influenza 
hyperprolactinae
miaa 
weight increased, 
increased appetite, 
decreased appetite 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
insomniad 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
parkinsonismd, 
headache 
sleep disorder, 
agitation, 
depression, 
anxiety 
sedation/ 
somnolence, 
akathisiad, 
dystoniad, 
dizziness, 
dyskinesiad, 
tremor 
13 
onychomycosis, 
cellulitis localised 
infection, viral 
infection, 
acarodermatitis 
neutropenia, white 
blood cell count 
decreased, 
thrombocytopenia
, anaemia, 
haematocrit 
decreased, 
eosinophil count 
increased 
hypersensitivity 
diabetes mellitusb, 
hyperglycaemia, 
polydipsia, weight 
decreased, 
anorexia, blood 
cholesterol 
increased, blood 
triglycerides 
increased 
mania, 
confusional state, 
libido decreased, 
nervousness, 
nightmare 
tardive dyskinesia, 
cerebral 
ischaemia, loss of 
consciousness, 
convulsiond, 
syncope, 
psychomotor 
hyperactivity, 
balance disorder, 
coordination 
abnormal, 
dizziness postural, 
disturbance in 
agranulocytosis
c 
anaphylactic 
reactionc 
inappropriate 
antidiuretic 
hormone 
secretion, 
glycosuria  
water 
intoxicationc, 
hypoglycaemia, 
hyperinsulinae
miac 
catatonia, 
somnambulism, 
sleep-related 
eating disorder, 
blunted affect, 
anorgasmia 
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome, 
cerebrovascular 
disorder, 
diabetic coma, 
head titubation, 
unresponsive to 
stimuli, 
depressed level 
of 
consciousness 
diabetic 
ketoacido
sis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System 
Organ Class 
Very 
Common 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
Rare 
Not 
known 
Eye 
disorders 
vision blurred, 
conjunctivitis 
attention, 
dysarthria, 
dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia 
photophobia, dry 
eye, lacrimation 
increased, ocular 
hyperaemia 
vertigo, tinnitus, 
ear pain 
atrial fibrillation, 
atrioventricular 
block, conduction 
disorder, 
electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged, 
bradycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
abnormal, 
palpitations 
hypotension, 
orthostatic 
hypotension, 
flushing 
respiratory tract 
congestion, 
wheezing, 
epistaxis 
tachycardia 
hypertension 
dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngea
l pain, cough, 
nasal congestion 
abdominal pain, 
abdominal 
discomfort, 
vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, 
diarrhoea, 
dyspepsia, dry 
mouth, toothache 
faecal 
incontinence, 
faecaloma, 
gastroenteritis, 
dysphagia, 
flatulence 
14 
glaucoma, eye 
movement 
disorder, eye 
rolling, eyelid 
margin 
crusting, floppy 
iris syndrome 
(intraoperative)
c 
sinus 
arrhythmia 
pulmonary 
embolism, 
venous 
thrombosis 
sleep apnoea 
syndrome, 
hyperventilatio
n, rales, 
pneumonia 
aspiration, 
pulmonary 
congestion, 
dysphonia, 
respiratory 
disorder 
pancreatitis, 
intestinal 
obstruction, 
swollen tongue, 
cheilitis 
ileus 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointesti
nal disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
Rare 
Not 
known 
System 
Organ Class 
Hepatobiliar
y disorders 
Very 
Common 
Skin and 
subcutaneou
s tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskel
etal and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
Pregnancy, 
puerperium, 
and 
perinatal 
conditions 
Reproductiv
e system and 
breast 
disorders 
rash, erythema 
muscle spasms, 
musculoskeletal 
pain, back pain, 
arthralgia 
urinary 
incontinence 
General 
disorders 
and 
oedemad, pyrexia, 
chest pain, 
15 
transaminases 
increased, 
gamma-
glutamyltransferas
e increased, 
hepatic enzyme 
increased 
urticaria, pruritus, 
alopecia, 
hyperkeratosis, 
eczema, dry skin, 
skin 
discolouration, 
acne, seborrhoeicc 
dermatitis, skin 
disorder, skin 
lesion 
blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased, posture 
abnormal, joint 
stiffness, joint 
swelling muscular 
weakness, neck 
pain 
pollakiuria, 
urinary retention, 
dysuria 
erectile 
dysfunction, 
ejaculation 
disorder, 
amenorrhoea, 
menstrual 
disorderd, 
gynaecomastia, 
galactorrhoea, 
sexual 
dysfunction, 
breast pain, breast 
discomfort, 
vaginal discharge 
face oedema, 
chills, body 
temperature 
jaundice 
drug eruption, 
dandruff 
angioede
ma 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome
/toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis
c 
rhabdomyolysis  
drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatalc 
priapismc, 
menstruation 
delayed, breast 
engorgement, 
breast 
enlargement, 
breast discharge 
hypothermia, 
body 
temperature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Frequency 
Very 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
Rare 
Not 
known 
asthenia, fatigue, 
pain 
System 
Organ Class 
administrati
on site 
conditions 
decreased, 
peripheral 
coldness, drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome, 
indurationc 
increased, gait 
abnormal, thirst, 
chest discomfort, 
malaise, feeling 
abnormal, 
discomfort 
procedural pain, 
injection site 
discomfort, 
injection site 
erythema 
Fall, injection site 
pain, injection site 
swelling 
Injury, 
poisoning 
and 
procedural 
complication
s 
a Hyperprolactinaemia can in some cases lead to gynaecomastia, menstrual disturbances, amenorrhoea, anovulation, 
galactorrhoea, fertility disorder, decreased libido, erectile dysfunction. 
b In placebo-controlled trials diabetes mellitus was reported in 0.18% in risperidone-treated subjects compared to a 
rate of 0.11% in placebo group. Overall incidence from all clinical trials was 0.43% in all risperidone-treated 
subjects. 
c Not observed in risperidone clinical studies but observed in post-marketing environment with risperidone. 
d Extrapyramidal disorder may occur: Parkinsonism (salivary hypersecretion, musculoskeletal stiffness, 
parkinsonism, drooling, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle tightness, akinesia, 
nuchal rigidity, muscle rigidity, parkinsonian gait, and glabellar reflex abnormal, parkinsonian rest tremor), akathisia 
(akathisia, restlessness, hyperkinesia, and restless leg syndrome), tremor, dyskinesia (dyskinesia, muscle twitching, 
choreoathetosis, athetosis, and myoclonus), dystonia. Dystonia includes dystonia, hypertonia, torticollis, muscle 
contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, blepharospasm, oculogyration, tongue paralysis, facial spasm, 
laryngospasm, myotonia, opisthotonus, oropharyngeal spasm, pleurothotonus, tongue spasm, and trismus. It should 
be noted that a broader spectrum of symptoms is included, that do not necessarily have an extrapyramidal origin. 
Insomnia includes initial insomnia, middle insomnia. Convulsion includes grand mal convulsion. Menstrual 
disorder includes menstruation irregular, oligomenorrhoea. Oedema includes generalised oedema, oedema 
peripheral, pitting oedema. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
The most commonly reported injection site related adverse reaction was pain. In the phase 3 
study 14 out of 386 patients (3.6%) reported 18 events of injection pain reactions after 2827 
injections (0.6%) of OKEDI. The majority of these reactions were reported to be of mild to 
moderate severity. Subject evaluations of injection site pain based on a visual analogue scale 
tended to lessen in frequency and intensity over time.  
Cardiac disorders 
Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome  
Class effects 
Very rare cases of QT prolongation ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular 
tachycardia), sudden death, cardiac arrest and Torsades de Pointes have been reported post 
marketing with risperidone. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Venous thromboembolism 
Cases of venous thromboembolism, including cases of pulmonary embolism and cases of deep 
vein thrombosis, have been reported with antipsychotic drugs (frequency unknown). 
Changes in body weight 
Data from a 12-week double-blind (DB), placebo-controlled trial indicated that there was a 
mean increase in weight from baseline of 1.4 (-8 to 18) kg, 0.8 (-8 to 47) kg, and 0.2 (-12 to 18) 
kg after treatment with the OKEDI 75 mg, OKEDI 100 mg and placebo, respectively.   
Additional information on special populations  
Paediatric patients 
No information exists on efficacy and safety of OKEDI in children. 
Elderly patients  
Limited information exists on efficacy and safety of OKEDI in older patients with 
schizophrenia or dementia. In clinical trials with oral risperidone transient ischaemic attack and 
Cerebrovascular accident were reported with a frequency of 1.4% and 1.5%, respectively, in 
older patients with dementia compared to other adults. In addition, the following ADRs were 
reported with a frequency ≥ 5% in older patients with dementia and with at least twice the 
frequency seen in other adult populations: urinary tract infection, peripheral oedema, lethargy, 
and cough. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. 
It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9 
Overdose 
Symptoms 
In general, reported signs and symptoms have been those resulting from an exaggeration of the 
known pharmacological effects of risperidone. These include drowsiness and sedation, 
tachycardia and hypotension, and extrapyramidal symptoms. In overdose, QT prolongation and 
convulsions have been reported. Torsade de Pointes has been reported in association with 
combined overdose of risperidone and paroxetine. 
In case of acute overdose, the possibility of multiple medicines involvement should be 
considered.  
Treatment 
A clear airway should be established and maintained, and adequate oxygenation and ventilation 
should be ensured. Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should 
include continuous electrocardiographic monitoring to detect possible arrhythmias. 
There is no specific antidote to OKEDI. Therefore, appropriate supportive measures should be 
instituted. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should be treated with appropriate measures 
such as intravenous fluids and/or sympathomimetic agents. In case of severe extrapyramidal 
symptoms, an anticholinergic medicinal product should be administered. Close medical 
supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Psycholeptics, other antipsychotics, ATC code: N05AX08. 
Mechanism of action  
Risperidone is a selective monoaminergic antagonist with unique properties. It has a high 
affinity for serotoninergic 5-HT2 and dopaminergic D2 receptors. Risperidone binds also to 
alpha 1-adrenergic receptors, and, with lower affinity, to H1-histaminergic and alpha 2-
adrenergic receptors. Risperidone has no affinity for cholinergic receptors. Although risperidone 
is a potent D2 antagonist, which is considered to improve the positive symptoms of 
schizophrenia, it causes less depression of motor activity and induction of catalepsy than 
classical antipsychotics. Balanced central serotonin and dopamine antagonism may reduce 
extrapyramidal side effect liability and extend the therapeutic activity to the negative and 
affective symptoms of schizophrenia. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of OKEDI (75 mg and 100 mg) in the treatment of schizophrenia in adults was 
established in one Phase 3, multicentre, randomised, DB, placebo-controlled, parallel groups 
study. The study admitted patients with an acute exacerbation or relapse of schizophrenia 
(DSM-5 criteria), who had a baseline Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) score of 
80-120. At the screening visit, all risperidone naïve patients received 2 mg/day oral risperidone 
for 3 days to ensure a lack of hypersensitivity reactions before the trial. Patients with previous 
history of being treated with risperidone did not receive oral risperidone at the screening and 
started directly with OKEDI (75 mg or 100 mg) or placebo after randomization. Four hundred 
and thirty-eight (438) patients were randomised to receive 3 intramuscular doses of OKEDI (75 
mg or 100 mg) or placebo every 28 days. The mean age of patients was 42.0 (SD: 11.02) years. 
No patients < 18 years or > 65 years were included. Demographic and other baseline 
characteristics were similar in each treatment group. No supplemental oral risperidone was 
permitted during the study.  
The primary endpoint was the change in PANSS total score from baseline to end of study (Day 
85). Both OKEDI 75 and 100 mg doses demonstrated a statistically significant improvement 
compared with placebo based on the primary endpoint (Table 1 and Figure 1). These results 
support efficacy across the entire duration of treatment and improvement in PANSS and was 
observed as early as day 4 with significant separation from placebo in the 100 mg and 75 mg 
groups by day 8 and 15, respectively. Similar to the PANSS Total Score, the three PANSS 
positive, negative and general psychopathological subscale scores also showed an improvement 
(decrease) from baseline over time. 
18 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Mean change in PANSS and CGI-S total score from baseline to the end of study 
(day 85) (mITT Population) 
PANSS total score(a) 
  Mean baseline score (SD) 
  LS Mean Change, 95% CI (a) 
  Treatment Difference, 95% CI (b) 
  P-value 
CGI-S total score(c) 
  Mean baseline score (SD) 
  LS Mean Change, 95% CI (a) 
Placebo 
N=132 
OKEDI 75 mg 
N=129 
OKEDI 100 mg 
N=129 
96.4 (7.21) 
96.3 (8.47) 
96.1 (8.42) 
-11.0, 
-14.1 to -8.0 
-24.6,  
-27.5 to -21.6 
-13.0,  
-17.3 to -8.8 
-24.7,  
-27.7 to -21.6 
-13.3,  
-17.6 to -8.9 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
4.9 (0.52) 
-0.6, 
-0.8 to -0.4 
5.0 (0.65) 
-1.3,  
-1.5 to -1.2 
4.9 (0.48) 
-1.3,  
-1.5 to -1.2 
  Treatment Difference, 95% CI (b) 
-0.7, -1.0 to -0.5 
-0.7, -1.0 to -0.5 
  P-value 
a Data were analyzed using a mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) approach. 
b Difference (OKEDI minus placebo) in least squares mean change from baseline adjusted by Lawrence 
and Hung method.  
c The Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) score asks the clinician one question: “Considering 
your total clinical experience with this particular population, how mentally ill is the patient at this time?” 
which is rated on the following seven-point scale: 1=normal, not at all ill; 2=borderline mentally ill; 
3=mildly ill; 4=moderately ill; 5=markedly ill; 6=severely ill; 7=among the most extremely ill patients. 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
m
o
r
F
e
r
o
c
S
l
a
t
o
T
e
g
n
a
h
C
S
S
N
A
P
)
E
S
(
n
a
e
M
S
L
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
0
-8
-16
-24
-32
0
4
8
15
29
DB Study Day
57
Placebo
OKEDI 75 mg
OKEDI 100 mg
vs Placebo 
OKEDI 75 mg 
*** 
OKEDI 100 mg 
** 
**** 
**** 
**** 
          **** 
          **** 
** p < 0.01, *** p < 0.001, **** p < 0.0001. 
Figure 1: PANSS Total Score Change from Baseline at Each Time Point in DB Phase 
(mITT Population) 
19 
85
**** 
**** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The key secondary efficacy endpoint was defined as the mean change from baseline at Day 85 
on the Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) score. Both OKEDI treatment groups 
demonstrated statistically significantly better CGI-S scores versus placebo from day 8 onwards 
(-0.4 (0.05) and -0.6 (0.05) score reduction from baseline for 75 mg and 100 mg, respectively).  
Overall Response (PANSS total score reduction > 30% and/or CGI-I of 2 “much improved“ or 1 
“very much improved“) rate at endpoint for OKEDI was 56% and statistically significant from 
Day 8 and 15 onwards for both doses in comparison to placebo. 
The long-term (12 months) efficacy of OKEDI was evaluated in an open-label extension of the 
main study in 215 patients with schizophrenia. The extension study was open to enrolment for 
patients from the DB phase (rollover patients) and stable patients not previously enrolled in the 
study (de novo patients). The de novo patients were switched from oral risperidone to OKEDI 
75 mg or 100 mg. Efficacy was maintained over time with a relapse rate of 10.7% (95% CI, 
6.9% to 15.6%) and a remittance rate of 61.0% (95% CI, 53.7% to 68.4%).  
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Risperidone is metabolised to 9-hydroxy-risperidone, which has a similar pharmacological 
activity to risperidone (see Biotransformation and Elimination). 
Absorption  
OKEDI contains risperidone in a suspension delivery system that shows a combined absorption 
process. Following intramuscular injection, a small amount of the drug is immediately released 
at the moment of the injection that provides immediate plasma levels. After a first peak 
concentration, mean plasma concentrations decrease sustainedly through Day 14 and then 
increased again to reach a second peak between approximately Day 21 and Day 24. Following 
the second peak, plasma concentrations decreased gradually over time. The suspension forms a 
depot that provides sustained therapeutic plasma concentrations that are maintained over the 28-
day interval.  
After single IM injection of OKEDI 75 and 100 mg, mean active moiety concentrations of 13 ± 
9 and 29 ± 13 ng/mL respectively are achieved at 2 hours after administration. Active moiety 
plasma concentrations of 17 ± 8 and 21 ± 17 ng/mL respectively one month after administration, 
and in most of the patients the drug is completely eliminated 75 days after administration, with 
active moiety values lower than 1 ng/ml. 
The mean trough plasma concentrations (Ctrough). and mean maximum peak plasma 
concentrations (Cmax) of active moiety following repeated intramuscular injections with OKEDI 
are shown in Table 2. 
Table 2: Ctrough) and Cmax of active moiety following repeated intramuscular injections 
with OKEDI  
Dose 
75 mg(a) 
100 mg(b) 
Ctrough (SD) 
ng/mL 
17.6 
28.9 (13.7) 
Cmax (SD) 
ng/mL 
35.9 
69.7 (27.8) 
a Summary simulated estimates pharmacokinetic (PK) variables following the 3rd dose of OKEDI 75 mg 
using population (pop) PK model 
b Summary statistics PK variables following the 4th dose of OKEDI 100 mg from multiple dose clinical 
trial 
SD: standard deviation 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steady state concentrations for the typical subject were attained following the first dose. 
The average exposure at steady state was similar for both deltoid and gluteal injection sites.  
Distribution  
Risperidone is rapidly distributed. The volume of distribution is 1-2 l/kg. In plasma, risperidone 
is bound to albumin and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. The plasma protein binding of risperidone is 
90% that of 9-hydroxy-risperidone is 77%. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
Risperidone is metabolised by CYP2D6 to 9-hydroxy-risperidone, which has a similar 
pharmacological activity as risperidone. Risperidone plus 9-hydroxy-risperidone form the active 
moiety. CYP2D6 is subject to genetic polymorphism. Extensive CYP2D6 metabolisers convert 
risperidone rapidly into 9-hydroxy-risperidone, whereas poor CYP2D6 metabolisers convert it 
much more slowly. Although extensive metabolisers have lower risperidone and higher 9-
hydroxy-risperidone concentrations than poor metabolisers, the pharmacokinetics of risperidone 
and 9-hydroxy-risperidone combined (i.e., the active moiety), after single and multiple doses, 
are similar in extensive and poor metabolisers of CYP2D6. 
Another metabolic pathway of risperidone is N-dealkylation. In vitro studies in human liver 
microsomes showed that risperidone at clinically relevant concentration does not substantially 
inhibit the metabolism of medicines metabolised by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including 
CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. One week 
after administration, 70% of the dose is excreted in the urine and 14% in the faeces. In urine, 
risperidone plus 9-hydroxy-risperidone represent 35-45% of the dose. The remainder is inactive 
metabolites. After oral administration to psychotic patients, risperidone is eliminated with a 
half-life of about 3 hours. The elimination half-life of 9-hydroxy-risperidone and of the active 
moiety is 24 hours. 
The active moiety is eliminated within 75 days after OKEDI administration, with active moiety 
values lower than 1 ng/mL in most of the patients. 
OKEDI injection versus oral risperidone 
Initial plasma levels with OKEDI were within the exposure range observed with 3-4 mg of oral 
risperidone. Steady state exposure after OKEDI 100 mg compared to 4 mg oral risperidone was 
39% higher for AUC and 32% for Cmax and was similar for Cmin. Simulations based on 
population pharmacokinetic modelling show that OKEDI 75 mg exposure is similar to 3 mg 
oral risperidone at steady state.  
When switching from oral risperidone to OKEDI, the predicted exposure of the active moiety is 
in a similar range, including peak concentrations. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
OKEDI has been found to exhibit linear and dose-proportional pharmacokinetics at doses of 75 
and 100 mg.  
Elderly 
OKEDI has not been systematically studied in elderly patients (see section 4.2). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
OKEDI has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment. Patients with 
mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 60 to 89 mL/min) that received OKEDI 
administration showed similar active moiety exposure than patients with normal renal function. 
No data is available in moderate renal disease or severe renal disease.  
Hepatic impairment 
OKEDI has not been systematically studied in patients with hepatic impairment.  
Body mass index (BMI) 
Population pharmacokinetic simulations have shown potential increases in plasma 
concentrations of OKEDI in obese or morbid obese females in comparison with normal weight 
patients with insignificant clinical impact. 
Gender, race and smoking habits  
A pop PK analysis revealed no apparent effect of gender, race or smoking habits on the 
pharmacokinetics of risperidone or the active moiety. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
In vitro and in vivo, animal models show that at high doses risperidone may cause QT interval 
prolongation, which has been associated with a theoretically increased risk of Torsade de 
Pointes in patients. 
In (sub)chronic oral toxicity studies, in which dosing was started in sexually immature rats and 
dogs, dose-dependent effects were present in male and female genital tract and mammary gland. 
These effects were related to the increased serum prolactin levels, resulting from the dopamine 
D2 receptor blocking activity of risperidone. In addition, tissue culture studies suggest that cell 
growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by prolactin.  
The major effects of treatment with OKEDI observed following chronic (12 months of 
intramuscular administration) toxicity studies in dogs and rabbits were in accordance with the 
findings following oral distribution of risperidone in rats and dogs, and related to the 
pharmacological effects of risperidone. 
Local alterations, nodules, at the injection site in 12-cycle toxicity studies in dogs and rabbits 
were observed after intramuscularly administration of OKEDI. They consisted of muscular 
foreign body granulomatous inflammation attributed to natural body response to the presence of 
a foreign substance. Other local alterations observed in rabbits at 15 mg/kg (risperidone) were 
related to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) content. These all alterations were strictly local and there 
was evidence of reversibility. In dogs, transient pain associated to DMSO content was observed 
immediately after administration. 
There was no evidence of genotoxic potential for either risperidone or for OKEDI. 
In oral carcinogenicity studies of risperidone in rats and mice, increases in pituitary gland 
adenomas (mouse), endocrine pancreas adenomas (rat), and mammary gland adenomas (both 
species) were seen. These tumours can be related to prolonged dopamine D2 antagonism and 
hyperprolactinaemia. The relevance of these tumour findings in rodents in terms of human risk 
is unknown.  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Risperidone was not teratogenic in rat and rabbit. In rat reproduction studies with risperidone, 
adverse effects were seen on mating behaviour of the parents, and on the birth weight and 
survival of the offspring. In rats, intrauterine exposure to risperidone was associated with 
cognitive deficits in adulthood. Other dopamine antagonists, when administered to pregnant 
animals, have caused negative effects on learning and motor development in the offspring.  
In a toxicity study in juvenile rats, increased pup mortality and a delay in physical development 
was observed. In a 40-week study with juvenile dogs, sexual maturation was delayed. Based on 
area under the curve (AUC), long bone growth was not affected in dogs at 3.6-times the 
maximum human exposure in adolescents (1.5 mg/day); while effects on long bones and sexual 
maturation were observed at 15 times the maximum human exposure in adolescents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Pre-filled syringe of powder 
poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) 
Pre-filled syringe of solvent 
Dimethyl sulfoxide  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those 
mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
3 years 
OKEDI should be used immediately after reconstitution. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Store below 30ºC.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Powder pre-filled syringe 
Cyclic Olefin Polymer syringe with a nozzle cap and plunger stopper composed of chlorobutyl 
rubber covered with polytetrafluoroethylene. 
Solvent pre-filled syringe 
Cyclic Olefin Polymer syringe with a tip cap composed of chlorobutyl rubber, and a plunger 
stopper composed of bromobutyl rubber covered with ethylene-tetrafluoroethylene copolymer. 
The doses are differentiated by the colour used in the finger flange of the solvent pre-filled 
syringe, 100mg (blue) and 75 mg (red). 
The solvent for reconstitution is presented in the following dosage strengths:  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pre-filled syringe of solvent containing 0.383 mL of dimethyl sulfoxide (solvent for 
OKEDI 75 mg). 
•  Pre-filled syringe of solvent containing 0.490 mL of dimethyl sulfoxide (solvent for 
OKEDI 100 mg).  
Each kit box of OKEDI contains: 
•  An aluminium foil pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing powder and a silica gel 
desiccant sachet. 
•  An aluminium foil pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing the solvent and a silica 
gel desiccant sachet.  
•  One sterile needle for injection 2 inch (0.90 x 51mm [20G]) with safety shield used for 
gluteus administration. 
•  One sterile needle for injection 1 inch (0.80 x 25mm [21G]) with safety shield used for 
deltoid administration. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION 
•  For intramuscular use only. 
•  Patient should be given the injection immediately after reconstitution. 
•  Two administration sterile needles with safety shield are included for a deltoid or gluteus 
injection site. You will choose one prior to administration.  
•  Read the complete instructions before use. Full instructions for use and handling of 
OKEDI are provided in the package leaflet (See Instructions for healthcare 
professionals).  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid. 
Spain 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
OKEDI 75 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection  
EU/1/21/1621/001 
OKEDI 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
EU/1/21/1621/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 February 2022 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
C. 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
D. 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos ROVI, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid.  
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARDBOARD CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OKEDI 75 mg  
Powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled syringe contains 75 mg of risperidone 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) and dimethyl sulfoxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
The kit box contains:  
1 pre-filled syringe of powder and a desiccant 
1 pre-filled syringe of solvent for reconstitution and a desiccant 
2 sterile needles with safety shield 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
For intramuscular use only after reconstitution 
Single use only 
Use only the pre-filled syringe of solvent provided in the box for reconstitution 
Use immediately after reconstitution 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE 
6. 
STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 30 °C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
Julián Camarillo, 35 – 28037 Madrid. Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/21/1621/001 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
16. 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
17. 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
POWDER PRE-FILLED SYRINGE FOIL POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OKEDI 75 mg  
Powder for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Use only the pre-filled syringe of solvent provided in the box for reconstitution 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
POWDER PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF 
1. 
ADMINISTRATION 
OKEDI 75 mg  
powder for prolonged-release injection 
risperidone 
IM 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
SOLVENT PRE-FILLED SYRINGE FOIL POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Solvent for OKEDI 75mg 
Solvent for suspension for injection 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
SOLVENT PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF 
1. 
ADMINISTRATION 
Solvent for OKEDI 75mg 
IM after reconstitution  
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARDBOARD CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OKEDI 100 mg  
Powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg of risperidone 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) and dimethyl sulfoxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
The kit box contains:  
1 pre-filled syringe of powder and a desiccant 
1 pre-filled syringe of solvent for reconstitution and a desiccant 
2 sterile needles with safety shield 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
For intramuscular use only after reconstitution 
Single use only 
Use only the pre-filled syringe of solvent provided in the box for reconstitution 
Use immediately after reconstitution 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE 
6. 
STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 30 °C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
Julián Camarillo, 35 – 28037 Madrid. Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1621/002 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
16. 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
17. 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC 
SN 
NN 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
POWDER PRE-FILLED SYRINGE FOIL POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OKEDI 100 mg  
Powder for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Use only the pre-filled syringe of solvent provided in the box for reconstitution 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
POWDER PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF 
1. 
ADMINISTRATION 
OKEDI 100 mg  
powder for prolonged-release injection 
risperidone 
IM 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
SOLVENT PRE-FILLED SYRINGE FOIL POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Solvent for OKEDI 100mg 
Solvent for suspension for injection 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
SOLVENT PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF 
1. 
ADMINISTRATION 
Solvent for OKEDI 100mg 
IM after reconstitution 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
OKEDI 75 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What OKEDI is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use OKEDI 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use OKEDI 
Possible side effects 
How to store OKEDI 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What OKEDI is and what it is used for 
OKEDI contains the active substance risperidone which belongs to the group of medicines 
called ‘antipsychotics’.  
OKEDI is used in adult patients to treat schizophrenia, where you may see, hear or feel things 
that are not there, believe things that are not true or feel unusually suspicious, or confused.  
OKEDI is intended for patients who show tolerability and effectiveness to oral (e.g. tablets) 
risperidone. 
OKEDI can help alleviate the symptoms of your disease and stop your symptoms from coming 
back. 
2. 
What you need to know before you use OKEDI 
Do not use OKEDI: 
• 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to risperidone or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking OKEDI if:  
• 
You have a heart problem. Examples include an irregular heart rhythm or if you are prone 
to low blood pressure or if you are using medicines for your blood pressure. OKEDI may 
cause low blood pressure. Your dose may need to be adjusted 
You know of any factors which would favour you having a stroke, such as high 
blood pressure, cardiovascular disorder or blood vessel problems in the brain 
You have ever experienced involuntary movements of the tongue, mouth and face 
You have ever had a condition whose symptoms include high temperature, muscle 
stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (also known as Neuroleptic 
Malignant Syndrome) 
• 
• 
• 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You have Parkinson’s disease 
You have dementia  
You know that you have had low levels of white blood cells in the past (which may or 
may not have been caused by other medicines) 
You are diabetic 
You have epilepsy 
You are a man and you have ever had a prolonged or painful erection 
You have problems controlling your body temperature or overheating 
You have kidney problems 
You have liver problems 
You have an abnormally high level of the hormone prolactin in your blood or if you 
have a tumour, which is possibly dependent on prolactin 
You or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as 
antipsychotics have been associated with formation of blood clots. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist 
before using oral risperidone or OKEDI. 
During treatment 
Dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood has been seen very rarely with patients taking risperidone. Your doctor may therefore 
check your white blood cell counts before and during treatment. 
Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone, rarely allergic reactions occur after 
receiving injections of OKEDI. Seek medical attention right away if you experience a rash, 
swelling of your throat, itching, or breathing problems as these may be signs of a serious 
allergic reaction. 
OKEDI may cause you to gain weight. Significant weight gain may adversely affect your 
health. Your doctor should regularly measure your body weight. 
Diabetes mellitus or worsening of pre-existing diabetes mellitus have been seen with 
patients taking OKEDI. Your doctor should therefore check for signs of high blood sugar. 
In patients with pre-existing diabetes mellitus blood glucose should be monitored 
regularly. 
OKEDI commonly raises levels of a hormone called "prolactin". This may cause side effects 
such as menstrual disorders or fertility problems in women, breast swelling in men (see section 
4 Possible side effects). If such side effects occur, evaluation of the prolactin level in the blood 
is recommended. 
During an operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens (cataract), problems may arise that 
may lead to eye damage. If you are planning to have an operation on your eye, make sure you 
tell your eye doctor that you are taking this medicine. 
Children and adolescents  
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents under 18 years old. 
Other medicines and OKEDI 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
43 
 
It is especially important to talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the 
following 
• 
Medicines that work on your brain such as to help you calm down (benzodiazepines) or 
some medicines for pain (opiates), medicines for allergy (some antihistamines), as 
OKEDI may increase the sedative effect of all of these. 
Medicines that may change the electrical activity of your heart, such as medicines for 
malaria, heart rhythm problems, allergies (antihistamines), some antidepressants or 
other medicines for mental problems. 
Medicines that cause a slow heartbeat. 
Medicines that cause low blood potassium (such as certain diuretics). 
Medicines to treat raised blood pressure. OKEDI can lower blood pressure 
Medicines for Parkinson's disease (such as levodopa). 
Medicines that increase the activity of the central nervous system 
(psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Water tablets (diuretics) used for heart problems or swelling of parts of your body due to 
accumulation of too much fluid (such as furosemide or chlorothiazide). OKEDI taken by 
itself or with furosemide, may have an increased risk of stroke or death in elderly people 
with dementia. 
The following medicines may reduce the effect of risperidone 
• 
Rifampicin (a medicine for treating some infections) 
• 
Carbamazepine, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy) 
• 
Phenobarbital. 
If you start or stop taking such medicines, you may need a different dose of risperidone. 
The following medicines may increase the effect of risperidone 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Quinidine (used for certain types of heart disease) 
Antidepressants (such as paroxetine, fluoxetine, tricyclic antidepressants) 
Medicines known as beta-blockers (used to treat high blood pressure) 
Phenothiazines (such as medicines used to treat psychosis or to calm down) 
Cimetidine, ranitidine (blockers of the acidity of stomach) 
Itraconazole and ketoconazole (medicines for treating fungal infections) 
Certain medicines used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS, such as ritonavir. 
Verapamil, a medicine used to treat high blood pressure and/or abnormal heart rhythm 
Sertraline and fluvoxamine, medicines used to treat depression and other psychiatric 
disorders. 
If you start or stop taking such medicines, you may need a different dose of risperidone. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist 
before using OKEDI. 
OKEDI with food, drink and alcohol 
You should avoid drinking alcohol when using OKEDI. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
• 
• 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have 
a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Your 
doctor will decide if you can use it. 
The following symptoms may occur in newborn babies, of mothers that have used 
risperidone in the last trimester (last three months of their pregnancy): shaking, muscle 
stiffness, and/or weakness, sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, and difficulty in 
feeding. If your baby develops any of these symptoms you may need to contact your 
doctor. 
44 
• 
OKEDI can raise your levels of a hormone called "prolactin" that may impact fertility 
(see section 4 Possible side effects). 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness, tiredness, and vision problems may occur during treatment with OKEDI. Do not 
drive or use any tools or machines without talking to your doctor first. 
3. 
How to use OKEDI 
You will be given OKEDI as an intramuscular injection either in the upper arm or buttock 
every 28 days, by a healthcare professional. Injections should be alternated between the right 
and left sides. 
The recommended dose is 75 mg every 28 days, but a higher dose of 100 mg every 28 days may 
be necessary. Your doctor will decide on the dose of OKEDI that is right for you. 
If you are currently treated with other antipsychotics than risperidone, but have taken 
risperidone in the past, you should begin taking oral risperidone with at least 6 days before 
beginning treatment with OKEDI.  
If you have never taken any form of risperidone, you should begin taking oral risperidone with 
at least 14 days before beginning treatment with OKEDI. The duration of the oral risperidone 
period will be determined by your physician.  
If you have kidney problems 
OKEDI is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe impaired kidney function. 
If you are given more OKEDI than you should 
• 
• 
See a doctor right away.  
In case of overdose you may feel sleepy or tired, or have abnormal body 
movements, problems standing and walking, feel dizzy due to low blood pressure, 
or have abnormal heartbeats or fits. 
If you stop using OKEDI 
You will lose the effects of the medicine. You should not stop using this medicine unless told to 
do so by your doctor as your symptoms may return.  
It is important not to miss your appointments when you are supposed to receive your injections 
of this medicine once every 28 days. If you cannot keep your appointment, make sure to contact 
your doctor right away to discuss another date when you can come in for your injection.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact a doctor or go to your nearest emergency department immediately if you 
experience the following uncommon side effect (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Experience tardive dyskinesia (twitching or jerking movements that you cannot control 
in your face, tongue, or other parts of your body).  
Contact a doctor or go to your nearest emergency department immediately if you 
experience any of the following rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
Experience blood clots in the veins, especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, 
pain, and redness in the leg), which may travel through blood vessels to the lungs 
causing chest pain and difficulty breathing.  
Experience fever, muscle stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (a 
disorder called “Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome”). 
Are a man and experience prolonged or painful erection. This is called priapism.  
Experience severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or 
tongue, shortness of breath, itching, skin rash or drop in blood pressure (anaphylactic 
reaction or angioedema). Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone, 
rarely allergic reactions occur after receiving injections of OKEDI.  
Have a dark red or brown urine or notable decreased urination along with muscle 
weakness or trouble moving arms and legs. These may be signs of rhabdomyolysis (a 
rapid damage of your muscles). 
Have weakness or lightheadedness, fever, chills or sores in the mouth. These may be 
signs of very low number of granulocytes (a type of white blood cell to help you 
against infection). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following other side effects may also happen: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
Difficulty falling or staying asleep 
Parkinsonism: movement disorders that may include slow or impaired movements, 
sensation of stiffness or tightness of the muscles, and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement "freezing up" and then restarting. Other signs include a slow shuffling 
walk, tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face 
Headache. 
• 
• 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Pneumonia (lung infection), bronchitis (infection of the main airways of the lungs), sinus 
infection, urinary tract infection, ear infection, flu, flu-like symptoms, sore throat, cough, 
stuffy nose, fever, eye infection or “pink eye” 
Raised levels of a hormone called "prolactin" found in a blood test. Symptoms of 
high prolactin occur uncommonly and may include in men breast swelling, difficulty 
in getting or maintaining erections, decreased sexual desire. In women they may 
include leakage of milk from the breasts, menstrual disorders, missed menstrual 
periods, lack of ovulation, fertility problems 
•  Weight gain, increased or decreased appetite 
• 
• 
Sleep disorder, irritability, depression, anxiety, feeling sleepy, or less alert  
Dystonia (involuntary contraction of muscles that cause slow repetitive movements 
or abnormal postures), dyskinesia (another condition which affects involuntary 
46 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
muscle movements including repetitive, spastic or writhing movements, or 
twitching)  
Tremor (shaking), muscle spasms, bone or muscle pain, back pain, joint pain, fall  
Blurry vision 
Urinary incontinence (involuntary leakage of urine) 
Rapid heart rate, high blood pressure, shortness of breath 
Abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, vomiting, nausea, dizziness, constipation, 
diarrhoea, indigestion, dry mouth, toothache 
Rash, skin redness, reaction at the injection site (including discomfort, pain, redness or 
swelling), swelling of the body, arms or legs, chest pain, lack of energy and strength, 
fatigue, pain. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Bladder infection, tonsillitis, fungal infection of nails, infection of the deeper layers of 
the skin, viral infection, inflammation of the skin caused by mites 
Decrease or increase in white blood cells in your blood, decrease in platelets (blood cells 
that help you stop bleeding), anaemia or haematocrit decreased (decrease in red blood 
cells), blood creatine phosphokinase enzyme increased, increased liver enzymes in your 
blood 
Low blood pressure, drop in blood pressure after standing, flushing, brain ischemia 
(insufficient blood flow to the brain) 
Diabetes, high blood sugar, excessive drinking of water, increased cholesterol in your 
blood, weight loss, anorexia, high blood triglycerides (a fat) 
Mania (elated mood), confusion, decreased sexual drive, nervousness, nightmares 
Fainting, convulsion (fits), sensation of spinning (vertigo), tinnitus, ear pain 
A restless urge to move parts of your body, balance disorder, abnormal coordination, poor 
attention, problems with speech, loss or abnormal sense of taste, reduced sensation of 
skin to pain and touch, a sensation of tingling, pricking, or numbness on the skin 
Irregular and often rapid heart rate, slow heart rate, abnormal electrocardiogram (test that 
measures the electrical activity of the heartbeat), palpitations (a fluttering or pounding 
feeling in your chest), an interruption in conduction between the upper and lower parts of 
the heart 
Congestion of breathing passages, wheezing (coarse/whistling sound during breathing), 
nose bleeds 
Abnormal  posture,  joint  stiffness,  joint  swelling,  muscle  weakness,  neck  pain,  walking 
abnormality, thirst, feeling unwell, chest discomfort or general discomfort, feeling “out of 
sorts” 
Stomach  or  intestinal  infection  or  irritation,  fecal  incontinence,  difficulty  swallowing, 
excessive passing of gas or wind, frequent passing of urine, inability to pass urine, pain 
when passing urine 
Loss  of menstrual  periods or  other  problems  with  your  cycle,  leakage  of milk from  the 
breasts,  sexual  dysfunction,  breast  pain  or  discomfort,  vaginal  discharge,  erectile 
dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, development of breast in men 
Hives,  thickening  of  skin,  skin  disorder,  intense  itching  of  the  skin,  hair  loss,  eczema 
(patches of skin become inflamed, itchy, cracked, and rough), dry skin, skin discoloration, 
acne, seborrheic dermatitis (red, scaly, greasy, itchy, and inflamed skin), skin lesion 
Oversensitivity of the eyes to light, dry eye, increased tears 
Allergic reaction, chills. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
47 
 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
Infection 
Inappropriate secretion of a hormone that controls urine volume, dangerously excessive 
intake of water, excess of sugar in the urine, low blood sugar, increased insulin (a 
hormone that controls blood sugar levels) in your blood 
Not responsive to stimulation, catatonia (not moving or responding while awake), low 
level of consciousness, sleep walking, sleep-related eating disorder, trouble breathing 
during sleep (sleep apnea), fast shallow breathing, lung infection caused by inhaling food 
into the breathing passages, lung congestion, breathing passage disorder, voice disorder, 
crackly lung sounds, lack of emotion, inability to reach orgasm 
Blood vessel problems in the brain, coma due to uncontrolled diabetes, involuntary 
shaking of the head 
Glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye), problems with movement of your eyes, 
eye rolling, eyelid margin crusting/inflammation, eye problems during cataract surgery 
Inflammation of the pancreas, blockage in the bowels 
Swollen tongue, chapped lips, dandruff, jaundice (yellowing of the skin and the eyes), 
hardening of the skin 
Breast enlargement, breast engorgement (hard, swollen, painful breasts from too much 
breast milk production) 
Decreased body temperature, coldness in arms and legs 
Symptoms of drug withdrawal (also in newborns) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
• 
Life threatening complications of uncontrolled diabetes 
• 
Lack of bowel muscle movement that causes blockage. 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
Severe or life‑threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin that may start in and around 
the mouth, nose, eyes, and genitals and spread to other areas of the body (Stevens‑Johnson 
syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store OKEDI 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, aluminium pouches 
or syringe labels after (EXP). The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 30°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Use OKEDI immediately after reconstitution. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What OKEDI contains 
The active substance is risperidone.  
Only the powder syringe contains the active substance. Once reconstituted the amount of 
risperidone delivered is 75 mg.  
The other ingredients are:  
Pre-filled syringe of powder: poly-(D, L-lactide-co-glycolide).  
Pre-filled syringe of solvent: dimethyl sulfoxide.  
What OKEDI looks like and contents of the pack 
Each kit box of OKEDI powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
contains: 
•  An aluminium pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing powder (within this powder is the 
active substance, risperidone) and a silica gel desiccant sachet. The powder is white to white-
yellowish, non-aggregated. 
•  An aluminium pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing the solvent and a silica gel 
desiccant sachet. The pre-filled syringe of the solvent contains a clear solution and has a RED 
finger flange. 
•  One sterile needle for IM injection 2 inch (0.90 x 51mm [20G]) with safety shield used for 
gluteus administration. 
•  One sterile needle for IM injection 1 inch (0.80 x 25mm [21G]) with safety shield used for 
deltoid administration. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid. 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espagne/Spanje 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
България 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Испания 
Teл.: +34 91 375 62 30 
Lietuva 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Ispanija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espagne/Spanien 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Česká republika 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španělsko 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Danmark 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanien 
Tlf: +34 91 375 62 30 
Deutschland 
Rovi GmbH 
Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 6 
83607 Holzkirchen 
Tel: +49 8024 4782955 
Eesti 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Hispaania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Ελλάδα 
BIANEΞ Α.Ε. 
Οδός Βαρυμπόμπης 8, 
14671 Ν. Ερυθραία, Κηφισιά 
Tηλ. 210 8009111 
España 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
France 
ROVI  
24, Rue Du Drac  
38180 Seyssins 
Tél: +33 (0)4 76 968 969 
Hrvatska 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Magyarország 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanyolország 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Malta 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanja 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Nederland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanje 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Norge 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spania 
Tlf: +34 91 375 62 30 
Österreich 
Rovi GmbH 
Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 6 
83607 Holzkirchen 
Deutschland 
Tel: +43 664 1340471 
Polska 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Hiszpania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Portugal 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espanha 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
România 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spain 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Ísland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spánn 
Sími: +34 91 375 62 30 
Italia 
Rovi Biotech, S.R.L. 
Viale Achille Papa, 30 
20149 Milano 
Tel: +39 02 366 877 10 
Κύπρος 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Ισπανία 
Τηλ: +34 91 375 62 30 
Latvija 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spānija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Slovenija 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Slovenská republika 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španielsko 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Suomi/Finland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espanja/Spanien 
Puh/Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Sverige 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanien 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Rovi Biotech Limited  
Davis House 4th Floor Suite 425  
Robert Street Croydon CR0 1QQ - UK 
Tel: + 44 (0) 203 642 06 77 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS 
OKEDI 75 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
Important information  
OKEDI requires close attention to these step-by-step Instructions for Use to help ensure 
successful administration.  
Use components provided 
The components in the kit box are specifically designed for use with OKEDI.  
OKEDI must be reconstituted only with the solvent supplied in the kit box.  
Do not substitute ANY components of the kit box.  
Administer dose immediately after reconstitution. For intramuscular use only after 
reconstitution.  
Proper dosing  
The entire content of the reconstituted syringe must be administered to ensure intended dose of 
OKEDI is delivered.  
Single use device  
1. 
CHECK CONTENTS 
Working on a clean surface, open the sachets and discard the desiccant pack. 
The kit box of OKEDI contains: 
• One aluminium foil pouch with a OKEDI pre-filled syringe with a WHITE plunger rod and 
WHITE finger flange. The syringe is marked with 
• One aluminium foil pouch with SOLVENT for OKEDI pre-filled syringe with a 
TRANSPARENT plunger rod and a RED finger flange. The syringe is marked with 
•Two administration needles (21G, 1 inch for deltoid [green cap] and a 20G, 2 inch for gluteus 
[yellow cap]). 
. 
. 
Discard the kit if any component is damaged. 
In the event of any foreign particulate matter and/or variation of physical aspect is observed, do 
not administer OKEDI.  
1.1 Inspect solvent syringe 
ENSURE that SOLVENT syringe content flows normally as a liquid.  
The solvent freezes below 19ºC. 
If it is frozen or partially frozen, allow to thaw using hands contact or leaving it at room 
temperature until liquid flow recovered before continuing. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 Dislodge powder syringe 
TAP the OKEDI syringe to dislodge potential packed powder near the cap. 
2.  
CONNECT THE SYRINGES 
2.1 Uncap syringes in upright position 
Hold both syringes in upright position to prevent loss of product. 
PULL the cap off the Solvent syringe. 
TWIST and PULL the Powder syringe cap off. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 Connect the syringes 
Pick the solvent syringe S that has the coloured finger flange and place it on TOP of the powder 
syringe R, or slightly lean it when connecting. 
TWIST the syringes together until you feel a slight resistance. 
Make sure that Powder syringe R is in the upright position to prevent loss of product. 
3.  
MIX THE CONTENTS 
STOP AND READ THIS SECTION BEFORE STARTING OR THE MEDICINE MAY 
NOT CORRECTLY RECONSTITUTE. 
• PUSH VIGOROUSLY the Solvent content towards the Powder syringe.  
• DO NOT WAIT for powder wetting and QUICKLY start mixing contents by pushing the 
plungers FAST and alternately for 100 pushes (2 pushes within 1 second, approximately 1 
minute).  
• ENSURE  medicine  is  passing  between  both  syringes  for  a  properly  mixing:  medicine  is 
viscous and you will need to apply force when pressing on the plunger rods. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mix for at least 100 pushes by doing alternately 
followed by 
Make sure medicine is passing between both syringes 
When medicine is correctly mixed, the appearance will be a uniform suspension off white to 
yellowish colour and thick consistency. 
Once reconstituted, proceed immediately to prepare the injection syringe for administration 
to avoid loss of homogeneity. 
4.  
PREPARE INJECTION SYRINGE 
4.1 Transfer medicine 
Place downward pressure on the R plunger rod and transfer all the content into the S syringe 
that has attached the coloured finger flange. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Make sure all the content is transferred. 
4.2 Detach syringes 
Once the medicine is fully transferred, separate the two syringes by untwisting. 
OKEDI should be administered immediately to avoid loss of homogeneity. 
4.3 Attach the sterile needle with safety shield 
Choose the proper needle: 
• Deltoid: 21G, 1 inch for deltoid (green cap).  
• Gluteus: 20G, 2 inch for gluteus (yellow cap). 
Attach it using a clockwise twisting motion. Do not over-tighten. 
4.4 Remove exceeding air 
Remove needle cover and push out the excess of air (only big bubbles) from the syringe barrel. 
DO NOT expel any drops of medicine 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If medicine is seen at the needle tip, pull back slightly on the plunger to prevent medicine 
spillage. 
5.  
ADMINISTER AND DISPOSE 
5.1 Inject medicine 
Insert the needle fully into the muscle. DO NOT INJECT BY ANY OTHER ROUTE. 
THICK MEDICINE, INJECT IT SLOWLY AND STEADILY. MAKE SURE TO FULLY 
INJECT IT. 
•  The injection time is longer than usual due to the viscosity of the medicine. 
•  Wait a few seconds before removing the needle. 
•  Avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel. 
5.2 Dispose medicine 
Cover the needle pressing on the needle guard using a finger or a flat surface and dispose 
immediately in a secure sharps disposal container. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
OKEDI 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
risperidone 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What OKEDI is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use OKEDI 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use OKEDI 
Possible side effects 
How to store OKEDI 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What OKEDI is and what it is used for 
OKEDI contains the active substance risperidone which belongs to the group of medicines 
called ‘antipsychotics’.  
OKEDI is used in adult patients to treat schizophrenia, where you may see, hear or feel things 
that are not there, believe things that are not true or feel unusually suspicious, or confused. 
OKEDI is intended for patients who show tolerability and effectiveness to oral (e.g. tablets) 
risperidone. 
OKEDI can help alleviate the symptoms of your disease and stop your symptoms from coming 
back. 
2. 
What you need to know before you use OKEDI 
Do not use OKEDI: 
• 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to risperidone or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking OKEDI if:  
• 
You have a heart problem. Examples include an irregular heart rhythm or if you are prone 
to low blood pressure or if you are using medicines for your blood pressure. OKEDI may 
cause low blood pressure. Your dose may need to be adjusted 
You know of any factors which would favour you having a stroke, such as high 
blood pressure, cardiovascular disorder or blood vessel problems in the brain 
You have ever experienced involuntary movements of the tongue, mouth and face 
• 
• 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You have ever had a condition whose symptoms include high temperature, muscle 
stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (also known as Neuroleptic 
Malignant Syndrome) 
You have Parkinson’s disease 
You have dementia  
You know that you have had low levels of white blood cells in the past (which may or 
may not have been caused by other medicines) 
You are diabetic 
You have epilepsy 
You are a man and you have ever had a prolonged or painful erection 
You have problems controlling your body temperature or overheating 
You have kidney problems 
You have liver problems 
You have an abnormally high level of the hormone prolactin in your blood or if you 
have a tumour, which is possibly dependent on prolactin 
You or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as 
antipsychotics have been associated with formation of blood clots. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist 
before using oral risperidone or OKEDI. 
During treatment 
Dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight 
infection in your blood has been seen very rarely with patients taking risperidone. 
Your doctor may therefore check your white blood cell counts before and during 
treatment. 
Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone, rarely allergic reactions occur after 
receiving injections of OKEDI. Seek medical attention right away if you experience a rash, 
swelling of your throat, itching, or breathing problems as these may be signs of a serious 
allergic reaction. 
OKEDI may cause you to gain weight. Significant weight gain may adversely affect your 
health. Your doctor should regularly measure your body weight. 
Diabetes mellitus or worsening of pre-existing diabetes mellitus have been seen with 
patients taking OKEDI. Your doctor should therefore check for signs of high blood sugar. 
In patients with pre-existing diabetes mellitus blood glucose should be monitored 
regularly. 
OKEDI commonly raises levels of a hormone called "prolactin". This may cause side effects 
such as menstrual disorders or fertility problems in women, breast swelling in men (see section 
4 Possible side effects). If such side effects occur, evaluation of the prolactin level in the blood 
is recommended. 
During an operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens (cataract), problems may arise that 
may lead to eye damage. If you are planning to have an operation on your eye, make sure you 
tell your eye doctor that you are taking this medicine. 
Children and adolescents  
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents under 18 years old. 
59 
 
 
Other medicines and OKEDI 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
It is especially important to talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the 
following 
• 
Medicines that work on your brain such as to help you calm down (benzodiazepines) or 
some medicines for pain (opiates), medicines for allergy (some antihistamines), as 
OKEDI may increase the sedative effect of all of these. 
Medicines that may change the electrical activity of your heart, such as medicines for 
malaria, heart rhythm problems, allergies (antihistamines), some antidepressants or 
other medicines for mental problems. 
Medicines that cause a slow heartbeat. 
Medicines that cause low blood potassium (such as certain diuretics). 
Medicines to treat raised blood pressure. OKEDI can lower blood pressure 
Medicines for Parkinson's disease (such as levodopa). 
Medicines that increase the activity of the central nervous system 
(psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Water tablets (diuretics) used for heart problems or swelling of parts of your body due to 
accumulation of too much fluid (such as furosemide or chlorothiazide). OKEDI taken by 
itself or with furosemide, may have an increased risk of stroke or death in elderly people 
with dementia. 
The following medicines may reduce the effect of risperidone 
• 
Rifampicin (a medicine for treating some infections) 
• 
Carbamazepine, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy) 
• 
Phenobarbital. 
If you start or stop taking such medicines, you may need a different dose of risperidone. 
The following medicines may increase the effect of risperidone 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Quinidine (used for certain types of heart disease) 
Antidepressants (such as paroxetine, fluoxetine, tricyclic antidepressants) 
Medicines known as beta-blockers (used to treat high blood pressure) 
Phenothiazines (such as medicines used to treat psychosis or to calm down) 
Cimetidine, ranitidine (blockers of the acidity of stomach) 
Itraconazole and ketoconazole (medicines for treating fungal infections) 
Certain medicines used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS, such as ritonavir. 
Verapamil, a medicine used to treat high blood pressure and/or abnormal heart rhythm 
Sertraline and fluvoxamine, medicines used to treat depression and other psychiatric 
disorders. 
If you start or stop taking such medicines, you may need a different dose of risperidone. 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist 
before using OKEDI. 
OKEDI with food, drink and alcohol 
You should avoid drinking alcohol when using OKEDI. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
• 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have 
a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Your 
doctor will decide if you can use it. 
60 
 
• 
• 
The following symptoms may occur in newborn babies, of mothers that have used 
risperidone in the last trimester (last three months of their pregnancy): shaking, muscle 
stiffness, and/or weakness, sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, and difficulty in 
feeding. If your baby develops any of these symptoms you may need to contact your 
doctor. 
OKEDI can raise your levels of a hormone called "prolactin" that may impact fertility 
(see section 4 Possible side effects). 
Driving and using machines 
Dizziness, tiredness, and vision problems may occur during treatment with OKEDI. Do not 
drive or use any tools or machines without talking to your doctor first. 
3. 
How to use OKEDI 
You will be given OKEDI as an intramuscular injection either in the upper arm or buttock 
every 28 days, by a healthcare professional. Injections should be alternated between the right 
and left sides. 
The recommended dose is 75 mg every 28 days, but a higher dose of 100 mg every 28 days may 
be necessary. Your doctor will decide on the dose of OKEDI that is right for you. 
If you are currently treated with other antipsychotics than risperidone, but have taken 
risperidone in the past, you should begin taking oral risperidone with at least 6 days before 
beginning treatment with OKEDI. If you have never taken any form of risperidone, you should 
begin taking oral risperidone with at least 14 days before beginning treatment with OKEDI. The 
duration of the oral risperidone period will be determined by your physician. 
If you have kidney problems 
OKEDI is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe impaired kidney function. 
If you are given more OKEDI than you should 
• 
• 
See a doctor right away.  
In case of overdose you may feel sleepy or tired, or have abnormal body 
movements, problems standing and walking, feel dizzy due to low blood pressure, 
or have abnormal heartbeats or fits. 
If you stop using OKEDI 
You will lose the effects of the medicine. You should not stop using this medicine unless told to 
do so by your doctor as your symptoms may return.  
It is important not to miss your appointments when you are supposed to receive your injections 
of this medicine once every 28 days. If you cannot keep your appointment, make sure to contact 
your doctor right away to discuss another date when you can come in for your injection.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact a doctor or go to your nearest emergency department immediately if you 
experience the following uncommon side effect (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Experience tardive dyskinesia (twitching or jerking movements that you cannot control 
in your face, tongue, or other parts of your body). 
Contact a doctor or go to your nearest emergency department immediately if you 
experience any of the following rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Experience blood clots in the veins, especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, 
pain, and redness in the leg), which may travel through blood vessels to the lungs 
causing chest pain and difficulty breathing. 
Experience fever, muscle stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (a 
disorder called “Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome”). 
Are a man and experience prolonged or painful erection. This is called priapism.  
Experience severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or 
tongue, shortness of breath, itching, skin rash or drop in blood pressure (anaphylactic 
reaction or angioedema). Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone, 
rarely allergic reactions occur after receiving injections of OKEDI.  
Have a dark red or brown urine or notable decreased urination along with muscle 
weakness or trouble moving arms and legs. These may be signs of rhabdomyolysis (a 
rapid damage of your muscles). 
Have weakness or lightheadedness, fever, chills or sores in the mouth. These may be 
signs of very low number of granulocytes (a type of white blood cell to help you 
against infection). 
The following other side effects may also happen: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
Difficulty falling or staying asleep 
Parkinsonism: movement disorders that may include slow or impaired movements, 
sensation of stiffness or tightness of the muscles, and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement "freezing up" and then restarting. Other signs include a slow shuffling 
walk, tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face 
Headache. 
• 
• 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Pneumonia (lung infection), bronchitis (infection of the main airways of the lungs), 
sinus infection, urinary tract infection, ear infection, flu, flu-like symptoms, sore 
throat, cough, stuffy nose, fever, eye infection or “pink eye” 
Raised levels of a hormone called "prolactin" found in a blood test. Symptoms of 
high prolactin occur uncommonly and may include in men breast swelling, difficulty 
in getting or maintaining erections, decreased sexual desire. In women they may 
include leakage of milk from the breasts, menstrual disorders, missed menstrual 
periods, lack of ovulation, fertility problems 
•  Weight gain, increased or decreased appetite 
• 
• 
Sleep disorder, irritability, depression, anxiety, feeling sleepy, or less alert 
Dystonia (involuntary contraction of muscles that cause slow repetitive movements 
or abnormal postures), dyskinesia (another condition which affects involuntary 
62 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
muscle movements including repetitive, spastic or writhing movements, or 
twitching) 
Tremor (shaking), muscle spasms, bone or muscle pain, back pain, joint pain, fall  
Blurry vision 
Urinary incontinence (involuntary leakage of urine) 
Rapid heart rate, high blood pressure, shortness of breath 
Abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, vomiting, nausea, dizziness, constipation, 
diarrhoea, indigestion, dry mouth, toothache 
Rash, skin redness, reaction at the injection site (including discomfort, pain, redness or 
swelling), swelling of the body, arms or legs, chest pain, lack of energy and strength, 
fatigue, pain. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Bladder infection, tonsillitis, fungal infection of nails, infection of the deeper layers of 
the skin, viral infection, inflammation of the skin caused by mites 
Decrease or increase in white blood cells in your blood, decrease in platelets 
(blood cells that help you stop bleeding), anaemia or haematocrit decreased 
(decrease in red blood cells), blood creatine phosphokinase enzyme 
increased, increased liver enzymes in your blood 
Low blood pressure, drop in blood pressure after standing, flushing, brain ischemia 
(insufficient blood flow to the brain) 
Diabetes, high blood sugar, excessive drinking of water, increased cholesterol in your 
blood, weight loss, anorexia, high blood triglycerides (a fat) 
Mania (elated mood), confusion, decreased sexual drive, nervousness, nightmares 
Fainting, convulsion (fits), sensation of spinning (vertigo), tinnitus, ear pain 
A restless urge to move parts of your body, balance disorder, abnormal coordination, poor 
attention, problems with speech, loss or abnormal sense of taste, reduced sensation of 
skin to pain and touch, a sensation of tingling, pricking, or numbness on the skin 
Irregular and often rapid heart rate, slow heart rate, abnormal electrocardiogram (test that 
measures the electrical activity of the heartbeat), palpitations (a fluttering or pounding 
feeling in your chest), an interruption in conduction between the upper and lower parts of 
the heart 
Congestion of breathing passages, wheezing (coarse/whistling sound during breathing), 
nose bleeds 
Abnormal  posture,  joint  stiffness,  joint  swelling,  muscle  weakness,  neck  pain,  walking 
abnormality, thirst, feeling unwell, chest discomfort or general discomfort, feeling “out of 
sorts” 
Stomach or intestinal infection or irritation, fecal incontinence, difficulty swallowing, 
excessive passing of gas or wind, frequent passing of urine, inability to pass urine, pain 
when passing urine 
Loss  of menstrual  periods or  other  problems  with  your  cycle,  leakage  of milk from  the 
breasts,  sexual  dysfunction,  breast  pain  or  discomfort,  vaginal  discharge,  erectile 
dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, development of breast in men 
Hives, thickening of skin, skin disorder, intense itching of the skin, hair loss, eczema 
(patches of skin become inflamed, itchy, cracked, and rough), dry skin, skin 
discoloration, acne, seborrheic dermatitis (red, scaly, greasy, itchy, and inflamed 
skin), skin lesion 
Oversensitivity of the eyes to light, dry eye, increased tears 
Allergic reaction, chills. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
63 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
Infection 
Inappropriate secretion of a hormone that controls urine volume, dangerously excessive 
intake of water, excess of sugar in the urine, low blood sugar, increased insulin (a hormone 
that controls blood sugar levels) in your blood 
Not responsive to stimulation, catatonia (not moving or responding while awake), low level 
of  consciousness,  sleep  walking,  sleep-related  eating  disorder,  trouble  breathing  during 
sleep (sleep apnea), fast shallow breathing, lung infection caused by inhaling food into the 
breathing passages, lung congestion, breathing passage disorder, voice disorder, crackly 
lung sounds, lack of emotion, inability to reach orgasm 
Blood vessel problems in the brain, coma due to uncontrolled diabetes, involuntary shaking 
of the head,  
Glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye), problems with movement of your eyes, eye 
rolling, eyelid margin crusting/inflammation, eye problems during cataract surgery 
Inflammation of the pancreas, blockage in the bowels 
Swollen  tongue,  chapped  lips,  dandruff,  jaundice  (yellowing  of  the  skin  and  the  eyes), 
hardening of the skin 
Breast  enlargement,  breast  engorgement  (hard,  swollen,  painful  breasts  from  too  much 
breast milk production) 
Decreased body temperature, coldness in arms and legs 
Symptoms of drug withdrawal (also in newborns) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
• 
Life threatening complications of uncontrolled diabetes 
• 
Lack of bowel muscle movement that causes blockage. 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
• 
Severe or life‑threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin that may start in and around 
the mouth, nose, eyes, and genitals and spread to other areas of the body (Stevens‑Johnson 
syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store OKEDI 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, aluminium pouches 
or syringe labels after (EXP). The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 30°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Use OKEDI immediately after reconstitution. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
64 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What OKEDI contains 
The active substance is risperidone.  
Only the powder syringe contains the active substance. Once reconstituted the amount of 
risperidone delivered is 100 mg.  
The other ingredients are:  
Pre-filled syringe of powder: poly-(D, L-lactide-co-glycolide).  
Pre-filled syringe of solvent: dimethyl sulfoxide.  
What OKEDI looks like and contents of the pack 
Each kit box of OKEDI powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
contains: 
•  An aluminium pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing powder (within this powder is the 
active substance, risperidone) and a silica gel desiccant sachet. The powder is white to white-
yellowish, non-aggregated. 
•  An aluminium pouch with one pre-filled syringe containing the solvent and a silica gel 
desiccant sachet. The pre-filled syringe of the solvent contains a clear solution and has a 
BLUE finger flange. 
•  One sterile needle for IM injection 2 inch (0.90 x 51mm [20G]) with safety shield used for 
gluteus administration. 
•  One sterile needle for IM injection 1 inch (0.80 x 25mm [21G]) with safety shield used for 
deltoid administration. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espagne/Spanje 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
България 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Испания 
Teл.: +34 91 375 62 30 
Lietuva 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Ispanija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espagne/Spanien 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Česká republika 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španělsko 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Danmark 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanien 
Tlf: +34 91 375 62 30 
Deutschland 
Rovi GmbH 
Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 6 
83607 Holzkirchen 
Tel: +49 8024 4782955 
Eesti 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Hispaania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Ελλάδα 
BIANEΞ Α.Ε. 
Οδός Βαρυμπόμπης 8, 
14671 Ν. Ερυθραία, Κηφισιά 
Tηλ. 210 8009111 
España 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
France 
ROVI  
24, Rue Du Drac  
38180 Seyssins 
Tél: +33 (0)4 76 968 969 
Hrvatska 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Magyarország 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanyolország 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Malta 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanja 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Nederland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanje 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Norge 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spania 
Tlf: +34 91 375 62 30 
Österreich 
Rovi GmbH 
Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 6 
83607 Holzkirchen 
Deutschland 
Tel: +43 664 1340471 
Polska 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Hiszpania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Portugal 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espanha 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
România 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spania 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spain 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Ísland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spánn 
Sími: +34 91 375 62 30 
Italia 
Rovi Biotech, S.R.L. 
Viale Achille Papa, 30 
20149 Milano 
Tel: +39 02 366 877 10 
Κύπρος 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Ισπανία 
Τηλ: +34 91 375 62 30 
Latvija 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spānija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Slovenija 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španija 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Slovenská republika 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Španielsko 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Suomi/Finland 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Espanja/Spanien 
Puh/Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
Sverige 
Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Julián Camarillo, 35 
28037 Madrid 
Spanien 
Tel: +34 91 375 62 30 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Rovi Biotech Limited  
Davis House 4th Floor Suite 425  
Robert Street Croydon CR0 1QQ - UK 
Tel: + 44 (0) 203 642 06 77 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS 
OKEDI 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for injection 
Important information  
OKEDI requires close attention to these step-by-step Instructions for Use to help ensure 
successful administration.  
Use components provided 
The components in the kit box are specifically designed for use with OKEDI.  
OKEDI must be reconstituted only with the solvent supplied in the kit box.  
Do not substitute ANY components of the kit box.  
Administer dose immediately after reconstitution. For intramuscular use only after 
reconstitution.  
Proper dosing  
The entire content of the reconstituted syringe must be administered to ensure intended dose of 
OKEDI is delivered.  
Single use device  
1.  CHECK CONTENTS 
Working on a clean surface, open the sachets and discard the desiccant pack. 
The kit box of OKEDI contains: 
• One aluminium foil pouch with a OKEDI pre-filled syringe with a WHITE plunger rod and 
WHITE finger flange. The syringe is marked with 
• One aluminium foil pouch with SOLVENT for OKEDI pre-filled syringe with a 
TRANSPARENT plunger rod and a BLUE finger flange. The syringe is marked with 
•Two administration needles (21G, 1 inch for deltoid [green cap] and a 20G, 2 inch for gluteus 
[yellow cap]). 
. 
. 
Discard the kit if any component is damaged. 
In the event of any foreign particulate matter and/or variation of physical aspect is observed, do 
not administer OKEDI.  
1.1 Inspect solvent syringe 
ENSURE that SOLVENT syringe content flows normally as a liquid.  
The solvent freezes below 19ºC. 
If it is frozen or partially frozen, allow to thaw using hands contact or leaving it at room 
temperature until liquid flow recovered before continuing. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 Dislodge powder syringe 
TAP the OKEDI syringe to dislodge potential packed powder near the cap. 
2.  
CONNECT THE SYRINGES 
2.1 Uncap syringes in upright position 
Hold both syringes in upright position to prevent loss of product. 
PULL the cap off the Solvent syringe. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TWIST and PULL the Powder syringe cap off. 
2.2 Connect the syringes 
Pick the solvent syringe S that has the coloured finger flange and place it on TOP of the powder 
syringe R, or slightly lean it when connecting. 
TWIST the syringes together until you feel a slight resistance. 
Make sure that Powder syringe R is in the upright position to prevent loss of product. 
3.  
MIX THE CONTENTS 
STOP AND READ THIS SECTION BEFORE STARTING OR THE MEDICINE MAY 
NOT CORRECTLY RECONSTITUTE. 
• PUSH VIGOROUSLY the Solvent content towards the Powder syringe.  
• DO NOT WAIT for powder wetting and QUICKLY start mixing contents by pushing the 
plungers FAST and alternately for 100 pushes (2 pushes within 1 second, approximately 1 
minute).  
• ENSURE  medicine  is  passing  between  both  syringes  for  a  properly  mixing:  medicine  is 
viscous and you will need to apply force when pressing on the plunger rods. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mix for at least 100 pushes by doing alternately 
followed by 
Make sure medicine is passing between both syringes 
When medicine is correctly mixed, the appearance will be a uniform suspension off white to 
yellowish colour and thick consistency. 
Once reconstituted, proceed immediately to prepare the injection syringe for 
administration to avoid loss of homogeneity. 
4.  
PREPARE INJECTION SYRINGE 
4.1 Transfer medicine 
Place downward pressure on the R plunger rod and transfer all the content into the S syringe 
that has attached the coloured finger flange. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Make sure all the content is transferred. 
4.2 Detach syringes 
Once the medicine is fully transferred, separate the two syringes by untwisting. 
OKEDI should be administered immediately to avoid loss of homogeneity. 
4.3 Attach the sterile needle with safety shield 
Choose the proper needle: 
• Deltoid: 21G, 1 inch for deltoid (green cap).  
• Gluteus: 20G, 2 inch for gluteus (yellow cap). 
Attach it using a clockwise twisting motion. Do not over-tighten. 
4.4 Remove exceeding air 
Remove needle cover and push out the excess of air (only big bubbles) from the syringe barrel. 
DO NOT expel any drops of medicine. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If medicine is seen at the needle tip, pull back slightly on the plunger to prevent medicine 
spillage. 
5.  
ADMINISTER AND DISPOSE 
5.1 Inject medicine 
Insert the needle fully into the muscle. DO NOT INJECT BY ANY OTHER ROUTE. 
THICK MEDICINE, INJECT IT SLOWLY AND STEADILY. MAKE SURE TO FULLY 
INJECT IT. 
•  The injection time is longer than usual due to the viscosity of the medicine. 
•  Wait a few seconds before removing the needle. 
•  Avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel. 
5.2 Dispose medicine 
Cover the needle pressing on the needle guard using a finger or a flat surface and dispose 
immediately in a secure sharps disposal container. 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
