EMA/72969/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005406 
Okedi (risperidone) 
An overview of Okedi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Okedi and what is it used for? 
Okedi is a medicine used to treat schizophrenia in adults. It contains the active substance risperidone 
and is intended for use in patients in whom medicines containing risperidone have been effective and 
have not produced unacceptable side effects when given by mouth. 
Okedi is a type of medicine called a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a reference 
medicine containing the same active substance, but it is presented in a different way. While the 
reference medicine for Okedi, Risperdal tablets, is taken daily by mouth, Okedi is provided as a 
monthly injection. 
How is Okedi used? 
Okedi is available as an injection to be given into the muscle of the upper arm or buttocks. It can only 
be obtained with a prescription and should be given by a healthcare professional. The starting dose is 
either 75 or 100 mg, depending on the patient’s previous dose of risperidone by mouth, and injections 
are given every 28 days. Patients who are not currently treated with risperidone by mouth should be 
switched to such treatment for a period before starting Okedi. 
For more information about using Okedi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Okedi work? 
Risperidone is a so-called antipsychotic medicine that has been used in the treatment of schizophrenia 
for several decades. In the brain, risperidone attaches to receptors (targets) on nerve cells. This 
disrupts signals transmitted between brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells 
to communicate with each other. Risperidone acts mainly by blocking certain receptors for the 
neurotransmitters dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin), which are involved in 
schizophrenia. By blocking these receptors, the medicine helps to normalise the activity of the brain 
and reduce symptoms of the disease.  
The risperidone in Okedi is formulated as a suspension of tiny particles. After injection a small amount 
of the active substance is immediately available, with the remainder being slowly released over several 
weeks after injection, helping to prolong the action of the medicine. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Okedi been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Risperdal, and therefore do not all need to be repeated for 
Okedi.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Okedi. The company also carried 
out studies that showed that levels of the active substance in the body after Okedi injection were 
comparable to those produced by the reference medicine taken by mouth, and that Okedi could 
therefore be expected to have the same effect. 
In addition, the company provided results from a main study that looked at the effectiveness of Okedi 
in 390 patients who were having a flare-up of schizophrenia symptoms. Benefit was measured as the 
fall in a measurement of schizophrenia severity called the PANSS score. Average PANSS score fell by 
around 25 in patients given Okedi 75 or 100 mg, compared with a fall of 11 in those given placebo (a 
dummy treatment). About 30 to 40% in those given Okedi had a fall in PANSS score of at least 30%, 
compared with about 8% in those given placebo.  
What are the benefits and risks of Okedi? 
Because Okedi produces levels of active substance in the body comparable to those seen in the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Okedi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Okedi has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to produce comparable levels of active substance to Risperdal.  
Prolonged-release formulations offer advantages in patients with schizophrenia who have difficulty in 
sticking to regular dosing by mouth, but are problematic if severe side effects develop. The Agency’s 
view was that the risk of these could be sufficiently identified by an initial period of giving risperidone 
by mouth and Okedi can therefore be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Okedi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Okedi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Okedi are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Okedi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Okedi 
Okedi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 February 2022. 
Further information on Okedi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/okedi. 
This overview was last updated in 02-2022. 
Okedi (risperidone)  
EMA/72969/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
