Summary of risk management plan for OKEDI® 
(risperidone) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  OKEDI®.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of 
OKEDI®, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained OKEDI®'s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
OKEDI®'s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information  to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how OKEDI® should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  OKEDI®  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of OKEDI®'s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
OKEDI® is authorised for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults for whom tolerability and effectiveness 
has been established with oral risperidone (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains risperidone as the 
active  substance  and  it  is  given  by  intramuscular  route  of  administration  as  powder  and  solvent  for 
prolonged-release  suspension  for  injection  containing  75  and  100  mg  of  risperidone.  OKEDI®  has  been 
developed for administration regimen every 28 days, appropriate for immediate disease management and 
maintenance  of  schizophrenia  symptoms.  OKEDI®  provides  risperidone  blood  levels  in  the  therapeutic 
range  after  injection  and  maintaining  sustained  plasma  levels  for  a  period  of  up  to  4  weeks  without  the 
need for oral risperidone supplementation. 
Further information about the evaluation of OKEDI®’s benefits can be found in OKEDI®’s EPAR, including in 
its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/okedi.  
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  OKEDI®,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for 
learning more about OKEDI®'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of OKEDI® are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of OKEDI®. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of OKEDI®. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for OKEDI®. 
 
 
 
