EMA/36963/2013 
EMEA/H/C/001086 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe 
Olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Olanzapine Glenmark Europe. 
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Olanzapine Glenmark Europe. 
What is Olanzapine Glenmark Europe? 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available 
as orodispersible tablets (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the 
mouth. 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is 
similar to ‘reference medicines’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa and 
Zyprexa Velotabs. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
What is Olanzapine Glenmark Europe used for? 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental 
illness that has a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations 
(hearing or seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is also effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have 
responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high 
mood) in adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms 
come back) in adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and 
depression) who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Olanzapine Glenmark Europe used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olanzapine Glenmark Europe depends on the disease being 
treated: 10 mg per day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg 
per day in the treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the 
starting dose can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds 
to and tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The 
orodispersible tablets are taken by being placed on the tongue, where they disintegrate in the saliva, 
or by mixing them in water before swallowing. Patients over 65 years of age and patients who have 
problems with their liver or kidneys may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Olanzapine Glenmark Europe work? 
The active substance in Olanzapine Glenmark Europe, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is 
known as an ‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that 
have been available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to 
several different receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted 
between brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each 
other. It is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the 
neurotransmitters 5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these 
neurotransmitters are involved in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise 
the activity of the brain, reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olanzapine Glenmark Europe been studied? 
Because Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Olanzapine Glenmark Europe? 
Because Olanzapine Glenmark Europe is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicines. 
Why has Olanzapine Glenmark Europe been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olanzapine Glenmark Europe has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Therefore, 
the CHMP’s view was that, as for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab, the benefit outweighs the identified 
risk. The Committee recommended that Olanzapine Glenmark Europe be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Olanzapine Glenmark Europe 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Olanzapine 
Glenmark Europe on 3 December 2009.  
The full EPAR for Olanzapine Glenmark Europe can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe  
EMA/36963/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
information about treatment with Olanzapine Glenmark Europe, read the package leaflet (also part of 
the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicines can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2013. 
Olanzapine Glenmark Europe  
EMA/36963/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
