EMA/685358/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000810 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olanzapine Teva  
olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Olanzapine Teva. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Olanzapine Teva. 
What is Olanzapine Teva? 
Olanzapine Teva is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as tablets 
(2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg) and as ‘orodispersible’ tablets (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg). Orodispersible 
tablets are tablets that dissolve in the mouth. 
Olanzapine Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olanzapine Teva is similar to ‘reference 
medicines’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. For 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Olanzapine Teva used for? 
Olanzapine Teva is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a 
number of symptoms including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing 
things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Olanzapine Teva is also 
effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Olanzapine Teva is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in 
adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in 
adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness causing alternating periods of high mood and depression) 
who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Olanzapine Teva used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olanzapine Teva depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per 
day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted depending on how well the patient responds to and 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The orodispersible 
tablets, which can be used as an alternative to the tablets, are taken by being placed on the tongue, 
where they disintegrate quickly in the saliva, or by mixing them in water before swallowing. Patients 
over 65 years of age and patients who have problems with their liver or kidneys may need a lower 
starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Olanzapine Teva work? 
The active substance in Olanzapine Teva, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an 
‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been 
available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several 
receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain 
cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. 
It is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, reducing 
the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olanzapine Teva been studied? 
Because Olanzapine Teva is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicines. Two medicines are bioequivalent when 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Olanzapine Teva? 
Because Olanzapine Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicines. 
Why has Olanzapine Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olanzapine Teva has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. 
The Committee recommended that Olanzapine Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Olanzapine Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Olanzapine Teva on 12 December 2007. 
The full EPAR for Olanzapine Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Olanzapine Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
Olanzapine Teva  
EMA/685358/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2012. 
Olanzapine Teva  
EMA/685358/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
