EMA/422021/2014 
EMEA/H/C/001085 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olanzapine Glenmark  
olanzapine  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Olanzapine Glenmark. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Olanzapine Glenmark. 
What is Olanzapine Glenmark? 
Olanzapine Glenmark is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as 
tablets (2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg).  
Olanzapine Glenmark is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olanzapine Glenmark is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Olanzapine Glenmark used for? 
Olanzapine Glenmark is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that 
has a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or 
seeing things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Olanzapine 
Glenmark is also effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial 
course of treatment. 
Olanzapine Glenmark is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) 
in adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) 
in adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and depression) 
who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Olanzapine Glenmark used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olanzapine Glenmark depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg 
per day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. Patients over 65 years 
of age and patients who have reduced liver or kidney function may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg 
per day. 
How does Olanzapine Glenmark work? 
The active substance in Olanzapine Glenmark, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as 
an ‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been 
available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several 
different receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between 
brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It 
is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, 
reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olanzapine Glenmark been studied? 
Because Olanzapine Glenmark is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine Zyprexa. Medicines are bioequivalent when 
they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Olanzapine Glenmark? 
Because Olanzapine Glenmark is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Olanzapine Glenmark been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olanzapine Glenmark has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, 
as for Zyprexa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Olanzapine 
Glenmark be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Olanzapine Glenmark 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Olanzapine 
Glenmark on 3 December 2009.  
The full EPAR for Olanzapine Glenmark can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Olanzapine Glenmark, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Olanzapine Glenmark  
EMA/422021/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
