EMA/205607/2010  
EMEA/H/C/1178 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olanzapine Apotex 
olanzapine 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Olanzapine Apotex. 
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Olanzapine Apotex. 
What is Olanzapine Apotex? 
Olanzapine Apotex is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as white, 
round film-coated tablets (2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 mg) and yellow, round orodispersible tablets (5, 10, 15 
and 20 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the mouth. 
Olanzapine Apotex is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olanzapine Apotex is similar to ‘reference 
medicines’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. For 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Olanzapine Apotex used for? 
Olanzapine Apotex is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has 
a number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing 
things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Olanzapine Apotex is also 
effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Olanzapine Apotex is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in 
adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in 
adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and depression) 
who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Olanzapine Apotex used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olanzapine Apotex depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg 
per day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The orodispersible 
tablets are taken by being placed on the tongue, where they disintegrate in the saliva, or by mixing 
them in water before swallowing. Patients over 65 years of age and patients who have problems with 
their liver or kidneys may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Olanzapine Apotex work? 
The active substance in Olanzapine Apotex, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an 
‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been 
available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several 
different receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between 
brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It 
is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, 
reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olanzapine Apotex been studied? 
Because Olanzapine Apotex is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicines. Medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Olanzapine Apotex? 
Because Olanzapine Apotex is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicines’. 
Why has Olanzapine Apotex been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olanzapine Apotex has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. 
The Committee recommended that Olanzapine Apotex be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Olanzapine Apotex: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Olanzapine 
Apotex to Apotex Europe B.V. on 10 June 2010. The marketing authorisation is valid for five years, 
after which it can be renewed. 
The full EPAR for Olanzapine Apotex can be found here. For more information about treatment with 
Olanzapine Apotex, read the Package Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPARs for the reference medicines can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Olanzapine Apotex  
EMA/205607/2010  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 04-2010. 
Olanzapine Apotex  
EMA/205607/2010  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
