EMA/403410/2014  
EMEA/H/C/001087 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olazax  
olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Olazax. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Olazax. 
What is Olazax? 
Olazax is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as tablets (5, 7.5 10, 
15 and 20 mg). 
Olazax is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olazax is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Olazax used for? 
Olazax is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a number 
of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that 
are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Olazax is also effective in maintaining 
improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Olazax is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in adults. It can 
also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in adults with 
bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and depression) who have 
responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Olazax used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olazax depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per day is 
used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the treatment of 
manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose can be 10 mg 
per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and tolerates the 
treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. Patients over 65 years of age and 
patients who have reduced liver or kidney function may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Olazax work? 
The active substance in Olazax, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an ‘atypical’ 
antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been available 
since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several different 
receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain 
cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It is 
thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, 
reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olazax been studied? 
Because Olazax is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Zyprexa. Medicines are bioequivalent when they produce 
the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Olazax shown during the studies? 
Because Olazax is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit and 
risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine. 
Why has Olazax been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olazax has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Zyprexa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Olazax be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Olazax 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Olazax on 11 
December 2009.  
The full EPAR for Olazax can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Olazax, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.This summary 
was last updated in 07-2014. 
Olazax  
EMA/403410/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
