EMA/403781/2014  
EMEA/H/C/1088 
EPAR summary for the public 
Olazax Disperzi 
olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Olazax Disperzi. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Olazax Disperzi. 
What is Olazax Disperzi? 
Olazax Disperzi is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as 
orodispersible tablets (5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the 
mouth. 
Olazax Disperzi is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Olazax Disperzi is similar to ‘reference 
medicines’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. For 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Olazax Disperzi used for? 
Olazax Disperzi is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a 
number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing 
things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Olazax Disperzi is also 
effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Olazax Disperzi is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in 
adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in 
adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and depression) 
who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Olazax Disperzi used? 
The recommended starting dose of Olazax Disperzi depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per 
day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The orodispersible 
tablets are taken by being placed on the tongue, where they disintegrate in the saliva, or by mixing 
them in water before swallowing. Patients over 65 years of age and patients who reduced liver or 
kidney function may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Olazax Disperzi work? 
The active substance in Olazax Disperzi, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an 
‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been 
available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several 
different receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between 
brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It 
is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, 
reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Olazax Disperzi been studied? 
Because Olazax Disperzi is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Olazax Disperzi shown during the 
studies? 
Because Olazax Disperzi is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicines. 
Why has Olazax Disperzi been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Olazax Disperzi has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. 
The Committee recommended that Olazax Disperzi be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Olazax Disperzi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Olazax 
Disperzi on 10 December 2009 
The full EPAR for Olazax Disperzi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Olazax Disperzi, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Olazax Disperzi  
EMA/403781/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
