ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each orodispersible tablet contains 5 mg olanzapine. 
Excipient with known effect: Each orodispersible tablet contains 0.23 mg aspartame 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Orodispersible tablet 
Yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible tablets with ‘B’ debossed on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 
Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the clinical improvement during continuation therapy in 
patients who have shown an initial treatment response. 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode. 
In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is indicated for 
the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Adults 
Schizophrenia: The recommended starting dose for olanzapine is 10 mg/day. 
Manic episode: The starting dose is 15 mg as a single daily dose in monotherapy or 10 mg daily in 
combination therapy (see section 5.1). 
Preventing recurrence in bipolar disorder:  
The recommended starting dose is 10 mg/day. For patients who have been receiving olanzapine for 
treatment of manic episode, continue therapy for preventing recurrence at the same dose. If a new 
manic, mixed, or depressive episode occurs, olanzapine treatment should be continued (with dose 
optimisation as needed), with supplementary therapy to treat mood symptoms, as clinically indicated. 
During treatment for schizophrenia, manic episode and recurrence prevention in bipolar disorder, 
daily dosage may subsequently be adjusted on the basis of individual clinical status within the range 
5-20 mg/day. An increase to a dose greater than the recommended starting dose is advised only after 
appropriate clinical reassessment and should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours. 
Olanzapine can be given without regards for meals as absorption is not affected by food. Gradual 
tapering of the dose should be considered when discontinuing olanzapine. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablets should be placed in the mouth, where it will rapidly disperse in 
saliva, so it can be easily swallowed. Alternatively, it may be dispersed in a full glass of water or 
other suitable beverage (orange juice, apple juice, milk or coffee) immediately before the 
administration. 
Special populations 
Elderly A lower starting dose (5 mg/day) is not routinely indicated but should be considered for those 
65 and over when clinical factors warrant (see section 4.4). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
A lower starting dose (5 mg) should be considered for such patients. In cases of moderate hepatic 
insufficiency (cirrhosis, Child-Pugh Class A or B), the starting dose should be 5 mg and only 
increased with caution. 
Smokers 
The starting dose and dose range need not be routinely altered for non-smokers relative to smokers. 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking. Clinical monitoring is recommended and 
an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.5). 
When more than one factor is present which might result in slower metabolism (female gender, 
geriatric age, non-smoking status), consideration should be given to decreasing the starting dose. Dose 
escalation, when indicated, should be conservative in such patients. 
(See sections 4.5 and 5.2.) 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age due to a 
lack of data on safety and efficacy. A greater magnitude of weight gain, lipid and prolactin alterations 
has been reported in short term studies of adolescent patients than in studies of adult patients (see 
sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. Patients with 
known risk of narrow-angle glaucoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
During antipsychotic treatment, improvement in the patient's clinical condition may take several days 
to some weeks. Patients should be closely monitored during this period. 
Dementia-related psychosis and/or behavioural disturbances 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use patients with dementia-related psychosis and/or behavioural 
disturbances because of an increase in mortality and the risk of cerebrovascular accident.  
In placebo-controlled clinical trials (6-12 weeks duration) of elderly patients (mean age 78 years) with 
dementia-related psychosis and/or disturbed behaviours, there was a 2-fold increase in the incidence 
of death in olanzapine-treated patients compared to patients treated with placebo (3.5 % verses 1.5 %, 
respectively). The higher incidence of death was not associated with olanzapine dose (mean daily 
dose 4.4 mg) or duration of treatment.  
Risk factors that may predispose this patient population to increased mortality include age > 65 years, 
dysphagia, sedation, malnutrition and dehydration, pulmonary conditions (e.g., pneumonia, with or 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
without aspiration), or concomitant use of benzodiazepines. However, the incidence of death was 
higher in olanzapine-treated than in placebo-treated patients independent of these risk factors. 
In the same clinical trials, cerebrovascular adverse events (CVAE e.g., stroke, transient ischemic 
attack), including fatalities, were reported. There was a 3-fold increase in CVAE in patients treated 
with olanzapine compared to patients treated with placebo (1.3 % verses 0.4 %, respectively). All 
olanzapine and placebo-treated patients who experienced a cerebrovascular event had pre-existing risk 
factors. Age > 75 years and vascular/mixed type dementia were identified as risk factors for CVAE in 
association with olanzapine treatment. The efficacy of olanzapine was not established in these trials. 
Parkinson's disease 
The use of olanzapine in the treatment of dopamine agonist associated psychosis in patients with 
Parkinson's disease is not recommended. In clinical trials, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology 
and hallucinations were reported very commonly and more frequently than with placebo (see section 
4.8), and olanzapine was not more effective than placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms. In 
these trials, patients were initially required to be stable on the lowest effective dose of anti-
Parkinsonian medicinal products (dopamine agonist) and to remain on the same anti-Parkinsonian 
medicinal products and dosages throughout the study. Olanzapine was started at 2.5 mg/day and 
titrated to a maximum of 15 mg/day based on investigator judgement. 
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) 
NMS is a potentially life-threatening condition associated with antipsychotic medicinal products.  
Rare cases reported as NMS have also been received in association with olanzapine. Clinical 
manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of 
autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac 
dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria 
(rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs and symptoms indicative of 
NMS, or presents with unexplained high fever without additional clinical manifestations of NMS, all 
antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine must be discontinued. 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes 
Hyperglycaemia and/or development or exacerbation of diabetes occasionally associated with 
ketoacidosis or coma has been reported uncommonly, including some fatal cases (see section 4.8). In 
some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been reported which may be a predisposing factor. 
Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines . e.g. 
measuring of blood glucose at baseline, 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and annually 
thereafter. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus or with risk factors for diabetes mellitus should be 
monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Weight should be monitored regularly e.g. at 
baseline, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and quarterly thereafter. 
Lipid alterations 
Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in olanzapine-treated patients in placebo-
controlled clinical trials (see section 4.8). Lipid alterations should be managed as clinically 
appropriate, particularly in dyslipidemic patients and in patients with risk factors for the development 
of lipids disorders. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
monitored regularly for lipids in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. at baseline, 12 
weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and every 5 years thereafter. 
Anticholinergic activity 
While olanzapine demonstrated anticholinergic activity in vitro, experience during the clinical trials 
revealed a low incidence of related events. However, as clinical experience with olanzapine in 
patients with concomitant illness is limited, caution is advised when prescribing for patients with 
prostatic hypertrophy, or paralytic ileus and related conditions. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic function 
Transient, asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases , alanine transferase (ALT), 
aspartatetransferase (AST) have been seen commonly, especially in early treatment. Caution should 
be exercised and follow-up organised in patients with elevated ALT and/or AST, in patients with 
signs and symptoms of hepatic impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions associated with 
limited hepatic functional reserve, and in patients who are being treated with potentially hepatotoxic 
medicines. In cases where hepatitis (including hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed liver injury) has 
been diagnosed, olanzapine treatment should be discontinued. 
Neutropenia 
Caution should be exercised in patients with low leukocyte and/or neutrophil counts for any reason, in 
patients receiving medicines known to cause neutropenia, in patients with a history of drug-induced 
bone marrow depression/toxicity, in patients with bone marrow depression caused by concomitant 
illness, radiation therapy or chemotherapy and in patients with hypereosinophilic conditions or with 
myeloproliferative disease. Neutropenia has been reported commonly when olanzapine and valproate 
are used concomitantly (see section 4.8). 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting have been reported  
rarely (≥ 0.01% and < 0.1%) when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
QT interval 
In clinical trials, clinically meaningful QTc prolongations (Fridericia QT correction [QTcF] 
≥ 500 milliseconds [msec] at any time post baseline in patients with baseline QTcF < 500 msec) were 
uncommon (0.1 % to 1 %) in patients treated with olanzapine, with no significant differences in 
associated cardiac events compared to placebo. However, caution should be exercised when 
olanzapine is prescribed with medicines known to increase QTc interval, especially in the elderly, in 
patients with congenital long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, heart hypertrophy, hypokalaemia 
or hypomagnesaemia. 
Thromboembolism 
Temporal association of olanzapine treatment and venous thromboembolism has been reported 
uncommonly (≥ 0.1% and < 1%).. A causal relationship between the occurrence of venous 
thromboembolism and treatment with olanzapine has not been established. However, since patients 
with schizophrenia often present with acquired risk factors for venous thromboembolism all possible 
risk factors of VTE e.g. immobilisation of patients, should be identified and preventive measures 
undertaken. 
General CNS activity 
Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination 
with other centrally acting medicines and alcohol. As it exhibits in vitro dopamine antagonism, 
olanzapine may antagonize the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Seizures 
Olanzapine should be used cautiously in patients who have a history of seizures or are subject to 
factors which may lower the seizure threshold. Seizures have been reported to occur uncommonly in 
patients when treated with olanzapine. In most of these cases, a history of seizures or risk factors for 
seizures were reported. 
Tardive Dyskinesia 
In comparator studies of one year or less duration, olanzapine was associated with a statistically 
significant lower incidence of treatment emergent dyskinesia. However the risk of tardive dyskinesia 
increases with long term exposure, and therefore if signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in 
a patient on olanzapine, a dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. These symptoms 
can temporally deteriorate or even arise after discontinuation of treatment. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postural hypotension 
Postural hypotension was infrequently observed in the elderly in olanzapine clinical trials. It is 
recommended that blood pressure is measured periodically in patients over 65 years. 
Sudden cardiac death  
In postmarketing reports with olanzapine, the event of sudden cardiac death has been reported in 
patients with olanzapine. In a retrospective observational cohort study, the risk of presumed sudden 
cardiac death in patients treated with olanzapine was approximately twice the risk in patients not 
using antipsychotics. In the study, the risk of olanzapine was comparable to the risk of atypical 
antipsychotics included in a pooled analysis. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents.  
Studies in patients aged 13-17 years showed various adverse reactions, including weight gain, changes 
in metabolic parameters and increases in prolactin levels. Long-term outcomes associated with these 
events have not been studied and remain unknown (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Phenylalanine 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablet contains aspartame, which is a source of phenylalanine. May be 
harmful for people with phenylketonuria. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Potential interactions affecting olanzapine 
Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this 
isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Induction of CYP1A2 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to 
reduced olanzapine concentrations.  
Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed.  
The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an 
increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2). 
Inhibition of CYP1A2 
Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of 
olanzapine.  
The mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female nonsmokers and 
77 % male smokers.  
The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of 
olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 
inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin.  
A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 
is initiated. 
Decreased bioavailability 
Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at 
least 2 hours before or after olanzapine. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have 
not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products 
Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). 
Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo studies where no inhibition of 
metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing 
mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 
2C19). 
Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with lithium or biperiden. 
Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is 
required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
General CNS activity 
Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can 
cause central nervous system depression. 
The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with 
Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
QTc interval 
Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products 
known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Patients should be advised to 
notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with 
olanzapine. Nevertheless, because human experience is limited, olanzapine should be used in 
pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
New born infants exposed to antipsychotics (including olanzapine) during the third trimester of 
pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms that 
may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, 
hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. Consequently, 
newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Breast-feeding 
In a study in breast-feeding, healthy women, olanzapine was excreted in breast milk. Mean infant 
exposure (mg/kg) at steady state was estimated to be 1.8 % of the maternal olanzapine dose (mg/kg).  
Patients should be advised not to breast-feed an infant if they are taking olanzapine. 
Fertility 
Effects on fertility are unknown (see section 5.3 for preclinical information). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. Because 
olanzapine may cause somnolence and dizziness, patients should be cautioned about operating 
machinery, including motor vehicles. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adults 
The most frequently (seen in ≥ 1 % of patients) reported adverse reactions associated with the use of 
olanzapine in clinical trials were somnolence, weight gain, eosinophilia, elevated prolactin, 
cholesterol, glucose and triglyceride levels (see section 4.4), glucosuria, increased appetite, dizziness, 
akathisia, parkinsonism, leukopenia, neutropenia (see section 4.4), dyskinesia, orthostatic 
hypotension, anticholinergic effects, transient asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases 
(see section 4.4), rash, asthenia, fatigue, pyrexia, arthralgia, increased alkaline phosphatase, high 
gamma glutamyltransferase, high uric acid, high creatine phosphokinase and oedema. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following table lists the adverse reactions and laboratory investigations observed from 
spontaneous reporting and in clinical trials. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000), very rare (< 10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the data available). 
Very common 
Blood and the lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Thrombocytopenia1
1 
Eosinophilia 
Leukopenia10 
Neutropenia10 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Weight gain 1 
Elevated 
cholesterol levels 
2,3 
Elevated glucose 
levels 4 
Elevated 
triglyceride levels 
2,5 
Glucosuria 
Increased appetite 
Nervous system disorders 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Akathisia 6 
Parkinsonism 6 
Dyskinesia 6 
Hypersensitivity11 
Development or 
exacerbation of 
diabetes occasionally 
associated with 
ketoacidosis or coma, 
including some fatal 
cases (see section 4.4) 
11 
Seizures where in 
most cases a history of 
seizures or risk factors 
for seizures were 
reported 11 
Dystonia (including 
oculogyration) 11 
Tardive dyskinesia11 
Amnesia 9 
Dysarthria 
8 
Hypothermia12 
Neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome (see 
section 4.4)12 
Discontinuation 
Symptoms 7,12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Orthostatic 
hypotension10 
Stuttering11 
Restless legs 
syndrome11 
Bradycardia 
QTc prolongation (see 
section 4.4) 
Thromboembolism 
(including pulmonary 
embolism and deep 
vein thrombosis) (see 
section 4.4) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Mild, transient 
anticholinergic 
effects including 
constipation and 
dry mouth 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Epistaxis9 
Abdominal 
distension9  
Salivary 
hypersecretion11 
Transient, 
asymptomatic 
elevations of 
hepatic 
aminotransferases  
(ALT, AST), 
especially in 
early treatment (see 
section 4.4) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Photosensitivity 
reaction 
Alopecia 
Ventricular 
tachycardia/fibrillat
ion 
sudden death (see 
section 4.4)11 
Pancreatitis11 
Hepatitis (including 
hepatocellular, 
cholestatic or 
mixed 
liver injury)11 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Arthralgia9 
Rhabdomyolysis11 
Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions                                        
Urinary incontinence 
Urinary retention 
Urinary hesitation11 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile 
Amenorrhea 
Priapism12 
9 
Drug 
Reaction 
with 
Eosinophilia 
and Systemic 
Symptoms 
(DRESS) 
Drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal (see 
section 4.6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Elevated plasma 
prolactin levels 8 
dysfunction in 
males 
Decreased libido in 
males and females 
Breast enlargement 
Galactorrhea in 
females 
Gynaecomastia/breast 
enlargement in males 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Pyrexia10 
Increased alkaline 
phosphatase10 
High creatine 
phosphokinase11 
High Gamma 
Glutamyltransferase10 
High uric acid 10 
Increased total 
bilirubin 
1 Clinically significant weight gain was observed across all baseline Body Mass Index (BMI) 
categories. Following short term treatment (median duration 47 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline 
body weight was very common (22.2%), ≥ 15% was common (4.2%) and ≥25% was uncommon 
(0.8%). Patients gaining ≥7%, ≥15% and ≥25% of their baseline body weight with long-term exposure 
(at least 48 weeks) were very common (64.4 %, 31.7 % and 12.3 % respectively). 
2 Mean increases in fasting lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides) were 
greater in patients without evidence of lipid dysregulation at baseline. 
3 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.17 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 6.2 mmol/l). Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline at baseline 
(≥ 5.17-< 6.2 mmol/l) to high (≥ 6.2 mmol/l) were very common. 
4 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.56 mmol/l) which increased to high (≥ 7 mmol/l). 
Changes in fasting glucose from borderline at baseline (≥ 5.56 - < 7 mmol/l) to high (≥ 7 mmol/l) 
were very common. 
5 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.69 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 2.26 mmol/l). Changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline 
(≥ 1.69 mmol/l - < 2.26 mmol/l) to high (≥ 2.26 mmol/l) were very common. 
6 In clinical trials, the incidence of Parkinsonism and dystonia in olanzapine-treated patients was 
numerically higher, but not statistically significantly different from placebo. Olanzapine-treated 
patients had a lower incidence of Parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia compared with titrated doses 
of haloperidol. In the absence of detailed information on the pre-existing history of individual acute 
and tardive extrapyramidal movement disorders, it can not be concluded at present that olanzapine 
produces less tardive dyskinesia and/or other tardive extrapyramidal syndromes. 
7 Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea and vomiting have been 
reported when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 In clinical trials of up to 12 weeks, plasma prolactin concentrations exceeded the upper limit of 
normal range in approximately 30% of olanzapine treated patients with normal baseline prolactin 
value. In the majority of these patients the elevations were generally mild, and remained below two 
times the upper limit of normal range. 
9 Adverse event identified from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
10 As assessed by measured values from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
11 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency determined 
utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
12 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency estimated at 
the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
Long-term exposure (at least 48 weeks) 
The proportion of patients who had adverse, clinically significant changes in weight gain, glucose, 
total/LDL/HDL cholesterol or triglycerides increased over time. In adult patients who completed 
9-12 months of therapy, the rate of increase in mean blood glucose slowed after approximately 
6 months. 
Additional information on special populations 
In clinical trials in elderly patients with dementia, olanzapine treatment was associated with a higher 
incidence of death and cerebrovascular adverse reactions compared to placebo (see section 4.4). Very 
common adverse reactions associated with the use of olanzapine in this patient group were abnormal 
gait and falls. Pneumonia, increased body temperature, lethargy, erythema, visual hallucinations and 
urinary incontinence were observed commonly. 
In clinical trials in patients with drug-induced (dopamine agonist) psychosis associated with 
Parkinson’s disease, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported 
very commonly and more frequently than with placebo. 
In one clinical trial in patients with bipolar mania, valproate combination therapy with olanzapine 
resulted in an incidence of neutropenia of 4.1 %; a potential contributing factor could be high plasma 
valproate levels. Olanzapine administered with lithium or valproate resulted in increased levels 
(≥ 10 %) of tremor, dry mouth, increased appetite, and weight gain. Speech disorder was also reported 
commonly. During treatment with olanzapine in combination with lithium or divalproex, an increase 
of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight occurred in 17.4 % of patients during acute treatment (up to 
6 weeks).  
Long-term olanzapine treatment (up to 12 months) for recurrence prevention in patients with bipolar 
disorder was associated with an increase of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight in 39.9 % of patients. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for the treatment of children and adolescent patients below 18 years. 
Although no clinical studies designed to compare adolescents to adults have been conducted, data 
from the adolescent trials were compared to those of the adult trials. 
The following table summarises the adverse reactions reported with a greater frequency in adolescent 
patients (aged 13-17 years) than in adult patients or adverse reactions only identified during short-
term clinical trials in adolescent patients.  
Clinically significant weight gain (≥ 7 %) appears to occur more frequently in the adolescent 
population compared to adults with comparable exposures. The magnitude of weight gain and the 
proportion of adolescent patients who had clinically significant weight gain were greater with long-
term exposure (at least 24 weeks) than with short-term exposure. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10). 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common: Weight gain13, elevated triglyceride levels 14, increased appetite. 
Common: Elevated cholesterol levels 15 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: Sedation (including: hypersomnia, lethargy, somnolence). 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: Dry mouth 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Very common: Elevations of hepatic aminotransferases  (ALT/AST; see section 4.4). 
Investigations 
Very common: Decreased total bilirubin, increased GGT, elevated plasma prolactin levels 16 
13 Following short term treatment (median duration 22 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline body 
weight (kg) was very common (40.6 %), ≥15 % of baseline body weight was common (7.1 %) and 
≥ 25 % was common (2.5 %). With long-term exposure (at least 24 weeks), 89.4 % gained ≥ 7 %, 
55.3 % gained ≥ 15 % and 29.1 % gained ≥ 25% of their baseline body weight.  
14 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.016 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 1.467 mmol/l) and changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.016 mmol/l - < 
1.467 mmol/l) to high (≥ 1.467 mmol/l). 
15 Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from normal at baseline (< 4.39 mmol/l) to high 
(≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were observed commonly. Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline 
at baseline (≥ 4.39 - < 5.17 mmol/l) to high (≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were very common. 
16 Elevated plasma prolactin levels were reported in 47.4 % of adolescent patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Very common symptoms in overdose (> 10 % incidence) include tachycardia, agitation/ 
aggressiveness, dysarthria, various extrapyramidal symptoms, and reduced level of consciousness 
ranging from sedation to coma. 
Other medically significant sequelae of overdose include delirium, convulsion, coma, possible 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome, respiratory depression, aspiration, hypertension or hypotension, 
cardiac arrhythmias (< 2 % of overdose cases) and cardiopulmonary arrest.  
Fatal outcomes have been reported for acute overdoses as low as 450 mg but survival has also been 
reported following acute overdose of approximately 2 g of oral olanzapine. 
Management  
There is no specific antidote for olanzapine.  
Induction of emesis is not recommended.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Standard procedures for management of overdose may be indicated (i.e. gastric lavage, administration 
of activated charcoal). The concomitant administration of activated charcoal was shown to reduce the 
oral bioavailability of olanzapine by 50 to 60 %. 
Symptomatic treatment and monitoring of vital organ function should be instituted according to 
clinical presentation, including treatment of hypotension and circulatory collapse and support of 
respiratory function.  
Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetic agents with betaagonist activity since 
beta stimulation may worsen hypotension.  
Cardiovascular monitoring is necessary to detect possible arrhythmias. Close medical supervision and 
monitoring should continue until the patient recovers. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psycholeptics, diazepines, oxazepines, thiazepines and oxepines, ATC 
code N05A H03. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Olanzapine is an antipsychotic, antimanic and mood stabilising agent that demonstrates a broad 
pharmacologic profile across a number of receptor systems. 
In preclinical studies, olanzapine exhibited a range of receptor affinities (Ki < 100 nM) for serotonin 5 
HT2A/2C, 5 HT3, 5 HT6; dopamine D1, D2, D3, D4, D5; cholinergic muscarinic receptors M1-M5; α 
1 adrenergic; and histamine H1 receptors.  
Animal behavioral studies with olanzapine indicated 5HT, dopamine, and cholinergic antagonism, 
consistent with the receptor-binding profile. Olanzapine demonstrated a greater in vitro affinity for 
serotonin 5HT2 than dopamine D2 receptors and greater 5 HT2 than D2 activity in vivo, models.  
Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that olanzapine selectively reduced the firing of 
mesolimbic (A10) dopaminergic neurons, while having little effect on the striatal (A9) pathways 
involved in motor function. Olanzapine reduced a conditioned avoidance response, a test indicative of 
antipsychotic activity, at doses below those producing catalepsy, an effect indicative of motor side-
effects. Unlike some other antipsychotic agents, olanzapine increases responding in an “anxiolytic” 
test. 
In a single oral dose (10 mg) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) study in healthy volunteers, 
olanzapine produced a higher 5HT2A than dopamine D2 receptor occupancy. In addition, a Single 
Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging study in schizophrenic patients revealed 
that olanzapine-responsive patients had lower striatal D2 occupancy than some other antipsychotic and 
risperidone-responsive patients, while being comparable to clozapine-responsive patients. 
Clinical efficacy 
In two of two placebo and two of three comparator controlled trials with over 2,900 schizophrenic 
patients presenting with both positive and negative symptoms, olanzapine was associated with 
statistically significantly greater improvements in negative as well as positive symptoms. 
In a multinational, double-blind, comparative study of schizophrenia, schizoaffective, and related 
disorders which included 1,481 patients with varying degrees of associated depressive symptoms 
(baseline mean of 16.6 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale), a prospective secondary 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analysis of baseline to endpoint mood score change demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement (p= 0.001) favouring olanzapine (- 6.0) versus haloperidol (- 3.1). 
In patients with a manic or mixed episode of bipolar disorder, olanzapine demonstrated superior 
efficacy to placebo and valproate semisodium (divalproex) in reduction of manic symptoms over 
3 weeks. Olanzapine also demonstrated comparable efficacy results to haloperidol in terms of the 
proportion of patients in symptomatic remission from mania and depression at 6 and 12 weeks. In a 
co-therapy study of patients treated with lithium or valproate for a minimum of 2 weeks, the addition 
of olanzapine 10 mg (co-therapy with lithium or valproate) resulted in a greater reduction in 
symptoms of mania than lithium or valproate monotherapy after 6 weeks. 
In a 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission on 
olanzapine and were then randomised to olanzapine or placebo, olanzapine demonstrated statistically 
significant superiority over placebo on the primary endpoint of bipolar recurrence. Olanzapine also 
showed a statistically significant advantage over placebo in terms of preventing either recurrence into 
mania or recurrence into depression. 
In a second 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission 
with a combination of olanzapine and lithium and were then randomised to olanzapine or lithium 
alone, olanzapine was statistically non-inferior to lithium on the primary endpoint of bipolar 
recurrence (olanzapine 30.0 %, lithium 38.3 %; p = 0.055). 
In an 18-month co-therapy study in manic or mixed episode patients stabilised with olanzapine plus a 
mood stabiliser (lithium or valproate), long-term olanzapine co-therapy with lithium or valproate was 
not statistically significantly superior to lithium or valproate alone in delaying bipolar recurrence, 
defined according to syndromic (diagnostic) criteria. 
Paediatric population 
Controlled efficacy data in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years)are limited to short term studies in 
schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder (3 weeks), involving less than 
200 adolescents. Olanzapine was used as a flexible dose starting with 2.5 and ranging up to 
20 mg/day. During treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared 
with adults. The magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and 
prolactin (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are no controlled 
data on maintenance of effect or long term safety (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Information on long term 
safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Olanzapine is well absorbed after oral administration, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 
5 to 8 hours. The absorption is not affected by food. Absolute oral bioavailability relative to 
intravenous administration has not been determined. 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of olanzapine was about 93 % over the concentration range of about 7 to 
about 1000 ng/ml. Olanzapine is bound predominantly to albumin and 1-acid-glycoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
Olanzapine is metabolized in the liver by conjugative and oxidative pathways. The major circulating 
metabolite is the 10-N-glucuronide, which does not pass the blood brain barrier. Cytochromes 
P450-CYP1A2 and P450-CYP2D6 contribute to the formation of the N-desmethyl and 
2-hydroxymethyl metabolites, both exhibited significantly less in vivo pharmacological activity than 
olanzapine in animal studies. The predominant pharmacologic activity is from the parent olanzapine.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
After oral administration, the mean terminal elimination half-life of olanzapine in healthy subjects 
varied on the basis of age and gender. 
In healthy elderly (65 and over) versus non-elderly subjects, the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (51.8 versus 33.8 hr) and the clearance was reduced (17.5 versus 18.2 l/hr). The 
pharmacokinetic variability observed in the elderly is within the range for the non-elderly. In 
44 patients with schizophrenia > 65 years of age, dosing from 5 to 20 mg/day was not associated with 
any distinguishing profile of adverse events. 
In female versus male subjects the mean elimination half life was somewhat prolonged (36.7 versus 
32.3 hrs) and the clearance was reduced (18.9 versus 27.3 l/hr). However, olanzapine (5-20 mg) 
demonstrated a comparable safety profile in female (n = 467) as in male patients (n = 869). 
Renal impairment 
In renally impaired patients (creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min) versus healthy subjects, there was no 
significant difference in mean elimination half-life (37.7 versus 32.4 hr) or clearance (21.2 versus 
25.0 l/hr). A mass balance study showed that approximately 57 % of radiolabelled olanzapine 
appeared in urine, principally as metabolites. 
Hepatic impairment 
A small study of the effect of impaired liver function in 6 subjects with clinically significant (Childs 
Pugh Classification A (n = 5) and B (n = 1)) cirrhosis revealed little effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
orally administered olanzapine (2.5 – 7.5 mg single dose): Subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
dysfunction had slightly increased systemic clearance and faster elimination half-time compared to 
subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (n = 3). There were more smokers among subjects with cirrhosis 
(4/6; 67 %) than among subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (0/3; 0 %). 
Smoking 
In non-smoking versus smoking subjects (males and females) the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (38.6 versus 30.4 hr) and the clearance was reduced (18.6 versus 27.7 l/hr). 
The plasma clearance of olanzapine is lower in elderly versus young subjects, in females versus 
males, and in non-smokers versus smokers. However, the magnitude of the impact of age, gender, or 
smoking on olanzapine clearance and half-life is small in comparison to the overall variability 
between individuals. 
In a study of Caucasians, Japanese, and Chinese subjects, there were no differences in the 
pharmacokinetic parameters among the three populations. 
Paediatric population 
Adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years): The pharmacokinetics of olanzapine are similar between 
adolescents and adults. In clinical studies, the average olanzapine exposure was approximately 27 % 
higher in adolescents. Demographic differences between the adolescents and adults include a lower 
average body weight and fewer adolescents were smokers. Such factors possibly contribute to the 
higher average exposure observed in adolescents. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Acute (single-dose) toxicity 
Signs of oral toxicity in rodents were characteristic of potent neuroleptic compounds: hypoactivity, 
coma, tremors, clonic convulsions, salivation, and depressed weight gain. The median lethal doses 
were approximately 210 mg/kg (mice) and 175 mg/kg (rats). Dogs tolerated single oral doses up to 
100 mg/kg without mortality. Clinical signs included sedation, ataxia, tremors, increased heart rate, 
labored respiration, miosis, and anorexia. In monkeys, single oral doses up to 100 mg/kg resulted in 
prostration and, at higher doses, semi-consciousness. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
In studies up to 3 months duration in mice and up to 1 year in rats and dogs, the predominant effects 
were CNS depression, anticholinergic effects, and peripheral haematological disorders. Tolerance 
developed to the CNS depression. Growth parameters were decreased at high doses. Reversible 
effects consistent with elevated prolactin in rats included decreased weights of ovaries and uterus and 
morphologic changes in vaginal epithelium and in mammary gland. 
Haematologic toxicity 
Effects on haematology parameters were found in each species, including dose-related reductions in 
circulating leukocytes in mice and non-specific reductions of circulating leukocytes in rats; however, 
no evidence of bone marrow cytotoxicity was found. Reversible neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or 
anaemia developed in a few dogs treated with 8 or 10 mg/kg/day (total olanzapine exposure [AUC] is 
12- to 15-fold greater than that of a man given a 12-mg dose). In cytopenic dogs, there were no 
adverse effects on progenitor and proliferating cells in the bone marrow. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Olanzapine had no teratogenic effects.  
Sedation affected mating performance of male rats.  
Estrous cycles were affected at doses of 1.1 mg/kg (3 times the maximum human dose) and 
reproduction parameters were influenced in rats given 3 mg/kg (9 times the maximum human dose).  
In the offspring of rats given olanzapine, delays in foetal development and transient decreases in 
offspring activity levels were seen. 
Mutagenicity 
Olanzapine was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a full range of standard tests, which included 
bacterial mutation tests and in vitro and in vivo mammalian tests. 
Carcinogenicity 
Based on the results of studies in mice and rats, it was concluded that olanzapine is not carcinogenic. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E 421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Aspartame (E 951) 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 30 C. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/aluminium blisters in cartons of 28, 56 tablets per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/001 
EU/1/09/592/006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10.12.2009 
Date of renewal of authorisation: 06.08.2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg orodispersible tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each orodispersible tablet contains 10 mg olanzapine. 
Excipient with known effect: Each orodispersible tablet contains 0.46 mg aspartame 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Orodispersible tablet 
Yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and ‘D’ debossed 
on other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 
Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the clinical improvement during continuation therapy in 
patients who have shown an initial treatment response. 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode. 
In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is indicated for 
the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Adults 
Schizophrenia: The recommended starting dose for olanzapine is 10 mg/day. 
Manic episode: The starting dose is 15 mg as a single daily dose in monotherapy or 10 mg daily in 
combination therapy (see section 5.1). 
Preventing recurrence in bipolar disorder:  
The recommended starting dose is 10 mg/day. For patients who have been receiving olanzapine for 
treatment of manic episode, continue therapy for preventing recurrence at the same dose. If a new 
manic, mixed, or depressive episode occurs, olanzapine treatment should be continued (with dose 
optimisation as needed), with supplementary therapy to treat mood symptoms, as clinically indicated. 
During treatment for schizophrenia, manic episode and recurrence prevention in bipolar disorder, 
daily dosage may subsequently be adjusted on the basis of individual clinical status within the range 
5-20 mg/day. An increase to a dose greater than the recommended starting dose is advised only after 
appropriate clinical reassessment and should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours. 
Olanzapine can be given without regards for meals as absorption is not affected by food. Gradual 
tapering of the dose should be considered when discontinuing olanzapine. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablets should be placed in the mouth, where it will rapidly 
disperse in saliva, so it can be easily swallowed. Alternatively, it may be dispersed in a full glass of 
water or other suitable beverage (orange juice, apple juice, milk or coffee) immediately before 
administration. 
Special populations 
Elderly  
A lower starting dose (5 mg/day) is not routinely indicated but should be considered for those 65 and 
over when clinical factors warrant (see section 4.4). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
A lower starting dose (5 mg) should be considered for such patients. In cases of moderate hepatic 
insufficiency (cirrhosis, Child-Pugh Class A or B), the starting dose should be 5 mg and only 
increased with caution. 
Smokers 
The starting dose and dose range need not be routinely altered for non-smokers relative to smokers. 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking. Clinical monitoring is recommended and 
an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.5). 
When more than one factor is present which might result in slower metabolism (female gender, 
geriatric age, non-smoking status), consideration should be given to decreasing the starting dose. Dose 
escalation, when indicated, should be conservative in such patients. 
In cases where dose increments of 2.5 mg are considered necessary, Olanzapine tablets should be 
used. 
(See sections 4.5 and 5.2.) 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age due to 
a lack of data on safety and efficacy. A greater magnitude of weight gain, lipid and prolactin 
alterations has been reported in short term studies of adolescent patients than in studies of adult 
patients (see sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. Patients with 
known risk of narrow-angle glaucoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
During antipsychotic treatment, improvement in the patient's clinical condition may take several days 
to some weeks. Patients should be closely monitored during this period. 
Dementia-related psychosis and/or behavioural disturbances 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis and/or 
behavioural disturbances because of an increase in mortality and the risk of cerebrovascular accident.  
In placebo-controlled clinical trials (6-12 weeks duration) of elderly patients (mean age 78 years) with 
dementia-related psychosis and/or disturbed behaviours, there was a 2-fold increase in the incidence 
of death in olanzapine-treated patients compared to patients treated with placebo (3.5 % vrs 1.5 %, 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively). The higher incidence of death was not associated with olanzapine dose (mean daily 
dose 4.4 mg) or duration of treatment.  
Risk factors that may predispose this patient population to increased mortality include age > 65 years, 
dysphagia, sedation, malnutrition and dehydration, pulmonary conditions (e.g., pneumonia, with or 
without aspiration), or concomitant use of benzodiazepines. However, the incidence of death was 
higher in olanzapine-treated than in placebo-treated patients independent of these risk factors. 
In the same clinical trials, cerebrovascular adverse events (CVAE e.g., stroke, transient ischemic 
attack), including fatalities, were reported. There was a 3-fold increase in CVAE in patients treated 
with olanzapine compared to patients treated with placebo (1.3 % vrs 0.4 %, respectively). All 
olanzapine and placebo-treated patients who experienced a cerebrovascular event had pre-existing risk 
factors. Age > 75 years and vascular/mixed type dementia were identified as risk factors for CVAE in 
association with olanzapine treatment. The efficacy of olanzapine was not established in these trials. 
Parkinson's disease 
The use of olanzapine in the treatment of dopamine agonist associated psychosis in patients with 
Parkinson's disease is not recommended.  
In clinical trials, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported very 
commonly and more frequently than with placebo (see section 4.8), and olanzapine was not more 
effective than placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms. In these trials, patients were initially 
required to be stable on the lowest effective dose of anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products (dopamine 
agonist) and to remain on the same anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products and dosages throughout the 
study. Olanzapine was started at 2.5 mg/day and titrated to a maximum of 15 mg/day based on 
investigator judgement. 
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) 
NMS is a potentially life-threatening condition associated with antipsychotic medicinal products. 
Rare cases reported as NMS have also been received in association with olanzapine. Clinical 
manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of 
autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac 
dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria 
(rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs and symptoms indicative of 
NMS, or presents with unexplained high fever without additional clinical manifestations of NMS, all 
antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine must be discontinued. 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes 
Hyperglycaemia and/or development or exacerbation of diabetes occasionally associated with 
ketoacidosis or coma has been reported uncommonly, including some fatal cases (see section 4.8). In 
some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been reported which may be a predisposing factor. 
Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. 
measuring of blood glucose at baseline, 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and annually 
thereafter. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus or with risk factors for diabetes mellitus should be 
monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Weight should be monitored regularly e.g. at 
baseline, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and quarterly thereafter. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lipid alterations 
Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in olanzapine-treated patients in placebo-
controlled clinical trials (see section 4.8). Lipid alterations should be managed as clinically 
appropriate, particularly in dyslipidemic patients and in patients with risk factors for the development 
of lipids disorders. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
monitored regularly for lipids in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. at baseline, 12 
weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and every 5 years thereafter. 
Anticholinergic activity 
While olanzapine demonstrated anticholinergic activity in vitro, experience during the clinical trials 
revealed a low incidence of related events. However, as clinical experience with olanzapine in 
patients with concomitant illness is limited, caution is advised when prescribing for patients with 
prostatic hypertrophy, or paralytic ileus and related conditions. 
Hepatic function 
Transient, asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases, alanine transferase (ALT), aspartate 
transferase (AST) have been seen commonly, especially in early treatment.  
Caution should be exercised and follow-up organised in patients with elevated ALT and/or AST, in 
patients with signs and symptoms of hepatic impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions 
associated with limited hepatic functional reserve, and in patients who are being treated with 
potentially hepatotoxic medicines.  
In cases where hepatitis (including hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed liver injury) has been 
diagnosed, olanzapine treatment should be discontinued. 
Neutropenia 
Caution should be exercised in patients with low leukocyte and/or neutrophil counts for any reason, in 
patients receiving medicines known to cause neutropenia, in patients with a history of drug-induced 
bone marrow depression/toxicity, in patients with bone marrow depression caused by concomitant 
illness, radiation therapy or chemotherapy and in patients with hypereosinophilic conditions or with 
myeloproliferative disease.  
Neutropenia has been reported commonly when olanzapine and valproate are used concomitantly (see 
section 4.8). 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting have been reported 
rarely (≥ 0.01% and < 0.1%)) when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
QT interval 
In clinical trials, clinically meaningful QTc prolongations (Fridericia QT correction [QTcF] 
≥ 500 milliseconds [msec] at any time post baseline in patients with baseline QTcF < 500 msec) were 
uncommon (0.1 % to 1 %) in patients treated with olanzapine, with no significant differences in 
associated cardiac events compared to placebo. However, caution should be exercised when 
olanzapine is prescribed with medicines known to increase QTc interval, especially in the elderly, in 
patients with congenital long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, heart hypertrophy, hypokalaemia 
or hypomagnesaemia. 
Thromboembolism 
Temporal association of olanzapine treatment and venous thromboembolism has  been reported 
uncommonly (≥ 0.1% and < 1%). A causal relationship between the occurrence of venous 
thromboembolism and treatment with olanzapine has not been established. However, since patients 
with schizophrenia often present with acquired risk factors for venous thromboembolism all possible 
risk factors of VTE e.g. immobilisation of patients, should be identified and preventive measures 
undertaken. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General CNS activity 
Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination 
with other centrally acting medicines and alcohol. As it exhibits in vitro dopamine antagonism, 
olanzapine may antagonize the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Seizures 
Olanzapine should be used cautiously in patients who have a history of seizures or are subject to 
factors which may lower the seizure threshold. Seizures have been reported to occur uncommonly in 
patients when treated with olanzapine. In most of these cases, a history of seizures or risk factors for 
seizures were reported. 
Tardive Dyskinesia 
In comparator studies of one year or less duration, olanzapine was associated with a statistically 
significant lower incidence of treatment emergent dyskinesia. However the risk of tardive dyskinesia 
increases with long term exposure, and therefore if signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in 
a patient on olanzapine, a dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. These symptoms 
can temporally deteriorate or even arise after discontinuation of treatment. 
Postural hypotension 
Postural hypotension was infrequently observed in the elderly in olanzapine clinical trials. It is 
recommended that blood pressure is measured periodically in patients over 65 years. 
Sudden cardiac death  
In postmarketing reports with olanzapine, the event of sudden cardiac death has been reported in 
patients with olanzapine. In a retrospective observational cohort study, the risk of presumed sudden 
cardiac death in patients treated with olanzapine was approximately twice the risk in patients not 
using antipsychotics. In the study, the risk of olanzapine was comparable to the risk of atypical 
antipsychotics included in a pooled analysis. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents. Studies in patients 
aged 13-17 years showed various adverse reactions, including weight gain, changes in metabolic 
parameters and increases in prolactin levels (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Phenylalanine 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablet contains aspartame, which is a source of phenylalanine. May be 
harmful for people with phenylketonuria. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Potential interactions affecting olanzapine 
Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this 
isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Induction of CYP1A2 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to 
reduced olanzapine concentrations.  
Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed.  
The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an 
increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inhibition of CYP1A2 
Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of 
olanzapine.  
The mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female nonsmokers and 
77 % in male smokers.  
The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of 
olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 
inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin.  
A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 
is initiated. 
Decreased bioavailability 
Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at 
least 2 hours before or after olanzapine. 
Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have 
not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products 
Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). 
Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo studies where no inhibition of 
metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing 
mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 
2C19). 
Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with lithium or biperiden. 
Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is 
required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
General CNS activity 
Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can 
cause central nervous system depression. 
The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with 
Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
QTc interval 
Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products 
known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Patients should be advised to 
notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with 
olanzapine. Nevertheless, because human experience is limited, olanzapine should be used in 
pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
New born infants exposed to antipsychotics (including olanzapine) during the third trimester of 
pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms that 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, 
hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. Consequently, 
newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Breast-feeding 
In a study in breast-feeding, healthy women, olanzapine was excreted in breast milk. Mean infant 
exposure (mg/kg) at steady state was estimated to be 1.8 % of the maternal olanzapine dose (mg/kg). 
Patients should be advised not to breast-feed an infant if they are taking olanzapine. 
Fertility 
Effects on fertility are unknown (see section 5.3 for preclinical information). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. Because 
olanzapine may cause somnolence and dizziness, patients should be cautioned about operating 
machinery, including motor vehicles. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adults 
The most frequently (seen in ≥ 1 % of patients) reported adverse reactions associated with the use of 
olanzapine in clinical trials were somnolence, weight gain, eosinophilia, elevated prolactin, 
cholesterol, glucose and triglyceride levels (see section 4.4), glucosuria, increased appetite, dizziness, 
akathisia, parkinsonism, leukopenia, neutropenia (see section 4.4), dyskinesia, orthostatic 
hypotension, anticholinergic effects, transient asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases 
(see section 4.4), rash, asthenia, fatigue, pyrexia, arthralgia, increased alkaline phosphatase, high 
gamma glutamyltransferase, high uric acid, high creatine phosphokinase and oedema. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following table lists the adverse reactions and laboratory investigations observed from 
spontaneous reporting and in clinical trials. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000), very rare (< 10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the data available). 
Very common 
Blood and the lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
 Rare 
Not known 
Thrombocyto
penia11 
Hypothermia
12 
Eosinophilia 
Leukopenia10 
Neutropenia10 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hypersensitivity
11 
Weight gain1 
Elevated cholesterol 
levels2,3 
Elevated glucose 
levels4 
Elevated triglyceride 
levels2,5 
Glucosuria  
Increased appetite 
Development or 
exacerbation of 
diabetes 
occasionally 
associated with 
ketoacidosis or 
coma, including 
some fatal cases 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Akathisia6 
Parkinsonism6 
Dyskinesia6 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Orthostatic 
hypotension10 
Neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome 
(see section 
4.4)12 
Discontinuati
on 
symptoms7, 12 
Ventricular 
tachycardia/fib
rillation, 
sudden death 
(see section 
4.4)11 
(see section 4.4) 11 
Seizures where in 
most cases a 
history of seizures 
or risk factors for 
seizures were 
reported11 
Dystonia 
(including 
oculogyration)11 
Tardive 
dyskinesia11  
Amnesia 9 
Dysarthria 
Stuttering11 
Restless legs 
syndrome11 
Bradycardia 
QTc 
prolongation 
(see section 4.4) 
Thromboemboli
sm (including 
pulmonary 
embolism and 
deep vein 
thrombosis) (see 
section 4.4) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Mild, transient 
anticholinergic effects 
including constipation 
and dry mouth 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Epistaxis9 
Abdominal 
distension9 
Salivary 
hypersecretion
11 
Pancreatitis11 
Hepatitis 
(including 
hepatocellular, 
cholestatic or 
mixed liver 
injury)11 
Transient, 
asymptomatic 
elevations of hepatic 
aminotransferases 
(ALT, AST), 
especially in early 
treatment (see section 
4.4) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Photosensitivit
y reaction 
Alopecia 
25 
Drug Reaction 
with Eosinophilia 
and Systemic 
Symptoms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia9 
Renal and urinary disorders 
(DRESS) 
Rhabdomyolys
is11 
Urinary 
incontinence, 
urinary 
retention 
Urinary 
hesitation11 
Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions 
Drug withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal (see 
section 4.6) 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile dysfunction in 
males 
Decreased libido in 
males and females 
Priapism12 
Amenorrhea 
Breast 
enlargement 
Galactorrhea 
in females 
Gynaecomasti
a/breast 
enlargement in 
males 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Elevated plasma 
prolactin levels8 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Pyrexia10 
Increased alkaline 
phosphatase10 
High creatine 
phosphokinase11 
High Gamma 
Glutamyltransferase 10 
High uric acid 10 
Increased total 
bilirubin 
1 Clinically significant weight gain was observed across all baseline Body Mass Index (BMI) 
categories. Following short term treatment (median duration 47 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline 
body weight was very common (22.2%), ≥ 15% was common (4.2%) and ≥25% was uncommon 
(0.8%). Patients gaining ≥7%, ≥15% and ≥25% of their baseline body weight with long-term exposure 
(at least 48 weeks) were very common (64.4 %, 31.7 % and 12.3 % respectively). 
2 Mean increases in fasting lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides) were 
greater in patients without evidence of lipid dysregulation at baseline. 
3 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.17 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 6.2 mmol/l). Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline at baseline 
(≥ 5.17-< 6.2 mmol/l) to high (≥ 6.2 mmol/l) were very common. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.56 mmol/l) which increased to high (≥ 7 mmol/l). 
Changes in fasting glucose from borderline at baseline (≥ 5.56 - < 7 mmol/l) to high (≥ 7 mmol/l) 
were very common. 
5 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.69 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 2.26 mmol/l). Changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline  
(≥ 1.69 mmol/l - < 2.26 mmol/l) to high (≥ 2.26 mmol/l) were very common. 
6 In clinical trials, the incidence of Parkinsonism and dystonia in olanzapine-treated patients was 
numerically higher, but not statistically significantly different from placebo. Olanzapine-treated 
patients had a lower incidence of Parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia compared with titrated doses 
of haloperidol. In the absence of detailed information on the pre-existing history of individual acute 
and tardive extrapyramidal movement disorders, it cannot be concluded at present that olanzapine 
produces less tardive dyskinesia and/or other tardive extrapyramidal syndromes. 
7 Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea and vomiting have been 
reported when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
8 In clinical trials of up to 12 weeks, plasma prolactin concentrations exceeded the upper limit of 
normal range in approximately 30% of olanzapine treated patients with normal baseline prolactin 
value. In the majority of these patients the elevations were generally mild, and remained below two 
times the upper limit of normal range.  
9 Adverse event identified from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
10 As assessed by measured values from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
11 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency determined 
utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
12 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency estimated at 
the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
Long-term exposure (at least 48 weeks) 
The proportion of patients who had adverse, clinically significant changes in weight gain, glucose, 
total/LDL/HDL cholesterol or triglycerides increased over time. In adult patients who completed 
9-12 months of therapy, the rate of increase in mean blood glucose slowed after approximately 
6 months. 
Additional information on special populations 
In clinical trials in elderly patients with dementia, olanzapine treatment was associated with a higher 
incidence of death and cerebrovascular adverse reactions compared to placebo (see section 4.4). Very 
common adverse reactions associated with the use of olanzapine in this patient group were abnormal 
gait and falls. Pneumonia, increased body temperature, lethargy, erythema, visual hallucinations and 
urinary incontinence were observed commonly. 
In clinical trials in patients with drug-induced (dopamine agonist) psychosis associated with 
Parkinson’s disease, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported 
very commonly and more frequently than with placebo. 
In one clinical trial in patients with bipolar mania, valproate combination therapy with olanzapine 
resulted in an incidence of neutropenia of 4.1 %; a potential contributing factor could be high plasma 
valproate levels. Olanzapine administered with lithium or valproate resulted in increased levels 
(≥ 10 %) of tremor, dry mouth, increased appetite, and weight gain. Speech disorder was also reported 
commonly. During treatment with olanzapine in combination with lithium or divalproex, an increase 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight occurred in 17.4 % of patients during acute treatment (up to 
6 weeks).  
Long-term olanzapine treatment (up to 12 months) for recurrence prevention in patients with bipolar 
disorder was associated with an increase of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight in 39.9 % of patients. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for the treatment of children and adolescent patients below 18 years. 
Although no clinical studies designed to compare adolescents to adults have been conducted, data 
from the adolescent trials were compared to those of the adult trials. 
The following table summarises the adverse reactions reported with a greater frequency in adolescent 
patients (aged 13-17 years) than in adult patients or adverse reactions only identified during short-
term clinical trials in adolescent patients.  
Clinically significant weight gain (≥ 7 %) appears to occur more frequently in the adolescent 
population compared to adults with comparable exposures. The magnitude of weight gain and the 
proportion of adolescent patients who had clinically significant weight gain were greater with long-
term exposure (at least 24 weeks) than with short-term exposure. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10). 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common: Weight gain 13, elevated triglyceride levels 14, increased appetite. 
Common: Elevated cholesterol levels 15 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: Sedation (including: hypersomnia, lethargy, somnolence). 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: Dry mouth 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common: Elevations of hepatic aminotransferases (ALT/AST; see section 4.4). 
Investigations 
Very common: Decreased total bilirubin, increased GGT, elevated plasma prolactin levels 16 
13 Following short term treatment (median duration 22 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline body 
weight (kg) was very common (40.6 %), ≥15 % of baseline body weight was common (7.1 %) and 
≥ 25 % was common (2.5 %). With long-term exposure (at least 24 weeks), 89.4 % gained ≥ 7 %, 
55.3 % gained ≥ 15 % and 29.1 % gained ≥ 25% of their baseline body weight.  
14 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.016 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 1.467 mmol/l) and changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.016 mmol/l - < 
1.467 mmol/l) to high (≥ 1.467 mmol/l). 
15 Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from normal at baseline (< 4.39 mmol/l) to high 
(≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were observed commonly. Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline 
at baseline (≥ 4.39 - < 5.17 mmol/l) to high (≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were very common. 
16 Elevated plasma prolactin levels were reported in 47.4 % of adolescent patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Very common symptoms in overdose (> 10 % incidence) include tachycardia, agitation/ 
aggressiveness, dysarthria, various extrapyramidal symptoms, and reduced level of consciousness 
ranging from sedation to coma. 
Other medically significant sequelae of overdose include delirium, convulsion, coma, possible 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome, respiratory depression, aspiration, hypertension or hypotension, 
cardiac arrhythmias (< 2 % of overdose cases) and cardiopulmonary arrest.  
Fatal outcomes have been reported for acute overdoses as low as 450 mg but survival has also been 
reported following acute overdose of approximately 2 g of oral olanzapine. 
Management  
There is no specific antidote for olanzapine. Induction of emesis is not recommended. Standard 
procedures for management of overdose may be indicated (i.e. gastric lavage, administration of 
activated charcoal). The concomitant administration of activated charcoal was shown to reduce the 
oral bioavailability of olanzapine by 50 to 60 %. 
Symptomatic treatment and monitoring of vital organ function should be instituted according to 
clinical presentation, including treatment of hypotension and circulatory collapse and support of 
respiratory function. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetic agents with 
betaagonist activity since beta stimulation may worsen hypotension. Cardiovascular monitoring is 
necessary to detect possible arrhythmias. Close medical supervision and monitoring should continue 
until the patient recovers. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psycholeptics, diazepines, oxazepines, thiazepines and oxepines, ATC 
code N05A H03. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Olanzapine is an antipsychotic, antimanic and mood stabilising agent that demonstrates a broad 
pharmacologic profile across a number of receptor systems. 
In preclinical studies, olanzapine exhibited a range of receptor affinities (Ki < 100 nM) for serotonin 
5HT2A/2C, 5HT3, 5HT6; dopamine D1, D2, D3, D4, D5; cholinergic muscarinic receptors M1-M5; 
α1 adrenergic; and histamine H1 receptors.  
Animal behavioral studies with olanzapine indicated 5HT, dopamine, and cholinergic antagonism, 
consistent with the receptor-binding profile. Olanzapine demonstrated a greater in vitro affinity for 
serotonin 5HT2 than dopamine D2 receptors and greater 5HT2 than D2 activity in vivo, models.  
Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that olanzapine selectively reduced the firing of 
mesolimbic (A10) dopaminergic neurons, while having little effect on the striatal (A9) pathways 
involved in motor function. Olanzapine reduced a conditioned avoidance response, a test indicative of 
antipsychotic activity, at doses below those producing catalepsy, an effect indicative of motor side-
effects. Unlike some other antipsychotic agents, olanzapine increases responding in an “anxiolytic” 
test. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a single oral dose (10 mg) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) study in healthy volunteers, 
olanzapine produced a higher 5HT2A than dopamine D2 receptor occupancy. In addition, a Single 
Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging study in schizophrenic patients revealed 
that olanzapine-responsive patients had lower striatal D2 occupancy than some other antipsychotic and 
risperidone-responsive patients, while being comparable to clozapine-responsive patients. 
Clinical efficacy 
In two of two placebo and two of three comparator controlled trials with over 2,900 schizophrenic 
patients presenting with both positive and negative symptoms, olanzapine was associated with 
statistically significantly greater improvements in negative as well as positive symptoms. 
In a multinational, double-blind, comparative study of schizophrenia, schizoaffective, and related 
disorders which included 1,481 patients with varying degrees of associated depressive symptoms 
(baseline mean of 16.6 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale), a prospective secondary 
analysis of baseline to endpoint mood score change demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement (p= 0.001) favouring olanzapine (- 6.0) versus haloperidol (- 3.1). 
In patients with a manic or mixed episode of bipolar disorder, olanzapine demonstrated superior 
efficacy to placebo and valproate semisodium (divalproex) in reduction of manic symptoms over 
3 weeks. Olanzapine also demonstrated comparable efficacy results to haloperidol in terms of the 
proportion of patients in symptomatic remission from mania and depression at 6 and 12 weeks. In a 
co-therapy study of patients treated with lithium or valproate for a minimum of 2 weeks, the addition 
of olanzapine 10 mg (co-therapy with lithium or valproate) resulted in a greater reduction in 
symptoms of mania than lithium or valproate monotherapy after 6 weeks. 
In a 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission on 
olanzapine and were then randomised to olanzapine or placebo, olanzapine demonstrated statistically 
significant superiority over placebo on the primary endpoint of bipolar recurrence. Olanzapine also 
showed a statistically significant advantage over placebo in terms of preventing either recurrence into 
mania or recurrence into depression. 
In a second 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission 
with a combination of olanzapine and lithium and were then randomised to olanzapine or lithium 
alone, olanzapine was statistically non-inferior to lithium on the primary endpoint of bipolar 
recurrence (olanzapine 30.0 %, lithium 38.3 %; p = 0.055). 
In an 18-month co-therapy study in manic or mixed episode patients stabilised with olanzapine plus a 
mood stabiliser (lithium or valproate), long-term olanzapine co-therapy with lithium or valproate was 
not statistically significantly superior to lithium or valproate alone in delaying bipolar recurrence, 
defined according to syndromic (diagnostic) criteria. 
Paediatric population 
Controlled efficacy data in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) are limited to short term studies in 
schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder (3 weeks), involving less than 
200 adolescents. Olanzapine was used as a flexible dose starting with 2.5 and ranging up to 
20 mg/day. During treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared 
with adults. The magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and 
prolactin (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are no controlled 
data on maintenance of effect or long term safety (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Information on long term 
safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
Olanzapine is well absorbed after oral administration, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 
5 to 8 hours. The absorption is not affected by food. Absolute oral bioavailability relative to 
intravenous administration has not been determined. 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of olanzapine was about 93 % over the concentration range of about 7 to 
about 1000 ng/ml. Olanzapine is bound predominantly to albumin and 1-acid-glycoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
Olanzapine is metabolized in the liver by conjugative and oxidative pathways. The major circulating 
metabolite is the 10-N-glucuronide, which does not pass the blood brain barrier. Cytochromes 
P450-CYP1A2 and P450-CYP2D6 contribute to the formation of the N-desmethyl and 
2-hydroxymethyl metabolites, both exhibited significantly less in vivo pharmacological activity than 
olanzapine in animal studies. The predominant pharmacologic activity is from the parent olanzapine.  
Elimination 
After oral administration, the mean terminal elimination half-life of olanzapine in healthy subjects 
varied on the basis of age and gender. 
In healthy elderly (65 and over) versus non-elderly subjects, the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (51.8 versus 33.8 hr) and the clearance was reduced (17.5 versus 18.2 l/hr). The 
pharmacokinetic variability observed in the elderly is within the range for the non-elderly. In 
44 patients with schizophrenia > 65 years of age, dosing from 5 to 20 mg/day was not associated with 
any distinguishing profile of adverse events. 
In female versus male subjects the mean elimination half-life was somewhat prolonged (36.7 versus 
32.3 hrs) and the clearance was reduced (18.9 versus 27.3 l/hr). However, olanzapine (5-20 mg) 
demonstrated a comparable safety profile in female (n = 467) as in male patients (n = 869). 
Renal impairment 
In renally impaired patients (creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min) versus healthy subjects, there was no 
significant difference in mean elimination half-life (37.7 versus 32.4 hr) or clearance (21.2 versus 
25.0 l/hr). A mass balance study showed that approximately 57 % of radiolabelled olanzapine 
appeared in urine, principally as metabolites. 
Hepatic impairment 
A small study of the effect of impaired liver function in 6 subjects with clinically significant (Childs 
Pugh Classification A (n = 5) and B (n = 1)) cirrhosis revealed little effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
orally administered olanzapine (2.5 – 7.5 mg single dose): Subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
dysfunction had slightly increased systemic clearance and faster elimination half-time compared to 
subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (n = 3). There were more smokers among subjects with cirrhosis 
(4/6; 67 %) than among subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (0/3; 0 %). 
Smoking 
In non-smoking versus smoking subjects (males and females) the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (38.6 versus 30.4 hr) and the clearance was reduced (18.6 versus 27.7 l/hr). 
The plasma clearance of olanzapine is lower in elderly versus young subjects, in females versus 
males, and in non-smokers versus smokers. However, the magnitude of the impact of age, gender, or 
smoking on olanzapine clearance and half-life is small in comparison to the overall variability 
between individuals. 
In a study of Caucasians, Japanese, and Chinese subjects, there were no differences in the 
pharmacokinetic parameters among the three populations. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years): The pharmacokinetics of olanzapine are similar between 
adolescents and adults. In clinical studies, the average olanzapine exposure was approximately 27 % 
higher in adolescents. Demographic differences between the adolescents and adults include a lower 
average body weight and fewer adolescents were smokers. Such factors possibly contribute to the 
higher average exposure observed in adolescents. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Acute (single-dose) toxicity 
Signs of oral toxicity in rodents were characteristic of potent neuroleptic compounds: hypoactivity, 
coma, tremors, clonic convulsions, salivation, and depressed weight gain. The median lethal doses 
were approximately 210 mg/kg (mice) and 175 mg/kg (rats). Dogs tolerated single oral doses up to 
100 mg/kg without mortality. Clinical signs included sedation, ataxia, tremors, increased heart rate, 
labored respiration, miosis, and anorexia. In monkeys, single oral doses up to 100 mg/kg resulted in 
prostration and, at higher doses, semi-consciousness. 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
In studies up to 3 months duration in mice and up to 1 year in rats and dogs, the predominant effects 
were CNS depression, anticholinergic effects, and peripheral haematological disorders. Tolerance 
developed to the CNS depression. Growth parameters were decreased at high doses. Reversible 
effects consistent with elevated prolactin in rats included decreased weights of ovaries and uterus and 
morphologic changes in vaginal epithelium and in mammary gland. 
Haematologic toxicity  
Effects on haematology parameters were found in each species, including dose-related reductions in 
circulating leukocytes in mice and non-specific reductions of circulating leukocytes in rats; however, 
no evidence of bone marrow cytotoxicity was found. Reversible neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or 
anaemia developed in a few dogs treated with 8 or 10 mg/kg/day (total olanzapine exposure [AUC] is 
12- to 15-fold greater than that of a man given a 12-mg dose). In cytopenic dogs, there were no 
adverse effects on progenitor and proliferating cells in the bone marrow. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Olanzapine had no teratogenic effects. Sedation affected mating performance of male rats. Estrous 
cycles were affected at doses of 1.1 mg/kg (3 times the maximum human dose) and reproduction 
parameters were influenced in rats given 3 mg/kg (9 times the maximum human dose).  
In the offspring of rats given olanzapine, delays in foetal development and transient decreases in 
offspring activity levels were seen. 
Mutagenicity 
Olanzapine was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a full range of standard tests, which included 
bacterial mutation tests and in vitro and in vivo mammalian tests. 
Carcinogenicity 
Based on the results of studies in mice and rats, it was concluded that olanzapine is not carcinogenic. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E 421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Aspartame (E 951) 
Crospovidone 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 30 C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/aluminium blisters in cartons of 28, 56 tablets per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/003 
EU/1/09/592/008 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10.12.2009 
Date of renewal of authorisation: 06.08.2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg orodispersible tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each orodispersible tablet contains 15 mg olanzapine. 
Excipient with known effect: Each orodispersible tablet contains 0.69 mg aspartame 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Orodispersible tablet 
Yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and 
‘E’ debossed on other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 
Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the clinical improvement during continuation therapy in 
patients who have shown an initial treatment response. 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode. 
In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is indicated for 
the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder (see section 5.1). 
4.2    Posology and method of administration 
Adults 
Schizophrenia: The recommended starting dose for olanzapine is 10 mg/day. 
Manic episode: The starting dose is 15 mg as a single daily dose in monotherapy or 10 mg daily in 
combination therapy (see section 5.1). 
Preventing recurrence in bipolar disorder:  
The recommended starting dose is 10 mg/day. For patients who have been receiving olanzapine for 
treatment of manic episode, continue therapy for preventing recurrence at the same dose. If a new 
manic, mixed, or depressive episode occurs, olanzapine treatment should be continued (with dose 
optimisation as needed), with supplementary therapy to treat mood symptoms, as clinically indicated. 
During treatment for schizophrenia, manic episode and recurrence prevention in bipolar disorder, 
daily dosage may subsequently be adjusted on the basis of individual clinical status within the range 
5-20 mg/day. An increase to a dose greater than the recommended starting dose is advised only after 
appropriate clinical reassessment and should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Olanzapine can be given without regards for meals as absorption is not affected by food. Gradual 
tapering of the dose should be considered when discontinuing olanzapine. 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablets should be placed in the mouth, where it will rapidly disperse in 
saliva, so it can be easily swallowed. Alternatively, it may be dispersed in a full glass of water or 
other suitable beverage (orange juice, apple juice, milk or coffee) immediately before administration. 
Special populations 
Elderly  
A lower starting dose (5 mg/day) is not routinely indicated but should be considered for those 65 and 
over when clinical factors warrant (see section 4.4). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
A lower starting dose (5 mg) should be considered for such patients. In cases of moderate hepatic 
insufficiency (cirrhosis, Child-Pugh Class A or B), the starting dose should be 5 mg and only 
increased with caution. 
Smokers 
The starting dose and dose range need not be routinely altered for non-smokers relative to 
smokers. The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking. Clinical monitoring is 
recommended and an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.5). 
When more than one factor is present which might result in slower metabolism (female gender, 
geriatric age, non-smoking status), consideration should be given to decreasing the starting dose. Dose 
escalation, when indicated, should be conservative in such patients. 
(See sections 4.5 and 5.2.) 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age due to a 
lack of data on safety and efficacy. A greater magnitude of weight gain, lipid and prolactin alterations 
has been reported in short term studies of adolescent patients than in studies of adult patients (see 
sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. Patients with 
known risk of narrow-angle glaucoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
During antipsychotic treatment, improvement in the patient's clinical condition may take several days 
to some weeks. Patients should be closely monitored during this period. 
Dementia-related psychosis and/or behavioural disturbances 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis and/or 
behavioural disturbances because of an increase in mortality and the risk of cerebrovascular accident.  
In placebo-controlled clinical trials (6-12 week’s duration) of elderly patients (mean age 78 years) 
with dementia-related psychosis and/or disturbed behaviours, there was a 2-fold increase in the 
incidence of death in olanzapine-treated patients compared to patients treated with placebo (3.5 % 
versus 1.5 %, respectively). The higher incidence of death was not associated with olanzapine dose 
(mean daily dose 4.4 mg) or duration of treatment.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors that may predispose this patient population to increased mortality include age > 65 years, 
dysphagia, sedation, malnutrition and dehydration, pulmonary conditions (e.g., pneumonia, with or 
without aspiration), or concomitant use of benzodiazepines. However, the incidence of death was 
higher in olanzapine-treated than in placebo-treated patients independent of these risk factors. 
In the same clinical trials, cerebrovascular adverse events (CVAE e.g., stroke, transient ischemic 
attack), including fatalities, were reported. There was a 3-fold increase in CVAE in patients treated 
with olanzapine compared to patients treated with placebo (1.3 % versus 0.4 %, respectively). All 
olanzapine and placebo-treated patients who experienced a cerebrovascular event had pre-existing risk 
factors. Age > 75 years and vascular/mixed type dementia were identified as risk factors for CVAE in 
association with olanzapine treatment. The efficacy of olanzapine was not established in these trials. 
Parkinson's disease 
The use of olanzapine in the treatment of dopamine agonist associated psychosis in patients with 
Parkinson's disease is not recommended.  
In clinical trials, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported very 
commonly and more frequently than with placebo (see section 4.8), and olanzapine was not more 
effective than placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms. In these trials, patients were initially 
required to be stable on the lowest effective dose of anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products (dopamine 
agonist) and to remain on the same anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products and dosages throughout the 
study. Olanzapine was started at 2.5 mg/day and titrated to a maximum of 15 mg/day based on 
investigator judgement. 
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) 
NMS is a potentially life-threatening condition associated with antipsychotic medicinal products. 
Rare cases reported as NMS have also been received in association with olanzapine. Clinical 
manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of 
autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac 
dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria 
(rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs and symptoms indicative of 
NMS, or presents with unexplained high fever without additional clinical manifestations of NMS, all 
antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine must be discontinued. 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes 
Hyperglycaemia and/or development or exacerbation of diabetes occasionally associated with 
ketoacidosis or coma has been reported uncommonly, including some fatal cases (see section 4.8). In 
some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been reported which may be a predisposing factor. 
Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. 
measuring of blood glucose at baseline, 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and annually 
thereafter . Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus or with risk factors for diabetes mellitus should be 
monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Weight should be monitored regularly e.g. at 
baseline, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and quarterly thereafter .. 
Lipid alterations 
Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in olanzapine-treated patients in placebo-
controlled clinical trials (see section 4.8). Lipid alterations should be managed as clinically 
appropriate, particularly in dyslipidemic patients and in patients with risk factors for the development 
of lipids disorders. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
monitored regularly for lipids in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. at baseline, 12 
weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and every 5 years thereafter. 
Anticholinergic activity 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While olanzapine demonstrated anticholinergic activity in vitro, experience during the clinical trials 
revealed a low incidence of related events. However, as clinical experience with olanzapine in 
patients with concomitant illness is limited, caution is advised when prescribing for patients with 
prostatic hypertrophy, or paralytic ileus and related conditions. 
Hepatic function 
Transient, asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases, alanine transferase (ALT), aspartate 
transferase (AST) have been seen commonly, especially in early treatment.  
Caution should be exercised and follow-up organised in patients with elevated ALT and/or AST, in 
patients with signs and symptoms of hepatic impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions 
associated with limited hepatic functional reserve, and in patients who are being treated with 
potentially hepatotoxic medicines.  
In cases where hepatitis (including hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed liver injury) has been 
diagnosed, olanzapine treatment should be discontinued. 
Neutropenia 
Caution should be exercised in patients with low leukocyte and/or neutrophil counts for any reason, in 
patients receiving medicines known to cause neutropenia, in patients with a history of drug-induced 
bone marrow depression/toxicity, in patients with bone marrow depression caused by concomitant 
illness, radiation therapy or chemotherapy and in patients with hypereosinophilic conditions or with 
myeloproliferative disease.  
Neutropenia has been reported commonly when olanzapine and valproate are used concomitantly (see 
section 4.8). 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting have been reported 
rarely (≥ 0.01% and < 0.1%) when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
QT interval 
In clinical trials, clinically meaningful QTc prolongations (Fridericia QT correction [QTcF] 
≥ 500 milliseconds [msec] at any time post baseline in patients with baseline QTcF < 500 msec) were 
uncommon (0.1 % to 1 %) in patients treated with olanzapine, with no significant differences in 
associated cardiac events compared to placebo. However, caution should be exercised when 
olanzapine is prescribed with medicines known to increase QTc interval, especially in the elderly, in 
patients with congenital long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, heart hypertrophy, hypokalaemia 
or hypomagnesaemia. 
Thromboembolism 
Temporal association of olanzapine treatment and venous thromboembolism has  been reported 
uncommonly (≥ 0.1% and < 1%). A causal relationship between the occurrence of venous 
thromboembolism and treatment with olanzapine has not been established. However, since patients 
with schizophrenia often present with acquired risk factors for venous thromboembolism all possible 
risk factors of VTE e.g. immobilisation of patients, should be identified and preventive measures 
undertaken. 
General CNS activity 
Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination 
with other centrally acting medicines and alcohol. As it exhibits in vitro dopamine antagonism, 
olanzapine may antagonize the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Seizures 
Olanzapine should be used cautiously in patients who have a history of seizures or are subject to 
factors which may lower the seizure threshold. Seizures have been reported to occur uncommonly in 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients when treated with olanzapine. In most of these cases, a history of seizures or risk factors for 
seizures were reported. 
Tardive Dyskinesia 
In comparator studies of one year or less duration, olanzapine was associated with a statistically 
significant lower incidence of treatment emergent dyskinesia. However the risk of tardive dyskinesia 
increases with long term exposure, and therefore if signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in 
a patient on olanzapine, a dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. These symptoms 
can temporally deteriorate or even arise after discontinuation of treatment. 
Postural hypotension 
Postural hypotension was infrequently observed in the elderly in olanzapine clinical trials. It is 
recommended that blood pressure is measured periodically in patients over 65 years. 
Sudden cardiac death  
In postmarketing reports with olanzapine, the event of sudden cardiac death has been reported in 
patients with olanzapine. In a retrospective observational cohort study, the risk of presumed sudden 
cardiac death in patients treated with olanzapine was approximately twice the risk in patients not 
using antipsychotics. In the study, the risk of olanzapine was comparable to the risk of atypical 
antipsychotics included in a pooled analysis. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents.  
Studies in patients aged 13-17 years showed various adverse reactions, including weight gain, changes 
in metabolic parameters and increases in prolactin levels (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Phenylalanine 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablet contains aspartame, which is a source of phenylalanine. May be 
harmful for people with phenylketonuria. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Potential interactions affecting olanzapine 
Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this 
isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Induction of CYP1A2 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to 
reduced olanzapine concentrations.  
Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed.  
The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an 
increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2). 
Inhibition of CYP1A2 
Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of 
olanzapine.  
The mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female nonsmokers and 
77 % in male smokers.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of 
olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 
inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin.  
A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 
is initiated. 
Decreased bioavailability 
Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at 
least 2 hours before or after olanzapine. 
Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have 
not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products 
Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). 
Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo studies where no inhibition of 
metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing 
mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 
2C19). 
Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with lithium or biperiden. 
Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is 
required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
General CNS activity 
Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can 
cause central nervous system depression. 
The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with 
Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
QTc interval 
Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products 
known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Patients should be advised to 
notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with 
olanzapine. Nevertheless, because human experience is limited, olanzapine should be used in 
pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
New born infants exposed to antipsychotics (including olanzapine) during the third trimester of 
pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms that 
may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, 
hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. Consequently, 
newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Breast-feeding 
In a study in breast-feeding, healthy women, olanzapine was excreted in breast milk. Mean infant 
exposure (mg/kg) at steady state was estimated to be 1.8 % of the maternal olanzapine dose (mg/kg). 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should be advised not to breast-feed an infant if they are taking olanzapine. 
Fertility 
Effects on fertility are unknown (see section 5.3 for preclinical information). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. Because 
olanzapine may cause somnolence and dizziness, patients should be cautioned about operating 
machinery, including motor vehicles. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adults 
The most frequently (seen in ≥ 1 % of patients) reported adverse reactions associated with the use of 
olanzapine in clinical trials were somnolence, weight gain, eosinophilia, elevated prolactin, 
cholesterol, glucose and triglyceride levels (see section 4.4), glucosuria, increased appetite, dizziness, 
akathisia, parkinsonism, leukopenia, neutropenia (see section 4.4), dyskinesia, orthostatic 
hypotension, anticholinergic effects, transient asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases 
(see section 4.4), rash, asthenia, fatigue, pyrexia, arthralgia, increased alkaline phosphatase, high 
gamma glutamyltransferase, high uric acid, high creatine phosphokinase and oedema. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following table lists the adverse reactions and laboratory investigations observed from 
spontaneous reporting and in clinical trials. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000), very rare (< 10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the data available). 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
 Rare 
Not 
known 
Blood and the lymphatic system disorders 
Eosinophilia 
Leukopenia10 
Neutropenia10 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Weight gain1 
Elevated cholesterol 
levels2,3 
Elevated glucose levels4 
Elevated triglyceride 
levels2,5 
Glucosuria  
Increased appetite 
Nervous system disorders 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Akathisia6 
Parkinsonism6 
Dyskinesia6 
Thrombocytope
nia11 
Hypothermia12 
Hypersensitivity11 
Development or 
exacerbation of 
diabetes 
occasionally 
associated with 
ketoacidosis or 
coma, including 
some fatal cases 
(see section 4.4) 11 
Seizures where in 
most cases a 
history of seizures 
or risk factors for 
seizures were 
Neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome (see 
section 4.4)12  
Discontinuation 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms7, 12 
Ventricular 
tachycardia/fibri
llation, sudden 
death (see 
section 4.4)11 
reported11 
Dystonia (including 
oculogyration)11 
Tardive 
dyskinesia11 
Amnesia9 
Dysarthria 
Stuttering11 
Restless legs 
syndrome11 
Bradycardia 
QTc prolongation 
(see section 4.4) 
Thromboembolism 
(including 
pulmonary 
embolism and deep 
vein thrombosis) 
(see section 4.4) 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Orthostatic 
hypotension10 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis9 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Mild, transient 
anticholinergic effects 
including constipation 
and dry mouth 
Abdominal 
distension9 
Salivary 
hypersecretion11 
Pancreatitis11 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Transient, asymptomatic 
elevations of hepatic 
aminotransferases 
(ALT, AST), especially 
in early treatment (see 
section 4.4) 
Hepatitis 
(including 
hepatocellular, 
cholestatic or 
mixed liver 
injury)11 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Photosensitivity 
reaction 
Alopecia 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia9 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Rhabdomyolys
is11 
Urinary 
incontinence, 
urinary retention 
Urinary hesitation11 
Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions 
41 
Drug 
Reaction 
with 
Eosinophili
a and 
Systemic 
Symptoms 
(DRESS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal 
(see section 
4.6) 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile dysfunction in 
males 
Decreased libido in 
males and females 
Amenorrhea 
Breast enlargement 
Galactorrhea in 
females 
Gynaecomastia/bre
ast enlargement in 
males 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Priapism12 
Investigations 
Elevated plasma 
prolactin levels8 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Pyrexia10 
Increased alkaline 
phosphatase10 
High creatine 
phosphokinase11 
High Gamma 
Glutamyltransferase 10 
High uric acid 10 
Increased total 
bilirubin 
1 Clinically significant weight gain was observed across all baseline Body Mass Index (BMI) 
categories. Following short term treatment (median duration 47 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline 
body weight was very common (22.2%), ≥ 15% was common (4.2%) and ≥25% was uncommon 
(0.8%). Patients gaining ≥7%, ≥15% and ≥25% of their baseline body weight with long-term exposure 
(at least 48 weeks) were very common (64.4 %, 31.7 % and 12.3 % respectively). 
2 Mean increases in fasting lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides) were 
greater in patients without evidence of lipid dysregulation at baseline. 
3 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.17 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 6.2 mmol/l). Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline at baseline 
(≥ 5.17-< 6.2 mmol/l) to high (≥ 6.2 mmol/l) were very common. 
4 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.56 mmol/l) which increased to high (≥ 7 mmol/l). 
Changes in fasting glucose from borderline at baseline (≥ 5.56 - < 7 mmol/l) to high (≥ 7 mmol/l) 
were very common. 
5 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.69 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 2.26 mmol/l). Changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.69 mmol/l – 
 < 2.26 mmol/l) to high (≥ 2.26 mmol/l) were very common. 
6 In clinical trials, the incidence of Parkinsonism and dystonia in olanzapine-treated patients was 
numerically higher, but not statistically significantly different from placebo. Olanzapine-treated 
patients had a lower incidence of Parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia compared with titrated doses 
of haloperidol. In the absence of detailed information on the pre-existing history of individual acute 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and tardive extrapyramidal movement disorders, it cannot be concluded at present that olanzapine 
produces less tardive dyskinesia and/or other tardive extrapyramidal syndromes. 
7 Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea and vomiting have been 
reported when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
8 In clinical trials of up to 12 weeks, plasma prolactin concentrations exceeded the upper limit of 
normal range in approximately 30% of olanzapine treated patients with normal baseline prolactin 
value. In the majority of these patients the elevations were generally mild, and remained below two 
times the upper limit of normal range.  
9 Adverse event identified from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
10 As assessed by measured values from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
11 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency determined 
utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
12 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency estimated at 
the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
Long-term exposure (at least 48 weeks) 
The proportion of patients who had adverse, clinically significant changes in weight gain, glucose, 
total/LDL/HDL cholesterol or triglycerides increased over time. In adult patients who completed 
9-12 months of therapy, the rate of increase in mean blood glucose slowed after approximately 
6 months. 
Additional information on special populations 
In clinical trials in elderly patients with dementia, olanzapine treatment was associated with a higher 
incidence of death and cerebrovascular adverse reactions compared to placebo (see section 4.4). Very 
common adverse reactions associated with the use of olanzapine in this patient group were abnormal 
gait and falls. Pneumonia, increased body temperature, lethargy, erythema, visual hallucinations and 
urinary incontinence were observed commonly. 
In clinical trials in patients with drug-induced (dopamine agonist) psychosis associated with 
Parkinson’s disease, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported 
very commonly and more frequently than with placebo. 
In one clinical trial in patients with bipolar mania, valproate combination therapy with olanzapine 
resulted in an incidence of neutropenia of 4.1 %; a potential contributing factor could be high plasma 
valproate levels. Olanzapine administered with lithium or valproate resulted in increased levels 
(≥ 10 %) of tremor, dry mouth, increased appetite, and weight gain. Speech disorder was also reported 
commonly. During treatment with olanzapine in combination with lithium or divalproex, an increase 
of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight occurred in 17.4 % of patients during acute treatment (up to 
6 weeks).  
Long-term olanzapine treatment (up to 12 months) for recurrence prevention in patients with bipolar 
disorder was associated with an increase of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight in 39.9 % of patients. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for the treatment of children and adolescent patients below 18 years. 
Although no clinical studies designed to compare adolescents to adults have been conducted, data 
from the adolescent trials were compared to those of the adult trials. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarises the adverse reactions reported with a greater frequency in adolescent 
patients (aged 13-17 years) than in adult patients or adverse reactions only identified during short-
term clinical trials in adolescent patients.  
Clinically significant weight gain (≥ 7 %) appears to occur more frequently in the adolescent 
population compared to adults with comparable exposures. The magnitude of weight gain and the 
proportion of adolescent patients who had clinically significant weight gain were greater with long-
term exposure (at least 24 weeks) than with short-term exposure. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10). 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common: Weight gain 13, elevated triglyceride levels 14, increased appetite. 
Common: Elevated cholesterol levels 15 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: Sedation (including: hypersomnia, lethargy, somnolence). 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: Dry mouth 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common: Elevations of hepatic aminotransferases (ALT/AST; see section 4.4). 
Investigations 
Very common: Decreased total bilirubin, increased GGT, elevated plasma prolactin levels 16 
13 Following short term treatment (median duration 22 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline body 
weight (kg) was very common (40.6 %), ≥15 % of baseline body weight was common (7.1 %) and 
≥ 25 % was common (2.5 %). With long-term exposure (at least 24 weeks), 89.4 % gained ≥ 7 %, 
55.3 % gained ≥ 15 % and 29.1 % gained ≥ 25% of their baseline body weight.  
14 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.016 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 1.467 mmol/l) and changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.016 mmol/l - < 
1.467 mmol/l) to high (≥ 1.467 mmol/l). 
15 Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from normal at baseline (< 4.39 mmol/l) to high 
(≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were observed commonly. Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline 
at baseline (≥ 4.39 - < 5.17 mmol/l) to high (≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were very common. 
16 Elevated plasma prolactin levels were reported in 47.4 % of adolescent patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Very common symptoms in overdose (> 10 % incidence) include tachycardia, agitation/ 
aggressiveness, dysarthria, various extrapyramidal symptoms, and reduced level of consciousness 
ranging from sedation to coma. 
Other medically significant sequelae of overdose include delirium, convulsion, coma, possible 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome, respiratory depression, aspiration, hypertension or hypotension, 
cardiac arrhythmias (< 2 % of overdose cases) and cardiopulmonary arrest.  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fatal outcomes have been reported for acute overdoses as low as 450 mg but survival has also been 
reported following acute overdose of approximately 2 g of oral olanzapine. 
Management  
There is no specific antidote for olanzapine. Induction of emesis is not recommended. Standard 
procedures for management of overdose may be indicated (i.e. gastric lavage, administration of 
activated charcoal). The concomitant administration of activated charcoal was shown to reduce the 
oral bioavailability of olanzapine by 50 to 60 %. 
Symptomatic treatment and monitoring of vital organ function should be instituted according to 
clinical presentation, including treatment of hypotension and circulatory collapse and support of 
respiratory function. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetic agents with 
betaagonist activity since beta stimulation may worsen hypotension. Cardiovascular monitoring is 
necessary to detect possible arrhythmias. Close medical supervision and monitoring should continue 
until the patient recovers. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psycholeptics, diazepines, oxazepines, thiazepines and oxepines, ATC 
code N05A H03. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Olanzapine is an antipsychotic, antimanic and mood stabilising agent that demonstrates a broad 
pharmacologic profile across a number of receptor systems. 
In preclinical studies, olanzapine exhibited a range of receptor affinities (Ki < 100 nM) for serotonin 5 
HT2A/2C, 5HT3, 5HT6; dopamine D1, D2, D3, D4, D5; cholinergic muscarinic receptors M1-M5; 
α1 adrenergic; and histamine H1 receptors.  
Animal behavioral studies with olanzapine indicated 5HT, dopamine, and cholinergic antagonism, 
consistent with the receptor-binding profile. Olanzapine demonstrated a greater in vitro affinity for 
serotonin 5HT2 than dopamine D2 receptors and greater 5HT2 than D2 activity in vivo, models.  
Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that olanzapine selectively reduced the firing of 
mesolimbic (A10) dopaminergic neurons, while having little effect on the striatal (A9) pathways 
involved in motor function. Olanzapine reduced a conditioned avoidance response, a test indicative of 
antipsychotic activity, at doses below those producing catalepsy, an effect indicative of motor side-
effects. Unlike some other antipsychotic agents, olanzapine increases responding in an “anxiolytic” 
test. 
In a single oral dose (10 mg) Positron Emission Ttomography (PET) study in healthy volunteers, 
olanzapine produced a higher 5HT2A than dopamine D2 receptor occupancy. In addition, a Single 
Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging study in schizophrenic patients revealed 
that olanzapine-responsive patients had lower striatal D2 occupancy than some other antipsychotic and 
risperidone-responsive patients, while being comparable to clozapine-responsive patients. 
Clinical efficacy 
In two of two placebo and two of three comparator controlled trials with over 2,900 schizophrenic 
patients presenting with both positive and negative symptoms, olanzapine was associated with 
statistically significantly greater improvements in negative as well as positive symptoms. In a 
multinational, double-blind, comparative study of schizophrenia, schizoaffective, and related 
disorders which included 1,481 patients with varying degrees of associated depressive symptoms 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(baseline mean of 16.6 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale), a prospective secondary 
analysis of baseline to endpoint mood score change demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement (p= 0.001) favouring olanzapine (- 6.0) versus haloperidol (- 3.1). 
In patients with a manic or mixed episode of bipolar disorder, olanzapine demonstrated superior 
efficacy to placebo and valproate semisodium (divalproex) in reduction of manic symptoms over 
3 weeks. Olanzapine also demonstrated comparable efficacy results to haloperidol in terms of the 
proportion of patients in symptomatic remission from mania and depression at 6 and 12 weeks. In a 
co-therapy study of patients treated with lithium or valproate for a minimum of 2 weeks, the addition 
of olanzapine 10 mg (co-therapy with lithium or valproate) resulted in a greater reduction in 
symptoms of mania than lithium or valproate monotherapy after 6 weeks. 
In a 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission on 
olanzapine and were then randomised to olanzapine or placebo, olanzapine demonstrated statistically 
significant superiority over placebo on the primary endpoint of bipolar recurrence. Olanzapine also 
showed a statistically significant advantage over placebo in terms of preventing either recurrence into 
mania or recurrence into depression. 
In a second 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission 
with a combination of olanzapine and lithium and were then randomised to olanzapine or lithium 
alone, olanzapine was statistically non-inferior to lithium on the primary endpoint of bipolar 
recurrence (olanzapine 30.0 %, lithium 38.3 %; p = 0.055). 
In an 18-month co-therapy study in manic or mixed episode patients stabilised with olanzapine plus a 
mood stabiliser (lithium or valproate), long-term olanzapine co-therapy with lithium or valproate was 
not statistically significantly superior to lithium or valproate alone in delaying bipolar recurrence, 
defined according to syndromic (diagnostic) criteria. 
Paediatric population 
Controlled efficacy data in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) are limited to short term studies in 
schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder (3 weeks), involving less than 
200 adolescents. Olanzapine was used as a flexible dose starting with 2.5 and ranging up to 
20 mg/day. During treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared 
with adults. The magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and 
prolactin (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are no controlled 
data on maintenance of effect or long term safety (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Information on long term 
safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Olanzapine is well absorbed after oral administration, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 
5 to 8 hours. The absorption is not affected by food. Absolute oral bioavailability relative to 
intravenous administration has not been determined. 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of olanzapine was about 93 % over the concentration range of about 7 to 
about 1000 ng/ml. Olanzapine is bound predominantly to albumin and 1-acid-glycoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
Olanzapine is metabolized in the liver by conjugative and oxidative pathways. The major circulating 
metabolite is the 10-N-glucuronide, which does not pass the blood brain barrier. Cytochromes 
P450-CYP1A2 and P450-CYP2D6 contribute to the formation of the N-desmethyl and 
2-hydroxymethyl metabolites, both exhibited significantly less in vivo pharmacological activity than 
olanzapine in animal studies. The predominant pharmacologic activity is from the parent olanzapine.  
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
After oral administration, the mean terminal elimination half-life of olanzapine in healthy subjects 
varied on the basis of age and gender. 
In healthy elderly (65 and over) versus non-elderly subjects, the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (51.8 versus 33.8 hr) and the clearance was reduced (17.5 versus 18.2 l/hr). The 
pharmacokinetic variability observed in the elderly is within the range for the non-elderly. In 
44 patients with schizophrenia > 65 years of age, dosing from 5 to 20 mg/day was not associated with 
any distinguishing profile of adverse events. 
In female versus male subjects the mean elimination half-life was somewhat prolonged (36.7 versus 
32.3 hrs) and the clearance was reduced (18.9 versus 27.3 l/hr). However, olanzapine (5-20 mg) 
demonstrated a comparable safety profile in female (n = 467) as in male patients (n = 869). 
Renal impairment 
In renally impaired patients (creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min) versus healthy subjects, there was no 
significant difference in mean elimination half-life (37.7 versus 32.4 hr) or clearance (21.2 versus 
25.0 l/hr). A mass balance study showed that approximately 57 % of radiolabelled olanzapine 
appeared in urine, principally as metabolites. 
Hepatic impairment 
A small study of the effect of impaired liver function in 6 subjects with clinically significant (Childs 
Pugh Classification A (n = 5) and B (n = 1)) cirrhosis revealed little effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
orally administered olanzapine (2.5 – 7.5 mg single dose): Subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
dysfunction had slightly increased systemic clearance and faster elimination half-time compared to 
subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (n = 3). There were more smokers among subjects with cirrhosis 
(4/6; 67 %) than among subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (0/3; 0 %). 
Smoking 
In non-smoking versus smoking subjects (males and females) the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (38.6 versus 30.4 hr) and the clearance was reduced (18.6 versus 27.7 l/hr). 
The plasma clearance of olanzapine is lower in elderly versus young subjects, in females versus 
males, and in non-smokers versus smokers. However, the magnitude of the impact of age, gender, or 
smoking on olanzapine clearance and half-life is small in comparison to the overall variability 
between individuals. 
In a study of Caucasians, Japanese, and Chinese subjects, there were no differences in the 
pharmacokinetic parameters among the three populations. 
Paediatric population 
Adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years): The pharmacokinetics of olanzapine are similar between 
adolescents and adults. In clinical studies, the average olanzapine exposure was approximately 27 % 
higher in adolescents. Demographic differences between the adolescents and adults include a lower 
average body weight and fewer adolescents were smokers. Such factors possibly contribute to the 
higher average exposure observed in adolescents. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Acute (single-dose) toxicity 
Signs of oral toxicity in rodents were characteristic of potent neuroleptic compounds: hypoactivity, 
coma, tremors, clonic convulsions, salivation, and depressed weight gain. The median lethal doses 
were approximately 210 mg/kg (mice) and 175 mg/kg (rats). Dogs tolerated single oral doses up to 
100 mg/kg without mortality. Clinical signs included sedation, ataxia, tremors, increased heart rate, 
labored respiration, miosis, and anorexia. In monkeys, single oral doses up to 100 mg/kg resulted in 
prostration and, at higher doses, semi-consciousness. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
In studies up to 3 months duration in mice and up to 1 year in rats and dogs, the predominant effects 
were CNS depression, anticholinergic effects, and peripheral haematological disorders. Tolerance 
developed to the CNS depression. Growth parameters were decreased at high doses. Reversible 
effects consistent with elevated prolactin in rats included decreased weights of ovaries and uterus and 
morphologic changes in vaginal epithelium and in mammary gland. 
Haematologic toxicity 
Effects on haematology parameters were found in each species, including dose-related reductions in 
circulating leukocytes in mice and non-specific reductions of circulating leukocytes in rats; however, 
no evidence of bone marrow cytotoxicity was found. Reversible neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or 
anaemia developed in a few dogs treated with 8 or 10 mg/kg/day (total olanzapine exposure [AUC] is 
12- to 15-fold greater than that of a man given a 12-mg dose). In cytopenic dogs, there were no 
adverse effects on progenitor and proliferating cells in the bone marrow. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Olanzapine had no teratogenic effects. Sedation affected mating performance of male rats. Estrous 
cycles were affected at doses of 1.1 mg/kg (3 times the maximum human dose) and reproduction 
parameters were influenced in rats given 3 mg/kg (9 times the maximum human dose).  
In the offspring of rats given olanzapine, delays in foetal development and transient decreases in 
offspring activity levels were seen. 
Mutagenicity 
Olanzapine was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a full range of standard tests, which included 
bacterial mutation tests and in vitro and in vivo mammalian tests. 
Carcinogenicity 
Based on the results of studies in mice and rats, it was concluded that olanzapine is not carcinogenic. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E 421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Aspartame (E 951) 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 30 C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aluminium/aluminium blisters in cartons of 28, 56 tablets per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/004 
EU/1/09/592/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10.12.2009 
Date of renewal of authorisation: 06.08.2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 20  mg orodispersible tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each orodispersible tablet contains 20 mg olanzapine 
Excipient with known effect: Each orodispersible tablet contains 0.92 mg aspartame 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Orodispersible tablet 
Yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and 
‘F’ debossed on other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 
Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the clinical improvement during continuation therapy in 
patients who have shown an initial treatment response. 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode. 
In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is indicated for 
the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Adults 
Schizophrenia: The recommended starting dose for olanzapine is 10 mg/day. 
Manic episode: The starting dose is 15 mg as a single daily dose in monotherapy or 10 mg daily in 
combination therapy (see section 5.1). 
Preventing recurrence in bipolar disorder:  
The recommended starting dose is 10 mg/day. For patients who have been receiving olanzapine for 
treatment of manic episode, continue therapy for preventing recurrence at the same dose. If a new 
manic, mixed, or depressive episode occurs, olanzapine treatment should be continued (with dose 
optimisation as needed), with supplementary therapy to treat mood symptoms, as clinically indicated. 
During treatment for schizophrenia, manic episode and recurrence prevention in bipolar disorder, 
daily dosage may subsequently be adjusted on the basis of individual clinical status within the range 
5-20 mg/day. An increase to a dose greater than the recommended starting dose is advised only after 
appropriate clinical reassessment and should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Olanzapine can be given without regards for meals as absorption is not affected by food. Gradual 
tapering of the dose should be considered when discontinuing olanzapine. 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablets should be placed in the mouth, where it will rapidly disperse in 
saliva, so it can be easily swallowed. Alternatively, it may be dispersed in a full glass of water or 
other suitable beverage (orange juice, apple juice, milk or coffee) immediately before administration. 
Special populations 
Elderly  
A lower starting dose (5 mg/day) is not routinely indicated but should be considered for those 65 and 
over when clinical factors warrant (see section 4.4). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
A lower starting dose (5 mg) should be considered for such patients. In cases of moderate hepatic 
insufficiency (cirrhosis, Child-Pugh Class A or B), the starting dose should be 5 mg and only 
increased with caution. 
Smokers 
The starting dose and dose range need not be routinely altered for non-smokers relative to smokers. The 
metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking. Clinical monitoring is recommended and an 
increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.5). 
When more than one factor is present which might result in slower metabolism (female gender, 
geriatric age, non-smoking status), consideration should be given to decreasing the starting dose. Dose 
escalation, when indicated, should be conservative in such patients. 
(See sections 4.5 and 5.2.) 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age due to a 
lack of data on safety and efficacy. A greater magnitude of weight gain, lipid and prolactin alterations 
has been reported in short term studies of adolescent patients than in studies of adult patients (see 
sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. Patients with 
known risk of narrow-angle glaucoma. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
During antipsychotic treatment, improvement in the patient's clinical condition may take several days 
to some weeks. Patients should be closely monitored during this period. 
Dementia-related psychosis and/or behavioural disturbances 
Olanzapine is not recommended for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis and/or 
behavioural disturbances because of an increase in mortality and the risk of cerebrovascular accident.  
In placebo-controlled clinical trials (6-12 week’s duration) of elderly patients (mean age 78 years) 
with dementia-related psychosis and/or disturbed behaviours, there was a 2-fold increase in the 
incidence of death in olanzapine-treated patients compared to patients treated with placebo (3.5 % 
versus 1.5 %, respectively). The higher incidence of death was not associated with olanzapine dose 
(mean daily dose 4.4 mg) or duration of treatment.  
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors that may predispose this patient population to increased mortality include age > 65 years, 
dysphagia, sedation, malnutrition and dehydration, pulmonary conditions (e.g., pneumonia, with or 
without aspiration), or concomitant use of benzodiazepines. However, the incidence of death was 
higher in olanzapine-treated than in placebo-treated patients independent of these risk factors. 
In the same clinical trials, cerebrovascular adverse events (CVAE e.g., stroke, transient ischemic 
attack), including fatalities, were reported. There was a 3-fold increase in CVAE in patients treated 
with olanzapine compared to patients treated with placebo (1.3 % versus 0.4 %, respectively). All 
olanzapine and placebo-treated patients who experienced a cerebrovascular event had pre-existing risk 
factors. Age > 75 years and vascular/mixed type dementia were identified as risk factors for CVAE in 
association with olanzapine treatment. The efficacy of olanzapine was not established in these trials. 
Parkinson's disease 
The use of olanzapine in the treatment of dopamine agonist associated psychosis in patients with 
Parkinson's disease is not recommended.  
In clinical trials, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported very 
commonly and more frequently than with placebo (see section 4.8), and olanzapine was not more 
effective than placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms. In these trials, patients were initially 
required to be stable on the lowest effective dose of anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products (dopamine 
agonist) and to remain on the same anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products and dosages throughout the 
study. Olanzapine was started at 2.5 mg/day and titrated to a maximum of 15 mg/day based on 
investigator judgement. 
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) 
NMS is a potentially life-threatening condition associated with antipsychotic medicinal products. 
Rare cases reported as NMS have also been received in association with olanzapine. Clinical 
manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of 
autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac 
dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria 
(rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs and symptoms indicative of 
NMS, or presents with unexplained high fever without additional clinical manifestations of NMS, all 
antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine must be discontinued. 
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes 
Hyperglycaemia and/or development or exacerbation of diabetes occasionally associated with 
ketoacidosis or coma has been reported uncommonly, including some fatal cases (see section 4.8). In 
some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been reported which may be a predisposing factor. 
Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. 
measuring of blood glucose at baseline, 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and annually 
thereafter. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
observed for signs and symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus or with risk factors for diabetes mellitus should be 
monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Weight should be monitored regularly e.g. at 
baseline, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and quarterly thereafter . 
Lipid alterations 
Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in olanzapine-treated patients in placebo-
controlled clinical trials (see section 4.8). Lipid alterations should be managed as clinically 
appropriate, particularly in dyslipidemic patients and in patients with risk factors for the development 
of lipids disorders. Patients treated with any antipsychotic medicines, including olanzapine, should be 
monitored regularly for lipids in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines e.g. at baseline, 12 
weeks after starting olanzapine treatment and every 5 years thereafter. 
Anticholinergic activity 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While olanzapine demonstrated anticholinergic activity in vitro, experience during the clinical trials 
revealed a low incidence of related events. However, as clinical experience with olanzapine in 
patients with concomitant illness is limited, caution is advised when prescribing for patients with 
prostatic hypertrophy, or paralytic ileus and related conditions. 
Hepatic function 
Transient, asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases, alanine transferase (ALT), aspartate 
transferase (AST) have been seen commonly, especially in early treatment. Caution should be 
exercised and follow-up organised in patients with elevated ALT and/or AST, in patients with signs 
and symptoms of hepatic impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions associated with limited 
hepatic functional reserve, and in patients who are being treated with potentially hepatotoxic 
medicines. In cases where hepatitis (including hepatocellular, cholestatic or mixed liver injury) has 
been diagnosed, olanzapine treatment should be discontinued. 
Neutropenia 
Caution should be exercised in patients with low leukocyte and/or neutrophil counts for any reason, in 
patients receiving medicines known to cause neutropenia, in patients with a history of drug-induced 
bone marrow depression/toxicity, in patients with bone marrow depression caused by concomitant 
illness, radiation therapy or chemotherapy and in patients with hypereosinophilic conditions or with 
myeloproliferative disease.  
Neutropenia has been reported commonly when olanzapine and valproate are used concomitantly (see 
section 4.8). 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting have been reported 
rarely (≥ 0.01% and < 0.1%) when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
QT interval 
In clinical trials, clinically meaningful QTc prolongations (Fridericia QT correction [QTcF] 
≥ 500 milliseconds [msec] at any time post baseline in patients with baseline QTcF < 500 msec) were 
uncommon (0.1 % to 1 %) in patients treated with olanzapine, with no significant differences in 
associated cardiac events compared to placebo. However, caution should be exercised when 
olanzapine is prescribed with medicines known to increase QTc interval, especially in the elderly, in 
patients with congenital long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, heart hypertrophy, hypokalaemia 
or hypomagnesaemia. 
Thromboembolism 
Temporal association of olanzapine treatment and venous thromboembolism has been reported  
uncommonly (≥ 0.1% and < 1%).  A causal relationship between the occurrence of venous 
thromboembolism and treatment with olanzapine has not been established. However, since patients 
with schizophrenia often present with acquired risk factors for venous thromboembolism all possible 
risk factors of VTE e.g. immobilisation of patients, should be identified and preventive measures 
undertaken. 
General CNS activity 
Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination 
with other centrally acting medicines and alcohol. As it exhibits in vitro dopamine antagonism, 
olanzapine may antagonize the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Seizures 
Olanzapine should be used cautiously in patients who have a history of seizures or are subject to 
factors which may lower the seizure threshold. Seizures have been reported to occur uncommonly in 
patients when treated with olanzapine. In most of these cases, a history of seizures or risk factors for 
seizures were reported. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tardive Dyskinesia 
In comparator studies of one year or less duration, olanzapine was associated with a statistically 
significant lower incidence of treatment emergent dyskinesia. However the risk of tardive dyskinesia 
increases with long term exposure, and therefore if signs or symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in 
a patient on olanzapine, a dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. These symptoms 
can temporally deteriorate or even arise after discontinuation of treatment. 
Postural hypotension 
Postural hypotension was infrequently observed in the elderly in olanzapine clinical trials. It is 
recommended that blood pressure is measured periodically in patients over 65 years. 
Sudden cardiac death  
In postmarketing reports with olanzapine, the event of sudden cardiac death has been reported in 
patients with olanzapine. In a retrospective observational cohort study, the risk of presumed sudden 
cardiac death in patients treated with olanzapine was approximately twice the risk in patients not 
using antipsychotics. In the study, the risk of olanzapine was comparable to the risk of atypical 
antipsychotics included in a pooled analysis. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents.  
Studies in patients aged 13-17 years showed various adverse reactions, including weight gain, changes 
in metabolic parameters and increases in prolactin levels (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Phenylalanine 
Olazax Disperzi orodispersible tablet contains aspartame, which is a source of phenylalanine. May be 
harmful for people with phenylketonuria. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Potential interactions affecting olanzapine 
Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this 
isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Induction of CYP1A2 
The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to 
reduced olanzapine concentrations.  
Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed.  
The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an 
increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2). 
Inhibition of CYP1A2 
Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of 
olanzapine. The mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female 
nonsmokers and 77 % in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % 
respectively. A lower starting dose of olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using 
fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin. A decrease in the dose of 
olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated. 
Decreased bioavailability 
Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at 
least 2 hours before or after olanzapine. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have 
not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products 
Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists. 
Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). 
Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo studies where no inhibition of 
metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing 
mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 
2C19). 
Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with lithium or biperiden. 
Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is 
required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
General CNS activity 
Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can 
cause central nervous system depression. 
The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti-Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with 
Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
QTc interval 
Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products 
known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Patients should be advised to 
notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with 
olanzapine. Nevertheless, because human experience is limited, olanzapine should be used in 
pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
New born infants exposed to antipsychotics (including olanzapine) during the third trimester of 
pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms that 
may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, 
hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding disorder. Consequently, 
newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Breast-feeding 
In a study in breast-feeding, healthy women, olanzapine was excreted in breast milk. Mean infant 
exposure (mg/kg) at steady state was estimated to be 1.8 % of the maternal olanzapine dose (mg/kg). 
Patients should be advised not to breast-feed an infant if they are taking olanzapine. 
Fertility 
Effects on fertility are unknown (see section 5.3 for preclinical information). 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. Because 
olanzapine may cause somnolence and dizziness, patients should be cautioned about operating 
machinery, including motor vehicles. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adults 
The most frequently (seen in ≥ 1 % of patients) reported adverse reactions associated with the use of 
olanzapine in clinical trials were somnolence, weight gain, eosinophilia, elevated prolactin, 
cholesterol, glucose and triglyceride levels (see section 4.4), glucosuria, increased appetite, dizziness, 
akathisia, parkinsonism, leukopenia, neutropenia (see section 4.4), dyskinesia, orthostatic 
hypotension, anticholinergic effects, transient asymptomatic elevations of hepatic aminotransferases  
(see section 4.4), rash, asthenia, fatigue, pyrexia, arthralgia, increased alkaline phosphatase, high 
gamma glutamyltransferase, high uric acid, high creatine phosphokinase and oedema. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following table lists the adverse reactions and laboratory investigations observed from 
spontaneous reporting and in clinical trials. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very 
common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000), very rare (< 10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the data available). 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
 Rare 
Not 
known 
Blood and the lymphatic system disorders 
Eosinophilia 
Leukopenia10 
Neutropenia10 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Weight gain1 
Elevated cholesterol 
levels2,3 
Elevated glucose levels4 
Elevated triglyceride 
levels2,5 
Glucosuria  
Increased appetite 
Nervous system disorders 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Akathisia6 
Parkinsonism6 
Dyskinesia6 
Thrombocytope
nia11 
Hypothermia12 
Neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome (see 
section 4.4)12 
Discontinuation 
symptoms7, 12 
Hypersensitivity11 
Development or 
exacerbation of 
diabetes 
occasionally 
associated with 
ketoacidosis or 
coma, including 
some fatal cases 
(see section 4.4) 11 
Seizures where in 
most cases a 
history of seizures 
or risk factors for 
seizures were 
reported11 
Dystonia (including 
oculogyration)11 
Tardive 
dyskinesia11 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Orthostatic 
hypotension10 
Amnesia9 
Dysarthria 
Stuttering11 
Restless legs 
syndrome11 
Bradycardia 
QTc prolongation 
(see section 4.4) 
Thromboembolism 
(including 
pulmonary 
embolism and deep 
vein thrombosis) 
(see section 4.4) 
Ventricular 
tachycardia/fibri
llation, sudden 
death (see 
section 4.4)11 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis9 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Mild, transient 
anticholinergic effects 
including constipation 
and dry mouth 
Abdominal 
distension9  
Salivary 
hypersecretion11 
Pancreatitis11 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Transient, asymptomatic 
elevations of hepatic 
aminotransferases 
(ALT, AST), especially 
in early treatment (see 
section 4.4) 
Hepatitis 
(including 
hepatocellular, 
cholestatic or 
mixed liver 
injury)11 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Photosensitivity 
reaction 
Alopecia 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 9 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Rhabdomyolys
is11 
Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions 
Urinary 
incontinence, 
urinary retention 
urinary hesitation11 
57 
Drug 
Reaction 
with 
Eosinophili
a and 
Systemic 
Symptoms 
(DRESS) 
Drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see section 
4.6) 
Priapism12 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile dysfunction in 
males 
Decreased libido in 
males and females 
Amenorrhea 
Breast enlargement 
Galactorrhea in 
females 
Gynaecomastia/bre
ast enlargement in 
males 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Elevated plasma 
prolactin levels8 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Pyrexia10 
Increased alkaline 
phosphatase10 
High creatine 
phosphokinase11 
High Gamma 
Glutamyltransferase 10 
High Uric Acid 10 
Increased total 
bilirubin 
1 Clinically significant weight gain was observed across all baseline Body Mass Index (BMI) 
categories. Following short term treatment (median duration 47 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline 
body weight was very common (22.2%), ≥ 15% was common (4.2%) and ≥25% was uncommon 
(0.8%). Patients gaining ≥7%, ≥15% and ≥25% of their baseline body weight with long-term exposure 
(at least 48 weeks) were very common (64.4 %, 31.7 % and 12.3 % respectively). 
2 Mean increases in fasting lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides) were 
greater in patients without evidence of lipid dysregulation at baseline. 
3 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.17 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 6.2 mmol/l). Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline at baseline (≥ 5.17- 
< 6.2 mmol/l) to high (≥ 6.2 mmol/l) were very common. 
4 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 5.56 mmol/l) which increased to high (≥ 7 mmol/l). 
Changes in fasting glucose from borderline at baseline (≥ 5.56 - < 7 mmol/l) to high (≥ 7 mmol/l) 
were very common. 
5 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.69 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 2.26 mmol/l). Changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.69 mmol/l - 
< 2.26 mmol/l) to high (≥ 2.26 mmol/l) were very common. 
6 In clinical trials, the incidence of Parkinsonism and dystonia in olanzapine-treated patients was 
numerically higher, but not statistically significantly different from placebo. Olanzapine-treated 
patients had a lower incidence of Parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia compared with titrated doses 
of haloperidol. In the absence of detailed information on the pre-existing history of individual acute 
and tardive extrapyramidal movement disorders, it cannot be concluded at present that olanzapine 
produces less tardive dyskinesia and/or other tardive extrapyramidal syndromes. 
7 Acute symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea and vomiting have been 
reported when olanzapine is stopped abruptly. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 In clinical trials of up to 12 weeks, plasma prolactin concentrations exceeded the upper limit of 
normal range in approximately 30% of olanzapine treated patients with normal baseline prolactin 
value. In the majority of these patients the elevations were generally mild, and remained below two 
times the upper limit of normal range.  
9 Adverse event identified from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
10 As assessed by measured values from clinical trials in the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
11 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency determined 
utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
12 Adverse event identified from spontaneous post-marketing reporting with frequency estimated at 
the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval utilising the Olanzapine Integrated Database. 
Long-term exposure (at least 48 weeks) 
The proportion of patients who had adverse, clinically significant changes in weight gain, glucose, 
total/LDL/HDL cholesterol or triglycerides increased over time. In adult patients who completed 
9-12 months of therapy, the rate of increase in mean blood glucose slowed after approximately 
6 months. 
Additional information on special populations 
In clinical trials in elderly patients with dementia, olanzapine treatment was associated with a higher 
incidence of death and cerebrovascular adverse reactions compared to placebo (see section 4.4). Very 
common adverse reactions associated with the use of olanzapine in this patient group were abnormal 
gait and falls. Pneumonia, increased body temperature, lethargy, erythema, visual hallucinations and 
urinary incontinence were observed commonly. 
In clinical trials in patients with drug-induced (dopamine agonist) psychosis associated with 
Parkinson’s disease, worsening of Parkinsonian symptomatology and hallucinations were reported 
very commonly and more frequently than with placebo. 
In one clinical trial in patients with bipolar mania, valproate combination therapy with olanzapine 
resulted in an incidence of neutropenia of 4.1 %; a potential contributing factor could be high plasma 
valproate levels. Olanzapine administered with lithium or valproate resulted in increased levels 
(≥ 10 %) of tremor, dry mouth, increased appetite, and weight gain. Speech disorder was also reported 
commonly. During treatment with olanzapine in combination with lithium or divalproex, an increase 
of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight occurred in 17.4 % of patients during acute treatment (up to 
6 weeks).  
Long-term olanzapine treatment (up to 12 months) for recurrence prevention in patients with bipolar 
disorder was associated with an increase of ≥ 7 % from baseline body weight in 39.9 % of patients. 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for the treatment of children and adolescent patients below 18 years. 
Although no clinical studies designed to compare adolescents to adults have been conducted, data 
from the adolescent trials were compared to those of the adult trials. 
The following table summarises the adverse reactions reported with a greater frequency in adolescent 
patients (aged 13-17 years) than in adult patients or adverse reactions only identified during short-
term clinical trials in adolescent patients.  
Clinically significant weight gain (≥ 7 %) appears to occur more frequently in the adolescent 
population compared to adults with comparable exposures. The magnitude of weight gain and the 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportion of adolescent patients who had clinically significant weight gain were greater with long-
term exposure (at least 24 weeks) than with short-term exposure. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The frequency terms listed are defined as follows: Very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10). 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common: Weight gain 13, elevated triglyceride levels 14, increased appetite. 
Common: Elevated cholesterol levels 15 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: Sedation (including: hypersomnia, lethargy, somnolence). 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: Dry mouth 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very common: Elevations of hepatic aminotransferases (ALT/AST; see section 4.4). 
Investigations 
Very common: Decreased total bilirubin, increased GGT, elevated plasma prolactin levels 16 
13 Following short term treatment (median duration 22 days), weight gain ≥ 7 % of baseline body 
weight (kg) was very common (40.6 %), ≥15 % of baseline body weight was common (7.1 %) and 
≥ 25 % was common (2.5 %). With long-term exposure (at least 24 weeks), 89.4 % gained ≥ 7 %, 
55.3 % gained ≥ 15 % and 29.1 % gained ≥ 25% of their baseline body weight.  
14 Observed for fasting normal levels at baseline (< 1.016 mmol/l) which increased to high 
(≥ 1.467 mmol/l) and changes in fasting triglycerides from borderline at baseline (≥ 1.016 mmol/l - < 
1.467 mmol/l) to high (≥ 1.467 mmol/l). 
15 Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from normal at baseline (< 4.39 mmol/l) to high 
(≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were observed commonly. Changes in total fasting cholesterol levels from borderline 
at baseline (≥ 4.39 - < 5.17 mmol/l) to high (≥ 5.17 mmol/l) were very common. 
16 Elevated plasma prolactin levels were reported in 47.4 % of adolescent patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Very common symptoms in overdose (> 10 % incidence) include tachycardia, agitation/ 
aggressiveness, dysarthria, various extrapyramidal symptoms, and reduced level of consciousness 
ranging from sedation to coma. 
Other medically significant sequelae of overdose include delirium, convulsion, coma, possible 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome, respiratory depression, aspiration, hypertension or hypotension, 
cardiac arrhythmias (< 2 % of overdose cases) and cardiopulmonary arrest.  
Fatal outcomes have been reported for acute overdoses as low as 450 mg but survival has also been 
reported following acute overdose of approximately 2 g of oral olanzapine. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management  
There is no specific antidote for olanzapine. Induction of emesis is not recommended. Standard 
procedures for management of overdose may be indicated (i.e. gastric lavage, administration of 
activated charcoal). The concomitant administration of activated charcoal was shown to reduce the 
oral bioavailability of olanzapine by 50 to 60 %. 
Symptomatic treatment and monitoring of vital organ function should be instituted according to 
clinical presentation, including treatment of hypotension and circulatory collapse and support of 
respiratory function. Do not use epinephrine, dopamine, or other sympathomimetic agents with beta-
agonist activity since beta stimulation may worsen hypotension. Cardiovascular monitoring is 
necessary to detect possible arrhythmias. Close medical supervision and monitoring should continue 
until the patient recovers. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psycholeptics, diazepines, oxazepines, thiazepines and oxepines, ATC 
code N05A H03. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Olanzapine is an antipsychotic, antimanic and mood stabilising agent that demonstrates a broad 
pharmacologic profile across a number of receptor systems. 
In preclinical studies, olanzapine exhibited a range of receptor affinities (Ki < 100 nM) for serotonin 5 
HT2A/2C, 5 HT3, 5 HT6; dopamine D1, D2, D3, D4, D5; cholinergic muscarinic receptors M1-M5; 
α1 adrenergic; and histamine H1 receptors.  
Animal behavioral studies with olanzapine indicated 5HT, dopamine, and cholinergic antagonism, 
consistent with the receptor-binding profile. Olanzapine demonstrated a greater in vitro affinity for 
serotonin 5HT2 than dopamine D2 receptors and greater 5HT2 than D2 activity in vivo, models.  
Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that olanzapine selectively reduced the firing of 
mesolimbic (A10) dopaminergic neurons, while having little effect on the striatal (A9) pathways 
involved in motor function. Olanzapine reduced a conditioned avoidance response, a test indicative of 
antipsychotic activity, at doses below those producing catalepsy, an effect indicative of motor side-
effects. Unlike some other antipsychotic agents, olanzapine increases responding in an “anxiolytic” 
test. 
In a single oral dose (10 mg) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) study in healthy volunteers, 
olanzapine produced a higher 5HT2A than dopamine D2 receptor occupancy. In addition, a Single 
Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging study in schizophrenic patients revealed 
that olanzapine-responsive patients had lower striatal D2 occupancy than some other antipsychotic and 
risperidone-responsive patients, while being comparable to clozapine-responsive patients. 
Clinical efficacy 
In two of two placebo and two of three comparator controlled trials with over 2,900 schizophrenic 
patients presenting with both positive and negative symptoms, olanzapine was associated with 
statistically significantly greater improvements in negative as well as positive symptoms. 
In a multinational, double-blind, comparative study of schizophrenia, schizoaffective, and related 
disorders which included 1,481 patients with varying degrees of associated depressive symptoms 
(baseline mean of 16.6 on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale), a prospective secondary 
analysis of baseline to endpoint mood score change demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement (p= 0.001) favouring olanzapine (- 6.0) versus haloperidol (- 3.1). 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with a manic or mixed episode of bipolar disorder, olanzapine demonstrated superior 
efficacy to placebo and valproate semisodium (divalproex) in reduction of manic symptoms over 
3 weeks. Olanzapine also demonstrated comparable efficacy results to haloperidol in terms of the 
proportion of patients in symptomatic remission from mania and depression at 6 and 12 weeks. In a 
co-therapy study of patients treated with lithium or valproate for a minimum of 2 weeks, the addition 
of olanzapine 10 mg (co-therapy with lithium or valproate) resulted in a greater reduction in 
symptoms of mania than lithium or valproate monotherapy after 6 weeks. 
In a 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission on 
olanzapine and were then randomised to olanzapine or placebo, olanzapine demonstrated statistically 
significant superiority over placebo on the primary endpoint of bipolar recurrence. Olanzapine also 
showed a statistically significant advantage over placebo in terms of preventing either recurrence into 
mania or recurrence into depression. 
In a second 12-month recurrence prevention study in manic episode patients who achieved remission 
with a combination of olanzapine and lithium and were then randomised to olanzapine or lithium 
alone, olanzapine was statistically non-inferior to lithium on the primary endpoint of bipolar 
recurrence (olanzapine 30.0 %, lithium 38.3 %; p = 0.055). 
In an 18-month co-therapy study in manic or mixed episode patients stabilised with olanzapine plus a 
mood stabiliser (lithium or valproate), long-term olanzapine co-therapy with lithium or valproate was 
not statistically significantly superior to lithium or valproate alone in delaying bipolar recurrence, 
defined according to syndromic (diagnostic) criteria. 
Paediatric population 
Controlled efficacy data in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) are limited to short term studies in 
schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder (3 weeks), involving less than 
200 adolescents. Olanzapine was used as a flexible dose starting with 2.5 and ranging up to 
20 mg/day. During treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared 
with adults. The magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and 
prolactin (see sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are no controlled 
data on maintenance of effect or long term safety (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Information on long term 
safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Olanzapine is well absorbed after oral administration, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 
5 to 8 hours. The absorption is not affected by food. Absolute oral bioavailability relative to 
intravenous administration has not been determined. 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of olanzapine was about 93 % over the concentration range of about 7 to 
about 1000 ng/ml. Olanzapine is bound predominantly to albumin and 1-acid-glycoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
Olanzapine is metabolized in the liver by conjugative and oxidative pathways. The major circulating 
metabolite is the 10-N-glucuronide, which does not pass the blood brain barrier. Cytochromes 
P450-CYP1A2 and P450-CYP2D6 contribute to the formation of the N-desmethyl and 
2-hydroxymethyl metabolites, both exhibited significantly less in vivo pharmacological activity than 
olanzapine in animal studies. The predominant pharmacologic activity is from the parent olanzapine.  
Elimination 
After oral administration, the mean terminal elimination half-life of olanzapine in healthy subjects 
varied on the basis of age and gender. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In healthy elderly (65 and over) versus non-elderly subjects, the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (51.8 versus 33.8 hr) and the clearance was reduced (17.5 versus 18.2 l/hr). The 
pharmacokinetic variability observed in the elderly is within the range for the non-elderly. In 
44 patients with schizophrenia > 65 years of age, dosing from 5 to 20 mg/day was not associated with 
any distinguishing profile of adverse events. 
In female versus male subjects the mean elimination half-life was somewhat prolonged (36.7 versus 
32.3 hrs) and the clearance was reduced (18.9 versus 27.3 l/hr). However, olanzapine (5-20 mg) 
demonstrated a comparable safety profile in female (n = 467) as in male patients (n = 869). 
Renal impairment 
In renally impaired patients (creatinine clearance < 10 ml/min) versus healthy subjects, there was no 
significant difference in mean elimination half-life (37.7 versus 32.4 hr) or clearance (21.2 versus 
25.0 l/hr). A mass balance study showed that approximately 57 % of radiolabelled olanzapine 
appeared in urine, principally as metabolites. 
Hepatic impairment 
A small study of the effect of impaired liver function in 6 subjects with clinically significant (Childs 
Pugh Classification A (n = 5) and B (n = 1)) cirrhosis revealed little effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
orally administered olanzapine (2.5 – 7.5 mg single dose): Subjects with mild to moderate hepatic 
dysfunction had slightly increased systemic clearance and faster elimination half-time compared to 
subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (n = 3). There were more smokers among subjects with cirrhosis 
(4/6; 67 %) than among subjects with no hepatic dysfunction (0/3; 0 %). 
Smoking 
In non-smoking versus smoking subjects (males and females) the mean elimination half-life was 
prolonged (38.6 versus 30.4 hr) and the clearance was reduced (18.6 versus 27.7 l/hr). 
The plasma clearance of olanzapine is lower in elderly versus young subjects, in females versus 
males, and in non-smokers versus smokers. However, the magnitude of the impact of age, gender, or 
smoking on olanzapine clearance and half-life is small in comparison to the overall variability 
between individuals. 
In a study of Caucasians, Japanese, and Chinese subjects, there were no differences in the 
pharmacokinetic parameters among the three populations. 
Paediatric population 
Adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years): The pharmacokinetics of olanzapine are similar between 
adolescents and adults. In clinical studies, the average olanzapine exposure was approximately 27 % 
higher in adolescents. Demographic differences between the adolescents and adults include a lower 
average body weight and fewer adolescents were smokers. Such factors possibly contribute to the 
higher average exposure observed in adolescents. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Acute (single-dose) toxicity 
Signs of oral toxicity in rodents were characteristic of potent neuroleptic compounds: hypoactivity, 
coma, tremors, clonic convulsions, salivation, and depressed weight gain. The median lethal doses 
were approximately 210 mg/kg (mice) and 175 mg/kg (rats). Dogs tolerated single oral doses up to 
100 mg/kg without mortality. Clinical signs included sedation, ataxia, tremors, increased heart rate, 
labored respiration, miosis, and anorexia. In monkeys, single oral doses up to 100 mg/kg resulted in 
prostration and, at higher doses, semi-consciousness. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
In studies up to 3 months duration in mice and up to 1 year in rats and dogs, the predominant effects 
were CNS depression, anticholinergic effects, and peripheral haematological disorders. Tolerance 
developed to the CNS depression. Growth parameters were decreased at high doses. Reversible 
effects consistent with elevated prolactin in rats included decreased weights of ovaries and uterus and 
morphologic changes in vaginal epithelium and in mammary gland. 
Haematologic toxicity 
Effects on haematology parameters were found in each species, including dose-related reductions in 
circulating leukocytes in mice and non-specific reductions of circulating leukocytes in rats; however, 
no evidence of bone marrow cytotoxicity was found. Reversible neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or 
anaemia developed in a few dogs treated with 8 or 10 mg/kg/day (total olanzapine exposure [AUC] is 
12- to 15-fold greater than that of a man given a 12-mg dose). In cytopenic dogs, there were no 
adverse effects on progenitor and proliferating cells in the bone marrow. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Olanzapine had no teratogenic effects. Sedation affected mating performance of male rats. Estrous 
cycles were affected at doses of 1.1 mg/kg (3 times the maximum human dose) and reproduction 
parameters were influenced in rats given 3 mg/kg (9 times the maximum human dose).  
In the offspring of rats given olanzapine, delays in foetal development and transient decreases in 
offspring activity levels were seen. 
Mutagenicity 
Olanzapine was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a full range of standard tests, which included 
bacterial mutation tests and in vitro and in vivo mammalian tests. 
Carcinogenicity 
Based on the results of studies in mice and rats, it was concluded that olanzapine is not carcinogenic. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E 421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Aspartame (E 951) 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 30 C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/aluminium blisters in cartons of 28, 56 tablets per carton. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/005 
EU/1/09/592/010 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 10.12.2009 
Date of renewal of authorisation: 06.08.2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o 
Fibíchova 143, 566 17  
Vysoké Mýto 
Czech Republic 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• Risk management plan (RMP)  
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing 
Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.  
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified,especially as the result of  new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 5 mg olanzapine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains aspartame. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Orodispersible Tablet 
28 orodispersible tablets 
56 orodispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
The tablet should be dissolved in the mouth or in a drink. Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 30C 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/001 
EU/1/09/592/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
OTHER 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 7.5 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
OTHER 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 10 mg olanzapine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains aspartame. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Orodispersible Tablet 
28 orodispersible tablets 
56 orodispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
The tablet should be dissolved in the mouth or in a drink. Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 30C 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/003 
EU/1/09/592/008 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg orodispersible tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
OTHER 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 15 mg olanzapine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains aspartame. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Orodispersible Tablet 
28 orodispersible tablets 
56 orodispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
The tablet should be dissolved in the mouth or in a drink. Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store below 30C 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/004 
EU/1/09/592/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg orodispersible tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
OTHER 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 20 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 20 mg olanzapine 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains aspartame. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Orodispersible Tablet 
28 orodispersible tablets 
56 orodispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
The tablet should be dissolved in the mouth or in a drink. Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 30C 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/592/005 
EU/1/09/592/010 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Olazax Disperzi 20 mg orodispersible tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Olazax Disperzi 20 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
OTHER 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olazax Disperzi 20 mg orodispersible tablets 
Olanzapine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Olazax Disperzi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Olazax Disperzi 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Olazax Disperzi 
Possible side effects 
How to store Olazax Disperzi 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Olazax Disperzi is and what it is used for 
Olazax Disperzi contains the active substance olanzapine. Olazax Disperzi belongs to a group of 
medicines called antipsychotics and is used to treat the following conditions:  
•  Schizophrenia, a disease with symptoms such as hearing, seeing or sensing things which are 
not there, mistaken beliefs, unusual suspiciousness, and becoming withdrawn. People with 
this disease may also feel depressed, anxious or tense. 
•  Moderate to severe manic episodes,  a condition with symptoms of excitement or euphoria. 
Olazax Disperzi has been shown to prevent recurrence of these symptoms in patients with bipolar 
disorder whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Olazax Disperzi 
Do not take Olazax Disperzi 
- 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to olanzapine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6).  An allergic reaction may be recognised as a rash, itching, a swollen face, 
swollen lips or shortness of breath. If this has happened to you, tell your doctor. 
If you have been previously diagnosed with eye problems such as certain kinds of glaucoma 
(increased pressure in the eye). 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you take Olazax Disperzi. 
  The use of Olazax Disperzi in elderly patients with dementia is not recommended as it may have 
serious side effects. 
  Medicines of this type may cause unusual movements mainly of the face or tongue. If this 
happens after you have been given Olazax Disperzi tell your doctor. 
  Very rarely, medicines of this type cause a combination of fever, faster breathing, sweating, 
muscle stiffness and drowsiness or sleepiness. If this happens, contact your doctor at once. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Weight gain has been seen in patients taking Olazax Disperzi. You and your doctor should check 
your weight regularly. Consider referral to a dietician or help with a diet plan if necessary 
  High blood sugar and high levels of fat (triglycerides and cholesterol) have been seen in patients 
taking Olazax Disperzi. Your doctor should do blood tests to check blood sugar and certain fat 
levels before you start taking Olazax Disperzi and regularly during treatment. 
  Tell the doctor if you or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as medicines 
like these have been associated with the formation of blood clots.  
If you suffer from any of the following illnesses tell your doctor as soon as possible: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Stroke or “mini” stroke (temporary symptoms of stroke) 
Parkinson’s disease 
Prostate problems 
A blocked intestine (Paralytic ileus) 
Liver or kidney disease 
Blood disorders 
Heart disease 
Diabetes 
Seizures 
If you know that you may have salt depletion as a result of prolonged severe diarrhoea and 
vomiting (being sick) or usage of diuretics (water tablets) 
If you suffer from dementia, you or your carer/relative should tell your doctor if you have ever had a 
stroke or “mini” stroke . 
As a routine precaution, if you are over 65 years your blood pressure may be monitored by your 
doctor. 
Children and adolescents 
Olazax Disperzi is not for patients who are under 18 years.  
Other medicines and Olazax Disperzi 
Only take other medicines while you are on Olazax Disperzi if your doctor tells you that you can. You 
might feel drowsy if Olazax Disperzi is taken in combination with antidepressants or medicines taken 
for anxiety or to help you sleep (tranquillisers). 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking: 
  medicines for Parkinson’s disease. 
 
carbamazepine (an anti-epileptic and mood stabiliser), fluvoxamine (an antidepressant) or 
ciprofloxacin (an antibiotic) - it may be necessary to change your Olazax Disperzi dose. 
Olazax Disperzi with alcohol 
Do not drink any alcohol if you have been given Olazax Disperzi as together with alcohol it may make 
you feel drowsy. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you might may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
You should not be given this medicine when breast-feeding, as small amounts of  Olazax Disperzi can 
pass into breast milk.  
The following symptoms may occur in newborn babies, of mothers that have used Olazax Disperzi in 
the last trimester (last three months of their pregnancy): shaking, muscle stiffness and/or weakness, 
sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, and difficulty in feeding. If your baby develops any of these 
symptoms you may need to contact your doctor. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
There is a risk of feeling drowsy when you are given Olazax Disperzi. If this happens do not drive or 
operate any tools or machines. Tell your doctor. 
Olazax Disperzi contains aspartame  
Patients who cannot take phenylalanine should note that Olazax Disperzi contains aspartmae, which is 
a source of phenylalanine. This may be harmful for people with phenylketonuria. 
3.  How to take Olazax Disperzi 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
Your doctor will tell you how many Olazax Disperzi tablets to take and how long you should 
continue to take them. The daily dose of Olazax Disperzi is between 5 mg and 20 mg. Consult your 
doctor if your symptoms return but do not stop taking Olazax Disperzi unless your doctor tells you 
to. 
You should take your Olazax Disperzi tablets once a day following the advice of your doctor. Try 
to take your tablets at the same time each day. It does not matter whether you take them with or 
without food. Olazax Disperzi tablets are for oral use. 
Put the tablet in your mouth. It will dissolve directly in your mouth, so it can be easily swallowed.  
You can also place the tablet in a full glass or cup of water orange juice, apple juice, milk or 
coffee, and stir. Drink it straight away.  
If you take more Olazax Disperzi than you should 
Patients who have taken more Olazax Disperzi than they should, have experienced the following 
symptoms: rapid beating of the heart, agitation/aggressiveness, problems with speech, unusual 
movements (especially of the face or tongue) and reduced level of consciousness. Other symptoms 
may be: acute confusion, seizures (epilepsy), coma, a combination of fever, faster breathing, 
sweating, muscle stiffness and drowsiness or sleepiness, slowing of the breathing rate, aspiration, 
high blood pressure or low blood pressure, abnormal rhythms of the heart. Contact your doctor or 
hospital straight away if you experience any of the above symptoms. Show the doctor your pack of 
tablets. 
If you forget to take Olazax Disperzi 
Take your tablets as soon as you remember. Do not take two doses in one day. 
If you stop taking Olazax Disperzi 
Do not stop taking your tablets just because you feel better. It is important that you carry on taking  
Olazax Disperzi for as long as your doctor tells you. 
If you suddenly stop taking Olazax Disperzi, symptoms such as sweating, unable to sleep, tremor, 
anxiety or nausea and vomiting might occur. Your doctor may suggest you to reduce the dose 
gradually before stopping treatment.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have:  
 
 
 
unusual movement (a common side effect that may affect up to 1 in 10 people) mainly of the 
face or tongue; 
blood clots in the veins (an uncommon side effect that may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, pain, and redness in the leg), which may travel 
through blood vessels to the lungs causing chest pain and difficulty in breathing. If you notice 
any of these symptoms seek medical advice immediately; 
a combination of fever, faster breathing, sweating, muscle stiffness and drowsiness or sleepiness 
(the frequency of this side effect cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include weight gain; sleepiness; and 
increases in levels of prolactin in the blood. . In the early stages of treatment, some people may feel 
dizzy or faint (with a slow heart rate), especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position. This 
will usually pass on its own but if it does not, tell your doctor. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include changes in the levels of some blood 
cells, circulating fats and early in treatment, temporary increases in liver enzymes; increases in the 
level of sugars in the blood and urine; increases in levels of uric acid and creatine phosphokinase in 
the blood; feeling more hungry; dizziness; restlessness; tremor; unusual movements(dyskinesias);  
constipation; dry mouth; rash; loss of strength; extreme tiredness; water retention leading to 
swelling of the hands, ankles or feet; fever; joint pain and sexual dysfunctions such as decreased 
libido in males and females or erectile dysfunction in males. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) include hypersensitivity (e.g. swelling in 
the mouth and throat, itching, rash); diabetes or the worsening of diabetes, occasionally associated 
with ketoacidosis (ketones in the blood and urine) or coma; seizures, usually associated with a 
history of seizures (epilepsy); muscle stiffness or spasms (including eye movements); restless legs 
syndrome;  problems with speech; stuttering, slow heart rate; sensitivity to sunlight; bleeding from 
the nose; abdominal distension; drooling; memory loss or forgetfulness; urinary incontinence; lack 
of ability to urinate; hair loss; absence or decrease in menstrual periods and changes in breasts in 
males and females such as an abnormal production of breast milk or abnormal growth.   
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) include lowering of normal body temperature;  
abnormal rhythms of the heart; sudden unexplained death;; inflammation of the pancreas causing 
severe stomach pain, fever and sickness; liver disease appearing as yellowing of the skin and white 
parts of the eyes; muscle disease presenting as unexplained aches and pains and prolonged and/or 
painful erection. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000) include serious allergic reactions such as Drug 
Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). DRESS appears initially as flu-like 
symptoms with a rash on the face and then with an extended rash, high temperature, enlarged lymph 
nodes, increased levels of liver enzymes seen in blood tests and an increase in a type of white blood 
cells (eosinophilia). 
While taking olanzapine, elderly patients with dementia may suffer from stroke, pneumonia, urinary 
incontinence, falls, extreme tiredness, visual hallucinations, a rise in body temperature, redness of the 
skin and have trouble walking. Some fatal cases have been reported in this particular group of 
patients. 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease Olazax Disperzi may worsen the symptoms 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Olazax Disperzi 
Keep this medicine out of sight and reach of children 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.   
Store below 30 C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Olazax Disperzi contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is olanzapine 
Each tablet contains 5 mg,  10 mg, 15 mg, or 20 mg olanzapine 
- 
The other ingredients are mannitol (E 421), microcrystalline cellulose, aspartame (E 951), 
crospovidone, magnesium stearate 
What Olazax Disperzi looks like and contents of the pack 
Olazax Disperzi 5 mg is supplied as a yellow coloured circular flat beveled edge orodispersible tablet 
with ‘B’ debossed on one side. 
Olazax Disperzi 10 mg is supplied as a yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible 
tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and ‘D’ debossed on other side. 
Olazax Disperzi 15 mg is supplied as a yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible 
tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and ‘E’ debossed on other side. 
Olazax Disperzi 20 mg is supplied as a yellow coloured circular flat bevelled edge orodispersible 
tablets with ‘OL’ debossed on one side and ‘F’ debossed on other side. 
Olazax Disperzi 5mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg are available in aluminium foil blisters of 28, 56 
orodispersible tablets  
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
Manufacturer 
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals s.r.o. 
Hvězdova 1716/2b, 140 78 Praha 4 
Czech Republic  
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website: http://www.ema.europa.eu 
89 
 
Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation(s) 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for olanzapine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Following the review of case reports in the UK Sentinel database, the EudraVigilance database, and 
the literature, a signal for salivary hypersecretion with olanzapine was identified on 14 February 
2019 by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and validated by the 
PRAC. 
Based on signal analysis presented by the MAH including mechanistic plausibility, number of 
dechallenge/rechallenge cases and strong temporal relationship, the PRAC agrees that salivary 
hypersecretion may be associated with olanzapine and the adverse reaction salivary hypersecretion 
should be added to the product information. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for olanzapine the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing olanzapine is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
91 
 
 
