Summary  of 
(phenylephrine/ketorolac) 
risk  management  plan 
for  Omidria 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Omidria. The RMP details important risks of 
Omidria, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Omidria's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Omidria's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Omidria should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Omidria should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Omidria's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Omidria is authorised in adults for maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis, prevention of 
intraoperative miosis and reduction of acute postoperative ocular pain in intraocular lens replacement 
surgery (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains phenylephrine and ketorolac as the active 
substances, and it is given by intraocular irrigation to the affected eye during surgery. 
Further information about the evaluation of Omidria’s benefits can be found in Omidria’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/omidria 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Omidria, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Omidria's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Omidria are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Omidria. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
None. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Omidria. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Omidria.  
 
 
 
 
 
