EMA/359266/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003702 
EPAR summary for the public 
Omidria 
phenylephrine / ketorolac 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Omidria. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Omidria. 
For practical information about using Omidria, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Omidria and what is it used for? 
Omidria is a medicine used in adults during lens replacement surgery in the eye to keep the pupil 
dilated (widened) and prevent its contraction, and to reduce eye pain after surgery. It contains the 
active substances phenylephrine and ketorolac.  
How is Omidria used? 
Omidria is available as a concentrate that is made up into an irrigation solution (a solution used to 
rinse the inside of the eye during surgery). It can only be obtained with a prescription and must be 
given by a qualified ophthalmological surgeon (eye surgery specialist) experienced in lens replacement. 
This is a type of surgery in which a new lens is implanted into the eye. The lens is the part of the eye 
that focuses light passing through the pupil and allows clear vision.  
The recommended dose is 4 ml of Omidria diluted in 500 ml of irrigation solution, to be used during 
the surgery to replace the lens. The ophthalmologist may also prescribe eye drops commonly used 
before and after the surgery to help prevent eye infections and pain. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Omidria work? 
Omidria contains the active substances phenylephrine and ketorolac. Phenylephrine is a ‘selective 
alpha-1 adrenergic receptor agonist’, which attaches to and activates alpha-1 adrenergic receptors that 
are found on smooth muscle cells, causing these muscles to contract. When applied to the eye, 
phenylephrine makes the muscle of the iris contract (tighten) and allows the pupil to widen. This 
makes lens replacement surgery easier. 
Ketorolac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It works by blocking certain enzymes 
called cyclo-oxygenases, which produce prostaglandins, substances that are involved in pain and 
inflammation processes. When applied to the eye, ketorolac reduces the production of prostaglandins 
in the eye and thereby reduces the pain and inflammation caused by eye surgery. 
Both active substances have been available in the European Union (EU) as separate preparations for a 
number of years. 
What benefits of Omidria have been shown in studies? 
Omidria has been investigated in two main studies involving a total of 821 patients undergoing lens 
replacement surgery, in which it was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). In both studies, 
the main measures of effectiveness were the change in diameter of the pupil by the end of the 
surgery, and how much eye pain patients felt soon after surgery, as indicated by the patient using a 
standard pain scale from 1 to 100. 
Both studies showed that the pupil remained dilated during surgery in patients given Omidria (+0.1 
mm), while it contracted in those given placebo (-0.5 mm). Fewer than 1 in 10 of the patients given 
Omidria had a pupil diameter below 6 mm (which makes surgery more difficult), whereas about 4 
patients in 10 experienced this after being given placebo. With respect to pain, patients treated with 
Omidria reported an average pain score of around 4, compared with around 9 for those given placebo. 
In addition, 7% (29 out of 403) of patients receiving Omidria experienced moderate-to-severe pain 
compared with 14% (57 out of 403) of patients given placebo, and 25% (104 out of 403) were pain-
free in the early period following surgery, compared with 17% (69 out of 403) of patients receiving 
placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Omidria? 
The most common side effects with Omidria (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are eye pain, 
anterior chamber inflammation (inflammation of the fluid-filled space inside the eye between the iris 
and the cornea), conjunctival hyperaemia (redness of the membrane that lies over the white part of 
the eye), photophobia (increased sensitivity of the eyes to light), corneal oedema (swelling of the 
transparent layer in front of the eye that covers the pupil and iris) and inflammation. These side effects 
are typical following lens replacement surgery, and most were mild to moderate in severity and 
resolved spontaneously. The incidence of side effects with Omidria was similar to that reported in 
patients receiving placebo. For the full list of all side effects reported with Omidria, see the package 
leaflet. 
Omidria must not be used in patients who have narrow-angle glaucoma, a serious condition of the eye 
in which the pressure inside the eye rises rapidly because fluid cannot drain out. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Omidria  
EMA/359266/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Omidria approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that the benefits of 
Omidria are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Omidria has 
been shown to be effective at maintaining pupil dilation and preventing pupil contraction during lens 
replacement surgery, which should help to make such surgery easier and safer. Although the effect of 
Omidria on pain was modest, it was considered clinically important. With regard to the safety of 
Omidria, the medicine was generally well tolerated. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Omidria? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Omidria is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Omidria, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Omidria 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Omidria on 28 July 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Omidria can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Omidria, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Omidria  
EMA/359266/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
