EMA/59091/2018  
EMEA/H/C/00607 
EPAR summary for the public 
Omnitrope 
somatropin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Omnitrope. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Omnitrope. 
For practical information about using Omnitrope, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Omnitrope and what is it used for? 
Omnitrope is a medicine used to treat children who: 
• 
• 
• 
do not grow normally because they do not have enough growth hormone; 
are short because they have long-term kidney disease or a genetic disorder called Turner 
syndrome;  
are short and were born small for their gestational age, and have not caught up by the age of 
4 years or later; 
•  have a genetic condition called Prader-Willi syndrome. Omnitrope is given to improve their growth 
and body composition (by reducing fat and improving muscle mass). The diagnosis must be 
confirmed by genetic testing.  
Omnitrope is also used as replacement therapy in adult patients with pronounced growth hormone 
deficiency. The deficiency can have started in adulthood or childhood, and needs to be confirmed by 
testing before treatment. 
Omnitrope contains the active substance somatropin and is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that 
Omnitrope is highly similar to a biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already 
authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Omnitrope is Genotropin. For more information on 
biosimilar medicines, see here.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Omnitrope used? 
Omnitrope can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by 
a doctor experienced in the management of patients with growth disorders.  
The medicine is available as a powder and solvent, which are made up into a solution for injection, or 
as a ready-to-use solution in a cartridge. It is given by injection under the skin, once a day. The 
patient or caregiver can inject Omnitrope, after being trained by a doctor or a nurse. The Omnitrope 
cartridges should only be used with the special Omnitrope injection device. The doctor calculates the 
dose for each patient individually according to the body weight and the condition being treated. The 
dose may need to be adjusted over time, depending on change in body weight and response to 
treatment. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Omnitrope work? 
Growth hormone is released by the pituitary gland (a gland at the base of the brain). It is important for 
growth during childhood and adolescence, and it also affects how the body handles proteins, fat and 
carbohydrates. The active substance in Omnitrope, somatropin, is identical to the human growth 
hormone, which it replaces. Somatropin is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA 
technology’: the hormone is made by bacteria into which a gene (DNA) has been introduced that 
makes them able to produce somatropin.  
What benefits of Omnitrope have been shown in studies? 
Omnitrope was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Genotropin. Omnitrope 
was compared with Genotropin in 89 children with a lack of growth hormone who had not been treated 
before. Results showed that, after treatment for 9 months, Omnitrope was as effective as Genotropin 
in improving growth. Children receiving Omnitrope and Genotropin grew at a similar rate of about 
10.7 cm per year. 
What are the risks associated with Omnitrope? 
In adults, side effects related to fluid retention, such as peripheral oedema (swelling, especially of the 
ankles and feet), paraesthesia (numbness or tingling), joint and muscle pain, and stiffness of the limbs 
are common (may affect between 1 and 10 patients in 100). These side effects are uncommon in 
children (may affect between 1 and 10 patients in 1,000). As with all protein medicines, some patients 
may develop antibodies (proteins that are produced in response to Omnitrope). Howeve,r these 
antibodies do not have an effect on how well Omnitrope works. For the full list of side effects of 
Omnitrope, see the package leaflet. 
Omnitrope must not be used if the patient has an active tumour or an acute life-threatening illness. It 
must also not be used for promoting growth in children with closed epiphyses (when the large bones 
have finished growing). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Omnitrope approved? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Omnitrope has been shown to have a comparable quality, safety and effectiveness to 
Genotropin. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Genotropin, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk and it recommended that Omnitrope be given marketing authorisation. 
Omnitrope  
EMA/59091/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Omnitrope? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Omnitrope have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Omnitrope 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Omnitrope on 12 April 2006.   
The full EPAR for Omnitrope can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Omnitrope, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2018. 
Omnitrope  
EMA/59091/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
