SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Sandoz GmbH applied for a marketing authorisation for Omnitrope 1.3 mg/ml and 5.0 mg/ml powder 
for solution for injection. Omnitrope 1.3 mg/ml and 5.0 mg/ml contain recombinant human somatropin 
as  active  substance.  The  application  was  submitted  under  the  legal  base  of  Similar  Biological 
Medicinal Product referring to Article 10.4 of Directive 2004/27/EC. 
The reference medicinal product for this application is Genotropin Powder for Solution for Injection, a 
somatropin  containing  product  produced  by  Pfizer  (formerly  Pharmacia)  originally  authorised  in  the 
EU  in  1988.  Omnitrope  claims  to  be  similar  to  this  reference  medicinal  product  as  approved  in  the 
Community. Genotropin is presented in the same qualitative and quantitative composition in terms of 
the active substance somatropin (1.3 mg/ml and 5.0 mg/ml) and the same pharmaceutical dosage form 
(powder for solution for injection). 
As required for a Similar Biological Medicinal Product application, the dossier contains a full quality 
Module  3  and  reduced  non-clinical  and  clinical  Modules  4  and  5,  with  the  required  elements  of  the 
comparability exercise, respectively as required by the CHMP guidelines. 
The indications applied for are as follows: Growth disturbance due to insufficient secretion of growth 
hormone  and  growth  disturbance  associated  with  Turner  syndrome  or  chronic  renal  insufficiency. 
Growth disturbance (current height SDS < -2.5 and parental adjusted SDS < -1) in short children born 
small  for  gestational  age (SGA), with a birth weight and/or length below  -2 SD, who failed to show 
catch-up growth (HV SDS < 0 during the last year) by 4 years of age or later. Prader-Willi syndrome 
(PWS), for improvement of growth and body composition. The diagnosis of PWS should be confirmed 
by  appropriate  genetic  testing.  Replacement  therapy  in  adults  with  pronounced  growth  hormone 
deficiency. 
Omnitrope  will  appear  on  the  final  documentation  for  the  product,  however,  in  certain  reports,  the 
name  at  the  time  of  submission  (i.e.  Somatropin  Sandoz)  is  used  and  also  for  earlier  formulations 
during development. 
2.   Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Omnitrope  (recombinant  human  growth  hormone,  rhGH)  bulk  solution  is  a  clear  or  slightly  turbid 
colourless solution, within the definition of the Ph. Eur. monograph 950, somatropin bulk solution. The 
non-glycosylated protein consists of 191 amino acid residues accounting for a total molecular weight of 
approximately 22,125 D, with a biological activity of 3.0 IU/mg and an isoelectric point of 5.1. The 
protein is produced by fermentation in an  E.Coli host strain and subsequently isolated and purified by 
chromatographic means. 
The  active  substance  bulk  solution  is  manufactured,  tested  and  released  by  Sandoz  GmbH,  Kundl, 
Austria.    Active  substance  manufactured  by  Covance  (USA)  was  also  used  during  the  development 
programme, however, the Kundl process is that proposed for commercialisation. 
Two formulations of rhGH are proposed: 1.3 mg/ml powder for solution for injection (vials) for single 
use,  preservative  free  and  5.0  mg/ml  powder  for  solution  for  injection  (cartridges)  for  multiple  use 
with benzyl alcohol as preservative. The cartridges are intended for use in CE marked pen injectors. 
1/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug Substance (Active Substance) 
• 
Manufacture 
One fermentation batch results from the use of one Working Cell Bank (WCB) vial. Materials comply 
either with Ph. Eur. or with satisfactory internal specifications. 
Cell bank system 
The E. coli host strain for the expression of recombinant rhGH was selected based  on considerations 
of biological safety and productivity. The correct sequence of the final construct was verified by DNA 
sequencing.    The  stability  of  the  recombinant  expression  system  (E.coli)  during  the  fermentation 
process was demonstrated; this maintains a high level of genetic stability throughout production.  
Three vials deriving from each MCB and WCB were verified for identity, purity, and stability of the 
cell  substrate.  Appropriate  acceptance  criteria  are  set.  The  cell  bank  system  was  tested  for  yeast, 
fungal,  and  bacterial  contaminants.  In  the  course  of  preparation  of  the  MCB  and  WCB,  three  vials 
from the MCB and both WCBs were tested for other adventitious agents, i.e. bacteriophage. Results 
were satisfactory. Stability on storage of both the MCB and WCBs is monitored at regular intervals for 
plasmid retention, cell counts and restriction analysis, which is considered acceptable for this type of 
cell  substrate.  The  description  of  the  preparation  of  new  Working  Cell  Banks  from  the  Master  Cell 
Bank including criteria for acceptance is provided and can be accepted. 
Fermentation 
Fermentation starts with the preparation of the inoculum. One vial of the working cell bank is added to 
the medium and incubated until the required OD is reached. The inoculum may be used within one day 
or stored for an appropriate time until inoculation of the seed fermentor. 
The seed culture is transferred to the production fermentor containing the defined culture medium. The 
customary  process  parameters  are  measured  to  control  the  fermentation  process.  The  fermentation 
broth is harvested when the required OD and broth weight are reached. 
Harvest and isolation 
The active substance is expressed by the  E.coli cells. The cells are harvested, washed with water to 
remove  media  components,  and  concentrated.  The  product  is  extracted  and  captured  by  column 
chromatography.  The  eluate  is  stored  as  appropriate,  for  long-term  storage  the  eluate  is  filled  into 
suitable bottles which are stored frozen. 
Purification 
A series of orthogonal  chromatographic  steps  is  used  to  achieve  the  final  purity  of  the  Omnitrope 
active ingredient. 
Control & validation 
The production process is monitored during production by operating controls, and in process controls 
of  critical  parameters.  The  results  from  the  fermentation,  isolation  and  purification  validation 
demonstrate  that  all  operations  occur  under  well-controlled conditions and performed robustly within 
predefined parameter ranges.  Satisfactory column reuse studies have been performed. 
Manufacturing process development 
During development several changes have been introduced, such as a transfer to a production plant in 
the USA (Covance Biotechnology Service Inc, CBSI), a re-transfer to Sandoz GmbH, Kundl Austria. 
Several  improvements  to  the  purification  process  were  implemented  at  these  manufacturing  sites, 
leading to a modified downstream manufacturing process with significantly enhanced host cell protein 
(HCP)  clearance.  Following  these  modifications,  no  changes  in  other  product  characteristics  were 
2/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
detected. Issues with the detection of HCPs during very early development were completely resolved. 
The current product intended for commercialisation has never been affected by this issue.  
Elucidation of structure and other characteristics 
A  set  of  state-of-the-art  analytical  methods  was  used  to  gain  insight  into  the  structural, 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics  of  all  somatropin  samples  integrated  into  the  study 
program. 
The  comparability  of  Omnitrope  active  substance  and  Genotropin  reference  medicinal  product  was 
demonstrated  in  these  characterisation  studies  by  showing  the  identity  of  primary,  secondary  and 
tertiary  structure  as  well  as  comparable  impurity  levels  and  bioactivity.    Appropriate  International 
Standards  have  also  been  included  in  the  comparability  exercise  (refer  also  to  the  Section: 
Comparability Exercise). 
Impurities 
The  active  substance  has  been  validated  with  respect  to  the  presence  of  process  and  product  related 
impurities.  The  results  were  consistent  across  a  range  of  active  substance  batches,  except  for  the 
higher level of host cell proteins in batches manufactured early in development.  
Appropriate tests and limits have been applied to follow process related impurities.  
The  active  substance  is  routinely  tested  for  bioburden  and  bacterial  endotoxins  with  appropriately 
defined limits set. 
• 
Specifications 
Satisfactory specifications have been defined for the active substance.   
Satisfactory  Validation  of  the  analytical  procedures  has  been  performed  in  accordance  wit h current 
ICH guidelines. 
Detailed  information  has  been  provided  on  the  reference  standards  and  materials.  All  working 
standards have been calibrated against the International reference standard (NIBSC 88/624) or the Ph. 
Eur. Somatropin CRS. 
• 
Stability 
The active substance bulk solution is filled and stored in pre-sterilised non-pyrogenic PETG containers 
with HDPE lids.  
The  claimed  shelf-life  of  active  substance  is  supported  by  batch  data.  Sandoz  GmbH  commits  to 
withdraw  from  the  market  any  batch  that  falls  outside  the  approved  specifications  or  discuss  the 
deviation with the competent authorities if Sandoz GmbH believes the deviation is not significant. 
Drug Product (Medicinal Product) 
Omnitrope  1.3  mg/ml  (4  IU)  Powder  for  Solution  for  Injection  and  Omnitrope  5.0 mg/ml  (15  IU) 
Powder  for  Solution  for  Injection,  represent  different  strengths  of  the  same  active  substance, 
recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH).  
Both medicinal products are white to off-white lyophilisates to be reconstituted with 1 ml WFI (1.3 
mg/mL strength) and 1 ml of a solution of benzyl alcohol in WFI (5.0 mg/mL strength). A transfer set 
is  needed  for  the  reconstitution  of  the  5.0  mg  strength.  The  reconstituted  solution  is  to  be  injected 
using  a  pen  injector.  The  compositions  further  comprise  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate  dihydrate, 
disodium hydrogen phosphate heptahydrate and glycine.  
3/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  lyophilized  powder  is  packaged  in  a  colorless  glass  vial  closed  with  a  rubber  stopper,  which  is 
laminated  with  an  inert  layer.  The  stopper  is  covered with an aluminum flip-off cap, which does not 
come in contact with the medicinal product. 
The diluent for the 1.3 mL strength of the medicinal product is water for injections. It is presented in a 
colorless 2 mL glass vial closed with a rubber stopper and sealed with an aluminum flip-off cap.  
The  diluent  for  the  5.0  mL  strength  is  a  colorless  solution  of  benzyl  alcohol  /  water  for  injections  in 
glass cartridge, closed on one side with a siliconized  rubber plunger and on the other side with a disc 
and an aluminum cap which attaches the disc to the cartridge. 
The composition of the product, description of the pharmaceutical form, description of the container, 
clinical  trial  formulae,  manufacturing  formula,  manufacturing  process  and  validation  of  the  process, 
batch  analysis  results,  specifications  for  excipients,  specifications  and  routine  tests  for  finished 
product, and stability results have been provided and are considered to be acceptable. 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  active  ingredient  solution of  Omnitrope complies with the Ph. Eur. Monograph Somatropin Bulk 
Solution and is compared with the Ph. Eur. standard (somatropin CRS). Preformulation testing of the 
active ingredient solution was performed in liquid and in frozen form. Further to the comparison with 
the Ph. Eur. Standard, the characterisation of the active substance proved the correct conformation to 
render it biologically active, as demonstrated by NMR in comparison with Genotropin.  
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
A suitable batch size has been given for both fill sizes. Both fill sizes formulae are given and include 
an appropriate overfill.  
The different steps in the manufacturing process are adequately described and process controls have 
specified target values or ranges. 
Commercial batches have been manufactured at Novartis, Stein. The manufacturing process for both 
fill  sizes  is  identical,  with  the  exception  of  the  quantity  of  active  ingredient  and  excipients  per  vial. 
During the process development, critical steps have been identified and validation experiments at the 
laboratory, pilot and production scale have been performed to define the optimal process conditions 
and the acceptable tolerances. Purity and content have been determined by chromatographic steps to 
assure the quality integrity of somatropin. 
Excipients are in compliance with Ph. Eur./USP.- monographs 
Analytical  procedures,  where  appropriate  are  the  ones  described  in  the  monographs.  The  test 
procedures are considered qualified as they are described in the compendial monographs. 
• 
Product Specification 
Satisfactory  specifications  for  the  lyophilised  medicinal  product  and  following  reconstitution  have 
been provided. 
Appropriate tests and limits have been applied to follow product related substances and impurities in 
the lyophilised medicinal product.  
Appropriate specifications have also been defined for the WFI and bacteriostatic diluents. 
4/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Validation of the analytical procedures has been performed in accordance with current ICH guidelines. 
Batch  analysis  results  are  submitted  for  commercial  scale  production  batches.  In  addition,  results  of 
development batches are submitted. The results are satisfactory and in support of the specifications. 
A CE certified PEN device will be used for Omnitrope 5.0 mg/ml powder for solution for injection. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  investigations  on  the  finished  product  comprises  data  at  long-term  and  accelerated  test 
conditions  conform  ICH  guidelines  of  the  commercial  scale  batches  Additionally,  product  in-use 
stability, photostability and shake stability has been demonstrated. The real time data of commercial 
scale  batches  are  in  support  of  the  claimed  stability  in  the  SPC  of  36  months  at  5  –
  3  oC  for  the 
5 mg/ml and 24 months at 5 –
 3 oC for the 1.3 mg/ml solution. 
In-use stability has been validated for more than 21 days for the 5.0 mg/ml and for 1 day for the 1.3 
mg/ml  products,  respectively.  To  conform  with  guidelines  on  this  subject,  it  is  indicated  in  the  SPC 
that the 1.3 mg/ml product should be used immediately after reconstitution 
The proposed in-use period of Somatropin 5.0 mg of 21 days at 5±3°C storage is acceptable.  
Based on the stability data, the shelf life of 24 months of the WFI diluent in vials can be accepted.  
The stability data of the bacteriostatic diluent in cartridges demonstrate a shelf life of 36 months. 
• 
Comparability Exercise 
From  the  spectrometric  and  sequence  data  it  can  be  concluded  that  Omnitrope  active  substance 
represents  authentic  somatropin  and  is  thus  equivalent  to  the  pituitary-derived  human  growth 
hormone. 
Omnitrope  was  compared  to  EU-Genotropin  from  a  number  of  EU  markets  by  a  variety  of 
spectrometric,  sequence  data,  and  physicochemical  data.  Within  the  limits  of  the  analytical  methods 
used, no significant differences were identified. 
Due  to  the  transfer  and  substantial  changes  introduced  in  the  purification  process,  Omnitrope  active 
substance manufactured at Sandoz, Kundl was compared to Omnitrope active substance manufactured 
at  Covance.  Again,  within  the  limits  of  these  analytical  methods,  the  spectrometric,  sequence  data, 
physicochemical data, did not reveal significant differences. However, the Covance material contained 
a  significantly  higher  amount  of  Host  Cell  Proteins  (HCP)  than  the  to-be-marketed Kundl material.  
The  Covance  material  was  significantly  more  immunogenic  in  patients  than  the  Kundl  material  but 
will not be commercialised. 
Omnitrope  medicinal  product  was  shown  to  be  comparable  to  the  reference  medicinal  product 
Genotropin, both quantitatively with regard to the overall  purity, and qualitatively with regard to the 
impurity profile. 
Reference medicinal products used for comparability exercise: 
The  same  reference  medicinal  product,  Genotropin  from  several  sources  in  the  EU  was  used  as 
reference  medicinal  product  in  the  comparability exercise.  The company has provided all requested 
information  regarding  the  reference  medicinal  product  Genotropin.  The  extensive  physico-chemical 
and biological characterisation of the reference medicinal products has sufficiently demonstrated  the 
comparability of the Genotropin batches from the various markets in the Community. Therefore, from 
a chemical-pharmaceutical point of view,  Genotropin authorised for the EU market can be accepted in 
5/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  nonclinical  and  clinical  studies.    Additional  comparison of  Genotropin  sourced  in  the  USA  has 
confirmed  that  data  generated  with  this  reference  medicinal  product  can  be  considered  to  be 
supportive. 
Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation 
Non-viral adventitious agents (e.g. bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi) are controlled by either official Ph. 
Eur. methods (e.g. LAL) or by internal testing methods (e.g. bioburden). 
All materials are in compliance with EMEA Guidance EMEA/410/01 on TSE. 
GMP 
Satisfactory compliance with GMP has been demonstrated for:   
• 
• 
• 
• 
the manufacturer of the active substance Sandoz GmbH, Kundl, Austria,  
the manufacturer of the medicinal product Novartis, Stein, Switzerland, 
the manufacturer of the WFI diluent (vial), EBEWE Pharma, Unterach, Austria,  
the manufacturer of bacteriostatic diluent (cartridges) Sandoz GmbH, Langenkampfen, Austria. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Rat weight gain bioassays 
Rat weight gain bioassays were performed to analyse the pharmacodynamics of batches of Omnitrope 
drug substance, Omnitrope Powder for Solution for Injection (subject of this application), Somatropin 
Sandoz  Solution  for  Injection  (not  subject  of  this  application)  and  the  chosen  reference  medicinal 
product Genotropin. The international somatropin standards used were  NIBSC 88/624 and/or NIBSC 
98/574 (WHO standards). The test was performed over a period of 10 days in hypophysectomised rats. 
The test preparations were injected s.c. at 5 or 10 µg/animal/day for 10 days in male Wistar rats. All 
treated  animals  gained  weight  and  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  efficacy  between  the 
reference and the test preparations. It was concluded that in the chosen preclinical model for detection 
of  growth  hormone  activity,  all  tested  preparations  had  similar  pharmacodynamic  activity.  In 
particular, Omnitrope Powder for Solution for Injection was as effective as Genotropin. There were no 
relevant signs of local intolerance at the sites of the repeated local injections. Several animals died on 
different  days  during  the  experiment  for  no  apparent  reason.  The  deaths  were  not  considered  to  be 
related to treatment because they are scattered between the groups. 
Rat tibial width assay 
The purpose of the rat tibial width assay was to estimate the potency of different rhGH products, each 
with a high and low content of product-related impurities, by comparing their effect in increasing the 
width of the proximal epiphysis of the tibia in immature hypophysectomised rats with that of a WHO 
hGH standard (NIBSC 98/574). The low and high concentrations of related proteins were reached by 
storing  the  different  growth  hormone  products  at  different  temperatures,  i.e.  at  2-8°C  for  the  low 
concentration  and  at  40°C  for  the  high  concentration.  The  effect  on  organ  weights  of  the  individual 
test products was also compared. 
The determination of the potency of the tested somatropin formulations was carried out according to 
European Pharmacopoeia 1987-Method A. Immature hypophysectomised male rats were administered 
the test formulations vehicle or a standard at 0.02 or 0.16 IU/animal/day by s.c. injection for 10 days. 
6/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measurement  of  the  thickness  of  the  epiphysis  at  ten  different  sites  equally  distributed  over  the  full 
length of the epiphysis was performed. In addition, organ weight of heart, lung, kidney and testis was 
assessed. 
The  results  of  the  rat  tibial  width  assay  show  that  the  potency  of  the  different  rhGH  products,  each 
with a high and low content of product-related impurities, comply  with the requirements of European 
Pharmacopeia  1987-Method  A.  The  increase  of  the  tibia  thickness  as  a  function  of  the  dose 
administered is similar for the WHO standard and for the different rhGH. The estimated potency is not 
less  than  80%  and  not  more  than  125  %  of  the  stated  potency.  In  particular,  the  results  show  that 
Omnitrope Powder for Solution for Injection is comparable to the chosen reference medicinal product 
Genotropin in terms of potency 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  specific  pharmacokinetics  studies  have  been  performed  with  Omnitrope.  Some 
pharmacokinetic  information  is  available  from  a  toxicokinetic  investigation  performed  in 
context with a 14-day toxicity study in the rat (see repeated dose toxicity). 
Toxicology 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
14-Day s. c. Toxicity Test in the Rat 
Sprague-Dawley rats were given Omnitrope Powder for Solution for Injection (0, 2 or 8 mg/kg/day) 
s.c.  over 14 days. Toxicokinetic analysis was performed on days 1, 7 and 14. The chosen reference 
medicinal product Genotropin was not used as comparator in this study. 
There were no abnormal clinical signs during the study. No relevant adverse reaction was seen at the 
injection sites. Treated females showed a dose-related increase in weight gain, accompanied by a high 
food  consumption,  but  weight  gain  and  food  consumption  of  males  was  the  same  as  that  of  the 
controls. 
No  abnormal  haematological  results  were  found.  Clinical  chemistry  tests  in  males  were  normal.  In 
females  there  were  small,  albeit  significant  decreases  in  ALT  and  AST,  an  increase  in  ALP  and  a 
decrease  in  serum albumin, changes that are likely to reflect pharmacodynamic effects of somatropin 
on metabolism. There were small increases in relative heart and kidney weight in females but no effect 
on organ weight in males. No histopathological abnormalities were noted. 
The overall conclusion was that Omnitrope had no relevant toxic effect and that the changes in female 
animals probably represented its specific pharmacodynamic action. 
Toxicokinetics 
Serum was collected from selected animals in all groups on days 1, 7 and 14 at 0, 2, 4, 6 and 10 hours 
post-dosing.  The  hGH  concentration  was  measured  by  an  IRMA  using  an  anti-human  somatropin 
antibody. 
There was slight accumulation of GH over the 14 days of treatment indicated by small increases in the 
pre-dosing  levels  on days 7 and 14 in the high-dose group. Also on day 14 in the 2 mg/kg group and 
on days 1, 7 and 14 in the 8 mg/kg animals the circulating level of hGH had not returned to 0 by 10 
hours  post-dosing.  As  the  dose  of  hGH  was  increased  there  was  a  sub-proportional  increase  in  Cmax 
and  AUC,  resulting  in  apparently  similar  drug  exposure  in  the  2  dosage  groups.  Release  from  the 
7/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
injection sites appeared slower on day 14 than day 1. Total body exposure to Omitrope appeared lower 
on day 14 than on day 1. In fact, the relatively small numbers of animals sampled resulted in some 
uncertainty  about  the  values  cited.  The  absence  of  a  sharp  decline  in  Cmax  and  AUC  in  the  day  14 
samples  was  interpreted  by  the  non-clinical  expert  to  provide  some  indication  of  the  absence  of 
significant antibody formation by that time. 
• 
Local tolerance 
Two  formulations  of  Omnitrope  were  given  daily  for  7  days  to  male  and  female  rabbits;  dose  5 
mg/animal, volume 1ml (lyophilised formulation, subject of this application)) and 1.5 ml (liquid (API 
Sandoz) formulation, not  subject  of  this  application). Detailed examinations of general health and of 
the injection sites were made every day; the animals were sacrificed on day 8 or on day 22. 
There were signs of mechanical injection trauma in all groups. The liquid (API Sandoz) formulation 
and  its  vehicle  were  associated  with  slight  erythema  at  the  sites  of  the  i.v.  injections  and  with  some 
local indurations. The erythema had disappeared by about day 13, i.e. 6 days after the last injection. 
After  administration  of  the  lyophilisate,  erythema  was  rare  and  was  not  noted  after  day  8.  No 
particular  reaction  was  seen  at  the  sites  of  the  i.m.  injections  other  than  the  effects  of  mechanical 
trauma  of  injection.  The  s.c.  injection  sites  in  all  groups  showed  small  haemorrhages  attributed  to 
mechanical  trauma  and  minimal  oedema  and  erythema,  slightly  more  marked  after  the  lyophilised 
formulation, and some induration after the vehicle of that formulation. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Somatotropin Sandoz is a recombinant human growth hormone (somatropin) composed of 191 amino 
acids.  The  structural  gene  used  is  a  cDNA  derived  from  the  naturally  occurring  hGH.  The  active 
substance of  Omnitrope is chemically identical to the major component of pituitary growth hormone. 
The  peptide  is  rapidly  and  completely  degraded  in  the  human  organism.  Thus  the  therapeutically 
administered compound is not released into the environment. 
Inadvertent release of wasted material would also not cause any problems in the environment due to its 
peptide structure, which will be rapidly destroyed and mineralised by microbial hydrolytic processes. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
During the clinical development programme various formulations of growth hormone were used, with 
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) as follows : 
•  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  for  solution  for  injection  (API  Covance  Biotechnology  Service  Inc, 
CBSI) abbreviated to Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) 
•  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  for  solution  for  injection  (API  Sandoz  GmbH,  Kundl,  Austria) 
abbreviated to Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Sandoz)  
•  Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz), in which the active substance is the same as Somatropin 
Sandoz powder (API Sandoz)  
The  formulation  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Sandoz)  is  the  formulation  to  be  marketed  as 
Omnitrope.  
8/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
In  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  (EP2K-99-PhISUSA,  EP2K-99-PhIUSA,  and  EP2K-00-PhIAQ), 
Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  was  used.  The  pharmacokinetic  study  EP2K-00-PhIAQ 
demonstrated  the  equivalence  between  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  with  Somatropin 
Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz).  
One  of  the  two  pivotal  studies  (the  pivotal  efficacy  study)  was  a  phase  III  study  consisting  of  three 
sub-studies. Two of these sub-studies (EP2K-99-PhIII and EP2K-99-PhIIIFo) compared the effects of 
the  reference  medicinal  product  Genotropin  and  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  in  an 
open design over a period of 9 months (EP2K-99-PhIII covered the first 6 months and the Fo study the 
following  3  months)  whereas  the  ext ension  of  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  (EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ)  compared  the 
effects of  Omnitrope  and  Somatropin  Sandoz  liquid  (API  Sandoz)  during  the  first  6  months  of  this 
study  (month  9  to  15  of  the  complete  trial)  after  which  all  patients  were  transferred  to  Somatropin 
Sandoz    liquid  (API  Sandoz).  All  studies  met  the  GCP  guidelines.  Although  the  GCP  inspection  of 
study EP2K-99-PhIII / EP2K-99-PhIIIFo revealed problems with drug accountability, proper transport 
of the study drug, and with height measurements, these findings were considered not to invalidate the 
overall study results. The other pivotal study (the pivotal safety study) was study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo, 
a multi-centre non-comparative study using Omnitrope.  
In clinical studies EP2K-99-PhIII and EP2K-99-PhIIIFo with  the earlier product Somatropin Sandoz 
powder (API Covance) up to 60% of the enrolled patients had developed anti-GH antibodies without 
showing any influence on growth rate. Careful investigation revealed high concentrations of host cell 
proteins  (leading  to  development  of  anti-HCP  antibodies  in  all  patients  treated  with  this  product), 
which are known to enhance the antibody reaction against GH. Therefore, the manufacturing process 
for  Omnitrope  has  been  slightly  modified  by  introducing  additional  purification  steps  during  the 
development  process  of  the  product.  The  concentrations  of  host  cell  proteins  in  the  subsequent 
formulations  (API  Sandoz  and  liquid  (API  Sandoz))  were  within  the  range  known  from  other 
authorised  GH-containing  products.  Anti-GH  antibody  formation  with  Omnitrope  and  Somatropin 
Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz) was within the range known from other GH-containing products.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Three pharmacokinetic studies, performed in healthy volunteers, were submitted.  
Study  EP2K-99-PhISUSA  was  an  exploratory  pharmacokinetic  study  assessing  the  pharmacokinetic 
profile  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  compared  to  placebo.  In  study  EP2K-99-
PhIUSA the pharmacokinetic profiles of Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin 
USA were compared. 
In  study  EP2K-00-PhIAQ  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  (API  Covance)  and  a 
Somatropin Sandoz 3.3 mg/ml solution for injection (Somatropin Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz)) was 
investigated. 
Furthermore, limited pharmacokinetic analysis  of  somatropin  in  Growth  Hormone  Deficient  (GHD) 
children was conducted under steady-state conditions in the efficacy studies (EP2K-99-PhIII, EP2K-
00-PhIIIFo and EP2K-00-PhIII). 
AUC(0-t),  AUCinf,   Cmax,   tmax  and  t1/2  were  calculated,  following  suppression  of  endogenous  growth 
hormone secretion by a continuous administration of octreotide, a somatostatin analogue, according to 
standard procedures.  
Statistical evaluation of the data was performed on the log-transformed AUC and Cmax using ANOVA, 
with sequence,  subject  within  sequence,  period  and  treatment  effects,  and  90%  confidence  intervals 
(CI) were calculated. A priori, the acceptance range for the 90% CI was defined as 0.80-1.25 for AUC 
and Cmax. The tmax was compared using appropriate non-parametric tests. 
9/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
• 
Absorption  
A  phase  I  safety  study  in  healthy  volunteers  (EP2K-99-PhISUSA)  with  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder 
(API  Covance)  to  assess  the  safety,  tolerance  and  pharmacokinetics  of  somatotropin  after  single 
subcutaneous administration was conducted.  
In this double blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover study, a total of 12 healthy 
volunteers (six male/six female, 18-45 years) received either 5 mg Somatropin Sandoz powder (API 
Covance) or placebo (water for injection) administered subcutaneously (s.c.). The washout period 
between treatments was one week. To accurately assess the pharmacokinetics of somatropin, 
endogenous growth hormone (GH) was suppressed by a continuous infusion of octreotide over 25 
hours (from 1 hour before until 24 hours after the injection of somatropin or placebo). The efficacy of 
this latter treatment was assessed in the placebo group. The pharmacokinetic variables of somatropin 
after injection of Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance). AUCinf, Cmax, t1/2. CL/F, T lag are shown 
in the table as mean ± SD, tmax as median (range). 
n=12 
AUCinf (µg.h/l) 
Cmax (µg/l) 
tmax (h) 
t1/2 (h) 
CL/F (l/h) 
tlag (h) 
somatropin (Somatropin Sandoz 5 mg s.c.) 
291 ± 42 
37 ± 9 
3.5 (2.9-4.5) 
2.4 ± 0.4 
18 ± 3 
0.7 ± 0.5 
The  study  demonstrated  that  continuous  iv  infusion  of  octreotide  is  effective  in  suppressing 
endogenous  GH  secretion  in  healthy  human  volunteers.  Isolated  GH  serum  values  were  above  0.1 
µg/l. The highest value was 0.7 µg/l and contributed to a GH AUC of 2 µg·h/l. This C max and AUC are 
considered negligible as compared with a mean Cmax of 37 ± 9 m g/l and AUC of 291 ± 42 m g·h/l after 
administration of 5 mg of Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance). 
• 
Study EP2K-99-PhIUSA  
In a double blind, randomised, two-way crossover, comparative study (EP2K-99-PhIUSA), a total of 
25  healthy  volunteers  (twelve  male/thirteen  female,  18-45  years)  received  either  5  mg  Somatropin 
Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  or  Genotropin   s.c. The washout period between treatments was one 
week.  One  female  volunteer  withdrew  after  treatment  period  1,  leaving  data  from  24  volunteers  for 
analysis. To accurately assess the pharmacokinetics of somatropin, endogenous GH was suppressed by 
a  continuous  infusion  of  octreotide,  from  one  hour  before  until  24  hours  after  administration  of 
Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  or  Genotropin  USA  .  The  pharmacokinetic  variables  of 
somatropin  after  injection  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  or  Genotropin,  AUC0-t, 
AUCinf, Cmax, t1/2, Vz, CL/F, MRTlast, and MRTinf are shown in the table as mean ± SD, tmax as median 
(range). 
n=24 
AUC0-t (µg.h/l) 
AUCinf (µg.h/l) 
Cmax (µg/l) 
tmax (h) 
t1/2 (h) 
Vz (l) 
CL/F (l/h) 
MRT0-t (h) 
MRTinf (h) 
Somatropin Sandoz 5 mg s.c. 
 413 ± 111 
 416 ± 110 
 52 ± 21 
4.1 (2.1-8.1) 
  2.7 ± 0.6 
  52 ± 24 
13 ± 3 
  7.0 ± 1.3 
  7.1 ± 1.5 
Genotropin  5 mg s.c. 
 396 ± 106 
 400 ± 105 
 48 ± 20 
4.1 (2.0-10.1) 
  2.9 ± 0.6 
  57 ± 27 
13 ± 4 
  7.0 ± 1.2 
  7.2 ± 1.3 
10/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AUCinf and Cmax of Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin USA  were tested 
for criteria for equivalence using the program BIOSTAT 4.0 (ANOVA). The 90% confidence intervals 
of  the  AUCinf  and  Cmax  are  within  the  acceptance  range  of  0.80-1.25.  The  pharmacokinetics  of 
Somatropin Sandoz (API Covance) and Genotropin USA can therefore be considered as comparable 
with respect to the rate and extent of absorption after a single dose.  
With regard to t1/2, mean and median values, which were found to be slightly lower for Somatropin 
Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance),  the  Applicant  performed  an  additional  statistical  analysis  of  intra-
individual  differences  in  t1/2  using  the  Wilcoxon  signed-rank  test  (significance  level  a  =  0.05,  SAS   
version  8.2).  No  statistically  significant  difference  was  found  for  t1/2  (p  =  0.081).  For  the  parameter 
CL/F,  exactly  the  same  means  and  medians  were  observed  under  the  two  treatments  (i.e.,  13  l/h). 
Analysis of intra-individual differences, again using Wilcoxon signed-rank test (significance level a = 
0.05),  revealed  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  CL/F  (p  = 0.069). These additionally derived 
results indicate that Somatropin Sandoz powder (Covance) and Genotropin do not differ with respect 
to the elimination rate. 
Study  EP2K-99-PhIUSA  demonstrates  comparable  pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  Somatropin  Sandoz 
and  Genotropin  USA.  These  data  further  support  the  demonstration  of  therapeutic  omparability 
between Omnitrope and Genotropin EU as demonstrated in the clinical efficacy study. 
• 
Study  EP2K-00-PhIAQ  (comparison  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and 
Somatropin Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz) 
In  this  double  blind,  randomised,  two-way  crossover  study  (EP2K-00-PhIAQ),  a  total  of  24  healthy 
volunteers (twelve male/twelve female, 23-48 years) received either 5 mg Somatropin Sandoz powder 
(API  Covance)  or  Somatropin  Sandoz  Liquid  (API  Sandoz)  s.c.  The  washout  period  between 
treatments  was  at  least  one  week.  To  accurately  assess  the  pharmacokinetics  of  somatropin, 
endogenous  GH  production  was  suppressed  by  a  continuous  infusion  of  octreotide,  from  one  hour 
before until 24 hours after administration of the test and reference Somatropin Sandoz formulations. 
Pharmacokinetic  variables  of  somatropin  after  injection  of  Somatropin  Sandoz.  AUC0-t,  AUCinf,  and 
Cmax are shown as geometrical mean ± SD, t1/2 as mean ± SD, and tmax as median (range) 
n=24 
AUC0-t (µg.h/l) 
AUCinf (µg.h/l) 
Cmax (µg/l) 
tmax (h) 
t1/2 (h) 
Somatropin Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz) 
5 mg s.c. 
422 ± 45 
426 ± 45 
51.7 ± 9.9 
3.0 (2.0-8.0) 
 2.4 ± 0.7 
Somatropin Sandoz 5 mg s.c. 
453 ± 43 
456 ± 44 
  54.6 ± 12.9 
3.0 (2.0-10) 
 2.4 ± 0.6 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  of  the  AUCinf  and  Cmax  are  within  the  acceptance  range  of  0.80-1.25. 
Therefore,  the  Somatropin  Sandoz  Liquid  (API  Sandoz)  and  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API 
Covance) formulation is considered comparable with respect to the rate and extent of absorption. 
Special populations 
• 
Gender and weight 
Both  for  Somatropin  Sandoz  and  Genotropin,  statistically  significantly  different  AUC,  Vz  and  CL/F 
values were observed between males and females. Cmax and tmax values were not statistically different 
in males and females. The gender differences observed could at least partially be explained by weight 
11/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
differences between males and females. Therefore, a weight-based dosing would have been preferable. 
As  the  dosing  advice  is  based  on  administration  per  kg  body  weight,  the  observed  difference  is 
expected not to be of clinical significance. 
Correlations  were  observed  between  volunteer  weight  and  somatropin  Cmax  (r  =  -0.6),  and  between 
volunteer weight and somatropin AUCinf (r = -0.8). 
• 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
Steady-state pharmacokinetics 
From  study  EP2K-99-PhISUSA  it  appeared  that  the  somatropin  serum  level  after  administration  of 
Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  would  always  return  to  baseline  before  the  next  daily 
administration, making it unlikely that accumulation could occur during repeated daily administration. 
This  result  is  in  accordance  with  the  body  of  knowledge  currently  available  on  somatropin. 
Consequently,  the  MAH  did  not  perform  a  steady-state  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  study 
during the development of Omnitrope.  
However, the MAH carried out an analysis in 86 GHD children treated in the EP2K-99-PhIII, EP2K-
00-PhIIIFo  and  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ  studies  after  0,  9,  18  and  24  month  of  treatment  with  either 
Omnitrope  or  Genotropin.  Somatropin  plasma  levels  measured  in  children  10  to  16  hours  after 
somatropin  administration  were  compared  with  those  obtained  after  single  dose  administration  in 
healthy volunteers. The data suggest that Omnitrope does not accumulate under steady state conditions 
in GHD children. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The company submitted three pharmacodynamic studies. All pharmacodynamic assessments were part 
of the studies EP2k-99-PhIUSA, EP2K-99-PhIUSA and EP2K-00-PhIAQ described above and included 
measurements of IGF-1, IGFBP-3 and NEFA at pre-defined time points until 96 hours post dose. 
Somatropin Sandoz had the expected effects on IGF-1, IGFBP-3 and NEFA. Moreover, plasma levels 
of these parameters were similar for Somatropin Sandoz (API Covance and Genotropin USA and for 
the two Somatropin Sandoz formulations Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Somatropin 
Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz).  
Conclusions  regarding  pharmacodynamic  equivalence  are  not  possible  because  endogenous  GH  was 
suppressed  only  part  of  the  study  duration,    the  variance  of  the  measured  parameters  was  high,  and 
pre-defined  or  generally  accepted  equivalence  margin  are  missing.  Further  the  results  of  the  study 
should be interpreted with caution for pharmacodynamic endpoints were only secondary and the great 
variance  will  decrease  the  power  of  the  study.  Results  of  the  study  did  not  show  any  difference 
between Somatropin Sandoz and Genotropin USA, but in the light of the decreased power of the study 
this is not unexpected. Since neither IGF-1 nor IGFBP-3 nor NEFA are accepted surrogate markers for 
efficacy  of  a  somatropin,  the  described  short-comings  of  the  pharmacodynamic  assessments  are  not 
considered relevant for the decision on whether Omnitrope is similar to Genotropin. 
The  safety  assessment  is  hampered  by  the  use  of  octreotide  and  therefore  only  of  limited  value.  No 
death or serious adverse events were encountered during the study. 
Clinical efficacy  
One phase III study consisting of three sub-studies was submitted. The two sub-studies EP2K-99-PhIII 
and  EP2K-99-PhIIIFo  (pivotal  efficacy  studies)  compared  the  effects  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder 
12/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
(API Covance) and the EU reference medicinal product Genotropin in an open design over a period of 
9  months  (EP2K-99-PhIII  covered  the  first  6  months  and  the  Fo  study  the  following  3  months) 
whereas the extension of EP2K-00-PhIIIFo (EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ) compared the effects of Omnitrope and 
Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz) during the first 6 months of this study (month 9 to 15 of the 
complete trial) after which all patients were transferred to Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz).   
Besides this study the Applicant submitted study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo (pivotal safety study), an open, 
multicentre, non-comparative study using Omnitrope. 
• 
Study EP2K-99-PhIII, EP2K-00-PhIIIFo and EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ 
Study  EP2K-99-PhIII/EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  compared the effects of  Somatropin Sandoz  powder  (API 
Covance)  and  the  reference  medicinal  product  Genotropin  on  the  growth  in  children  with  GH 
deficiency.  
The same patients were included in  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ, an open, multicentre, comparative, follow-up 
trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of two formulations of Somatropin Sandoz, i.e. Omnitrope and 
Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz) formulation. 
Methods 
The  design  of  Study  EP2K-99-PhIII,  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  and  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ  is  detailed  in  the 
following Figure. 
Pivotal  studies 
Pivotal  studies 
Supportive 
Supportive 
data 
data 
EP2K 
EP2K 
- 00  - PhIIIFo 
- 00  - PhIIIFo 
EP2K 
EP2K 
- 00  - PhIII  AQ 
- 00  - PhIII 
AQ 
EP2K 
EP2K 
- 99  - PhIII 
- 99  - PhIII 
0 
0 
3 
3 
6 
6 
9 
9 
12 
12 
1 5 
1 5 
18 
18 
24 
24 
Part A 
Part A 
Part B 
Part B 
Somatropin Sandoz  
Somatropin Sandoz  
Powder 
Powder 
Genotropin  ® 
Genotropin  ® 
(N=44) 
(N=44) 
(N=45) 
(N=45) 
Somatropin Sandoz  
Somatropin Sandoz  
Powder 
(N=42) 
Powder 
(N=42) 
Somatropin Sandoz  
Somatropin 
(N=44) 
S 
(N=44) 
Solution 
API: 
API: 
Somatropin Sandoz Solution 
Somatropin Sandoz Solution 
(N=86) 
(N=86) 
Covance   Biotechnology 
Covance   Biotechnology 
, USA 
, USA 
Sandoz GmbH, Kundl,  
Sandoz GmbH, Kundl,  
Austria 
Austria 
Study Participants  
Eighty-nine  prepubertal,  GH-deficient  patients  were  enrolled  in  study  EP2K-99-PhIII  /  EP2K-00-
PhIIIFo .  
13/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with a stature of <-2 SDS for chronological age, and a spontaneous growth rate of <-1 SDS 
over an interval of at least six months prior to enrolment were eligible. Patients with chronic systemic 
diseases or evidence of tumour growth, with skeletal or chromosomal abnormalities as well as patients 
on medication known to affect growth were excluded from the study. Although transfer patients were 
allowed according to the protocol, in fact only treatment-naïve patients were recruited. 
The same patients were included in the follow-up trial  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ 
Treatments 
In study EP2K-99-PhIII / EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  patients were randomised to receive either 0.03-mg/kg-
body weight/day (0.1 IU/kg/day) Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) or Genotropin once daily 
given s.c.   
In study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ patients were treated with the same dose they were using in the previous 
studies. Patients previously treated with Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) were switched to 
Omnitrope,  patients  previously  treated  with  Genotropin  were  switched  to  Somatropin  Sandoz  liquid 
(API Sandoz). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In  study  EP2K-99-PhIII/EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  primary  endpoints  were  the  height  and  the  height 
standardised for age and sex (Height Standard Deviation Score, HSDS) at month 9, the height velocity 
as well as the height velocity standard deviation score (HVSDS) between month 0 and 9.  
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  IGF-1  and  IGFBP-3  serum  levels  at  months  1,  3  6,  and  9. 
Besides physical examinations, safety assessment consisted of adverse event recording, standard and 
specific  laboratory  tests,  e.g.  on  anti-hGH-antibody  formation,  glucose  metabolism  and  thyroid 
function.  
In  study  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ  primary  endpoints  were  height,  HSDS),  height  velocity  HVSDS; 
secondary endpoints were IGF-1and, IGFPB-3; further a standard safety analysis was performed 
Statistical methods 
Initially,  the  study  was  designed  as  a  superiority  study  and  was  later  re-designed  to  show  similarity 
between  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Genotropin.  Therefore,  sample  size 
calculation  was  based  on  a  superiority  hypothesis.  Comparison  of  efficacy  was  done  by  analysis  of 
variance (ANOVA). For transfer patients, the length of time of previous GH treatment was to be used 
as a covariate. 
RESULTS 
Baseline data 
The patients included were all treatment-naïve.  Treatment groups were comparable with respect to the 
main baseline characteristics. 
14/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
Efficacy data 
• 
Height 
During  the  EP2K-99-PhIII  /  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  phase  (first  9  months)  of  the  trial,  height  increased 
from 113.3cm to 121.9cm in the Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) treated group, and from 
109.3cm to 117.7cm in the Genotropin group. The 95% CI for the estimate of the difference in height 
between  treatment  groups  after  9  months  of  treatment  (-0.59,  1.06)  indicates  that  both  treatments 
resulted in comparable increases in height.  
During the controlled phase of study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ (first 6 months) mean height increased by 4.2 
and 5.7 cm in the Omnitrope and Somatropin Sandoz liquid (AP I Sandoz) formulation, respectively.  
• 
HSDS 
During the EP2K-99-PhIII / EP2K-00-PhIIIFo phase of the trial, mean HSDS increased from –3.0 and 
–3.1 at baseline to –2.7 and –2.9 after 3 months, to –2.4 and -2.6 after 6 months, and to –2.3 and –2.5 
after  9  months  of  therapy  with  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Genotropin 
respectively. The 95% CI for the estimate of the difference in height SDS between treatment groups 
after  9  months  of  treatment  (-0.05,  0.30)  indicates  that  both  treatments  resulted  in  comparable 
increases in height SDS. 
During the controlled phase of study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ (first 6 months) HSDS increased from –2.3 and 
–2.5 to –2.0 and –2.2 after 6 months with the Omnitrope and Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz) 
formulation, respectively, in the uncontrolled phase of this study the HSDS further increased to -1.7 in 
the overall group.  
• 
Height velocity 
During  the  EP2K-99-PhIII/  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  phase  of  the  trial,  mean  annualised  height  velocity 
increased  from  3.8  and  4.0  cm/year  at  baseline to 12.0 and 12.0 cm/year after 3 months to 11.7 and 
11.6 cm/year after 6 months, and to 10.7 and 10.7 cm/year after 9 months of therapy with Somatropin 
Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Genotropin,  respectively.  The  95%  CI  for  the  estimate  of  the 
difference  in  height  velocity  between  treatment  groups  after  9  months  of  treatment  (-1.35, 
0.92)indicates  that  treatment  with  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  treatment  with 
Genotropin resulted in comparable increases in height velocity. 
During the controlled phase of study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ (first 6 months), height velocity was 8.5 and 
8.6 cm/year at 6 months in the  Omnitrope and Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz) formulation, 
respectively; in the uncontrolled phase of this study the height velocity decreased to 7.4 cm/year in the 
overall group.  
• 
HV-SDS 
During the EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo phase of the trial, mean HV-SDS increased from –2.4 
and –2.3 at baseline to 7.5 and 6.8 after 3 months and 7.3 and 6.3 after 6 months, and 6.1 and 5.4 after 
9 months of therapy with Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin, respectively. 
The 95% CI for the estimate of the difference in HV-SDS between treatment groups after 9 months of 
treatment (-0.81, 2.13)  indicates that both treatments resulted in comparable increases in height 
velocity SDS. 
15/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
During the controlled phase of study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ (first 6 months), HV-SDS was +3.4 and +3.2 at 
6 months in the Omnitrope and Somatropin Sandoz  liquid (API Sandoz) formulation, respectively. In 
the uncontrolled phase of this study the height velocity SDS decreased to 2.5.  
Treatment response in children with and without anti -GH antibodies  
The  antibodies  detected  during  the  clinical  trial  EP2K-99-PhIII  /  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  were  non-
neutralising and therefore not expected to modulate the efficacy of the formulation. This assumption is 
confirmed  by  the  data  of  study  EP2K-99-PhIII  showing  comparable  clinical  efficacy  results  for 
Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and the reference medicinal product Genotropin. Children 
with or without antibodies had the same growth rates (see table below).  
To evaluate a possible interference of the increased occurrence of antibody formation with growth, an 
analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoints  for  patients  with  anti-GH  antibodies  was  performed. 
Overall,  30  patients  (26  in  the  ‘Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)'  group  and  4  in  the 
‘Genotropin’  group)  had  anti-GH  antibodies  at  least  once  during  the  three  Phase  III  studies.  A  non-
parametric  Mann-Whitney  statistical  comparison  was  performed  between  patients  with  and  without 
anti-GH antibodies for all primary efficacy endpoints (height, HSDS, height velocity and HVSDS) at 
Months 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 24; the results of the p-values are shown in the table below. 
Table:  HSDS and HVSDS from Month 0 to Month 24 for patients with and without antibodies 
HSDS (Mean – SD) 
Patients 
without anti-
GH 
antibodies 
-3.1 –
 0.9 
-2.9 –
 0.9 
-2.6 –
 0.8 
-2.4 –
 0.8 
-2.3 –
 0.8 
-2.2 –
 0.8 
-2.0 –
 0.8 
-1.9 –
 0.8 
HVSDS (Mean – SD) 
Patients 
without anti-
GH 
antibodies 
-2.3 –
 1.2 
7.0 –
 5.4 
6.8 –
 4.1 
5.8 –
 3.6 
2.9 –
 2.8 
3.1 –
 2.8 
2.7 –
 4.3 
1.9 –
 2.0 
Patients with 
anti-GH 
antibodies * 
Mann 
Whitney test 
(p value) 
Patients with 
anti-GH 
antibodies * 
Mann 
Whitney test 
(p value) 
-3.1 –
-2.7 –
- 2.4 –
-2.3 –
-2.1 –
-2.0 –
-1.9 –
-1.7 –
Month 0 
Month 3 
Month 6 
Month 9 
Month 12 
Month 15 
Month 18 
Month 24 
0.75 
0.84 
0.50 
0.35 
0.14 
0.20 
0.21 
0.23 
* Patients were considered anti-GH antibodies positive if they had one or more positive results for GH antibody 
from month 0 to month 24. 
0.64 
0.34 
0.56 
0.98 
0.06 
0.49 
0.51 
0.94 
 1.2 
 4.1 
 3.3 
 3.2 
 3.8 
 2.6 
 3.2 
 8.1 
 0.7 
 0.6 
 0.5 
 0.5 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 0.7 
 0.7 
-2.5 –
7.5 –
6.8 –
5.6 –
4.5 –
3.6 –
2.1 –
3.5 –
Considering  antibody  data  from  the  first  30  months  of  hGH-treatment,  the  presence  of  anti-GH 
antibodies apparently had no effect on growth. No statistically significant differences at any time-point 
between  patients  with  and  without  anti-GH  antibodies  regarding  height,  HSDS,  height  velocity  and 
HVSDS could be detected. These results indicate that the presence of anti-GH antibodies had no effect 
on any of the growth efficacy parameters.  
• 
IGF-I serum level 
During  the  EP2K-99-PhIII/  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  phase  of  the  trial  mean  serum  IGF-I  levels  increased 
from 159 and 158 ng/ml at baseline to 200 and 193 ng/ml after 3 months, to 257 and 248 ng/ml after 6 
months, and to 291 and 302 ng/ml after 9 months of therapy with Somatropin Sandoz powder (API 
Covance) and Genotropin, respectively. 
16/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
IGFBP-3 serum level 
During the EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo phase of the trial, mean IGFBP-3 serum levels increased 
from 3.5 and 3.5m g/ml at baseline to 3.8 and 3.7  m g/ml after 6 months and 4.6 and 4.0  m g/ml after 9 
months of therapy with Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin, respectively. 
• 
Projection of final height 
During the EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo phase of the trial the “projected final height”, calculated 
based on the assumption that for an individual child the HSDS at final height is equal to the HSDS at a 
given prior time point, demonstrated a positive effect of GH therapy. For patients in the ‘Somatropin 
Sandoz  Powder  (API  Covance)’  group,  mean  projected  height  increased  from  154.5  ±  7.02 cm  at 
baseline to 159.0 ± 7.08 cm at Month 9; for patients in the ‘Genotropin  ’ group, mean projected height 
increased from 151.3 ± 7.87 cm at baseline to 155.1 ± 7.33 cm at Month 9. Projected height increased 
significantly between Months 0 and 9, irrespective of gender and treatment. 
During the 6 month controlled phase of study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ, mean projected height increased from 
159.0 ± 7.08 cm to 160.7 ± 7.06 cm for the ‘Somatropin Sandoz Powder (API Covance)’ group, and 
from 155.1 ± 7.33 cm to 156.9 ± 7.54 cm for the ‘Somatropin Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz) group (ex-
‘Genotropin    ’  group).  During  the  uncontrolled  phase  of  this  study,  projected  height  increased  from 
158.8 ± 7.51 cm to 161.4 ± 8.17 cm in the overall group.  
• 
Study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo.  
Study  EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo  is  an  ongoing  open,  multicentre,  non-comparative,  non-controlled  study, 
12-month  data  were  evaluated.  The  study  duration  is  planned  for  24  months  after  which  the  MAH 
committed to continue the observation of the patients. 
Study participants 
Fifty-one treatment naïve children with GH deficiency were enrolled.  
Patients with a  height  of  <-2  SDS  and  a  spontaneous  growth  rate  of  <-1 SDS over an interval of at 
least six months prior to enrolment were eligible. Patients with chronic systemic diseases or evidence 
of  tumour  growth,  with  skeletal  or  chromosomal  abnormalities  as  well  as  patients  receiving 
medication known to affect growth were excluded from the study.  
Treatment 
The patients received 0.03mg/kg/day, Omnitrope (s.c injection at bedtime).  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  height,  H-SDS,  height  velocity  (HV),  and  HV-SDS.  Secondary 
endpoints  were  IGF-I  and  IGFBP-3.  Standard  safety  analysis  was  performed  including  serum  levels 
and  frequency  of  the  development  of  anti-hGH  antibodies  and  anti-Host  Cell  Proteins  (HCP) 
antibodies. Further, the final height was calculated based on bone age (predicted FH = FHpre) and on 
the projection method (FHpro). 
17/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
In  the  12-month  interim  report,  demographic  and  background  characteristics  were  analyzed 
descriptively.  Statistical  investigation  of  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  was  done  by 
analyzing  intra-individual changes between the baseline visit 01 (start of rhGH treatment) and visits 
02, 03, 04, and 05 (12 months of rhGH treatment), respectively. For each efficacy endpoint, statistical 
analysis  was  performed  by  calculating  95%  confidence  intervals  (CIs)  for  the  mean  difference 
between visit 01 and each of the later visits.  
Safety  data  were  evaluated  descriptively  using  summary  tables  and  shift  tables.  Summary  statistics 
were  reported  as  mean,  SD,  minimum,  maximum,  or  proportions,  where  appropriate.  Analyses  for 
efficacy parameters were performed on the ITT and PP populations. Safety analyses were performed 
on the safety population. 
RESULTS 
Fifty one patients (30 boys and 21 girls, mean age 8.04 ± 2.64 years, range 2.5 to 14.2 years) were 
enrolled.    All  of  them  were  pre-pubertal  and  of  Caucasian  origin.  Forty-seven  patients  (92.2%)  had 
isolated GH deficiency and 4 patients (7.8%) had multiple hormone deficiency.  Mean standing height 
at the start of  rhGH treatment was 111.9 ± 15.5 cm. After 6 and 12 months of treatment, height had 
increased significantly by an average of 5.95 cm and 10.37 cm to a mean height of 117.9 ± 14.7 cm 
and 122.3 ± 14.3 cm, respectively.  
All patients experienced an evident increase  in  HV  during  rhGH  treatment.  Average  annualized  HV 
increased from 3.72 ± 1.40 cm/year at baseline to 11.97 ± 3.24 cm/year during the first 6 months of 
treatment and to 10.39 ± 2.50 cm/year during the first 12 months. The mean difference in HV between 
baseline  and  month  6  was  8.25  cm/year,  95%  CI  [7.13;  9.37].  The  mean  difference  in  HV  between 
baseline and month 12 was 6.66 cm/year, 95% CI [5.76; 7.57]. 
The mean HSDS of –3.19 ± 1.02 in the ITT group at the start of rhGH treatment demonstrated a major 
height deficit relative to normally growing children. Mean HSDS improved to –2.51 ± 0.86 and –2.15 
± 0.79 after 6 and 12 months of rhGH treatment, respectively. The mean difference in HSDS between 
baseline and month 6 was 0.68 , 95% CI [0.58; 0.78]. The mean difference in HSDS between baseline 
and month 12 was 1.05, 95% CI [0.89; 1.21].  
The  mean  HVSDSPC  (pc  =  peak-centered  reported  by  Prader)  at  baseline  was  –2.72,  clearly  below 
that  of  normally  growing  children.  The  sharp  increase  in  HV  during  the  first  3  months  of  rhGH 
treatment is also reflected in the time course of mean HVSDSPC. Over the first 3 months, the mean 
HVSDSPC increased to +9.23. The observed difference to baseline of 11.95 in HVSDSPC was highly 
significant, as indicated by the 95% CI [9.97; 13.93]. Mean HVSDSPC was +6.18 during the first 12 
months  reflecting  a  mean  increase  of  8.89    compared  to  baseline,  with  a  corresponding  95%  CI  of 
[7.64; 10.15]. Calculated CIs indicate a statistically significant increase in all defined primary efficacy 
endpoints during treatment. 
The 51 patients started rhGH treatment at an average IGF-1  serum  level  of  78.8  ±  46.9  ng/ml.  At  6 
months,  IGF-1  levels  had  increased  to  a  mean  of  182.5  ±  92.8  ng/ml.  The  95%  CI  for  the  increase 
from baseline was [86.0; 121.4]. At  12 months, mean IGF-1 serum levels were 208.4 ± 105.9 ng/ml. 
The 95% CI for the increase from baseline was [110.2; 148.9], again indicating a significant change 
between the considered time points.  
18/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
Serum levels of IGFBP-3 increased from 2.7 ± 1.0 mg/l at baseline to 3.8 ± 1.0 mg/l at 6 months and 
to  3.7  ±  0.8  mg/l  at  12  months.  The  corresponding  95%  CIs  for  the  changes  over  time  were  [0.82; 
1.35] (visit 03 vs baseline) and [0.73; 1.10] (visit 05 vs baseline), respectively. 
At baseline, average bone age was  6.2 ± 2.82 years, which corresponds to a mean delay of 1.7 years 
compared to chronological age. After 12 months of treatment, mean bone age had increased by 1.54 
years to 7.8 ± 2.95 years. Average height age was 5.5 ± 2.08 years at baseline. At 12 months, the delay 
in height age compared to chronological age had decreased from 2.4 years to 2.1 years. For both sexes, 
marked increases were observed for predicted final height (FHpre) and projected final height (FHpro) 
during the first year of treatment. In boys, mean FHpre increased from 161.7 ± 6.7 cm to 166.9 ± 5.5 
cm, and mean FHpro increased from 155.9 ± 6.6 cm to 162.7 ± 4.9 cm. In girls, mean FHpre increased 
from 154.9 ± 3.5 cm to 158.4 ± 4.3 cm, and mean FHpro increased from 145.5 ± 6.1 cm to 151.9 ± 5.1 
cm. 
The  applicant  commited  to  submit  a  report  based  on  the  first  24  months  of  treatment  as  well  as  the 
final data from EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo. The report will be available in April 2006. In addition, the study 
will be extended beyond the originally planned 24-month treatment phase. 
Clinical safety 
• 
Studies EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  
Overall  36  (82%)  of  the  patients  in  the  Somatropin  Sandoz      powder  (API  Covance)  group  reported 
172  adverse  events;  in  the  Genotropin  treated  patients  43  (96%)  of  the  patients  reported 201 adverse 
events. 
All adverse events in studies EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  
Allergic reactions 
Increased hematocrit 
Fever 
Influenza-like  
Cephalgia  
Headache 
Hypothyroidism 
Thyroid activity decreased 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
SGOT increased 
Elevated serum cholesterol 
Hypertriglyceridaemia  
Haemoglobin increased 
Haematoma 
Viral infection 
Bronchitis 
Coughing 
Pharyngitis 
Rhinitis 
Tonsillitis 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Varicella  
Urinary tract infection 
Eosinophilia  
Somatropin Sandoz   
3 (7%) 
4 (9%) 
1 (2%) 
2 (5%) 
3 (7%) 
2 (5%) 
4 (9%) 
4 (9%) 
4 (9%) 
-- 
5 (11%) 
1 (2%) 
5 (11%) 
2 (5%) 
4 (9%) 
4 (9%) 
1 (2%) 
2 (5%) 
4 (10%) 
5 (12%) 
5 (11%) 
4 (9%) 
7 (16%) 
3 (7%) 
-- 
7 (18%) 
Genotropin 
-- 
5 (11%) 
4 (8%) 
2 (4%) 
3 (6%)  
2 (4%) 
1 (2%) 
3 (7%) 
-- 
3 (7%) 
2 (4%) 
3 (7%) 
2 (4%) 
2 (4%) 
3 (7%) 
6 (13%) 
4 (9%) 
5 (11%) 
2 (4%) 
11 (24%) 
6 (13%) 
6 (11%) 
11 (24%) 
2 (4%) 
4 (9%) 
4 (9%) 
19/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  no  notable  trends  in  clinically  significant  laboratory  data  abnormalities,  vital  signs, 
fundoscopy or physical findings. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths were encountered during the time of the studies. 
EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo 
Five serious adverse events were reported (hospitalisation for various reasons) none of them related to 
the study drug according to the physician.  
Study EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ 
Four  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  (hospitalisation  for  acute  gastritis,  tonsillitis  or 
adenoidectomy)  none  of  them  related  to  the  study  drug  according  to  the  physician.  Adverse  events 
profile fit the profile seen in the previous studies 
Study EP2K-02-PhIIILyo 
The overall extent of drug exposure to Omnitrope during the 12 months of rhGH treatment covered in 
this report is 52.13 patient-years. During the first 12 months of treatment, 459 AEs were reported in 47 
patients,  42  of  which  were  assessed  as  at  least  remotely  drug-related.  The  majority  of  AEs  was 
considered mild in intensity. Five serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported, none of which were 
considered drug-related. Based on the extensive experience with rhGH treatment, none of the observed 
AEs was unexpected. There were no deaths during the study period and no withdrawals due to AEs.  
• 
Laboratory findings 
Seven of the 51 patients in study EP2K-02-PhIIILyo had  clinically  significant  changes  in  laboratory 
values,  all  of  which  were  related  to  an  AE  (i.e.,  blood  sugar  increase,  hypothyroidism,  eosinophilia 
(which was the most common drug-related  laboratory  adverse  event), cystitis-related abnormal blood 
values, alkaline phosphatase increase. 
• 
Immunological events  
In  clinical  studies  EP2K-99-PhIII  and  EP2K-99-PhIIIFo  with  the  earlier  formulation  Somatropin 
Sandoz powder (API Covance) up to 60% of the enrolled patients developed non-neutralising anti-GH 
antibodies  and  all  patients  developed  anti-HCP  antibodies.  However,  these  antibodies  did  not  affect 
efficacy  of  the  product.  Only  one  batch  manufactured  by  Covance,  USA,  was  used  in  studies 
EP2K-99-PhIII  and  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo,  and  was  found  to  have  a  high  content  of  host  cell  proteins 
(HCP). These HCP are known to be able to  enhance the antibody reaction against GH. Therefore, a 
slightly modified downstream manufacturing process was used which significantly improved the HCP 
clearance but did not change any other product characteristics. Consequently, the concentrations of E. 
coli proteins in the subsequent formulations (Omnitrope and Somatropin Sandoz liquid (API Sandoz)) 
were  within  the  range  known  from  other  authorised  GH-containing  products.  Anti-GH  antibody 
formation with  Omnitrope  and  Somatropin  Sandoz  liquid  (API  Sandoz)  was  within  the  range  known 
from other GH-containing products.  
With regard to the adequacy of safety data collection for Omnitrope Somatropin Sandoz, complete 12-
month  immunogenicity  results,  i.e.,  anti-hGH  and  anti-HCP  antibody  data,  and  safety  data  from  the 
study  EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo  are  available.  Therefore,  the  overall  exposure  to  Omnitrope  is  72  patient-
years in all studies. 
20/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
None of the 51 patients in  study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo developed anti-hGH and  one patient developed 
anti-HCP antibodies during the study period so far.  The applicant commits to submit the final study 
report  of  this  still  ongoing  study  to  obtain  additional  safety  and  efficacy  data.  The  study  will  be 
extended beyond the originally pla nned 24-month treatment phase.    
Indirect comparison of anti-hGH antibody development between  Omnitrope assessed  in  study  EP2K-
02-PhIII-Lyo and Genotropin assessed in study EP2K-99-PhIII / EP2K-99-PhIIIFo is presented in the 
table 3. This comparison is possible because  all  antibody measurements  were performed in the same 
laboratory using the same assay. The numbers of patients who developed anti-hGH antibodies after 9 
and  12  months  of  treatment  with  Omnitrope  (EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo)  and  after  9  months  of  treatment 
with  Genotropin  (EP2K-99-PhIII/EP2K-00-PhIII-Fo)  are  given  in  Table  3.  Twelve-month  data  for 
Genotropin are added from the literature. Estimated incidences of anti-hGH antibody development for 
Omnitrope  were  found  to  be 0%  (95%  CI  [0.0,  7.0]).  Therefore,  there  is  no  evidence  to  assume  a 
clinically relevant difference in anti-hGH antibody development between Omnitrope and Genotropin. 
Comparison of anti-hGH antibody development between  Omnitrope (EP2K-00-PhIII-Lyo) and 
Genotropin (EP2K-99-PhIII/EP2K-00- PhIIIFo) during the first year of treatment 
Product  
Study 
Omnitrope  
Genotropin 
EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo 
12 months 
EP2K-99-PhIII/ 
EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  9 
months 
Literature* 
months 
12 
Number of patients 
tested for 
antibodies 
51 
Number of patients 
with positive test 
result 
0 
44 
229 
1 
4 
Estimated 
incidence [95% CI] 
0% [0; 6.98] 
2.27% [0.06; 12.02] 
1.75% [0.48; 4.41] 
*One year results published in: Lundin K, Berger L, Blomberg F, et al. Development of anti-hGH antibodies 
during therapy with authentic human growth hormone. Acta Paediatr Scand (Suppl) 1991;372:167-8. 
One  Omnitrope-treated patient (study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo)  and  no  Genotropin-treated patient (study 
EP2K-99-PhIII/EP2K-00-PhIII-Fo) developed anti-HCP  antibodies.  Again,  there  is  no  evidence  for  a 
clinically relevant difference in immunogenicity between Omnitrope and Genotropin. 
In  addition,  the  frequency  of  anti-hGH  antibodies  among  the  patients  of  studies  EP2K-99- 
PhIII/EP2K-00-PhIII-Fo  who  had  been  treated  with  Somatropin  Sandoz  (API  Covance)  and  were 
switched to  Omnitrope diminished from 57% (24/42 patients) at month 9 to 36% (15/42 patients) at 
month  15.  Anti-GH  antibody  frequency  continued  to  decrease  after  these  patients  were  switched  to 
somatropin Sandoz Liquid (API Sandoz), declining to 20% (8/40 patients) at month 24 and 14% (5/35 
patients) at month 48.  
For  immunogenicity  assessments,  the  same  antibody  assays  and  the  same  central  laboratories  were 
used throughout all clinical trials with Somatropin Sandoz, including trials EP2K-99- PhIII, EP2K-00-
PhIII-Fo,  EP2K-00-PhIIIAQ  and  EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo.  Anti-hGH  antibodies  were  determinedusing  a 
radiolabeled  immunoassay  (RIA).  Anti-HCP antibodies were determined using an immunoblot assay 
(Western blot). 
Readability testing 
The  applicant  performed  readability  testing  (“user  consultation”)  and  a  satisfactory  report  has  been 
provided. 
21/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance 
Description of pharmacovigilance system 
A  detailed  description  of  the  pharmacovigilance  system  has  been  provided.  The  CHMP  considered 
that the description has  deficiencies that should be addressed as part of the follow up measures. The 
applicant has made the commitment to update the description of the pharmacovigilance system where 
applicable, prior to placing the product on the market: 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA has submitted a risk management plan, summarised as follows:   
Safety issue 
Diabetogenic potential of rhGH 
therapy in short children born 
SGA 
Occurrence and clinical 
implications of anti-rhGH 
antibodies 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Phase IV prospective, single arm 
clinical trial in short children born 
SGA (part of registry reviewing 
patients demographics, long term 
safety and immunogenicity). 
Phase IV prospective, single arm 
clinical trial in short children born 
SGA measuring immunogenicity. 
Prolongation of ongoing Phase III 
study EP2K-02-PhIIIlyo to provide 
long-term immunogenicity data 
Immunogenicity testing for 
children enrolled in registry as 
appropriate (e.g. loss of efficacy). 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Warning regarding diabetic potential in 
Section 4.4 of SPC. 
Rare cases of type II diabetes mellitus in 
Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Development of antibodies included in 
Section 4.8 of SPC. 
Occurrence of malignancies in 
rhGH treated patients 
Registry of patients reviewing 
patients demographics, long term 
safety including malignancy and 
other safety issues. 
Warning in Section 4.4 regarding 
reoccurrence of malignancy. 
Leukaemia mentioned as a very rare adverse 
effect in Section 4.8. 
Risks of rhGH treatment in PWS 
patients 
Registry expected to include 
patients with PWS and will record 
demographics, long term safety as 
well as other safety issues in this 
group. 
Warnings on use of rhGH in PWS in Section 
4.4. 
•  Respiratory impairment and infection 
• 
• 
• 
Sleep apnoea 
Severe obesity 
scoliosis 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
With regard to the quality part of the dossier, a positive CHMP opinion may be granted, since: 
22/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The company has resolved all outstanding quality issues.  
The Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet have been adapted as requested. 
The  extensive  physico-chemical  and  biological  characterisation  of  the  reference  medicinal 
products  has  sufficiently  demonstrated  the  comparability  of  the  Genotropin  batches  from  the 
various  markets  in  Europe  in  the  Community  and  these  can  be  accepted  for  use  in  the  non-
clinical and clinical studies.   
The remaining Follow Up Measures (FUMs) and time-frames can be accepted. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  pharmacodynamic  activity  of  Omnitrope  has  been  confirmed  by  biological  tests  in  the  rat  (rat 
weight  gain  bioassays  and  rat  tibial  width  assay)  in  which  a  similar  quantitative  activity  as  an 
International Standard to the reference medicinal product Genotropin  was  demonstrated. The studies 
have confirmed the comparability with international reference standards of human somatropin, of the 
marketed reference medicinal product Genotropin and of several lots of  Omnitrope, manufactured at 
both  pilot  and  commercial  scales,  with  respect  to  pharmacodynamic  effects  characteristic  of 
somatropin  (body  weight  gain  and  increase  in  tibial  width  in  hypophysectomised  rats).  Both  bulk 
substances and the finished product Omnitrope Powder for Solution for Injection have been tested.  
The  pharmaco-toxicological  action  of  growth  hormone 
pharmacodynamic studies as well as safety pharmacology studies were not considered necessary.  
is  well  known, 
thus  secondary 
The applicant did not provide information on potential drug interactions in the non-clinical part of the 
dossier but this information could be retrieved from the  clinical overview. In this respect the text on 
product interactions in section 4.5 is agreed. 
The applicant has not performed absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, or pharmacokinetic 
drug interaction studies with Omnitrope. These is in accordance with the “Annex: Guideline on similar 
biological  medicinal  products  containing  biotechnology -derived  proteins  as  active  substance:  non-
clinical and clinical issues: Guidance on medicinal products containing Somatropin”. 
The  extent  of  scientific  knowledge   of  somatropin,  and  the  nature  of  this  product  as  a  recombinant 
protein,  has  made  it  unnecessary  to  do  genotoxicity  or  reproduction  toxicity  testing.  Similarly 
carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  undertaken  because  they  were  considered  unnecessary  in  the 
light of the experience with other somatropins. 
The  local  tolerance  study  in  rabbits  demonstrates  that  there  are  no  marked  differences  between  the 
reactions at the administration site induced by the drug product and its respective vehicle. 
From  a  non-clinical  point  of  view  the  comparability  exercise  is  considered  to  be  sufficient  and  the 
benefit/risk balance is considered positive.  
Efficacy 
Study  EP2K-99-PhIII/  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  compared  the  effects  of  both  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder 
(API Covance) and Genotropin in 89 treatment naïve patients. 
The  95%  CI  for  the  estimate  of  the  difference  in  height  velocity  between  treatment  groups  after  9 
months  of  treatment  (-1.35,  0.92)  indicates  that  treatment  with  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API 
Covance) and treatment with Genotropin resulted in comparable increases in height velocity. The 95% 
CI for the estimate of the difference in HV-SDS between treatment groups after 9 months of treatment 
(-0.81,  2.13)  indicates  that  both  treatments  resulted  in  comparable  increases  in  HV-SDS.  Therefore, 
23/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
comparable  efficacy  of  Somatropin  Sandoz  Powder  (API  Covance)  and  Genotropin  has  been 
demonstrated.  The  development  of  anti-GH  antibodies  in  almost  60%  of  the  patients  treated  with 
Somatropin Sandoz Powder (API Covance) did not affect the efficacy of the product. 
HSDS  increased  significantly  during  the  study,  indicating  that  the  treatment  naive  patients  reduced 
their  growth  deficit  (“catch-up  growth”)  compared  to  normal  age  and  gender-matched  children.  The 
establishment  and  maintenance  of  a  positive  HVSDS  indicates  that  the  patients  continued  to  grow 
more rapidly than normal children of the same gender and age.  
The  pivotal  clinical  efficacy  study  has  been  adequately  performed  in  prepubertal,  treatment  naïve 
children with GH deficiency , which are considered as the most sensitive model for the assessment of 
the  efficacy  of  somatropin.  Study  groups  were  well  balanced  with  regard  to  baseline  characteristics 
which is important for the sensitivity of the trial and the accuracy of the endpoints.  
In  conclusion,  Study  EP2K-99-PhIII/  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  demonstrated  comparable  efficacy  between 
Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin. 
Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Omnitrope  are  similar,  except  for  two  additional 
purification steps for Omnitrope which are not expected to affect bioavailability or efficacy, the results 
from  study  EP2K-99-PhIII  /  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  showing  comparable  efficacy  of  these  products  are 
transferable to  Omnitrope,  the  product  to  be  marketed.  The  almost  superimposable  growth  response 
curves during treatment with Omnitrope  (in study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo) or Somatropin Sandoz powder 
(API Covance) (in study EP2K-99-PhIII/ EP2K-00-PhIIIFo ) further support this conclusion.  
Supportive data 
Comparable pharmacokinetic profiles for Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin 
USA  were  demonstrated  in  the  supportive  pharmacokinetic  study  EP2K-99-PhIUSA,  and  between 
Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Somatropin  Sandoz  Liquid  (API  Sandoz)  in  study 
EP2K-00-PhIAQ.  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Omnitrope  are  similar,  except  for 
two  additional  purification  steps  for  Omnitrope.  These  additional  steps  are  not  expected  to  affect 
bioavailability of somatropin, and therefore the results obtained from study EP2K-99-PhIUSA are also 
considered to be valid for Omnitrope. 
The applicant has provided data suggesting the absence of accumulation of somatropin under steady-
state conditions in GH deficient children. Accumulation is also not expected from the known single -
dose pharmacokinetic profile of somatropin. In fact, multidose studies are not required.  
All pharmacokinetic data have been obtained using the 5 mg / ml formulation. Considering the linear 
somatropin  pharmacokinetics,  results  obtained  for  this  strength  are  also  valid  for  Omnitrope  1.3 
mg/ml.  
In  conclusion,  comparable  therapeutic  efficacy  between  Somatopin  Sandoz  powder  (both  API 
Covance and API Sandoz) and the reference medicinal product Genotropin has been demonstrated.   
Safety 
The most important difference between Somatropin Sandoz powder (API Covance) and Genotropin in 
study  EP2K-99-PhIII/  EP2K-00-PhIIIFo  was  the  formation  of  antibodies  in  57%  and  2  %  of  the 
patients,  respectively.  However,  no  statistically  significant  or  clinically  relevant  differences  at  any 
time-point  between  patients  with  and  without  anti-GH  antibodies  regarding  height,  HSDS,  HV  and 
HVSDS could be detected. This result indicates that the presence of anti-GH antibodies had no effect 
on  efficacy.  The  formation  of  anti-GH  antibodies  was  most  likely  related  to  the  presence  of  an 
increased  level  of  HCP  proteins.  Somatropin  Sandoz  powder  (API  Covance)  and  Omnitrope  (API 
24/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
 
Sandoz) are similar, except for two additional purification steps for Omnitrope to reduce the amount of 
E. coli proteins. The submitted data from study EP2K-02-PhIII-Lyo confirm that the issue of antibody 
induction  is  now  solved.  The  clinical  comparability  in  terms  of  safety  and  immunogenicity  between 
Omnitrope and Genotropin has been demonstrated.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
• 
• 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns 
no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information 
Based on the submitted data it is concluded that  Omnitrope 1.3mg/ml and 5.0mg/ml and the reference 
medicinal product Genotropin are similar with regard to clinical efficacy and safety. The benefit/risk 
assessment for Omnitrope 1.3mg/ml and 5.0mg/ml is therefore positive. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Omnitrope in the treatment of: 
Children 
Growth  disturbance  due  to  insufficient  secretion  of  growth  hormone  (GH)  and  growth 
disturbance associated with Turner syndrome or chronic renal insufficiency. 
Growth disturbance in short children born small for gestational age (SGA), who failed to show 
catch-up growth by 4 years of age or later. 
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), for improvement of growth and body composition, the diagnosis 
of which should be confirmed by appropriate genetic testing.  
Adults 
Replacement therapy in adults with pronounced growth hormone deficiency.   
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
25/25 
ª EMEA 2006 
 
  
 
 
 
