Summary of the risk management plan for Omnitrope
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Omnitrope,  a 
biosimilar  to  Genotropin.  Currently  there  are  no  important  identified, 
potential risks, and missing information for Omnitrope.
Omnitrope’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package 
leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients 
on how Omnitrope should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Omnitrope should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Omnitrope’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Omnitrope  is  a  medicine  used  to  treat  infants,  children,  and  adolescents 
who:
• do not grow normally because they do not have enough growth 
hormone;
• are short because they have long-term kidney disease or a genetic 
disorder called Turner syndrome;
• are short and were born small for their gestational age, and have not 
caught up by the age of 4 years or later;
• have a genetic condition called Prader-Willi syndrome. Omnitrope is 
given to improve their growth and body composition (by reducing fat 
and improving muscle mass). The diagnosis must be confirmed by 
genetic testing.
Omnitrope  is  also  used  as  replacement  therapy  in  adult  patients  with 
pronounced growth hormone deficiency. The deficiency can have started in 
adulthood  or  childhood,  and  needs  to  be  confirmed  by  testing  before 
treatment.
The full indications are listed in the SmPC of Omnitrope.
Omnitrope  contains  the  active  substance  somatropin  and  is  a  ‘biosimilar’ 
medicine.  This  means  that  Omnitrope  is  highly  similar  to  a  biological 
medicine  (the  ‘reference  medicine’)  that  is  already  authorised  in  the 
European Union (EU).
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Omnitrope’s  benefits  can  be 
found in Omnitrope’s EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available 
on  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/omnitrope
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks
Important  risks  of  Omnitrope,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such 
risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Omnitrope’s risks, 
are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on 
correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
•
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen 
so to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its 
risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, 
so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Omnitrope are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal 
product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as 
identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Omnitrope.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet 
and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
risks
None
Important potential risks None
Missing information
None
II B: Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the 
reference medicinal product.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of Omnitrope.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no other studies in post-authorization development plan.
