SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ONBEVZI 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Onbevzi. The RMP details important 
risks of Onbevzi, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Onbevzi's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Onbevzi's summary of product characteristics (EU SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Onbevzi should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Onbevzi should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Onbevzi 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Onbevzi is proposed for metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, metastatic breast cancer, 
unresectable  advanced,  metastatic  or  recurrent  non-squamous  non-small  cell  lung  cancer 
(NSCLC),  advanced  and/or  metastatic  renal  cell  cancer,  advanced  or  recurrent  epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, and persistent, recurrent, or metastatic 
carcinoma of the cervix (see EU SmPC for the full indication).   
It contains bevacizumab as the active substance and it is given as 25 mg/ml concentrate for 
solution for infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Onbevzi’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Onbevzi’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage:   
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/onbevzi 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks   
Important risks of Onbevzi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Onbevzi's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;   
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR (periodic safety update report) assessment - so that 
immediate  action  can  be 
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.   
If important information that may affect the safe use of Onbevzi is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Onbevzi are risks that need  special  risk management  activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Onbevzi. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information   
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Since there are no safety concerns identified in summary of the safety concerns, no summary 
of risk minimization measures is applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligations 
of Onbevzi. 
II.C.2 Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Onbevzi. 
 
 
