European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref.:  EMA/659981/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Onbrez Breezhaler 
International Nonproprietary Name: indacaterol  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001114 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1. 
2.2. 
2.3. 
2.4. 
2.5. 
2.6. 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 13 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 31 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 34 
Page 2 of 37 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novartis Europharm Ltd. submitted on 18 December 2008 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Onbrez  Breezhaler,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 29 September 2008.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or studies. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  maintenance  bronchodilator  treatment  of  airflow 
obstruction in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMEA  Decision 
(EMEA-000043-PIP01-07) for the following condition:  
•  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
on the granting of a product-specific waiver.  
Scientific Advice: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  28  April  2006.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Steffen Thirstrup 
Co-Rapporteur:  David Lyons 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 18 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 28 January 2009.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  20  April 
2009. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 21 
April 2009. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur 
and  Co-Rapporteur  declared  that  they  had  completed  their  assessment  report  in  less  than  80 
days.   
During the meeting on 26-29 May 2009 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
29 May 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 July 
2009. 
Page 3 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 04 September 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Onbrez Breezhaler on 24 September 2009. The applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 24 September 2009. 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1. 
Introduction 
Chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  (COPD)  has  been  described  as  a  “preventable  and  treatable 
disease state  characterised by  airflow  limitation  that is  not fully  reversible”.  However,  in reality  the 
disease is not limited to the airway and treating physicians are faced with a multi-component disease 
that is characterised by a range of pathological changes, which include mucous hypersecretion, airway 
narrowing,  loss  of  alveoli  in  the  lungs,  and  loss  of  lean  body  mass  and  cardiovascular  effects  at  a 
systemic  level.    COPD  patients  are  heterogeneous  in  terms  of  their  clinical  presentation,  disease 
severity and rate of disease progression.  Their degree of airflow limitation, as measured by FEV1, is 
also  known  to  be  poorly  correlated  to  the  severity  of  their  symptoms.  The  most  widely  accepted 
classification of the severity of COPD is according to The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive 
Lung Disease (GOLD) which is a highly respected partnership between the pharmaceutical industry 
and academia. The GOLD classification is based on the degree of impairment of lung function; four 
categories  are  recognised;  mild,  moderate,  severe,  very  severe  (Stages  I  –  IV).  The  most  important 
aspect  of  management  of  the  condition  is  educational  and  social:  the  avoidance  and  cessation  of 
tobacco  smoking.  However,  once  it  is  established  the  recommendations  for  the  pharmacological 
treatment of COPD are based on the severity of the condition. In outline, treatment should be started 
with one or more short acting bronchodilators at Stage I, a long acting bronchodilator should be added 
at  Stage  II  together  with  rehabilitation,  with  inhaled  steroid  at  Stage  III  and  domiciliary  oxygen  at 
Stage  IV.  These  treatments  are  additive  i.e.  treatments  started  in  Phase  I  are  maintained  during  the 
later phases. The prevalence of COPD is difficult to estimate, but it is a major public health problem, 
and is currently the fourth leading cause of chronic morbidity and mortality in the USA. Mortality due 
to COPD appears to be increasing. 
Indacaterol maleate (IND) is a novel, long-acting inhaled β2-agonist. The claimed indication for this 
product  is:  long  term,  once-daily,  maintenance  bronchodilator  treatment  of  airflow  obstruction  in 
patients  with  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease.  The  granted  indication  is:  maintenance  of 
bronchodilator  treatment  of  airflow  obstruction  in  adult  patients  with chronic  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease. The recommended dose is the inhalation of the content of one 150 microgram capsule once a 
day, using indacaterol inhaler. The dose should only be increased on medical advice. The inhalation of 
the content of one 300 microgram capsule once a day, using the indacaterol inhaler has been shown to 
provide additional clinical benefit with regard to breathlessness, particularly for patients with severe 
COPD.  The  maximum  dose  is  300 microgram  once  daily.  Indacaterol  should  be  administered  at  the 
same time of the day each day. If a dose is missed the next dose should be taken at the usual time the 
next day. 
Inhaled β2-agonists were first developed fifty years ago. Early β2-agonists, acted over short periods of 
time and required frequent dosing to maintain a bronchodilator effect. Long-acting inhaled β2-agonists 
(LABAs) such as formoterol and salmeterol have been available for approximately 12 years, and are 
recommended for twice daily use for maintenance treatment in COPD.  
This  application  was  submitted  according  to  article  8(3)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  via  the  optional 
scope  of  the  centralised  procedure  in  accordance  with  article  3(2)  of  Regulation  (EC)  no  726/2004. 
Conditional  approval  or  approval  under  exceptional  circumstances  was  not  requested.  A  Paediatric 
Product  Specific  Waiver  was  granted  on  the  grounds  that  the  disease  or  condition  for  which  the 
product  is  intended  occurs  only  in  the  adult  population.  CHMP  Scientific  Advice  was  given  in  the 
context of paediatric asthma only. A number of member states have given national scientific advice. 
Page 4 of 37 
 
 
The  clinical  issues  addressed  in  these  advices  related  to  the  QTc  study,  and  COPD  pivotal  study 
design and doses (as well as design of asthma studies - an indication not pursued). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Onbrez Breezhaler contains indacaterol maleate as active substance, a novel long-acting β2-adrenergic 
agonist which causes bronchodilation and is intended for long-term maintenance treatment of COPD. 
Onbrez Breezhaler is presented in hard gelatin capsules containing inhalation powder intended for oral 
inhalation via the Onbrez Breezhaler single dose dry powder inhaler.   
Capsules contain either 150 µg or 300 µg (the maximum daily dose) of indacaterol as the maleate. The 
capsules are taken once daily using an inhalation device. The capsules are commercially supplied in 
blister packaging.  
Active Substance  
The recommended INN name of the active substance is indacaterol, which is present in the product in 
the  form  of  the  maleate  salt.  The  chemical  name  is  (R)-5-[2-(5,6-Diethylindan-2-ylamino)-1-
hydroxyethyl]-8-hydroxy-1H-quinolin-2-one 
formula 
to 
C24H28N2O3(cid:121)C4H4O4 and molecular mass of 508.56 (392.49 free base) 
the  molecular 
corresponding 
Indacaterol  appears  as  a  white  to  very  slightly  greyish  or  very  slightly  yellowish  not  hygroscopic 
powder. It is very slightly soluble in water, insoluble in 0.9% NaCl and insoluble in buffer solutions 
from pH 1 to pH 10, though a slightly greater solubility is observed in the range pH 1-5. The pH of a 
0.1% aqueous suspension is 4.9. Its pKa has been found 7.3 and 8.0 in water at room temperature and 
Kow has been found 212.6 in n-octanol / buffer pH 7.4 at 37 °C and 10.0 in n-octanol/hydrochloric acid 
0.1N. It contains one chiral centre and the drug substance is the R-isomer. Polymorphic form A has 
been defined as crystal form of indacaterol maleate. 
•  Manufacture 
The synthesis of indacaterol maleate is performed in a multi-step sequence. The various steps in the 
synthesis  and  post-synthetic  processing  of  indacaterol  maleate  drug  substance  are  performed  at 
different manufacturing sites. When needed and if possible, reprocessing might take place according 
to the described procedures, starting at an appropriate stage. The manufacturing process and process 
parameters have been adequately described and characterised. 
•  Specification 
titration), 
impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC), 
The drug substance specification includes tests for appearance (visual), colour and clarity of solution 
(Ph.Eur.), identification (IR X-ray diffraction), assay (HPLC, potentiometric titration, maleate content 
by  potentiometric 
loss  on  drying 
(thermogravimetry),  amorphous  content  (microcalorimetry),  S-Enantiomer  (chiral  HPLC),  sulphated 
ash (Ph.Eur.), heavy metals (Ph.Eur.), microbial quality (Ph.Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur.), and 
particle size (laser light diffraction). 
Results  from  23  batches  synthesised  with  the  current  process  were  provided,  13  of  which  using 
production  equipment.  In  total  results  of  33  batches  were  provided.  All  batches  complied  with  the 
specification valid at the time of testing. 
•  Stability 
Stability  data  were  provided  for  five  pilot  batches  of  indacaterol  maleate  manufactured  with  the 
current  process  and  stored  for  up  to  24  months  under  refrigerated,  for  up  to  48  months  under  long-
term, for up to 12 months under intermediate and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions. 
Page 5 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  results  were  supplemented  by  a  photostability  study,  stress  testing  (storage  for  one  month  at 
50 °C,  60 °C  and  80 °C/  75%  RH),  and  forced  decomposition  studies  (heated  in  aqueous  solution 
under acidic, alkaline, neutral and oxidising conditions). 
The  stability  data  indicate  a  reasonably  stable  drug  substance  with  no  significant  changes  observed 
under ICH conditions when stored in the proposed packaging materials.   
Stability  results  showed  the  active  substance  is  not  hygroscopic  and  no  evidence  of  instability  was 
observed  under  long  term  or  accelerated  conditions  when  samples  were  stored  in  the  proposed 
container closure system. It was further shown that indacaterol maleate is not photosensitive. 
Overall, the results of the stability studies demonstrate that the drug substance is stable when stored in 
the  proposed  packaging  system  at  the  proposed  storage  conditions  and  support  the  proposed  retest 
period. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  drug  product  is  presented  as  a  single-dose  inhalation  powder  in  a  hard  gelatin  capsule.  Each 
capsule contains 150 µg or 300 µg of indacaterol. 
The inhalation powder contains the drug substance along with lactose monohydrate as a carrier. The 
capsules are printed with inks of different colours as an aid to strength identification. 
As  the  method  of  administration  is  by  inhalation,  particle  size  is  carefully  controlled  to  achieve  the 
required  lung  deposition  profile.    Particle  size  of  representative  batches  of  lactose  and  particle  size 
distribution  of  indacaterol  maleate  have  been  investigated  for  potential  effects  on  drug  product 
performance at production scale, but no effect other than on Aerodynamic Particle Size Distribution 
has been observed.  
Because the product is very low dose and requires accurate homogeneity of the active substance in the 
powder blend, suitable powder blend flowability to ensure accurate capsule filling, and aerolisation of 
the  drug  particles  during  patient  use.    These  are  achieved  by  a  combination  of  particle  size  of  both 
active substance and lactose monohydrate carrier. 
The manufacturing process consists of standard pharmaceutical operations. The filled capsules are 
then stored under controlled conditions. 
Device 
The inhalation device for the capsules has been developed from a currently marketed device used for 
another  inhalation  powder  hard  capsules  product.  A  device  called  “Concept1”  has  been  used 
throughout Phase III studies including the dose finding part of the adaptive study B2335S.  A different 
model RS01 device has also been used during phase II studies.  The RS01 and the Concept1 device are 
equivalent with regards to the operating principle, e.g. piercing the capsule, and dimensions of device 
parts which are relevant for dose delivery. 
Concept1 is a low resistance device (0.07 cm H2O½ L-1 min) and has been clinically shown to enable 
COPD  patients  (mild  to  very  severe)  achieve  peak  inspiratory  flow  rates  above  60  L/min,  which 
represents the relevant air flow range in these patients. 
A number of different studies have been performed to demonstrate the suitability of the device for this 
product including DDU and FPM over patient flow rate range, single dose fine particle mass, particle 
size  distribution,  actuator  deposition,  cleaning  requirements,  environmental  moisture  effects, 
robustness and device delivery development. 
Development  of  the  device/product  has  been  performed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
EMEA/CHMP/QWP/49313/2005.    Testing  has  been  performed  on  commercial  scale  batches  which 
have  also  been  employed  in  clinical  testing.    Device  development  satisfactorily  addressed  potential 
scale-up issues pertaining to moulding tools and critical assembly steps. 
Page 6 of 37 
 
 
Device moulding tools for the commercial device supply is the same as used for phase III though with 
a higher cavity number.  Assembly will be fully automated and critical assembly steps will be run on 
the  same  automated  assembly  equipment  as  for  Phase  III  clinical  supplies.    Equivalence  between 
devices used in Phase III and for commercial use has been demonstrated.  Devices are produced under 
clean room conditions. 
The  inhaler  is  a  Class  I  medical  device  and  its  conformity  with  directive  93/42/EEC  concerning 
medical  devices  has  been  certified  by  Novartis  Pharma  AG  in  a  ‘declaration  of  conformity’  dated 
October 2008. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The  supplier  of  lactose  monohydrate  certified  that  it  is  produced  from  milk  obtained  from  healthy 
cattle under the same conditions as milk intended for human consumption. 
The  capsule  shells  contain  gelatine  of  porcine  and/or  bovine  origin  and  relevant  certificates  of 
suitability have been provided by the suppliers. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacture consists of powder blending, capsule filling and equilibration. There are no intermediates 
apart from the bulk filled capsules. 
Five  production-scale  batches  of  both  capsule  strengths,  all  produced  at  the  intended  site  of 
manufacture, were used for process evaluation. It is concluded that all of the process parameters are 
adequately supported by the data presented and that the manufacturing process is well controlled and 
capable of producing a product of consistent quality. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specifications  of the  drug  product at  release and shelf-life include  tests for appearance (visual), 
identity  (TLC  and  HPLC,  release  only),  assay  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  delivered  dose  (HPLC), 
uniformity of dosage units (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), S-enantiomer (HPLC), water (Karl 
Fischer), fine particle mass (Ph.Eur.) and microbial enumeration (Ph. Eur.). 
Batch analyses have been provided for nine batches of each capsule strength which were produced at 
the intended site of manufacture and at the intended production scale. Some changes to the analytical 
procedures  and  the  product  specification  were  introduced  over  that  period  and  are  described  in  the 
dossier. The results comply with the specification and confirm consistency of the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  have  been  conducted  on  three  batches  of  each  strength,  all  of  which  were 
manufactured at the intended site of manufacture, at the intended production scale and packaged in the 
proposed  container.  These  batches  were  stored  under  long-term  (25 °C/60% RH),  intermediate 
(30 °C/75% RH),  and  accelerated  (40 °C /75% RH)  conditions.  Results  were  presented  for  up  to  18 
months in long-term and intermediate conditions and for at least 6 months in accelerated conditions in 
as required by relevant ICH guidelines. 
All batches complied with the specifications for assay and degradation products under both long-term 
and intermediate conditions at all time points up to 18 months, and under accelerated conditions for up 
to 6 months. No significant changes in the assay values were noted. The content of the S-enantiomer 
was stable under long-term conditions. The results for uniformity of delivered dose showed no trend 
under  long-term  or  intermediate  storage  conditions.  The  fine  particle  mass  showed  a  slight  increase 
between the initial and the 3 month test points at intermediate and accelerated storage conditions, but 
remained stable thereafter. 
Further stability studies were conducted under other storage conditions: -20 °C  (for 6 months), 5 °C 
(for  6  months),  25°C  75%  RH  (for  9  months)  and  50 °C  75%  RH  for  1  month.  Photostability  was 
investigated by exposing unpacked capsules to light. The drug product was found not to be sensitive to 
freezing, refrigeration or light.  
Page 7 of 37 
In  conclusion  stability  studies  have  been  performed  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q1A  guideline,  and 
results support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Onbrez  Breezhaler  inhalation  powder,  hard  capsule  is  adequately  established. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance has been presented in a 
satisfactory  manner.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  is  considered  sufficiently  described  and 
adequately  supported  by  data.  Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to 
development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests 
important  product  quality 
carried  out 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic.  
indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
2.3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No  scientific  advice  has  been  given  by  the  CHMP  in  relation  to  this  application.  The  non-clinical 
programme  is  in  agreement  with  EU/ICH  guidelines.  The  pivotal  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicity 
studies  have  been  conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP.  No  significant  deviation  of  the  principles  of 
GLP has been detected. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Indacaterol is a long-acting potent partial β2 adrenergic agonist with nanomolar potency and a rapid 
onset of action. The pharmacological effects of β2 adrenoceptor agonists including indacaterol are at 
least in  part  attributable  to  stimulation  of intracellular  adenyl  cyclase, the  enzyme  that  catalyzes  the 
conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic-3’, 5’-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP). 
Increased cyclic  AMP levels result  in  relaxation  of  bronchial  smooth  muscle. Thus,  indacaterol  acts 
locally as a bronchodilator when inhaled. 
The  β  adrenoceptor  selectivity  profile  of  indacaterol  is  similar  to  the  long-acting  β2  adrenoceptor 
agonist formoterol. Indacaterol was a long-acting airway smooth muscle relaxant in human lung tissue 
with a comparable duration of action as salmeterol. In vivo studies have also shown that indacaterol 
has a significantly longer duration of action than other β2 adrenoceptor agonists (it is still effective as a 
bronchodilator  at  24  hours  compared  to  formoterol  that  only  demonstrates  a  12  hour  duration  of 
action)  and  as  such  has  the  potential  for  a  longer  duration  of  action  in  the  clinic  than  available 
presently. The long duration of action of indacaterol is hypothesised to correlate with the association 
of  the  drug  with  cell  membranes  due  to  its  lipophilic  nature.  Indacaterol  had  an  onset  of  action 
comparable to the onset of action of the short-acting (salbutamol) and the long-acting β2 adrenoceptor 
agonist  (formoterol)  but  much  faster  than  the  long-acting  β2  adrenoceptor  agonist  salmeterol.  In 
isolated  human  lung  mast  cells,  indacaterol  was  shown  to  be  less  prone  to  desensitisation  when 
compared with formoterol and salmeterol. Clinical studies of up to one year duration with indacaterol 
show  no  tachyphylaxis.  The  effect  of  indacaterol  was  not  investigated  in  pathophysiological  animal 
models. This is deemed acceptable as 1) it is well-known that β2 adrenoceptor agonists are effective in 
treatment  of  patients  with COPD  and  2)  none  of  the available  models  reproduces  the exact  changes 
seen in humans. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
It  is  very  unlikely  that  systemic  exposure  to  indacaterol  will  lead  to  interactions  with  secondary 
receptor systems following inhalation at the recommended therapeutic dosages. However, interactions 
with several receptor systems expressed in lung tissues may be significant. In vitro, indacaterol has a 
higher binding affinity for several of the secondary receptor targets as compared to formoterol (up to 
Page 8 of 37 
15-fold).  The  MAH  has  provided  a  sufficient  discussion  on  the  potential  for  secondary 
pharmacodynamic effects in the lung providing reassurance that this has little relevance for the safety 
profile of indacaterol. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No unexpected adverse effects were observed in the safety pharmacology studies. Patients experienced 
post-inhalational cough during clinical trials with indacaterol. Animal models of cough response, both 
in vitro and in vivo were carried out in order to investigate the mechanism for this effect. However, no 
model was shown to be appropriate to mimic the cough observed in humans.  The MAH has discussed 
a potential mechanism for this effect, i.e. that a certain cation channel (TRPA1) is stimulated by many 
irritant  molecules  such  as  mustard  oil  and  cinnamaldehyde  and  functions  as  a  sensor  to  damaging 
chemicals. Indacaterol is active at this receptor whereas salbutamol and formoterol are not. However, 
salmeterol is a more potent stimulant of this ion channel than indacaterol. Since post inhalation cough 
is not listed as an adverse reaction for salmeterol, the weak activity of indacaterol at the TRPA1 ion 
channel is unlikely to be related to the cough observed. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The lack of pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies is acceptable in the view of the low systemic 
exposure at therapeutic inhaled dosages. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
The  absorption  of  indacaterol  was  investigated in  CD-1  mice,  Wistar  rats,  NZW  rabbits  and  Beagle 
dogs following PO, IV, SC and intratracheal (IT) dosing. Hence, the clinical route of administration, 
inhalation,  was  not  applied  in  the  PK studies.  Nevertheless, the  IT  route  mimics  to  some  extent the 
clinical route of administration but was only investigated in the rat.  Indacaterol was rapidly absorbed 
following  PO  administration  with  Tmax  ranging  from  0.5  to  2.3  hours  in  the  various  species.  Oral 
bioavailability was 1%, 0% and 33% in mice, rats and dogs, respectively. Plasma Tmax was 0.5-3 h and 
0.8 h following SC dosing of rats and rabbits, respectively. SC bioavailability was 67-100% in rats and 
51% in rabbits. The terminal half-life of indacaterol following IV administration was 5.7 h, 7.9 h, 10.9 
h and 20 h in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs, respectively. In humans, the terminal half-life following PO 
administration varied from 116 to 182 h thus it was significantly longer than in dogs (T½=12 h). The 
volume of distribution following IV dosing was reported to 26 L/kg, 5.3 L/kg, 13 L/kg and 2557 L/kg 
in  rats,  rabbits,  dogs  and  humans,  respectively.  Hence,  indacaterol  is  extensively  distributed  to  the 
tissues. 
Distribution 
3H-indacaterol was rapidly distributed following IV administration to Long Evans Hooded rats; it was 
detected in all tissues and organs within 5 minutes. At 8 hours post dose, radioactivity in most tissues 
declined but was still higher than the level in blood except for the eye, testis, seminal vesicles, brain, 
and spinal cord. Following PO administration, peak radioactivity concentrations were reached in most 
of tissues within 2 hours. Radioactivity was predominantly observed in the GI-tract, bile, kidney, liver, 
lung,  pancreas,  spleen,  urine,  and  blood.  No  remaining  radioactivity  was  observed  at  24  h  post  PO 
dosing.  Moreover,  no  significant  distribution  into  the  bone  marrow,  seminal  vesicles  or  brain  took 
place  following  PO  administration  to  rats.  3H-indacaterol  did  not  display  particular  affinity  for 
pigmented tissues. In rats, dogs and humans,  3H-indacaterol preferably distributed with the red blood 
cells. In rats, the blood:plasma ratios ranged from 1.8-2.2, while the ratios in dogs and humans ranged 
from  1.1-1.3  and  1.1-1.4,  respectively.  These  results  suggest  that  the  serum  drug  levels  should  be 
monitored  during  the  toxicological  studies,  especially  in  rats.  The  plasma  protein  binding  of  the 
compound,  determined  by  ultracentrifugation,  was  similar  in  the  rat  (90.6-92.0%)  and  dog  (92.5-
93.5%)  and  higher  in  human  (95.1-96.2%).  Hence,  the  free  drug  concentrations  are  higher  in  the 
toxicological species than in humans. In pregnant rabbits administered  14C-indacaterol on gestational 
day  14  and  17,  the  highest  levels  of  radioactivity  were  observed  in  the  kidney,  spleen,  liver,  lung, 
heart, and amnion while the lowest levels of radioactivity were observed in the amniotic fluid, brain, 
Page 9 of 37 
white fat, and foetus. On gestational day 17, the drug-related radioactivity moderately distributed to 
the foetus with a foetus-to-maternal blood Cmax ratios of 0.24-0.90, and AUC ratios ranging from 0.33-
1.2 over a 24 h time period.  
Metabolism 
MAH has studied the formation of metabolites in the mouse, rat, rabbit and dog following either PO, 
IV,  SC  or  IT  dosing.  The  major  metabolite  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  dogs  was  O-glucuronidated 
indacaterol  (P37)  (23-81%  of  total  AUC),  whereas  in  humans  it  was  the  monohydroxylated  P26.9 
(12%  of total  AUC). The active  metabolite  P26.9  was  only  detected in  human  plasma.  A  follow-up 
metabolism study was performed in order to obtain an estimate of the absolute animal/human serum 
metabolite  exposure  multiples  for  the  toxicological  species.  The  analysis  was  based  on  samples 
obtained from toxicokinetic and clinical studies with non-radiolabeled indacaterol administered via the 
inhalation route. Taking into account that the applied human dose was 2 mg, the metabolite exposures 
obtained in the rat and dog inhalation toxicity studies are expected to be equivalent to or higher than 
those observed in humans at the maximal recommended daily dose (0.3 mg). As such the metabolites 
P19, P26.9, P30.3, P37 and P38.2 are considered qualified. The minor human metabolites P37.7, P38.2 
and  P39  could  not  be  discriminated  chromatographically  in  human  plasma  but  together  they 
constituted 13% of total AUC. Based on metabolite data from plasma and excreta, it is suggested that 
the rabbit does not form P37.7 while the mouse does not form P39. The lack of glutathione/cysteine 
conjugates and the relatively low potential of indacaterol for covalent protein binding suggest that no 
reactive  metabolites  are  formed.  Formation  of  the  active  metabolites  P26.9 and P30.3  was observed 
following  incubation  of  10  µM  3H-indacaterol  with  recombinant  human  CYP1A1,  CYP2D6  and 
CYP3A4.  Following  3H-indacaterol  incubation  with  recombinant  human  UGT  enzymes,  it  was 
concluded  that  UGT1A1  was  responsible  for  indacaterol  glucuronidation.  Based  on  clinical  data, 
UGT1A1 and CYP3A4 are the major enzymes responsible for metabolic clearance of indacaterol. No 
apparent 3H-indacaterol metabolism was detected in human lung slices and pulmonary  microsomes, 
hence indacaterol does not appear to be metabolised locally in the lung. 
Excretion 
3H-indacaterol  was  predominantly  excreted  via  the  faeces  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  human 
regardless of the route of administration (PO, SC, IV, IT). Hence, the biliary excretion route was the 
major route of elimination of indacaterol and its metabolites. The recovery across all species ranged 
from 65-98% of the dose for collection times up to 216 h. Indacaterol and its metabolites is rapidly 
transferred  into  rat  milk  (Tmax  =  1h)  following  SC  administration  to  lactating  rats.  The  overall 
milk:plasma concentration ratio of total radioactivity was 1.3, based on AUC0-24 h values. Based on the 
rat data, it is estimated that the maximum amount of indacaterol and/or its metabolites that a breast-fed 
infant could be exposed to by ingesting 1 L of milk daily is 0.18% of a 300 µg adult dose. 
Drug interaction  
Indacaterol is  a  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp)  substrate  and  co-administration  with  P-gp  inhibitors  increases 
indacaterol  AUC  and  Cmax  in  human  subjects.  Inhibition  of  the  metabolism  of  CYP1A1,  CYP2C8, 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4/5 substrates are not likely to occur at clinically 
relevant doses. The kinetics of 3H-indacaterol glucuronidation by UGT1A1 was examined and the Km 
value  for  formation  of  P37  was  found  to  be  23  µM,  which  is  similar  to  the  Km  value  for  bilirubin 
glucuronidation.  However,  considering  the  clinical  Cmax  of  2.2  nM,  it  is  unlikely  that  indacaterol 
inhalation would affect bilirubin glucuronidation. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Oral  administration  of  indacaterol  to  mice  and  rats  did  not  cause  signs  of toxicity  and  therefore  SC 
administration was used to examine systemic toxicity in rodent species. Systemic exposure via the SC 
route resulted in significant toxicities in rodents, whereas in dogs, oral dosing resulted in significant 
toxicities  especially  ECG  abnormalities  that  were  consistent  with  the  pharmacological  effect  (sinus 
tachycardia). Skin lesions associated only with subcutaneous dosing were evident in all species tested 
Page 10 of 37 
and  severity  was  considered  dose  related.  Indacaterol  was  considered  a  slight  skin  sensitizer  in  the 
studies of local tolerance.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  repeat-dose  inhalation  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs.  The  majority  of  studies 
were  conducted  with  a  dry  powder  formulation  consisting  of  indacaterol  and  lactose.  However,  the 
pivotal studies (26-week in rat and 39-weeks in dog) were conducted with a hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) 
metered dose inhaler (MDI) formulation. A dry powder formulation is used clinically which consists 
of indacaterol (approximately 1.6%) and lactose monohydrate. Still, non-clinical bridging studies have 
demonstrated comparability between the different formulations. Upper respiratory tract irritation, i.e. 
reversible  alterations  described  as  inflammation/irritation  of  nasal  cavity  (focal,  olfactory  epithelial 
degeneration  along  roof  of  dorsal  meatus)  and  larynx  (ventral  floor  at  base  of  epiglottis,  focal 
squamous metaplasia in epithelial lining) in rats and mice were found which were not progressive after 
long  term  exposure.  Similar  findings  in  rats  were  also  observed  for  other  marketed  inhaled  drugs 
including  beta-2  adrenoceptor  agonists  (e.g. formoterol, salmeterol) and  muscarinic  antagonists (e.g. 
tiotropium).  These  effects  may  be  species  specific  since  they  were  not  observed  in  the  39-week 
inhalation dog study with indacaterol. Squamous metaplasia of laryngeal epithelium was observed in 
mice  and  rats  at  doses  corresponding  to  2.7  and  1.7-fold  the  maximal  human  exposure  on  a  mg/m2 
basis. Moreover, minimal squamous hyperplasia of laryngeal and pharyngeal epithelium was observed 
in rats and male dogs, respectively, at clinically relevant exposure levels (mg/m2). These findings were 
reversible since they were not seen following a recovery period. Furthermore, minimal hyperplasia of 
the olfactory epithelium and at the epithelium near the maxillo-turbinate in the nasal cavity was seen 
in  rats  at  clinically  relevant  exposure  levels  (mg/m2).  Laryngeal  metaplasia  and  hyperplasia  are 
common  findings  in  chronic  rodent  inhalation  toxicity  studies  in  response  to  repeated  irritation. 
Indeed,  similar  findings  were  made  in  rats  with  other  marketed  inhaled  drugs  including  β2-
adrenoceptor agonists. Mild squamous hyperplasia was recorded in the pharynx of two high-dose dogs 
in the 39-week inhalation toxicity study. However, squamous hyperplasia is very rarely found in non-
rodents.  Nevertheless,  this  finding  occurred  with  a  NOEL  approximately  11-fold  higher  than  the 
maximum  proposed  therapeutic  dose  of  300  µg/day  (mg/m2).  Furthermore,  a  re-review  of  the  slides 
suggested  that  the  finding  could  be  related  to  slight  variations  in  the  plane  of  section  and  did  not 
represent a true hyperplasia. Hence, this issue is not considered a safety concern for humans. 
Dose-dependent  tachycardia  was  observed  in  dogs  inhaling  ≥0.01  mg/kg.  These  findings  were 
accompanied  by  myocardial  fibrosis  of  the  ventricular  wall  and  the  papillary  muscles  at  doses  ≥0.9 
mg/kg,  which  corresponded  to  plasma  exposure  (AUC)  levels  12  to  42-fold  higher  than  is  obtained 
clinically with the maximal recommended dose (300 µg). Exaggerated pharmacological alterations in 
the  heart  of  dogs  dosed  with  cardiovascularly  active  compounds  are  well  documented.  Marked 
tachycardia  increases  the  myocardial  oxygen  demand.  As  a  result  of  the  high  demand  and  poor 
capillary  perfusion  in  the  subendocardium  of  the  ventricular  papillary  muscles,  focal  myocardial 
necrosis is a common reaction (Turton and Hooson, 1998). Clinical experience in humans shows that 
multiple doses below 800 µg/day do not affect the heart rate, hence there is a large exposure margin. 
The  QTc (Fridericia’s  formulae)  was  increased  at doses  ≥0.1  mg/kg  (3  to 8-fold the  clinical  plasma 
AUC).  Inhibition  of  the  hERG  current  was  observed  at  relatively  high  doses  in  the  safety 
pharmacology studies, thus suggesting that the effect on QTc is mediated via β-adrenergic receptors. 
Please  refer  to  the  clinical  assessment  report  for  a  discussion  on  the  risk  for  QT-prolongation  in 
humans. 
Hepatic  findings  were  periportal  glycogen  vacuolation  at  all  doses  studied  in  dogs.  MAH  has 
described the possible reason for this occurrence and considers it to be of no clinical relevance. This 
effect was not noted in mice or rats. The finding of increased levels of hepatocellular glycogen in the 
dog  liver,  but  not  in  the  rat  liver  parallels  the  distribution  of  the  β-adrenoceptors  in  these  species, 
indicating a relationship to pharmacology. There was no apparent increase in severity with long term 
use, nor did it appear that there were any functional consequences to the presence of these glycogen 
vacuolated hepatocytes in the periportal area.  The effect was reversible. The relevance of reversibility 
is questionable for a product that is to be used on a chronic basis. There is no safety margin for this 
effect  when  comparing  the  exposure  multiples  in  dogs  and  humans.  Nevertheless,  the  increased 
hepatocellular glycogen vacuolation was considered a secondary response related to a combination of 
Page 11 of 37 
 
overnight fasting of the animals (up to 24 hours) and increased lipolysis and glucagon receptor down-
regulation  as  a  consequence  of  chronic  beta-adrenoceptor  stimulation.  As  the  adaptive  response 
observed  in  dog  hepatocytes  under  fasting  conditions  was  mild,  it  is  not  considered  to  have  any 
significant consequences for patients during normal therapeutic use. 
An increased skeletal muscle mass accompanied by increased body weight was observed at doses of ≥ 
0.31  mg/kg/day  in  the  26-week  rat  repeat-dose  toxicity  study.  According  to  the  MAH,  it  is  well-
documented that β-adrenoceptor stimulation activates the cAMP-protein kinase A signalling pathway.  
In  skeletal  muscle,  activation  of  this  pathway  is  believed  to  be,  at  least  in  part  responsible  for  the 
anabolic response of skeletal muscle to β-adrenoceptor stimulation.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Indacaterol was considered negative in the standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
An increased incidence of ovarian leiomyomas and ovarian smooth muscle hyperplasia was observed 
in rats inhaling 2.09 mg/kg/day indacaterol for 2 years. Several β-agonists have been shown to induce 
mesovarian  leiomyomas  in  certain  strains  of  rats  (Monro,  1992)  and  there  is  evidence  from  a  study 
with salbutamol that co-administration of a β-antagonist, such as propranolol, abolishes the tumours 
(Gibson  et  al.,  1987).  Thus,  the  induction  of  these  tumours  appears  to  be  the  results  of  adrenergic 
stimulation. Furthermore, epidemiological data indicate that the incidence of mesovarian leiomyomas 
is not increased in women following use of adrenergic agents (EMEA/MRL/030/95). A high incidence 
of squamous cell hyperplasia of the limiting ridge was observed in the stomach of male high-dose rats. 
Following  indacaterol  inhalation,  the  animals  may  swallow  a  part  of  the  administrated  dose  which 
leads to significant exposure of the stomach epithelium. Moreover, hyperplasia of the limiting ridge 
epithelium  was  observed  in  CB6F1-TgrasH2  mice  receiving  PO  administered  indacaterol.  These 
lesions  were  mild  or  less  in  severity  and  did  not  progress  to  neoplasia.  Taken  into  account  the 
considerably longer inhalation procedure in rodents (approximately 30 min per day) as compared to 
humans,  these  findings  are  considered  unlikely  to  be  of  relevance  for  human  safety  following 
inhalation of the maximum proposed therapeutic dose of 300 µg/day. 
Indacaterol  was  not  carcinogenic  in  a  transgenic  mice  model  (CB6F1/TgrasH2)  at  doses  up  to  600 
mg/kg/day  PO  (corresponds  to  a  safety  margin  of  more  than  50-fold  relative  to  the  maximum 
recommended human dose).  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
There  was  no  evidence  of  teratogenicity  in  the  embryo-foetal  development  studies.  However,  an 
increased foetal incidence of full supernumerary ribs was observed in rabbits treated with 0.1 and 3 
mg/kg/day indacaterol. The values for incidence of full supernumerary ribs were within the range of 
the historical control data and therefore not considered relevant for human safety. 
A NOAEL of 0.1 mg/kg/day was established in the pre- and postnatal developmental study for the F0 
offspring.  At  higher  dosages  (≥0.3  mg/kg/day),  an  increase  in  dying,  stillborn,  missing  and/or 
cannibalised  F0  offspring  was  observed  without  significant  maternal  toxicity.  A  decrease  in  the 
number  of  pregnant  F1  offspring  was  observed  in  the  peri-  and  post-developmental  rat  study  at  1 
mg/kg/day. Hence, an effect on fertility cannot be excluded. Using a NOAEL of 0.3 mg/kg/day from 
the  peri-  and  post-developmental  rat  study,  the  safety  margin  for  male  and  female  fertility  is 
approximately  14-fold  when  compared  to  human  serum  exposure  following  inhalation  of  the 
maximum  recommended  dose  (based  on  AUC  data  for  pregnant  rats  obtained  in  the  embryo-foetal 
development study [PCS-R0270037]). Indeed, no findings were made in the adult fertility study but 
apparently  exposure  to indacaterol in  utero  and  in juvenile  animals  may  affect fertility.  Considering 
the 14-fold safety margin and that the present application concerns COPD (and not e.g. asthma) which 
is not a relevant disease in the paediatric population (<18 years), no problems concerning fertility are 
expected in the treatment population.  
Phototoxicity, allergenicity and environmental risk assessment 
Page 12 of 37 
An in vitro 3T3 phototoxicity assay indicated a probable phototoxic potential for IND.  However, as 
systemic absorption following inhalation is very limited, further non-clinical or clinical evaluations are 
not deemed necessary. The risk of allergic potential of indacaterol in humans is considered to be low 
based on both non-clinical and clinical data. Indacaterol is not considered a risk for the environment. 
2.4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Indacaterol  is  indicated  for  maintenance  bronchodilator  treatment  of  airflow  obstruction  in  adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The recommended dose is the inhalation of the 
content of one 150 microgram capsule once a day, using indacaterol inhaler. The dose should only be 
increased on medical advice. The inhalation of the content of one 300 microgram capsule once a day, 
using  the  indacaterol  inhaler  has  been  shown  to  provide  additional  clinical  benefit  with  regard  to 
breathlessness,  particularly  for  patients  with  severe  COPD.  The  maximum  dose  is  300 microgram 
once daily. The phase III program includes 3 large, pivotal efficacy and safety studies of up 52 weeks 
duration, and 3 small, short-tem profiling cross-over studies in patients with COPD. 
The pivotal trials are summarised below:  
Study ID 
Pivotal 
studies: 
B2335S 
No. of 
study 
centres / 
locations 
334 
centers 
B2346 
103  
B2334 
240 
Design 
Study 
Posology 
Study 
Objective 
Subjs 
by arm  
Gender 
M/F 
Median Age 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Primary and 
Other 
Endpoints 
26 weeks 
multicenter, 
randomised, 
double-
blind, 
double-
dummy 
placebo-
controlled 
(adaptive, 
seamless) 
parallel 
group  
2 stages 
12 weeks 
multicenter, 
randomised, 
double-
blind, 
double-
dummy 
placebo-
controlled 
52 weeks 
multicenter, 
randomised, 
double-
blind, 
double-
dummy 
placebo-
controlled 
Stage 2: 
Ind 150 µg 
Ind 300 µg 
Tiotropium 
18 µg 
Placebo 
Superiority 
over 
placebo  
416 
416 
415 
418 
COPD* 
Mild: 4.4 % 
Moderate: 55.7% 
Severe: 39.3% 
Very severe: 0.4 % 
(F: 37.2 %) 
Age (median 
(min-max)): 64.0y 
(40-88) 
(>65y: 47.5%) 
Pack years 
(median (min-
max)): 43 (13-
208) 
Ind 150 µg 
placebo 
Superiority 
over 
placebo 
211 
205 
Ind 300 µg 
Ind 600 µg 
Formoterol 
12 µg 
Placebo 
Superiority 
over 
placebo 
437 
425 
434 
432 
COPD* 
Mild: 4.1 % 
Moderate: 56.7% 
Severe: 38.5% 
Very severe: 0.5 % 
COPD* 
Mild: 1.4 % 
Moderate: 50.9% 
Severe: 43.2% 
Very severe: 2.5 % 
F: 47.6% 
Age (median 
(min-max)):63.0 y 
(40-89) 
(>65y: 43.3%) 
Pack years 
(median (min-
max)): 49 (20-
728) 
F: 20.3% 
Age (median 
(min-max)): 64.0y 
(41-90) 
(>65 y: 46.9%) 
Pack years 
(median (min-
max)): 40 (20-
900)  
Primary: 
24-h (trough) 
FEV1 after 12 
weeks 
Secondary: 
Days of poor 
symptom 
control. Non 
inferiority to 
tiotropium. 
Primary: 
24-h (trough) 
FEV1 after 12 
weeks 
Secondary: 
Days of poor 
symptom 
control 
Primary: 
24-h (trough) 
FEV1 after 12 
weeks 
Secondary: 
Days of poor 
symptom 
control. Non 
inferiority to 
formoterol. 
Page 13 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to the LoQ the MAH has submitted the extension to pivotal study B2335SE as well as a 
new study, B2336. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP. The MAH has provided a statement to the 
effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  data  were  obtained  from  a  number  of  clinical  studies,  from  healthy  volunteers  and 
COPD patients. 
•  Absorption  
The median time to reach peak serum concentrations of indacaterol was approximately 15 min after 
single  or  repeated  inhaled  doses.  Systemic  exposure  to  indacaterol  increased  with  increasing  dose 
(150 microgram  to  600 microgram)  in  a  dose  proportional  manner.  Absolute  bioavailability  of 
indacaterol after an inhaled dose was on average 43%. Systemic exposure results from a composite of 
pulmonary and intestinal absorption. Indacaterol serum concentrations increased with repeated once-
daily administration. Steady-state was achieved within 12 to 14 days. The mean accumulation ratio of 
indacaterol, i.e. AUC over the 24-h dosing interval on Day 14 compared to Day 1, was in the range of 
2.9 to 3.5 for once-daily inhaled doses between 150 microgram and 600 microgram. 
•  Distribution 
After  intravenous  infusion  the  volume  of  distribution  of  indacaterol  was  2557 litres  indicating  an 
extensive  distribution.  The  in  vitro  human  serum  and  plasma  protein  binding  was  94.1-95.3%  and 
95.1-96.2%, respectively. 
•  Elimination 
After  oral  administration  of  radiolabelled  indacaterol  in  a  human  ADME  (absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism,  excretion)  study,  unchanged  indacaterol  was  the  main  component  in  serum,  accounting 
for about one third of total drug-related AUC over 24 hours. A hydroxylated derivative was the most 
prominent metabolite in serum. A phenolic O-glucuronide of indacaterol and hydroxylated indacaterol 
were further prominent metabolites. A diastereomer of the hydroxylated derivative, a N-glucuronide of 
indacaterol,  and  C-  and  N-dealkylated  products  were  further  metabolites  identified.  In  vitro 
investigations  indicated  that  UGT1A1  is  the  only  UGT  isoform  that  metabolised  indacaterol  to  the 
phenolic  O-glucuronide.  The  oxidative  metabolites  were  found  in  incubations  with  recombinant 
CYP1A1,  CYP2D6,  and  CYP3A4.  CYP3A4  is  concluded  to  be  the  predominant  isoenzyme 
responsible for hydroxylation of IND. In vitro investigations further indicated that indacaterol is a low 
affinity  substrate  for  the  efflux  pump  P-gp.  In  clinical  studies  which  included  urine  collection,  the 
amount of indacaterol excreted unchanged via urine was generally lower than 2% of the dose.  
Renal  clearance  of  indacaterol  was,  on  average,  between  0.46  and  1.20 litres/hour.  When  compared 
with  the  serum  clearance  of  indacaterol  of  23.3 litres/hour,  it  is  evident  that  renal  clearance  plays  a 
minor role (about 2 to 5% of systemic clearance) in the elimination of systemically available IND. In a 
human ADME study where indacaterol was given orally, the faecal route of excretion was dominant 
over  the  urinary  route.  indacaterol  was  excreted  into  human  faeces  primarily  as  unchanged  parent 
substance (54% of the dose) and, to a lesser extent, hydroxylated indacaterol metabolites (23% of the 
dose). Mass balance was complete with ≥90% of the dose recovered in the excreta. Indacaterol serum 
concentrations declined in a multi-phasic manner with an average terminal half-life ranging from 45.5 
to  126 hours.  The  effective  half-life,  calculated  from  the  accumulation  of  indacaterol  after  repeated 
dosing  ranged  from  40  to  52 hours  which  is  consistent  with  the  observed  time-to-steady  state  of 
approximately 12-14 days. 
Page 14 of 37 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  is  demonstrated  for  AUC  and  Cmax  following  repeated  administration  of 
therapeutic  over  14  days.  For  single-dose  administration  a  slightly  deviation  with  respect  to  AUC 
dose-proportionality  was  noted.  This  is  not  of  clinical  relevance.  The  PK  of  indacaterol  is  not  time 
dependent at the three dose levels tested. Intra- and inter-individual variability are modest with CV% 
for AUC’s between 20-48% for inter-individual variability and 14-28% for intra-individual variability. 
•  Special populations 
A population analysis of the effect of age, gender and weight on systemic exposure in COPD patients 
after  inhalation  indicated  that  indacaterol  can  be  used  safely  in  all  age  and  weight  groups  and 
regardless  of  gender.  It  did  not  suggest  any  difference  between  ethnic  subgroups  in  this  population. 
The pharmacokinetics of indacaterol was investigated in two different UGT1A1 genotypes – the fully 
functional [(TA)6, (TA)6] genotype and the low activity [(TA)7, (TA)7] genotype (Gilbert’s syndrome 
genotype). The study demonstrated that steady-state AUC and Cmax of indacaterol were 1.2-fold higher 
in  the  [(TA)7,  (TA)7]  genotype,  indicating  that  systemic  exposure  to  indacaterol  is  insignificantly 
affected  by  this  UGT1A1  genotypic  variation.  Patients  with  mild  and  moderate  hepatic  impairment 
showed  no  relevant  changes  in  Cmax  or  AUC  of  indacaterol,  nor  did  protein  binding  differ  between 
mild and moderate hepatic impaired subjects and their healthy controls. Studies in subjects with severe 
hepatic impairment were not performed. Due to the very low contribution of the urinary pathway to 
total body elimination, a study in renally impaired subjects was not performed. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Three drug-drug interaction studies in healthy volunteers have been performed: (1) a study with the 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole and indacaterol at clinically relevant doses demonstrate a 40% 
and 100% increase in Cmax and AUC, respectively. The MAH made a justifiable argument that since 
safety  data  for  a  600  µg  dose  does  not  suggest  clinically  relevant  concerns,  a  2-fold  increase  in 
exposure, due to CYP3A4 inhibition, from the proposed maximum dose of 300 µg is not of clinically 
relevance; (2) a study with indacaterol and the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor erythromycin at clinically 
relevant  doses  demonstrate  a  20%  and  40  (0-24h)  -60  (0-infinite  h)  %  increase  in  Cmax  and  AUC, 
respectively. These changes are unlikely to be of clinical relevance; (3) a study with the specific and 
potent p-pg inhibitor verapamil and indacaterol at clinically relevant doses demonstrate a 50% and 35 
% increase in Cmax and AUC, respectively. The DDI interaction with verapamil is unlikely to be of 
clinical relevance. In vitro studies suggest that indacaterol is moderate to strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 
and CYP1A2, respectively with Ki values below 10 micromolar. Due to low systemic concentrations, 
clinically relevant inhibition of CYP mediated metabolism by indacaterol is unlikely. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The pharmacological effects of beta2-adrenoceptor agonists, including indacaterol, are at least in part 
attributable to stimulation of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme that catalyses the conversion of 
adenosine  triphosphate  (ATP)  to  cyclic-3’,  5’-adenosine  monophosphate  (cyclic  monophosphate). 
Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle. In vitro studies have shown 
that  indacaterol  has  more  than  24-fold  greater  agonist  activity  at  beta2-receptors  compared  to  beta1-
receptors  and  20-fold  greater  agonist  activity  compared  to  beta3-receptors.  This  selectivity  profile  is 
similar  to  formoterol.  When  inhaled,  indacaterol  acts  locally  in  the  lung  as  a  bronchodilator. 
Indacaterol  is  a  partial  agonist  at  the  human  beta2-adrenergic  receptor  with  nanomolar  potency.  In 
isolated human bronchus, indacaterol has a rapid onset of action and a long duration of action.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Indacaterol,  administered  once  daily  at  the  same  time  each  day,  either  in  the  morning  or  evening, 
provided consistently significant improvement in lung function (FEV1) over 24 hours in a number of 
clinical  pharmacodynamic  and  efficacy  trials.  There  was  an  onset  of  action  within  5 minutes  after 
inhalation  of  indacaterol,  comparable  to  the  effect  of  the  fast-acting  beta2-agonist  salbutamol 
Page 15 of 37 
and 
statistically 
200 microgram 
salmeterol/fluticasone 
50/500 microgram.  Indacaterol  had  a  peak  effect  occurring  between  2-4 hours  following  the  dose. 
There was no evidence of loss of efficacy of the bronchodilator effect after repeated dosing for up to 
52 weeks. The bronchodilator effect did not depend on the time of dosing (morning or evening). 
significantly 
compared 
faster 
to 
Indacaterol  reduced  both  dynamic  and  resting  hyperinflation  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe 
COPD. Inspiratory capacity during constant, sub-maximal exercise increased by 317 ml compared to 
placebo  after  administration  of  300 microgram  once  daily  over  14 days.  A  statistically  significant 
increase in resting inspiratory capacity, exercise endurance and FEV1 were also demonstrated as well 
as a significant improvement in measures of dyspnoea. 
Although  beta2-receptors  are  the  predominant  adrenergic  receptors  in  bronchial  smooth  muscle  and 
beta1-receptors  are  the  predominant  receptors  in  the  human  heart,  there  are  also  beta2-adrenergic 
receptors  in  the  human  heart  comprising  10-50%  of  the  total  adrenergic  receptors.  The  precise 
function  of  beta2-adrenergic  receptors  in  the  heart  is  not  known,  but  their  presence  raises  the 
possibility that even highly selective beta2-adrenergic agonists may have cardiac effects. 
A  double-blind,  placebo-  and  active  (moxifloxacin)-controlled  study  for  2 weeks  in  404 healthy 
volunteers following multiple doses of indacaterol showed no concerns for a pro-arrhythmic potential 
related  to  QT-interval  prolongations  at  recommended  therapeutic  doses  or  at  twice  the  maximum 
recommended dose. There was no evidence of a concentration-delta QTc relationship in the range of 
doses  evaluated.  As  demonstrated  in  605 patients  with  COPD  in  a  26-week,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled  Phase III  study,  there  was  no  clinically  relevant  difference  in  the  development  of 
arrhythmic  events  monitored  over  24 hours,  at  baseline  and  up  to  3 times  during  the  26-week 
treatment  period,  between  patients  receiving  recommended  doses  of indacaterol  treatment  and  those 
patients who received placebo or treatment with tiotropium. 
There were no clinically relevant changes in serum potassium and plasma glucose evaluated in a 26-
week double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III study. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study 
Study B2335S (Stage 1- dose finding part) 
It  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  double  dummy,  placebo-controlled,  adaptive, 
seamless,  parallel-group  dose-ranging  part  of  study  B2335S  in  patients  with  COPD  using  blinded 
formoterol  (12  µg  b.i.d)  and  open  label  tiotropium  (18  µg  o.d.)  as  active  controls.  Two  out  of  four 
indacaterol  doses  were  selected  following  interim  analysis  to  continue  into  a  second  stage  for 
comparisons  of  efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  for  up  to  26  weeks  total  treatment.  The  primary 
objective was to investigate four doses of indacaterol (75, 150, 300 & 600 µg o.d. via SDDPI) versus 
placebo and active controls with respect to 24 h post dose (trough) FEV1 and FEV1 AUC(1h-4h) after 
2  weeks  of  treatment  in  patients  with  COPD.  The  secondary  objectives  were to investigate  the  four 
doses  of  indacaterol  vs.  placebo  and  active  controls  with  respect  to  cumulative  selected  safety 
parameters (AEs, QTc, heart rate, serum potassium and glucose). The patient population consisted of 
adult  males  and  females  (aged  40  years  and  over)  with  a  clinical  diagnosis  of  moderate  to  severe 
COPD and a smoking history of at least 20 pack years (as defined by the GOLD Guidelines, 2005). 
Spirometric  criteria  were  as  follows.  Post-bronchodilator  FEV1  <  80%  and  ≥  30%  of  the  predicted 
normal value and post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC < 70%. Both reversible and non-reversible patients 
were enrolled. Following the dose selection guidelines the reference value used for trough FEV1 was 
140 mL (tiotropium vs. placebo difference) and for FEV1 AUC(1h-4h) was 220  mL (formoterol vs. 
placebo).  All  the  indacaterol  doses  were  superior  to  the  reference  value  for  trough  FEV1.  The 
indacaterol 150 µg, 300 µg, and 600 µg, doses were superior to the reference value for FEV1 AUC 
(1h-4h). The lowest dose to surpass these reference values was therefore the indacaterol 150 µg dose, 
with the next highest dose being 300 µg.  
•  Main studies  
The phase III program included 3 large, pivotal efficacy and safety studies of up to 52 weeks duration 
(B2335S, B2346 and B2334)  
Page 16 of 37 
All three pivotal studies had similar in- and exclusion criteria. 
Study B2335S (Stage 2 – safety and efficacy) 
A  26-week  treatment,  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  double  dummy,  placebo-controlled, 
adaptive, seamless, parallel-group study to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of two doses of 
indacaterol  (selected  from  75,  150,  300  &  600  µg  o.d.)  in  patients  with  COPD  using  blinded 
formoterol (12 µg b.i.d) and open label tiotropium (18 µg o.d.) as active controls.  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria were: (1) Adult males and females (aged 40 years and over) with a clinical diagnosis 
of moderate to severe COPD and a smoking history of at least 20 pack years (as defined by the GOLD 
Guidelines,  2005),  (2)  Both  reversible  and  non-reversible  patients  were  enrolled,  (3)  Post-
bronchodilator  FEV1  <  80%  and  ≥  30%  of  the  predicted  normal  value,  (4)  Post-bronchodilator 
FEV1/FVC < 70%. 
Patients with the history of asthma were excluded. For Studies B2335S and B2346 presence of asthma 
was  determined  by,  but  not  limited  to:  (1)  blood  eosinophil  count  >  400/mm3  and;  (2)  onset  of 
respiratory  symptoms  prior  to  age  40  years.  COPD  patients  with  and  without  reversibility  to  short-
acting beta-2-agonist were enrolled in all three pivotal studies. COPD patients may exhibit a degree of 
reversibility however, the MAH sufficiently justified that the study populations in the pivotal studies 
comprised COPD patients and not asthma patients. 
Treatments 
• indacaterol 150 µg o.d delivered via SDDPI or 
• indacaterol 300 µg o.d delivered via SDDPI or 
• Placebo delivered via SDDPI device or 
• Tiotropium (18 µg) dry powder capsules delivered via manufacturer’s proprietary inhalation device 
(Handihaler®) 
Stage 2 After completion of Stage 1 an additional 285 patients per treatment group were randomised 
until the total required number of patients (400 per group) had been included. Each patient in Stage 2 
was  to  receive  study  drug  for  a  total  of  26  weeks.  A  subset  of  patients  underwent  12  hour  serial 
spirometry assessments, and another subset extended 24 hour serial spirometry assessments. A further 
subset of patients underwent 24 hour Holter monitoring. 
Patients were required to stop the use of any long acting β2-agonist (LABA) prior to Visit 1 (start of 
the run-in period) until the completion of the study. Patients were switched to the ‘as needed’ use of 
the SABA salbutamol at least 48 h prior to Visit 1. Patients taking fixed dose combination treatment 
with  inhaled  corticosteroid  plus  a  LABA  were  taken  off  the  combined  medication  and  given 
equivalent monotherapy with an inhaled corticosteroid at the same dose and dosage regimen for the 
duration of the study, plus the inhaled short acting β2-agonist (SABA) salbutamol (as needed), at least 
48  h  prior  to  Visit  1.  Patients  taking  a  fixed  dose  combination  of  an  anti-cholinergic  plus  a  SABA 
must have been taken off the combination at least 8 h prior to Visit 1. Instead, salbutamol only was to 
be  used.  Regular  dosage  regimens  of  salbutamol  and/or  use  as  rescue  medication  were  permitted 
during  the  screening  period.  However,  during  the  treatment  period  salbutamol  was  to  be  taken  for 
rescue purposes only. During the randomised treatment period of the study, all patients were to receive 
the same ICS treatment regimen as taken during the run-in period.  
Objectives 
The primary efficacy objective was to demonstrate that at least one of the selected indacaterol doses 
(150 and 300 µg o.d.) was superior to placebo with respect to 24 hour post dose (trough) FEV1 after 
12  weeks  of  treatment.  The  key  secondary  efficacy  objective  was  to  show  that  at  least  one  of  the 
selected indacaterol doses was non-inferior to tiotropium with respect to 24 hour post dose (trough) 
Page 17 of 37 
 
 
FEV1 after 12 weeks of treatment. The important secondary objective was to demonstrate superiority 
over placebo of the two selected indacaterol doses with respect to the percentage of COPD ‘days of 
poor control’ during 26 weeks of treatment.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint was 24 hour post dose (trough) FEV1 after 12 weeks of treatment. 
Sample size 
A total of 4130 patients were screened and 2059 patients were randomised to treatment. For treatments 
not continued into Stage 2 127 patients received indacaterol 75 µg, 122 patients received indacaterol 
600 µg and 122 patients received formoterol.  
Randomisation 
In  Stage  2  sites  re-commenced  recruitment  for  the  two  chosen  indacaterol  doses,  placebo  and 
tiotropium. Randomisation was stratified by smoking status. A randomisation ratio of 1:1:1:1 in each 
treatment  group  was  maintained  for  smoking  status  and  12  h  spirometry  sub-group.  The  balance  of 
treatment groups was maintained at the country, not center level. 
Patients  randomised  in  Stage  1  or  Stage  2  at  Visit  3,  were  given  a  randomisation  number  by  an 
interactive  voice  recognition  system  (IVRS)  that  assigned  them  to  one  of  the  treatment  groups.  In 
addition,  if  this  patient  was  not  randomised  to  tiotropium,  IVRS  specified  the  unique  medication 
numbers  for  the  packs  of  study  drug  to  be  dispensed  to  the  patient;  one  medication  number  for 
indacaterol/placebo treatment and one number for formoterol/placebo. 
Blinding (masking) 
Patients, investigator staff, persons performing the assessments and data analysts remained blind to the 
identity of the treatment from the time of randomisation until database lock. Treatment was blinded for 
the  indacaterol-,  formoterol-  (study  B2335S  Stage  1)  doses  and  for  placebo  using  a  double  dummy 
design,  whereas  tiotropium  was  open-label  (study  B2335S  Stage  2).  The  identity  of  the  active  and 
placebo indacaterol treatments was concealed by the use of identical packaging, labeling, schedule of 
administration and appearance. 
Statistical methods 
Non-inferiority  was  defined  as  a  difference  in  FEV1  not  less  than  55  mL.  A  clinically  meaningful 
difference from placebo in trough FEV1 was considered to be 120 mL. The standard deviation of 270 
mL for trough FEV1 was based on previous formoterol studies. If the stage 1 sample size was 110 per 
treatment arm and the stage 2 sample size was 230, then the chosen indacaterol treatment group would 
have  340  patients.  With  this  number  of  patients,  and  the  assumed  dose  response,  the  power  for  the 
primary  endpoint  was  nearly  100%.  The  power  for  the  primary  and  key  secondary  variables  was  at 
least 85%.  
Three  populations  were  defined  for  analysis.  The  intention-to-treat  (ITT)  population  included  all 
randomised patients who received at least one dose of study drug. The per-protocol (PP) population 
included  all  patients  of  the  ITT  population  without  any  major  protocol  deviations.  The  safety 
population included all patients who received at least one dose of study drug. 
The primary variable was analyzed using a mixed model. The model contained treatment as a fixed 
effect  with  the  baseline  FEV1  measurement,  FEV1  prior  to  inhalation  and  FEV1  30  min  post 
inhalation  of  salbutamol/albuterol  (components  of  SABA  reversibility  at  Day  -14),  FEV1  prior  to 
inhalation  and  FEV1  one  hour  post  inhalation  of  ipratropium  (components  of  anti-cholinergic 
reversibility at Day -13) as covariates. To reflect the randomisation scheme the model included also 
the smoking status (current/ex-smoker) and country as fixed effects with center nested within country 
as a random effect. 
Page 18 of 37 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participants flowFor the  four treatment  groups continued into  Stage  2, 76.7% of  patients completed 
the study. Discontinuations occurred more frequently for placebo than for the indacaterol or tiotropium 
treatment arms and were 22.6%, 18.4%, 21.2%, and 30.8%, for the indacaterol 150 µg, indacaterol 300 
µg, tiotropium, and placebo groups, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were 
adverse events (6.9%, 6.2%, 4.0%, and 10.8% for indacaterol 150 µg, indacaterol 300 µg, tiotropium, 
and placebo, respectively), and withdrawal of consent (6.9%, 5.3%, 4.8%, 8.7%, respectively).  
Patients’ baseline demographics and pulmonary function. Data are mean (s.d.) 
Indacaterol 150 µg 
416 
77.4 
63.4 (9.4) 
62.3 
57.5 
37.7 
45.0 
48.3 
1.34 (0.49) 
56.1 (14.5) 
15.6 (15.4)  
Indacaterol 300 µg  Tiotropium 
416 
81.6 
63.3 (9.3) 
63.2 
57.7 
37.5 
45.4 
50.8 
1.36 (0.51) 
56.3 (14.5) 
15.2 (15.4) 
Number treated 
% completing study 
Age  (mean) years 
Male (%) 
COPD Grade moderate (%) 
COPD Grade severe ((%) 
Current smoker (%) 
Estimated pack years 
Pre-bronchodilator FEV1 (L)  
FEV1 predicted normal (%) 
FEV1 reversibility to SABA 
(% increase) 
415 
78.8 
64.0 (8.8) 
64.8 
51.3 
42.4 
44.6 
50.0 
1.28 (0.50) 
53.9 (15.6) 
15.6 (17.6) 
Placebo 
418 
69.2 
63.6 (8.9) 
61.0 
56.5 
39.5 
45.7 
49.7 
1.33 (0.47) 
56.1 (14.3) 
15.5 (18.0) 
The results of the study are presented in the table below. 
Outcomes for selected efficacy criteria ITT population LS mean (s.e.) 
FEV1 at Visit 1* (L) 
Trough  FEV1  at  Week  12** 
(L) 
Trough FEV1 at Week 26 (L) 
AUC FEV1 to four hours (L) 
SGRQ at Week 12 
Days of poor control  over 26 
weeks 
Exacerbation  free  rate  at  26 
weeks (% with 95% CI) 
indacaterol 150 µg 
1.34  
1.46 (0.015) 
indacaterol 300 µg  Tiotropium 
1.36  
1.46 (0.015) 
1.28  
1.42 (0.015) 
1.41 (0.017) 
1.55 (0.044) 
38.3 (0.74) 
31.5 (1.51) 
1.44  (0.017) 
1.55 (0.042) 
38.6 (0.74) 
30.8 (1.51) 
1.40  (0.017) 
1.50 (0.043) 
40.1 (0.74) 
31.0 (1.50) 
Placebo 
1.33  
1.28 (0.015) 
1.26  (0.017) 
1.34 (0.043) 
42.1 (0.75) 
34.0 (1.53) 
80.8 (76.7, 84.8) 
80.0 (76.0, 84.1) 
79.2 
83.3) 
(75.1, 
74.5 
79.1) 
(69.9, 
For trough FEV1 at Weeks 12 and 26 and  AUC FEV1 at week 12 both doses of indacaterol were superior to 
placebo p < 0.001. Advantages for SGRQ were significant p ~ 0.001 The proportion of patients exacerbation free 
at  month  6  was  significant  for  indacaterol  150  µg  p  =  0.019  but  not  for  indacaterol  300  µg  p  =  0.054  (Cox 
regression  analysis).  The  numerical  advantage  in  days  of  poor  control  over  26  weeks  over  placebo  was  not 
significant for either indacaterol dose. 
* taken from demographics for reference s.d. not s.e. is the scatter presented ** primary efficacy comparison 
Study B2335SE 
On D150 an extension to study B2335S was submitted. Study B2335SE was a placebo controlled 26 
weeks extension study to study B2335S. The primary endpoint was safety. 
Study B2346 
A 12-week treatment, multi-center, randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group study 
to assess the efficacy and safety of indacaterol (150 µg o.d.) in patients with COPD.  
Page 19 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Eligible patients were male and female aged 40 years and above. Patients had a clinical diagnosis of 
COPD  according  to  the  GOLD  guidance,  and  additionally  met  the  following  criteria:  a  smoking 
history  of  at  least  20  pack  years.    Post-bronchodilator  FEV1  less than  80%  and  at  least  30%  of  the 
predicted normal value.  Post-bronchodilator* FEV1/FVC < 70%. at Visit 1. 
Treatments 
• 
•  matched placebo o.d. via SDDPI. 
indacaterol 150 µg o.d. via SDDPI or  
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  superiority  of  indacaterol  (150  µg)  versus  placebo  with 
respect  to  24  h  post-dose  (trough)  forced  expiratory  volume  in  1  second  (FEV1)  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment in patients with COPD. The secondary objectives were to compare indacaterol (150 µg o.d.) 
to  placebo  on  spirometry  assessments  in  terms  of:  (1)  trough  FEV1  measured  on  Day  2,  (2)  FEV1 
measured  at  all  time  points,  including  approximate  peak  response  (Day  1  and  after  12  weeks 
treatment) and trough response, (3) the standardized AUC for FEV1 (5 min – 4 h), (5 min – 1 h) and 
(1 h – 4 h) on Day 1 and after 12 weeks of treatment, (4) to assess the 12 week safety (particularly 
with regard to ECG, laboratory tests, blood pressure and adverse events) of indacaterol (150 µg o.d.). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint was 24 h post-dose (trough) forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) after 12 
weeks of treatment in patients with COPD.  
Sample size 
The randomisation scheme did not ensure perfect balance (equal arms or a ratio of 1 for the treatment 
groups)  so  to  ensure  at  least  90%  power  which  allows  for  potential  imbalance  in  the  number  of 
patients in each treatment group the sample size calculation assumed a worst case ratio of 0.6. This 
implied  a  sample  size  of  232  evaluable  patients  will  be  needed  to  detect  this  difference  between 
indacaterol 150 µg and placebo as statistically significant at the 5% significance level (2 sided) with 
90%  power.  Therefore,  assuming  a  drop  out  rate  of  20%  over  12  weeks  of  treatment,  a  minimum 
sample  size  of  290  patients  was  chosen  that  provides  90%  power  for  the  primary  endpoint  (trough 
FEV1). 
Randomisation 
Randomisation  was  stratified  by  smoking  status  (current  or  ex-smoker).  A  randomisation  list  was 
produced  by  or  under  the  responsibility  of  Novartis  Drug  Supply  Management  using  a  validated 
system  that  automates  the  random  assignment  of  treatment  groups  to  randomisation  numbers  in  the 
specified 1:1 ratio.  
Blinding (masking) 
Patients, investigator staff, persons performing the assessments and data analysts remained blind to the 
identity of the treatment from the time of randomisation until database lock. The identity of the active 
and placebo indacaterol treatments was concealed by the use of identical packaging, labeling, schedule 
of administration and appearance.  
Statistical methods 
Superiority  of indacaterol from  placebo  was  demonstrated  if the  p-value  (2-sided)  was less than the 
5% significance level and the 95% confidence interval lay entirely to the right of (higher than) 0 mL. 
RESULTS 
Page 20 of 37 
Participants flow 
A  total  of  788  patients  were  screened,  and  416  randomised.  Almost  90%  of  patients  completed  the 
study  as  planned.  Discontinuations  from  the  study  overall  occurred  more  frequently  for  placebo 
patients (13.2%) compared with indacaterol patients (11.8%), mainly due to protocol deviations, the 
most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  (4.4%  vs.  3.3%  for  placebo  vs.  indacaterol,  respectively), 
and unsatisfactory therapeutic effect (2.9% vs. 0.5% for placebo vs. indacaterol, respectively).  
Table   Demographic baseline and principal efficacy data group mean (s.e.) 
indacaterol 150 µg 
Placebo 
Baseline data 
No. of patients 
Age (years) 
Male gender (%) 
BMI (kg/m2) 
Duration of COPD  (years) 
GOLD severe COPD (%) 
Current smoker (%) 
FEV1 (L) 
Efficacy variables 
1.49 (0.02) 
Trough FEV1 at Week 12 (L) 
31.19 (1.5) 
Days of poor control (%) 
SGRQ at Week 12 
43.38 (0.9) 
IND was superior to placebo in the above variable with p < 0.001 (mixed model analysis). 
211 
62.9 (9.9) 
51.2% 
 28.4 (7.1) 
6.6 (4.7) 
39.8% 
51.2% 
1.3 (0.5) 
205 
63.2 (9.6) 
53.7% 
27.6 (6.0) 
7.3 (5.6) 
37.1% 
52.7% 
1.4 (0.5) 
1.35 (0.02) 
40.24 (1.6) 
48.13 (0.9) 
Indacaterol  150  µg  showed  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  difference  to  placebo  in 
post-dose (trough) FEV1 after 12 weeks of treatment, achieving a difference from placebo of 130 mL. 
The results of this study are summarized in the table below: 
Study B2346 Trough FEV1 (L) at Week 12: treatment comparisons (ITT and per-protocol populations, 
LOCF) 
Treatment 
n 
Treatment 
LS 
Mean  SE 
Comparison 
Treatment difference 
LS 
Mean  SE 
95% CI 
p-value 
ITT population 
Indacaterol 150 µg 
Placebo 
Per-protocol population 
Ind 150 µg 
Placebo 
201  1.48 
189  1.35 
0.018 
0.019 
193  1.49 
172  1.35 
0.019 
0.020 
Ind 150 µg - Placebo  0.13 
0.024 
(0.09, 0.18) 
<0.001 
Ind 150 µg - Placebo  0.13 
0.025 
(0.08, 0.18) 
<0.001 
LS Mean = least squares mean, SE = standard error of the mean, CI = confidence interval. 
Mixed model: Trough FEV1 = treatment + baseline FEV1 + FEV1 reversibility components + smoking status+center, with 
center as a random effect] 
Study B2334 
A  52-week  treatment,  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  double  dummy,  placebo  controlled, 
parallel-group study to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of indacaterol (300 & 600 µg o.d.) in 
patients with COPD, using formoterol (12 µg b.i.d.) as an active control.  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The study population consisted of adult male and female outpatients (aged 40 years and over) with a 
clinical  diagnosis  of  moderate  to  severe  COPD  and  a  smoking  history  of  at  least  20  pack  years  (1 
pack/day for one year x 20). Eligible patients had a post-bronchodilator FEV1 less than 80% and at 
least 30% of the predicted normal value. Post-bronchodilator FEV1/FVC was less than 70%.  Principal 
Page 21 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exclusion criteria were the following: pregnant or lactating women, women of child-bearing potential 
unless  using  an  approved  method  of  contraception,  patients  who  had  been  hospitalized  for  a  COPD 
exacerbation in the 6 weeks prior to Visit 1, patients requiring chronic oxygen therapy, patients who 
had a respiratory infection within 6 weeks prior to Visit 1, patients with other significant co-morbidity 
or who had participated in an investigational study in the previous thirty days.  
indacaterol 300 µg o.d delivered via SDDPI or 
Treatments 
• 
• 
•  Placebo delivered via SDDPI device or 
•  Formoterol 12 µg b.i.d. via Aerolizer device 
indacaterol 600 µg o.d delivered via SDDPI or 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  superiority  of  indacaterol  (300  µg  and  600  µg)  versus 
placebo with respect to 24 h post-dose (trough) forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) after 12 
weeks of treatment in patients with COPD.  
The  key  secondary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  indacaterol  (300  and  600 µg  o.d.)  on  the 
percentage  of  ‘days  of  poor  control’  reported  over  the  52  week  randomised  treatment  period,  as 
compared  to  placebo.  Important  secondary  objectives  were:  (1)  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  indacaterol 
(300  and  600  µg  o.d.)  on  the  total  score  of  the  St  George’s  Respiratory  Questionnaire  (SGRQ),  as 
compared with placebo after 12 weeks treatment, (2) to evaluate the effect of indacaterol (300 and 600 
µg  o.d.)  on  time  to  first  COPD  exacerbation  during  the  52  week  randomised  treatment  period  as 
compared with placebo, (3) to evaluate the effect of indacaterol (300 µg and 600 µg) versus placebo on 
COPD  exacerbation  rates  during  the  52  treatment  period,  (TDI)  focal  score,  trough  FEV1  after  52 
weeks  of  treatment,  other  clinical  variables  such  as  morning  (pre-medication)  and  evening  (pre-
medication) PEF, clinical symptoms and use of rescue medication over 52 weeks. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  24  h  post  dose  (trough)  FEV1 after 12  weeks  of treatment.   The 
principal secondary variable was ‘days of poor control’ reported over 52 weeks. A day of poor control 
was defined as any day with a score of at least 2 (i.e. moderate or severe symptoms) for at least two 
out  of  five  symptoms;  cough,  wheeze,  sputum  production,  color  of  sputum,  breathlessness.  Other 
secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  effect  on  the  total  score  of  the  St  George’s  Respiratory 
Questionnaire (SGRQ) after 12 weeks treatment, and on time to first COPD exacerbation during the 
52 week randomised treatment period.  
Sample size and statistical methods 
A treatment difference of 120 mL in trough FEV1 was considered a clinically important benefit. The 
standard  deviation  of  270  mL  for  the  trough  in  FEV1  was  based  on  previous  formoterol  studies.  A 
sample  size  of  108  evaluable  patients  in  each  treatment  group  would  be  needed  to  detect  this 
difference  between  indacaterol  300  µg  and  placebo  at  p  =  0.05  with  90%  power.  The  subsequent 
comparison in the hierarchical testing procedure of indacaterol 600 µg vs. placebo would be powered 
at a level of 84%. However, in order to meet the regulatory requirement for safety it was proposed to 
have 300 evaluable patients in each of the indacaterol dose groups which gave a power of 99% for the 
primary comparison.  
For  the  percentage  of  COPD  days  of  poor  control,  a  difference  of  8%  was  considered  clinically 
important  based  upon  data  from  prior  studies  with  formoterol  as  was  the  estimate  of  28%  for  the 
standard deviation.  With these parameters, the number of evaluable patients for safety implied for the 
comparisons of indacaterol 300 µg and 600 µg at the 5% significance level a power of 93% and 89% 
respectively in the hierarchical testing procedure. 
The primary analysis for efficacy was based on the modified ITT population (Patients from centres in 
Egypt were excluded due to poor GCP compliance and data unreliability). The primary variable was 
Page 22 of 37 
analyzed  using  a  mixed  model  containing  treatment  as  a  fixed  effect  with  baseline  FEV1,  SABA 
reversibility,  ipratropium  reversibility  as  covariates.  The  model  also  included  smoking  status  and 
country as fixed effects. The percentage of ‘days of poor control’ was summarized by treatment and 
analyzed  using  the  same  mixed  model  as  specified for  the  primary  analysis  using  the  modified  ITT 
population. 
Randomisation 
Participants  were  randomised  to  one  of  the  four  available  treatment  groups  (randomisation  ratio 
1:1:1:1 with stratification for smoking status) to inhaled indacaterol 300  µg o.d., indacaterol 600 µg 
o.d., formoterol 12 µg b.i.d. or placebo. 
Blinding (masking) 
Patients, investigator staff, persons performing the assessments and data analysts remained blind to the 
identity of the treatment from the time of randomisation until database lock. Treatment was blinded for 
the indacaterol-, formoterol- doses and for placebo using a double dummy design. The identity of the 
active and placebo indacaterol treatments was concealed by the use of identical packaging, labeling, 
schedule of administration and appearance. Individual sets of code breaker scratch cards describing the 
actual treatment were supplied with each container of medication and distributed to each investigator. 
One complete set was kept by the Novartis Country Pharma Organization. The scratch cards were only 
to be opened in an emergency. 
RESULTS 
Participants flowA total of 2446 patients were screened and 1732 were randomised; 74% of patients 
completed  the  study.  The  highest  percentage  of  patients  discontinuing  was  in  the  placebo  group 
predominantly  due to the withdrawal  of  consent,  adverse  events  or unsatisfactory  therapeutic  effect. 
Adverse event(s) was the main reason for discontinuation in the formoterol and indacaterol treatment 
groups.  There  were  12  deaths  during  the  course  of  the  study.    Patients’  baseline  characteristics  are 
shown in table below. 
Table  Patients’ baseline data mean (s.d.) 
indacaterol  300 µg 
indacaterol 600 µg 
Formoterol 
Placebo 
with 
48.6 (41.5) 
7.4 (7.1) 
43.5 
63.9 (8.6) 
80.3 
26.2 (4.9) 
Demographic characteristics 
Age in years 
Male gender (%) 
MBI (kg/m2) 
Disease characteristics and smoking history 
Duration of COPD 
Proportion 
severe COPD (%) 
Smoking  history  in 
pack-years 
Proportion 
of 
current smokers (%) 
Pulmonary function 
Pre-bronchodilator 
FEV1 (L) 
FEV1 
to SABA (%) 
FEV1 
to 
(%) 
reversibility 
anti-cholinergic 
reversibility 
1.33 ( 0.41) 
15.0 (15.7) 
11.7 (12.7) 
41.6 
62.9 (8.7) 
76.9 
26.5 (5.1) 
6.8 (7.8) 
44.2 
53.6 (67.2) 
42.1 
1.32 (0.45) 
13.7 (14.5) 
14.1 (14.5) 
63.6 (8.5) 
80.2 
26.3 (4.8) 
7.3 (6.2) 
41.9 
63.2 (8.3) 
81.5 
26.8 (5.1) 
7.0 (6.1) 
43.1 
49.0 (60.7) 
53.3 (69.9) 
`41.0 
40.3 
1.35 (0.43) 
1.37 (0.47) 
11.8 (12.7) 
12.7 (13.1) 
13.6 (14.6) 
13.6 (13.4) 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  showed  that  both  the  300  and  600  µg  indacaterol  doses  resulted  in  a 
significantly  superior  LS  mean  trough  FEV1  over  placebo  (treatment-placebo  difference  of  170  mL 
for both doses, well in excess of the predefined MCID of 120 mL, table below).  
Page 23 of 37 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Study  B2334  Trough  FEV1  (L)  at  Week  12:  treatment  comparisons  (mITT  and  per 
protocol populations, LOCF) 
---- Treatment ---- 
Treatment  n  LS mean  SE 
Modified ITT population 
Ind 300 µg 
389  1.48 
0.012 
Ind 600 µg 
374  1.48 
0.013 
Comparison 
-------------- Treatment difference ----------
LS 
mean 
95% CI 
p-value 
SE 
0.17 
Ind 300 µg - Placebo 
0.10 
Ind 300 µg - For 
0.17 
Ind 600 µg - Placebo 
Ind 600 µg - For 
0.10 
Ind 600 µg - Ind 300 µg  0.00 
0.07 
0.016 
0.016 
0.016 
0.016 
0.016 
0.016 
(0.13, 0.20) 
(0.07, 0.13) 
(0.13, 0.20) 
(0.07, 0.13) 
(-0.03, 0.03) 
(0.04, 0.10) 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.993 
<0.001 
For 
Placebo 
379  1.38 
371  1.31 
0.013  For - Placebo 
0.013 
B2334 achieved the primary objective of showing superiority of indacaterol 300 µg and 600 µg over 
placebo.  There  was  no  difference  between  the  responses  in  trough  FEV1  to  indacaterol  300  µg 
compared to 600 µg. The LS mean difference in through FEV1 between indacaterol 300µg and 600µg 
vs. formoterol amounted to 100 ml. The clinical relevance of this can be questioned. In addition the 
comparison  was  not  a  predefined  primary  or  secondary  objective  but  was  a  predefined  exploratory 
objective of the study. 
•  Additional studies 
Study B2336 
On D150 a new study (study B2336) was submitted. Study B2336 was a 26-week treatment, multi 
center, randomised, double blind, double dummy, placebo controlled, parallel group study to assess 
the efficacy (primary objective: superiority of Indacaterol 150µg vs. placebo on 24 h post dose trough 
FEV1 after 12 weeks of treatment) and safety of indacaterol 150µg o.d., N=320) in patients with 
COPD, using salmeterol (50 µg b.i.d., N=317) as an active control. Inclusion criteria were as for the 3 
pivotal studies. 
Study B2338 (Asthma study) 
Methods 
The primary aim of the study was to evaluate the safety of indacaterol 300 and 600 µg o.d over 26 
weeks, in patients with moderate to severe persistent asthma who were receiving background therapy 
with inhaled corticosteroid. The assessment of safety included adverse events, asthma exacerbations, 
serum  potassium  and  glucose,  heart  rate,  blood  pressure. The  secondary  objectives  were to  evaluate 
the effect of indacaterol on pulmonary function (trough FEV1 and FVC) and on asthma exacerbation 
rates.  
Eligible  patients  were  male  and  female  aged  at  least  12  years  with  moderate  to  severe  persistent 
asthma,  diagnosed  according  to  GINA  guidelines.  Patients  who  had  used  treatment  with  a 
bronchodilator,  either  regularly  or  on-demand,  and  who  had  used  a  daily  dose  of  at  least  100  µg 
beclamethasone or equivalent dose of an alternative inhaled corticosteroid. Patients whose FEV1 was 
at least 50% of the predicted normal value. Patients with documented at least 12% and at least 200 ml 
increase in FEV1 over their pre-bronchodilator value within.  
Key  exclusion  criteria  were  patients  had  used  tobacco  products  within  12  months  or  who  had  a 
smoking history of greater than 10 pack years, were suffering from COPD, had emergency treatment 
for an acute asthma attack in the previous 6 weeks or who had been hospitalized for an acute asthma 
attack in the previous six months. 
Patients were randomised to one of the following treatment arms; indacaterol 300 µg daily, indacaterol 
600 µg daily, salmeterol 50 µg twice daily. It was planned to recruit approximately 750 patients with 
the intention that at least 200 patients in each of the 3 treatment arms  
Page 24 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Of the 1146 patients who were screened, 805 were randomised and treated. Overall 85.5% completed 
the study. A higher proportion of patients in the indacaterol 300 µg group (16.0%) and the indacaterol 
600  µg  group  (16.0%)  discontinued  prematurely  compared  with  the  salmeterol  group  (11.5%).  The 
most common reasons for discontinuation were adverse events (AEs) and subject withdrawing consent 
for the indacaterol 300 µg group, AEs and protocol deviations for the indacaterol 600 µg group, and 
subject withdrawing consent and AEs for the salmeterol group. A greater proportion of patients in the 
indacaterol  600  µg  group  discontinued  due  to  AEs  compared  to  the  other  two  treatment  groups.  A 
slightly greater proportion of patients in the indacaterol 300 µg and 600 µg groups discontinued due to 
protocol  deviations  compared  with  the  salmeterol  group.  Two  patients  died,  both  in  the  indacaterol 
300 µg group, during the study.  
No efficacy data were assessed. Safety data were assessed and are presented in the Safety section. 
Overview of results. Data relate to the ITT population and are mean (s.d.) treatment differences are not 
statistically significant. 
IND 300 µg 
IND 600 µg 
Salmeterol 
Patient disposition  
No. of patients treated 
Patients completed  
Patient demographics 
Age (years) 
Male gender  
MBI (kg/m2) 
Baseline disease characteristics 
Duration of asthma (years) 
GINA severe 
FEV1 (L) 
FEV1 reversibility (%) 
Efficacy variables 
Trough  FEV1  at  Week  12 
(L) 
Trough  FEV1  at  Week  26 
(L) 
No. of exacerbations over 26 
weeks 
Safety variables 
No. of deaths 
Patients with any AE  
Patients with serious AE 
No. discontinued due to AE 
*(s.e.) 
268 
84% 
43.5 (15.8) 
43.7% 
27.8 (6.0) 
19.7 (15.5) 
34.0% 
2.47 (0.80) 
22.5 (10.1) 
268 
84% 
44.5 (15.2) 
34.7% 
28.2 (6.0) 
19.8 (15.4) 
35.1% 
2.38 (0.82) 
22.8 (12.1) 
2.61 (0.02)* 
2.62 (0.02) 
2.59 (0.03)* 
2.60 (0.03) 
0.17 (0.6) 
0.19 (0.5) 
2 
54.9% 
1.9% 
14 
0 
66.4% 
4.1% 
17 
269 
88.5% 
42.5 (15.2) 
39.0% 
28.8 (6.2) 
18.2 (14.0) 
34.2% 
2.46 (0.74) 
21.7 (12.5) 
2.54 (0.03) 
2.54 (0.03) 
0.19 (0.5) 
0 
67.3% 
3% 
8 
•  Analysis performed across trials  
Baseline data: 
Age (median(min-max)) 
Gender (% females) 
Smoking history (%current smokers) 
Pack years (median (min-max)) 
Severity of COPD n(%): 
At risk 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
Very severe 
B2335S 
(n= 1665) 
64.0 (40-88) 
37.2 
45.2 
43 (13-208) 
3 (0.2) 
73 (4.4) 
928 (55.7) 
654 (39.3) 
7 (0.4) 
Page 25 of 37 
B2346 
(n= 416) 
63.0 (40-89) 
47.6 
51.9 
48.5 (20-728) 
1 (0.2) 
17 (4.1) 
236 (56.7) 
160 (38.5) 
2 (0.5) 
B2334 
(n=1728) 
64.0 (40-90) 
20.3 
41.3 
40.0 (20-900) 
29 (1.7) 
25 (1.4) 
880 (50.9) 
746 (43.2) 
43 (2.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEV1 % pred V1 (postbronchodilator) 
(mean (SD)) 
(median (min-max)) 
FEV1/FVC ratio (postbronchodilator) 
(mean (SD)) 
(median (min-max)) 
FEV1 reversibility after SABA at Visit 1 
(% increase) 
(mean (SD)) 
(median (min-max)) 
Use of ICS (%) 
Primary endpoint: 
55.6 (14.7) 
54.7 (21.3-132.3) 
55.1 (13.7) 
53.7 (27.6-91.9) 
52.5 (13.8) 
51.8 (17.6-101.4) 
52.9 (10.1) 
53.3 (24.0-72.6) 
53.5 (10.1) 
54.8 (28.0-70.0) 
51.4 (10.59) 
51.2 (15.8-96.5) 
15.5 (16.7) 
13.2 (-45.2-222.7) 
37.5% 
16.5 (18.4) 
13.6 (-46.5-160.1) 
31.5% 
12.5 (13.3) 
10.5 (-34.3-89.6) 
52.9% 
The primary efficacy analysis of the three pivotal trials showed that all three doses of indacaterol (150 
µg  o.d.,  300  µg  o.d.  and  600  µg  o.d.)  were  associated  with  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically 
relevant  improvement  in  post-dose  (trough)  FEV1  relative  to  placebo  after  12  weeks  of  treatment, 
supporting the once daily dosing of IND. Furthermore, study B2334 showed that indacaterol 300 µg 
o.d. and 600 µg o.d were also superior to placebo after 52 weeks of treatment. A remarkable finding 
was  that  no  difference  was  observed  between  the  responses  in  trough  FEV1  to  indacaterol  150  µg 
compared  to  300  µg.  The  MAH  sufficiently  justified  that  the  300  µg  dose  may  provide  better 
bronchodilation  and  more  importantly  symptomatic  relief  in  the  most  severely  affected  COPD 
patients.   
Secondary endpoints: 
“Days of poor control” 
Secondary  efficacy  analysis  on  days  of  poor  control  showed  inconsistent  results  with  a  statistically 
significant  effect  in  only  two  out  of  three  studies.  A  significant  effect  of  indacaterol  150  µg  o.d  vs 
placebo  was  observed  in  study  B2346  after  12  weeks  (mean  difference:  -9;  95%  CI:  -13.3,-4.8;p  < 
0.0001), and of indacaterol 300 and 600 µg o.d vs placebo in study B2334 after 52 of treatment (mean 
difference: -4.7; 95% CI: -8.4,-1.0; p= 0.013 / -8.3; 95% CI: -12.0,-4.6; p< 0.0001), whereas no effect 
was  observed  in  study  B2335S  after  12  weeks  of  treatment  (150  µg  o.d:  -2.5;  95%  CI:  -7.0,2.1; 
p=0.179. 300 µg o.d: -3.1; 95% CI:  -7.7,1.4;, p=0.086). The observed difference in efficacy  may be 
due to a higher frequency of “days of poor control” at the time of randomisation in the group treated 
with  indacaterol  in  Study  B2346.  The  choice  of  this  non-validated  endpoint  was  not  supported  by 
CHMP  but  due  to  the  results  of  SGRQ  and  TDI  scores  (see  below)  “days  of  poor  control”  is 
considered  supportive  of  the  effectiveness  of  indacaterol  in  COPD  patients  for  both  FEV1  and 
symptomatic endpoints.  
Page 26 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SGRQ 
SGRQ  is  a  validated  measure  of  the  impact  of  COPD  on  quality  of  life,  and  provides  a  relevant 
indication of the degree of symptomatic relief. However, also for this secondary endpoint inconsistent 
efficacy  results  were  observed.  Analysis  of  the  SGRQ  score  showed  that  the  effect  of  indacaterol 
reached the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) of > 4 for the 150 doses in study B2346, 
and for the 600 g dose, but not the 300 g dose in study B2334, or for the 150 and the 300 g doses in 
study  B2335S.  In  the  response  to  the  D120  LoQ  the  MAH  provided  a  responder  analysis  of  the 
proportion of patients with a clinically important improvement of ≥4 in the SGRQ total score, after 12 
and  26  weeks  in  study  B2335S  and  12  and  52  weeks  in  study  B2334  which  showed  statistically 
significantly superior effect of indacaterol vs. placebo. 
TDI score 
In study B2335S, a statistical significant increase in TDI was observed for both the 150 and 300 µg 
dose of indacaterol vs. placebo (P<0.001 for both). However, only the 300 µg reached the predefined 
MCID of ≥1 compared to placebo at week 26. Also in study B2334 a statistical significant increase in 
TDI  was  observed  for  both  the  300  and  600  µg  dose  of  indacaterol  vs.  placebo  (P<0.001 for  both). 
However, only the 300 µg reached the predefined MCID of ≥1 compared to placebo at week 52. TDI 
focal score outcomes were not measured in Study B2346. Also for the TDI score in the response to the 
D120  LoQ  the  MAH  provided  a  responder  analysis  of  the  proportion  of  patients  with  a  clinically 
important improvement of ≥1 in the TDI score, after 12 and 26 weeks in study B2335S and 12 and 52 
weeks in study B2334. In this responder analysis indacaterol was statistically significantly superior vs. 
placebo. 
Time to first COPD exacerbation 
As for the above secondary endpoints the results on the effect on the time to first exacerbation and the 
number of exacerbations showed inconsistent results.  In study B2335S a statistical significant effect 
on COPD exacerbations vs. placebo was observed for indacaterol 150µg (HR=0.69; 95% CI: 0.5, 0.94; 
p=0.019) but not for the 300 µg dose (HR=0.74; 95% CI: 0.56, 1.005; p=0.054). In study B2346, there 
was no effect of the 150µg dose (HR=0.6; 95% CI: 0.31, 1.13 p=0.113) whereas, in study B2334, both 
the 300 µg and the 600 µg dose had a significant effect on exacerbations (300 µg: HR=0.77; 95% CI: 
0.61,  0.98;  p=0.03,  600  µg:  HR=0.69;  95%  CI:  0.54,0.88;  p=0.003).  Pooled  efficacy  analysis  over 
6 months’ treatment demonstrated that the rate of COPD exacerbations was statistically significantly 
lower  than  the  placebo  rate.  Treatment  comparison  compared  to  placebo  showed  a  ratio  of  rates  of 
0.68  (95%  CI  [  0.47,  0.98];  p-value  0.036)  and  0.74  (95%  CI  [0.56,  0.96];  p-value  0.026)  for 
150 microgram and 300 microgram, respectively. 
Subgroup analysis: 
The MAH has presented a subgroup analysis for the 3-months efficacy population on 1) trough FEV1 
at  Day  2  and  after 12  weeks  of treatment and  2)  standardized  FEV1  AUC (5  min-4h)  at  Day  1  and 
Week 12. The analyses showed no significant impact of age, gender, race, smoking history or use of 
ICS on the treatment effect of either dose of indacaterol on trough FEV1 and FEV1 AUC5min-4h at 
day  1  and  at  12  weeks.  In  addition,  the  subgroup analysis  by  severity  of  COPD  similarly  suggested 
that there was no effect of severity.  
Also  a  sub-group  analysis  for  the  6-month  efficacy  population  on  “days  of  poor  control”  was 
presented.  Overall,  the  result  of  the  subgroup  analysis  showed  that  the  300  µg  dose  of  indacaterol 
reduced the % days of poor control in younger subjects (< 65 y), smokers and males, non ICS user and 
subjects  with  less  severe  COPD  (FEV1  >  50%  of  predicted),  whereas  no  effect  of  either  dose  of 
indacaterol was observed in older subjects, females, ex-smokers, current ICS users and subjects with 
severe COPD. 
However, due to large differences in demographic characteristics in between the 3 pivotal studies, the 
‘Days  of  poor  control’  efficacy  results  obtained  from  the  overall  3  month-  and  6  month  efficacy 
populations were at best considered supportive. 
Page 27 of 37 
 
 
 
Other factors:  
Time to exacerbation and ICS usage 
An analysis of the time to first COPD exacerbation over 6 months of treatment by use of ICS, showed 
that  patients  using  ICS  did  not appear to  be  protected,  as judged  by  event free  days,  as none of the 
comparisons of time to exacerbation with placebo were statistically significant. However, ICS use has 
been shown to protect patients from exacerbations and so these findings may present a lack of ability 
to show an additional effect in a group of this size). In those patients not using ICS, all comparisons 
vs. placebo were significant, with the exception of formoterol. 
Post-inhalation cough  
Efficacy,  as  measured  by  trough  FEV1,  health-related  quality  of  life  assessed  by  the  SGRQ,  cough 
severity  recorded  in  patient  diaries  and  dyspnoea  measured  by  TDI,  was  not  affected  by  cough 
experienced post-inhalation. PI was not associated with any significant impact on treatment effect of 
either indacaterol, formoterol or tiotropium on spirometric and subjective outcomes.   
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In the completed clinical studies to date, regardless of duration, delivery device, indication or design 
6003  subjects  were  exposed  to  IND.  The  overall  exposure  to  indacaterol  was  1555.8  subject-years. 
The MAH has taken the view that in analyzing the safety data studies of reasonably similar design and 
duration should be pooled and that it would be inappropriate for example to pool data from asthma and 
COPD  populations.    Following  this  approach  the  populations  were  organized  into  seven  datasets, 
according to the type of clinical trial: 
(1) COPD 3-month safety population containing pooled data from studies B2346 (all data), B2334 
(up to day 91) and B2335S (up to day 91);  
(2) COPD 6-month safety population containing pooled 6-month (26 week) data from studies B2334 
(up to day 182) and B2335S (all data); 
(3) COPD 12-month safety population containing 52 week, from study B2334; 
(4) COPD safety population containing all data from studies B2346, B2334 and B2335S; 
(5) Asthma safety population containing 26 week, phase III study B2338; 
(6)  Short-term  safety  population  containing  pooled  data  from  all  completed  COPD,  asthma  and 
healthy volunteer studies of indacaterol with total exposure to study drug (excluding washout periods) 
of less than 50 days, excluding PI cough study A2222, pediatric study C2101, and 3 ADME studies 
A2106, A2214 and A2223; 
 (7) All treated subjects’ population containing pooled data from all completed COPD, asthma and 
healthy  volunteer  studies  of  indacaterol  regardless  of  study  design,  excluding  post-inhalation  cough 
study A2222, paediatric study C2101, and 3 ADME studies A2106, A2214 and A2223. 
The COPD safety population consisted of 4180 patients, 2154 of whom received indacaterol treatment 
at doses of 75 µg od (N=127), 150 µg od (N=627), 300 µg od (N=853) or 600 µg od (N=547) inhaled 
via the Concept1 device (table 1-19 below). The number of patients exposed to indacaterol 150, 300 
and 600 µg od for ≥3 months (363, 756 and 445) and for ≥6 months (243, 628 and 358) is sufficient. 
No  patients  from  the  150  µg  indacaterol  treatment  group  (the  proposed  dosage  for  indacaterol 
treatment)  were  exposed  for  1  year.  However,  this  is  superseded  by  a  sufficient  number  of  COPD 
patients exposed for at least 1 year from the 300 µg treatment group (N= 172 (N=167 for indacaterol 
600µg)) for which no unsettled clinically relevant findings from a safety perspective have emerged.  
•  Adverse events  
Due to the evaluation of safety for the different COPD populations AEs were difficult to evaluate. The 
most  frequent  AEs  were:  COPD  (includes  exacerbations),  upper  respiratory  tract  infections, 
nasopharyngitis, cough, headache, and muscle spasms.  AEs occurring with higher incidences in the 
Page 28 of 37 
 
 
COPD  6-months  safety  population  in  one  or  more  indacaterol  treatment  groups  compared  to  the 
comparator  and  placebo  groups  are  cough,  muscle  spasms,  upper  RTI,  viral  upper  RTI, 
nasopharyngitis  as  well  as  headache  and  diarrhoea.  The  latter  2  terms  only  occurred  with  a  higher 
incidence in the 150 µg indacaterol treatment group. As can be expected, incidences were lower in the 
in the COPD 3-months population and higher in the COPD 12-month safety population.   
In  the  COPD  12-months  safety  population  higher  incidences  for  indacaterol  were  seen  for  the 
following  (IND  300µg  -  formoterol  -  placebo):  nasopharyngitis  (16.7%  -  14.3%  -  13.0%),  cough 
(7.3% - 3.9% - 4.4%), lower respiratory tract infection (6.2% - 5.1% - 5.1%), muscle spasms (5.3% - 
2.8%  -  1.4%),  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  (4.8%  -  4.1%-  2.5%)  and  dyspnoea  (3.9%-  2.8%  - 
2.8%).  
The slightly higher incidences for indacaterol for dyspnoea were not observed for the 3-months- and 
6-months  populations.  As  dyspnoea  is  one  of  the  most  prominent  symptoms  in  COPD  the  slightly 
higher incidence for dyspnoea in the 12-months safety population (also observed when adjusting for 
exposure (episodes per patient year): indacaterol 300µg = 0.051, formoterol = 0.036, placebo = 0.035) 
may be of concern. However, the observed excess rate of dyspnoea vs. placebo was small (an excess 
of 1.6 episodes of dyspnoea per 100 patient years). The new safety data from the in the 26 weeks DB, 
placebo controlled extension to study B2335S could not reproduce the finding. No further initiatives 
were deemed necessary.  
As regards muscle spasms this AE has been described as AE for formoterol and other drugs of this 
class. The incidence of muscle spasms with indacaterol is clearly higher (12-months safety population: 
indacaterol  300µg:  5.3%;  formoterol:  2.8%;  placebo:  1.4%).  The  MAH  provided  evidence  that  no 
difference in compliance was observed between patients experiencing muscle spasms vs. those that did 
not. 
In  general,  a  dose-relationship  for  AEs  for  indacaterol  could  not  be  observed.  The  majority  of  AEs 
were mild or moderate in severity. Six to 7% of patients had severe AEs in the indacaterol 75 µg od, 
300 µg od, 600 µg od and formoterol groups, 9% in the placebo group and 10% in the indacaterol 150 
µg od and tiotropium groups. 
During the evaluation the MAH presented the most frequent AEs adjusted for exposure in the COPD 
safety  population.  No  new  safety  signals  emerged  from  this  new  dataset  not  either  when  subgroup 
analyses (age, COPD severity, use of ICS) were performed. 
AEs by onset: 
The incidence of adverse events with onset in the first 13 weeks after the first dose was greater for all 
treatment  groups  than  the  incidence  for  those  with  onset  >13  weeks.  In  general,  the  three  most 
frequent adverse events (COPD, upper RTI, nasopharyngitis) occurred with comparable frequencies in 
the  two  treatment  periods.  The  same  pattern  was  observed  for  cough.    As  regards  the  incidence  of 
muscle spasms this was higher in the first 13 weeks of treatment compared to the >13 week period for 
all  active  treatment  groups.  In  general,  comparing  the  incidence  in  the  3-month  and  6-month 
populations,  muscle  spasms  in  the  indacaterol  groups  appeared  to  occur  in the 4-13  week  treatment 
period. Headache was seen at a higher rate for the indacaterol groups in the first 13 weeks of treatment 
(2.81%-5.53%) compared to the >13 week period (1.32%-1.99%). 
Relationship of AEs to study drug: 
More  AEs  were  judged  to  be  study  drug  related  with  indacaterol  (11.8%  -12.3%)  compared  to 
formoterol (8.3%), tiotropium (10.4%) and placebo (7.9%) (data from the 6-month population).  
Post-inhalation cough (PI-cough) 
A  patient  was  said  to  be  a  PI-cougher  if  the  number  of  visits  with  PI  cough  was  at  least  1  or  R 
(whichever is greater), where R was defined as 20% of all the attended (post-baseline) visits, rounded 
to the nearest integer. In the COPD 6-month safety population, the mean percentages of attended visits 
at which patients experienced PI cough in the 3 indacaterol groups ranged from 16.6 to 19.7% (table 
4-39)  and  were  statistically  significantly  greater  than  in  the  placebo  (2.0%),  formoterol  (0.9%)  and 
tiotropium  (0.8%)  groups  (p<0.001  for  all  comparisons  vs.  placebo).  There  was  no  significant 
difference between the indacaterol 300 and 600 µg od groups in the percentage of attended visits at 
which  patients  had  PI  cough,  but  the  percentage  was  significantly  lower  in  the  150  µg  od  group 
Page 29 of 37 
compared  with  the  2  higher  dose  groups  (p≤  0.001  for  both  comparisons).  The  same  pattern  was 
observed for the COPD 3-month and 12-month safety population. 
The  vast  majority  of  inhalation  induced  cough  had  an  on-set  after  ≤  15  sec  post-inhalation.  Median 
duration ranged from 5-8 sec. for the proposed doses. The frequency of COPD  exacerbations in the 
group of patients with PI-cough seemed higher than in the population without PI-cough (150µg: 17.3% 
vs. 12.7%; 300µg: 29.6% vs. 23.5%; 600µg: 26.3% vs. 24.4%). As requested the MAH conducted a 
number  of  analyses  to  investigate  a  potential  relationship  of  PI  cough  and  COPD  exacerbations.  A 
clear  relationship  could  not  be  confirmed.  The  frequency  of  PI-cough  was  clearly  higher  in  female 
patients than in males (150µg: 39.2% vs. 22.6%; 300µg: 46.4% vs. 23.1%; 600µg: 36.6% vs. 25.7%) 
as  well  as  in  current  smokers  vs.  ex-smokers  (150µg:  33.22%  vs.  26.2%;  300µg:  33.7%  vs.  26.6%; 
600µg: 31.0% vs. 26.9%). Likewise was the duration of PI-cough also longer in current smokers vs. 
ex-smokers. As regards the analysis of post-inhalational cough by degree of reversibility a relationship 
seemed  to  exist.  PI-cough  was  more  frequent  in  patients  with  a  baseline  reversibility  of  >12%  (i.e. 
those patients with a possible asthma component) compared to those < 12%. However, SmPC changes 
were not deemed necessary. There did not seem to be an association between COPD severity/COPD 
duration/ICS  use  and  frequency/duration  of  PI-cough.  Neither  did  PI-cough  seem  related  to  FEV1 
decrease  ≥  20%  from  pre-  to  post-dose,  bronchospasm,  patient  participation/withdrawals  or  use  of 
ACE-Is/anti-cough medication.  
Based  on  the  known  risks  with  other  LABAs  of  cardiovascular  events  (coronary  ischemia, 
arrhythmias,  heart 
failure,  and  cerebrovascular  events),  hypertension,  metabolic  effects 
(hyperglycemia,  hypokalaemia)  and  paradoxical  bronchospasm,  these  events  have  been  investigated 
carefully  in  the  indacaterol  safety  database.    Cardiovascular  AEs  and  SAEs  were  generally  slightly 
lower  in  the  placebo  group  compared  to  the  active  treatment  groups.  Ventricular  tachycardia  was 
highest in the indacaterol 150 µg group but due to the overall low incidence this is difficult to assess. 
A clear signal of increased incidence of any cardiovascular AEe s and SAEs in the indacaterol groups 
compared  to  the  active  comparators  could  not  be  identified.  Neither  were  signs  of  a  dose-response 
relationship between the indacaterol dosages for the overall cardiovascular AEs nor for any specific 
cardiovascular preferred term identified. Data on cardio- and cerebrovascular AEs were presented for 
the COPD safety population adjusted for exposure as well as for the asthma safety population. No new 
signal emerged.  
No safety signals for diabetes, hypertension or paradoxical bronchospasm related AEs were seen. All 
these  potential  risks  are  adequately  covered  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  and  are  as  well  covered 
sufficiently in the RMP.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Three  patients  in  the  COPD  safety  population  treated with  indacaterol  died (one  case  on  each  dose; 
150 µg [sudden death], 300µg [cardiac arrest – suspected to be study drug related] and 600 µg [COPD 
exacerbation ]).  In the formoterol treatment arms 4 patients died; the causes of death were multi-organ 
failure, respiratory failure, and sudden death. Two patients who received tiotropium died; the causes of 
death  were  arteriosclerosis  and  bronchopneumonia.  Eight  patients  who  received  placebo  died;  the 
causes of death were aortic aneurysm rupture, cardiac arrest myocardial infarction, head injury, death 
and 3 sudden deaths. In the asthma safety study B2338 there were two deaths (2/268, 0.7%: 1 cardiac 
arrest and 1 sudden death – the latter suspected to be drug related by the investigator) on indacaterol 
300 µg od, while no deaths were reported in the 600 µg o.d. and salmeterol groups. 
As  regards  SAEs  there  did  not  seem  to  be  any  consistent  relationship  between  treatment  with 
indacaterol  and  SAEs  compared  to  the  other  COPD  treatments,  including  placebo.  In  general,  the 
incidence of SAEs by preferred term and adjusted for exposure was comparable between the 3 months, 
6  months  and  12  months  COPD  safety  populations  and  without  a  dose-relation  ship  for  the  3 
indacaterol dosages. 
Across  the  safety  populations  the  most  frequent  SAEs  were:  COPD,  pneumonia,  dyspnoea  and  AF. 
Fourteen  of  the  202  SAEs  were  suspected  to  be  related  to  indacaterol  treatment.  Of  these  10  were 
related to the CV system (TIA, AF or MI), 5 of them had no prior cardiac medical history. However, 
in the overview of cardio- and cerebrovascular SAEs for the COPD safety population, the overall SAE 
episodes  per  patient  year  for  indacaterol  150  µg,  300  µg  and  600  µg  were  higher  than  placebo  but 
Page 30 of 37 
lower than tiotropium. Apart from cardiac disorders which were more frequent in the first 4 weeks of 
the studies, the onset of SAEs were more frequent in the period >4 weeks after the first dose of study 
drug. However, onset of SAEs were similar for ≤13 weeks or >13 weeks as well as ≤26 weeks or >26 
weeks after the start of study drug. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The MAH has made an evaluation of laboratory abnormalities to be expected with a long acting beta-
agonist,  it  does  not  bring  anything  to  light  of  a  quantitative  or  qualitative  nature  which  might  give 
cause for concern about the safety of IND. 
ECG and QTc assessment 
The thorough QTc study (Study B2339: single-center, randomised, multiple-dose, placebo-controlled 
and positive-controlled parallel group study) was negative. Daily doses of indacaterol (150, 300 and 
600 µg using the concept1 device for 14 days) resulted in mean maximum time matched differences 
versus placebo that were lower than 5 ms for delta QTcF vs. baseline. The upper limit of the 90% CIs 
were below 10 ms for all time matched comparisons. In the phase III, pivotal studies B2334, B2335S 
and B2346, ECGs were performed 25 min pre-dose, 30 min post-dose and 1 h post-dose at each visit 
as  well  as  at  screening  and  at  the  end  of  the  study.  The  ECGs  were  evaluated  with  respect  to  PR 
intervals,  QRS  interval  and  QTcF  values.  In  addition  Holter  monitoring  (study  B2335S)  was 
undertaken at screening and after 2, 12 and 26 weeks of treatment in a subset of patients (N=124-150 
across  the  treatment  groups).  indacaterol  treatment  did  not  seem  to  be  associated  with  QTc 
prolongation  or  any  other  pathological  ECG  alterations.  The  pre-cautions  related  to  treatment  of 
patients  with  known  cardiovascular  disease  (coronary  insufficiency  and  cardiac  arrhythmias)  with 
beta2-agonists have been appropriately reflected in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
•  Safety in special populations 
For all active treatment groups age ≥ 65 years was associated with an increased incidence of AEs. Age 
did  not  seem  associated  with  a  different  pattern  in  AEs  compared  to  the  overall  population.  For 
patients with hepatic impairment the MAH was primarily referring to a PK-study in patients with mild 
and  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  The  MAH  presented  safety  data  for  a  very  limited  number  of 
patients with hepatic impairment/elevated bilirubin at baseline. At present no definite conclusions can 
be drawn due to the very limited treatment experience in patients with hepatic impairment (who were 
not  classified  according  to  Child-Pugh  scale)  or  elevated  bilirubin  levels.  No  pharmacokinetic  data 
(study CQAB149B2307) or treatment experience exists for patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
These issues should be reflected in section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
The  safety  profile  of  indacaterol  is  not  characterised  for  patients  with  impaired  renal  function. 
However, as the kidneys play a very low role in the elimination of the drug, this is acceptable. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No consistent pattern in any of the safety populations has emerged in indacaterol induced AEs leading 
to  discontinuation  compared  to  the  other  treatments.  Neither  was  a  dose-relation  ship  observed  for 
indacaterol treatment. 
2.5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
The primary focus of the Risk Management plan is on the monitoring and prevention of off-label use 
in asthma by use of additional pharmacovigilance and risk minimization activities, i.e. post-
Page 31 of 37 
authorisation studies and a targeted education of prescribers. The main objectives are to monitor and 
prevent the off-label use in asthma, and to further characterise and quantify known class effects of 
long-acting β2-agonists and to detect any other important safety signals. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
Important identified risks 
QTc prolongation and pro-
arrhythmic effects 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study
Cardiovascular events 
(coronary ischaemia, 
arrhythmia, heart failure, 
cerebrovascular events) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study 
Hyperglycaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study 
Hypokalaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Section 6, SmPC Sect 4.4)  
Overdose (CDS Sect 10, SmPC 
Sect 4.9). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient: 
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4)  
Overdose (CDS Sect 10, SmPC 
Sect 4.9).  
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient:  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4). 
Overdose (CDS Sect 10, SmPC 
Sect 4.9).  
Clinical pharmacology (CDS 
Sect 11)  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
(SmPC Sect. 5.1).    
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient:  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4).  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6)  
Overdose (CDS Sect 11, SmPC 
Sect 4.9). 
Clinical pharmacology (CDS 
Sect 11). 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
(SmPC Sect. 5.1).   
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Page 32 of 37 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Hospitalization and death 
due to asthma related 
events in asthma 
population (off-label use) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
USA: i3 Drug Safety post-
authorization safety study (to track 
off-label use and identify reasons/ 
circumstances) 
UK. THIN post-authorization safety 
study (only to track off-label use and 
identify reasons/ circumstances) 
Paradoxical bronchospasm  Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study 
Label incl. Patient Information.  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4)  
Educational measures included 
as part of all launch activities.  
Escalations in case activities 
above are insufficient: 
1) Dear Doctor Letter, 
2) Update salesforce training & 
revision educational material  
3) Restricted distribution/use 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4) 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Identified and potential interactions 
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
Inhibitors of P-
glycoprotein 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
sufficient.  
Interactions (CDS Sect 8) 
Interactions (SmPC Sect 4.5)  
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Interaction specified in label.  
See above interaction with 
CYP3A4 inhibitors. 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Subpopulation with 
uridine-diphosphate 
glucuronlytransferase 
(UGT1A1) deficiency 
Drugs known to prolong 
QTc interval 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.   
Clinical pharmacology (CDS 
Sect 11), PK properties (SmPC 
Sect 5.2) 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions  
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Interactions (CDS Sect 8, SmPC 
Sect 4.5). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Sympathomimetic agents 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Interactions (CDS Sect 8, SmPC 
Sect 4.5). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions 
Drugs associated with 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
Page 33 of 37 
hypokalaemia 
sufficient.   
Interactions (CDS Sect 8, SmPC 
Sect 4.5). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions. 
Beta-adrenergic blockers 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
Important missing information (list) 
Safety in non-Caucasian 
with COPD 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
i3 Drug Safety post-authorization 
safety study 
THIN post-authorization safety study 
sufficient.   
Interactions (CDS Sect 8, SmPC 
Sect 4.5). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions. 
Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
(SmPC Sect 5.1.) 
Clinical pharmacology (CDS 
Sect 11), PK properties (SmPC 
Sect 5.2). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions.   
Safety in COPD with 
significant CV co-
morbidity 
Safety in COPD during 
long-term use of >1 year 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Precaution and Warning (CDS 
Sect 6, SmPC Sect 4.4). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions.   
Routine pharmacovigilance activities  Label incl. Patient Information 
sufficient.  
Adv Drug Reactions (CDS Sect 
7). Undesirable effect (SmPC 
Sect 4.8). 
No additional routine risk 
minimization actions.   
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report. 
2.6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
a number of quality issues that will be resolved as Follow-up Measures within an agreed timeframe. 
None of these issues is expected to have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Effects  on  the  cardiovascular  system  attributable  to  the  beta2-agonistic  properties  of  indacaterol 
included  tachycardia,  arrhythmias  and  myocardial  lesions in  dogs. Mild irritancy  of the  nasal  cavity 
and  larynx  were  seen  in  rodents.  All  these  findings  occurred  at  exposures  sufficiently  in  excess  of 
Page 34 of 37 
 
 
those anticipated in humans. Although indacaterol did not affect general reproductive performance in a 
rat fertility study, a decrease in the number of pregnant F1 offspring was observed in the peri- and post-
developmental  rat  study  at  an  exposure  14-fold  higher  than  in  humans  treated  with  indacaterol.  
Indacaterol was not embryotoxic or teratogenic in rats or rabbits. Genotoxicity studies did not reveal 
any mutagenic or clastogenic potential. Carcinogenicity was assessed in a two-year rat study and a six-
month  transgenic  mouse  study.  Increased  incidences  of  benign  ovarian  leiomyoma  and  focal 
hyperplasia of ovarian smooth muscle in rats were consistent with similar findings reported for other 
beta2-adrenergic  agonists.  No  evidence  of  carcinogenicity  was  seen  in  mice.  Systemic  exposures 
(AUC) in rats and mice at the no-observed adverse effect levels in these studies were at least 7- and 
49-fold  higher,  respectively,  than  in  humans  treated  with  indacaterol  once  a  day  at  a  dose  of 
300 microgram. 
Efficacy 
The  primary  endpoint  for  all  three  pivotal  studies  was  24  hour  post  dose  FEV1  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment (defined as a difference in FEV1 not less than 120 ml). Indacaterol treatment was associated 
with  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  improvement  in  post-dose  FEV1  relative  to 
placebo after 12 weeks of treatment supporting the once daily dosing of the drug. The effect on trough 
FEV1 was evident regardless of degree of reversibility at baseline. Thus, the submitted studies showed 
that indacaterol is an efficacious bronchodilator in COPD patients with moderate to severe COPD. The 
key  secondary  endpoint  'days  of  poor  control'  showed  inconsistent  results  with  a  statistically 
significant effect in two out of three studies. The choice of this endpoint was questioned as it is a non-
validated measure, in contrast to the symptomatic endpoints TDI- and SGRQ scores. The effect on the 
latter  two  was  also  inconsistent  in  the  pivotal  studies  but  the  responder  analyses  showed  that  a 
statistically significantly higher proportion of patients treated with all three indacaterol doses achieved 
the  minimal  clinically  important  difference  for  both  TDI-  and  the  SGRQ  compared  to  placebo. The 
CHMP review discussed that the efficacy with respect to symptomatic endpoints was similar to that of 
currently  marketed  bronchodilators  for  COPD  with  the  conclusion  that  both  recommended  doses 
demonstrated statistically significant improvements in symptom relief versus placebo, as evaluated by 
TDI  and  SGRQ  and  that  the  magnitude  of  response  was  generally  greater  than  seen  with  active 
comparators. 
The CHMP review discussed that individual study results from two doses of indacaterol did not have a 
consistently statistically significant effect on the number or rate of exacerbations when compared to 
placebo.  No  effect  was  observed  when  analysed  according  to  COPD  severity,  reversibility  and 
smoking status. The possibility of a once daily dosing indacaterol has the potential advantage for the 
patient as presently, no LABAs for o.d. dosing are marketed, and the approval of indacaterol would 
therefore offer a new treatment option for COPD patients.  
Safety 
No  major  safety  issues  have  been  identified,  and  the  safety  profile  of  indacaterol  is  what  would  be 
expected  of  a  long  acting β-2  agonist. The  CHMP review  discussed the  most  notable  adverse  event 
which clearly may influence treatment compliance was the observation of post-inhalation cough (PI-
cough)  in  the  indacaterol  groups.  The  conclusion  of  the  CHMP  is  that  cough  experienced  post 
inhalation  was  generally  mild  and  did  not  lead  to  any  patient  discontinuing  from  the  studies  at  the 
recommended doses. The percentages of PI coughers were 29.5% for indacaterol 150 µg and 29.7% 
for 300 µg. PI-cough had an onset after ≤ 15 sec post-inhalation. The incidence did not seem to decline 
over time. A clear relationship between PI-cough and exacerbations could not be defined. There did 
not seem to be an association between COPD severity/COPD duration/ICS use and frequency/duration 
of PI-cough. In addition, PI-cough did not seem to be related to FEV1 decrease ≥ 20% from pre- to 
post-dose,  bronchospasm,  patient  participation/withdrawals  or  use  of  ACE-inhibitors/anti-cough 
medication.  A  relationship  was  found  between  PI-cough  and  degree  of  reversibility.  PI-cough  was 
more frequent in those patients with a baseline reversibility of >12% compared to those < 12%. An 
analysis of indacaterol potential to cause cardiac rhythm disturbance based on Holter monitoring was 
performed  in  a  subset  of  patients  in  Study  B2335S  (about  150  per  treatment  arm).  Review  of  the 
analysis and the raw data does not indicate a potential to cause arrhythmias beyond that seen in the 
placebo group. The between group and within group over time patterns were probably abnormal with 
Page 35 of 37 
 
respect  to  equivalent  healthy  subjects  but  did  not  change  in  any  recognisable  pattern.  Despite  the 
potential of indacaterol to cause tachycardia at high dose (~ 1,000 µg) in healthy volunteers there was 
a  fall  compared  to  baseline  in  mean  maximum  heart  rate  in  all  treatment  groups  in  Study  B2335S 
suggesting a non-specific beneficial effect from inclusion in the clinical study. Several potential risks 
were defined based on the known risks with other LABAs (cardiovascular events, metabolic effects, 
hypertension  and  paradoxical  bronchospasm).  Cerebro-  and  cardiovascular  AEs  and  SAEs  were 
generally slightly lower in the placebo group compared to the active treatment groups. A clear signal 
of increased incidence of any cardiovascular AEs and SAEs in the indacaterol groups compared to the 
active  comparators  was  not  identified.  No  safety  signals  for  diabetes,  hypokalemia,  hypertension  or 
bronchospasm  related  AEs  were  seen.  Indacaterol  treatment  did  not  seem  to  be  associated  with  a 
higher risk of death or SAEs compared to other COPD treatments (formoterol or tiotropium). For the 
SAEs no dose-relationship or time-dependency was identified. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management 
plan, the CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed 
these issues.   
•  User consultation 
In  order  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  articles  59(3)  and  61(1)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  a 
consultation  with  target  patient  groups  was  carried  out  on  the  indacaterol  package  leaflet  (PL).  The 
testing was carried out by Luto Research Ltd (UK). Twenty eligible participants were recruited in the 
Leeds  area  of  the  United  Kingdom  and  were  interviewed  during  June  2009.  The  questionnaire  was 
composed of fifteen items considered to be the most important points of information relating to safety, 
compliance,  and  general  issues  for the use  of  the  product.  For  each  of the  fifteen  questions,  at  least 
95%  individuals  were  able  to  both  locate  the  relevant  information  and  demonstrate  good 
understanding  of  the  information.    At  least  95%  of  the  participants  were  able  to  both  locate  and 
understand the relevant information for each of the fifteen questions over the two stages of the test, 
which meets the current European Commission benchmark (i.e. 90% of participants should be able to 
find the information in the leaflet and of those 90% should be able to understand it). In addition, for 
the majority of the questions the success rate was of 100%.  Two patients in the assessed group were 
aged less than thirty and two were in their 30s.  COPD is uncommon under the age of 40 and an older 
population  would  have  been  preferable.  In  general the  patient information  was considered  clear  and 
relevant.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
In the submitted studies treatment with indacaterol was associated with a statistically significant and 
clinically relevant improvement in post-dose FEV1 relative to placebo after 12 weeks of treatment.  
The  overall  efficacy  with  respect  to  symptomatic  endpoints  was  inconsistent  between  studies  and 
doses  and  on  the  whole  rather  modest,  albeit  it  seemed  comparable  to  previously  authorised 
inhalational  bronchodilators.  However,  a  higher  proportion  of  the  indacaterol  treated  patients  vs. 
placebo obtained clinically and statistically significantly relevant improvements in TDI- and SGRQ-
scores. Thus, it is considered that indacaterol may have beneficial effect in some COPD patients also 
from the subjective symptomatic point of view. The response whether the once daily dosing schedule 
of  indacaterol  represents  a  true  patient  benefit  will  have  to  wait  until  the  product  will  be  used  in 
clinical practice. Judged by the basic pharmacology of interaction at the β-receptor, ex-vivo inhibition 
of  induced  bronchial  smooth  muscle  contraction,  and  duration  of  action,  indacaterol  looks  quite 
similar to other long acting beta agonists. How these modest differences will fulfil the clinical need of 
“ultra long acting” LABA is difficult to say. It is worth noting that indacaterol has not been compared 
to other members of the class on alike for like basis i.e. both used once a day or both used twice a day. 
Major  safety  issues  have  not  been  identified.  The  cough  experienced  post  inhalation  was  generally 
well  tolerated  and  did  not  lead  to  any  patient  discontinuing  from  the  studies  at  the  recommended 
doses. However, from a treatment compliance perspective and possible also patients' quality of life the 
6.8% frequency of PI-cough may be an issue hampering the clinical utility of this product 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
Page 36 of 37 
• 
Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
•  The following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 
2.5  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Onbrez  Breezhaler  in  the  maintenance  bronchodilator 
treatment of airflow obstruction in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 37 of 37 
