EMA/814820/2018 
EMEA/H/C/003789 
Oncaspar (pegaspargase) 
An overview of Oncaspar and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Oncaspar and what is it used for? 
Oncaspar is a cancer medicine used in adults and children to treat acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
(ALL), a cancer of white blood cells called lymphoblasts. Oncaspar is used in combination with other 
cancer medicines.  
It contains the active substance pegaspargase. 
How is Oncaspar used? 
Oncaspar is normally given every 14 days by injection into a muscle or by infusion (drip) into a vein, 
with the dose depending on age and body surface area. 
Oncaspar can only be obtained with a prescription and only healthcare professionals with experience of 
cancer treatments should prescribe and give the medicine. The healthcare professional should give the 
medicine in a hospital where resuscitation equipment is available.  
For more information about using Oncaspar, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Oncaspar work? 
The active substance (pegaspargase) contains the enzyme asparaginase which works by breaking up 
and reducing the blood levels of the amino acid asparagine. The cancer cells need this amino acid to 
grow and multiply, and so its reduction in the blood causes the cells to die. Normal cells, by contrast, 
can produce their own asparagine and are less affected by the medicine. 
The asparaginase enzyme in this medicine is linked to a chemical which slows down its removal from 
the body and can reduce the risk of allergic reactions. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Oncaspar have been shown in studies? 
In a study in 118 children newly diagnosed with ALL, 75% of those treated with Oncaspar (in 
combination with other medicines) were free of the cancer after 7 years, without having relapse or a 
new cancer during that period. This compares with 66% of those treated with another asparaginase. 
In another study of 76 children whose cancer returned after earlier treatment, around 40% of 
Oncaspar-treated patients (some of whom were allergic to other asparaginase treatments) were 
cleared of the cancer, compared with 47% of patients treated with an asparaginase comparator. 
What are the risks associated with Oncaspar? 
The most common side effects with Oncaspar (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
signs of liver problems (raised levels of liver enzymes and bilirubin in the blood), reduced blood 
clotting, high levels of fats in the blood, high levels of blood glucose and low levels of white blood cells 
accompanied by fever. For the full list of side effects of Oncaspar, see the package leaflet. 
Oncaspar must not be used in patients with severe liver disease, patients who have ever had 
pancreatitis (including pancreatitis caused by previous asparaginase treatments) or patients who have 
had severe bleeding or serious blood clots following asparaginase treatment. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Oncaspar authorised in the EU? 
Studies showed Oncaspar to be effective in patients with ALL, including patients who were allergic to 
asparaginase. Oncaspar also comes with the advantage of requiring fewer injections as the medicine 
stays longer in the body than some other asparaginases. However, the data in adult patients were 
limited and the company that markets the medicine is to provide further data of its benefit in this 
group of patients. 
As for its risks, the side effects of Oncaspar are similar to those of other asparaginase medicines and 
are considered manageable 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Oncaspar’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Oncaspar? 
The company that markets Oncaspar will complete two more studies on the safety and effectiveness of 
Oncaspar, which will help further clarify the benefits and risks of this medicine in adults and in newly 
diagnosed patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Oncaspar have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Oncaspar are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Oncaspar are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Oncaspar 
Oncaspar received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 January 2016. 
Oncaspar (pegaspargase)  
EMA/814820/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Oncaspar can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR Oncaspar. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Oncaspar (pegaspargase)  
EMA/814820/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
