EMA/161566/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004108 
Ondexxya (andexanet alfa) 
An overview of Ondexxya and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ondexxya and what is it used for? 
Ondexxya is a medicine used for stopping life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding in adults taking the 
anticoagulant medicines apixaban or rivaroxaban. 
Ondexxya contains the active substance andexanet alfa. 
How is Ondexxya used? 
Ondexxya can only be obtained with a prescription and it must be used in hospital only. 
Ondexxya is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over about 2.5 hours. The dose depends on what the 
last dose of the anticoagulant was and when the patient took it. 
For more information about using Ondexxya, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ondexxya work? 
Andexanet alfa, the active substance in Ondexxya, acts as a decoy target for anticoagulants called 
factor Xa inhibitors such as apixaban and rivaroxaban. These anticoagulants work by blocking 
factor Xa, a natural protein that helps the blood to clot. When Ondexxya is given, the anticoagulants 
attach to andexanet alfa instead, and they are no longer available to block factor Xa. As a result, the 
excessive bleeding caused by the anticoagulants is reduced. 
What benefits of Ondexxya have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies have found Ondexxya effective in healthy volunteers who took either apixaban or 
rivaroxaban, two anticoagulants that block the effect of factor Xa. 
The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in 'antifactor Xa activity' (a measure of how well 
natural factor Xa is blocked by an anticoagulant). In the first study, involving people who had taken 
apixaban, the full dose of Ondexxya reduced antifactor Xa activity by 92% on average in 23 people 
compared with 33% in 8 people receiving placebo (a dummy treatment). In the second study, 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
involving people who had taken rivaroxaban, the full dose of Ondexxya reduced antifactor Xa activity 
by 97% on average in 26 people, compared with 45% in 13 people receiving placebo.  
A further ongoing study involved patients taking a factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant who had major 
bleeding. After treatment with Ondexxya, antifactor Xa activity was reduced on average by 90% in 83 
patients taking apixaban and by 78% in 70 patients taking rivaroxaban. 
What are the risks associated with Ondexxya? 
Based on studies in healthy volunteers, the most common side effects with Ondexxya (which may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people) are flushing, feeling hot, both of which are related to infusing the 
medicine, and a short-lived increase in levels of certain proteins indicating blood clotting. In patients 
who were bleeding, the most common side effects (affecting around 1 in 10 people) were 
thromboembolism (problems due to clots in blood vessels such as blocked veins, heart attack and 
stroke) and fever. 
Ondexxya must not be used in patients who are allergic to hamster proteins. For the full list of side 
effects and restrictions of Ondexxya, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ondexxya authorised in the EU? 
On the basis of studies in healthy volunteers and preliminary data from studies in patients, Ondexxya 
was found effective for reducing antifactor Xa activity in those taking anticoagulants that block factor 
Xa (factor Xa inhibitors).  
The European Medicines Agency noted that it has not been established that antifactor Xa activity can 
be used as a reliable measure for reduced bleeding and that there was not enough evidence on the use 
of Ondexxya to reverse the effects of edoxaban, another factor Xa inhibitor.  
Patients treated with Ondexxya, especially those aged over 75 years, may be at a higher risk of 
thromboembolism.  
However, the Agency also noted the unmet medical need to stop life-threatening or uncontrolled 
bleeding caused by factor Xa inhibitors. Furthermore, the data provided, including some data on 
reduced bleeding, were considered promising. The Agency therefore decided that Ondexxya’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
Ondexxya has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Ondexxya? 
Since Ondexxya has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Ondexxya will 
provide evidence from studies in patients with major bleeding to reliably link antifactor X activity with 
the ability to stop bleeding and to clarify the risk of thromboembolism. The company will also carry out 
studies to gain more information on the effects and blood levels of Ondexxya and to confirm the 
dosage recommendations. 
Ondexxya (andexanet alfa)  
EMA/161566/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ondexxya? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals for the safe and effective 
use of Ondexxya have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package 
leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ondexxya are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Ondexxya are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ondexxya 
Ondexxya received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 April 2019. 
Further information on Ondexxya can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ondexxya.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2019. 
Ondexxya (andexanet alfa) 
EMA/161566/2019 
Page 3/3 
