ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification
of new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse
reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ondexxya 200 mg powder for solution for infusion
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
2.
Each vial contains 200 mg of andexanet alfa*.
After reconstitution, each mL of solution contains 10 mg of andexanet alfa.
* Andexanet alfa is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO)
cells.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for solution for infusion
W hite to off-white lyophilized powder
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
For adult patients treated with a direct factor Xa (FXa) inhibitor (apixaban or rivaroxaban) when
reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Restricted to hospital use only.
Posology
Andexanet alfa is administered as an intravenous bolus at a target rate of approximately 30 mg/min
over 15 minutes (low dose) or 30 minutes (high dose), followed by administration of a continuous
infusion of 4 mg/min (low dose) or 8 mg/min (high dose) for 120 minutes (see table 1). Posology of 
andexanet alfa is based upon PK/PD-modelling and simulation exercises (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
Table 1: Dosing regimens
Initial
intravenous
bolus
Continuous
intravenous
infusion
Total number
of 200 mg
vials needed
Low dose
High dose
400 mg at a target rate of
30 mg/min
4 mg/min for 120 minutes
(480 mg)
800 mg at a target rate of
30 mg/min
8 mg/min for 120 minutes
(960 mg)
5
9
Reversal of apixaban
The recommended dose regimen of Ondexxya is based on the dose of apixaban the patient is taking
2
at the time of anticoagulation reversal, as well as on the time since the patient’s last dose of
apixaban (see table 2). If the strength of the last dose of anticoagulant or the interval between the 
last dosage and the bleeding episode are unknown, no dose recommendation is available. 
Measurement of baseline anti-FXa-level should support the clinical decision of starting treatment
(if level is available in an acceptable timely frame).
Table 2: Summary of dosing for reversal of apixaban
Timing of last dose before
Ondexxya initiation
FXa inhibitor
Last dose
Apixaban
≤ 5 mg
> 5 mg
< 8 hours
Low dose
High dose
≥ 8 hours
Low dose
Reversal of rivaroxaban
The recommended dose regimen of Ondexxya is based on the dose of rivaroxaban the patient is
taking at the time of anticoagulation reversal, as well as on the time since the patient’s last dose of
rivaroxaban (see table 3). If the strength of the last dose of anticoagulant or the interval between 
the last dosage and the bleeding episode are unknown, no dose recommendation is available.
Measurement of baseline anti-FXa-level should support the clinical decision of starting treatment 
(if level is available in an acceptable timely frame).
Table 3: Summary of dosing for reversal of rivaroxaban
Timing of last dose before
Ondexxya initiation
FXa inhibitor
Last dose
≤ 10 mg
Rivaroxaban
> 10 mg
< 8 hours
Low dose
High dose
≥ 8 hours
Low dose
Restarting antithrombotic therapy
Following administration of Ondexxya and cessation of a major bleed, re-anticoagulation should be
considered to prevent thrombotic events due to the patient’s underlying medical condition.
Antithrombotic therapy can be re-initiated as soon as medically indicated following treatment if
the patient is clinically stable and adequate haemostasis has been achieved. Medical judgement
should balance the benefits of anticoagulation with the risks of re-bleeding (see section 4.4).
Special populations
Elderly patients (aged 65 years and over): No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (see
section 5.2).
Renal impairment: The effect of renal impairment on andexanet alfa exposure levels has not been
evaluated. Based on the existing data on clearance, no dose adjustment is recommended.
Hepatic impairment: Based on the existing data on clearance of andexanet alfa, no dose adjustment
is recommended. The safety and efficacy have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment
(see section 5.2).
3
Paediatric population: The safety and efficacy of andexanet alfa in children and adolescents have
not been established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Intravenous use
After an appropriate number of vials of Ondexxya has been reconstituted, the reconstituted solution
(10 mg/mL) without further dilution is transferred to sterile large volume syringes in case a syringe 
pump is used for administration or to suitable empty intravenous bags comprised of polyolefin (PO)
or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) material (see section 6.6). Prior to administration by IV infusion a 0.2 
or 0.22 micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter should be 
used.
Ondexxya is administered as an IV bolus at a target rate of approximately 30 mg/min over 15 
minutes (low dose) or 30 minutes (high dose), followed by administration of a continuous
infusion of 4 mg (low dose) or 8 mg (high dose) per minute for 120 minutes (see table 1).
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any other ingredients listed in section 6.1.
Known allergic reaction to hamster proteins.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Limitations of use
Clinical efficacy is based upon reversal of anti-FXa-activity in healthy volunteers and bleeding 
patients dosed with apixaban or rivaroxaban. Andexanet alfa is not suitable for pre-treatment of
urgent surgery. Use for edoxaban or enoxaparin-reversal is not recommended due to lack of data.
Andexanet alfa will not reverse the effects of non-FXa inhibitors (see section 5.1).
Treatment monitoring should be based mainly on clinical parameters indicative of appropriate
response (i.e., achievement of haemostasis), lack of efficacy (i.e., re-bleeding), and adverse events
(i.e., thromboembolic events). Treatment monitoring of andexanet alfa should not be based on anti-
FXa-activity. Commercial anti-FXa-activity assays are unsuitable for measuring anti-FXa activity 
following administration of andexanet alfa as these assays result in erroneously elevated anti-FXa 
activity levels, thereby causing a substantial underestimation of the reversal activity of andexanet 
alfa.
Dosage recommendation is based upon data-modelling in healthy volunteers. Validation has not been
successful, yet. Data from bleeding patients are limited. Data suggest higher risk of thrombosis for
patients receiving the higher dose of andexanet, previous lower dose of the anti-FXa inhibitor, and 
patients on rivaroxaban.
In study 14-505, intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) patients (GCS > 7 and haematoma volume < 
60 mL) have been included. Treatment of patients with more severe ICH with andexanet alfa has
not been studied.
Thrombotic events
Thrombotic events have been reported following treatment with andexanet alfa (see sections 4.8 and 
5.1). Patients being treated with FXa inhibitor therapy have underlying disease states that predispose 
them to thrombotic events. Reversing FXa inhibitor therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk 
of their underlying disease. In addition, independent pro-coagulant effect of andexanet alfa, 
mediated by inhibition of tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), has been demonstrated, which may
pose a risk of developing thrombosis. Duration of this effect in bleeding patients is not known. 
4
Laboratory parameters as anti- FXa activity, endogenous thrombotic potential (ETP), or markers of 
thrombosis might not be reliable for guidance. To reduce this risk, resumption of anticoagulant 
therapy should be considered as soon as medically appropriate after completion of treatment.
In healthy volunteers, dose-dependent increases in coagulation markers F1+2, TAT, and D-dimer, 
and dose-dependent decreases in TFPI, after administration of andexanet alfa were observed, but no
thromboembolic events were reported. These markers were not measured in patients enrolled in
study 14-505, but thromboembolic events have been observed (see section 4.8 and 5.1). Monitoring 
for signs and symptoms of thrombosis is, therefore, strongly recommended.
Use of andexanet alfa in conjunction with other supportive measures
Andexanet alfa can be used in conjunction with standard haemostatic supportive measures, which
should be considered as medically appropriate.
The safety of andexanet alfa has not been evaluated in patients who received prothrombin complex
concentrates, recombinant factor VIIa, or whole blood within seven days prior to the bleeding event,
as they were excluded from clinical trials. Pro-coagulant factor treatments (e.g., 3- or 4-factor
prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC)/activated PCC, recombinant factor VIIa, fresh frozen
plasma) and whole blood should be avoided unless absolutely required, due to lack of data in
combination with these treatments.
Interaction with heparin
Use of andexanet prior to heparinization e.g. during surgery should be avoided as andexanet causes 
unresponsiveness to heparin. Use of andexanet as an antidote for heparin or low-molecular weight 
heparin has not been evaluated and is not recommended (refer to section 4.5.).
Infusion-related reactions
In case of mild or moderate infusion reactions, careful observation may be sufficient. For moderate
symptoms, consideration may be given to a brief interruption or slowing of the infusion with
resumption of the infusion after symptoms subside. Diphenhydramine may be administered.
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No interaction studies with andexanet alfa have been performed.
In vitro data suggest interaction of andexanet alfa with the heparin- anti-thrombin III (ATIII) complex
and neutralization of the anticoagulant effect of heparin. Off-label use of andexanet alfa pre-surgery 
with intended heparin-anticoagulation has been reported to cause unresponsiveness to heparin (refer to
section 4.4). Use of andexanet as an antidote for heparin or low-molecular weight heparin has not been 
evaluated and is not recommended.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no data from the use of andexanet alfa in pregnant women. Animal studies are insufficient
with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Andexanet alfa is not recommended during
pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using contraception.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether andexanet alfa is excreted in human milk. A risk to newborns/infants cannot be
excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with andexanet alfa.
Fertility
5
There are no data on the effects of andexanet alfa on human fertility.
4.7
Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Andexanet alfa has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8
Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The safety of andexanet alfa has been evaluated in clinical trials including 417 healthy subjects
administered an FXa inhibitor, as well as in 419 patients in a Phase IIIb/IV trial (study 14-505), who
had acute major bleeding and were under treatment with an FXa inhibitor (apixaban and
rivaroxaban).
In clinical studies in healthy subjects who were administered a FXa inhibitor and then received 
andexanet alfa, the frequency of adverse reactions was similar in the andexanet alfa-treated group 
(16.8%) and in the placebo treated group (12.2%). The most frequently observed adverse reactions
were mild or moderate infusion-related reactions comprising symptoms such as flushing, feeling hot,
cough, dysgeusia, and dyspnoea occurring within a few minutes to a few hours of the infusion.
Among the healthy subjects studied, women experienced more adverse reactions (mainly infusion-
related reactions) than men.
In the healthy subject trials, elevations > 2 x ULN in D-dimer and prothrombin fragments F1+2 were
frequently observed. These elevations were maintained between several hours to a few days
following administration, but no thrombotic events were reported.
In patients with major bleedings thrombosis-markers have not been investigated since bleeding can 
interfere with the thrombosis marker results. Thromboses and thromboembolic events have 
commonly been documented.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 4 provides the list of adverse reactions in patients with major bleeds from study 14-505
including 419 patients on apixaban and rivaroxaban with acute major bleeding treated with
andexanet alfa. The adverse reactions are classified by system organ class (SOC) and frequency,
using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); or not known (cannot
be estimated from available data).
Table 4: List of adverse reactions in patients with major bleeds
System Organ Class
Very common
≥ 1/10
Nervous system disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Common
≥ 1/100 to < 1/10
Cerebrovascular 
accident
Ischaemic stroke
Acute myocardial
infarction
Uncommon
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100
Cerebral infarction
Transient ischaemic attack
Cardiac arrest
Myocardial
infarction
Deep vein
thrombosis
6
Iliac artery occlusion
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
General disorders and 
administrative site 
conditions
Pulmonary
embolism
Pyrexia
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications
areported signs/symptoms (rigors, chills, hypertension, oxygen desaturation, agitation and confusion) were transient and mild 
to moderate in severity.
Infusion related reactiona
Description of selected adverse reactions
Based on data from 419 patients from the Phase IIIb/IV study 14-505 treated with apixaban and 
rivaroxaban and experiencing an acute major bleeding episode, two patients (0.5%) experienced an
infusion-related reaction, neither of which was assessed as severe (1 moderate; 1 mild). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9
Overdose
There is no clinical experience with overdose of andexanet alfa. No dose-limiting toxicities have
been observed during clinical trials.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: All other therapeutic products, antidotes. ATC code: V03AB38
Mechanism of action
Andexanet alfa is a recombinant form of human FXa protein that has been modified to lack FXa
enzymatic activity. The active site serine was substituted with alanine, rendering the molecule unable
to cleave and activate prothrombin, and the gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) domain was removed
to eliminate the ability of the protein to assemble into the prothrombinase complex, thus removing any
anti-coagulant effects.
Andexanet alfa is a specific reversal agent for FXa inhibitors. The predominant mechanism of action 
is the binding and sequestration of the FXa inhibitor. In addition, andexanet alfa has been observed 
to bind to, and inhibit tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI). Inhibition of TFPI activity can increase 
tissue factor-initiated thrombin generation inducing a pro-coagulant effect. 
Pharmacodynamic effects
The effects of andexanet alfa can be measured through pharmacodynamic markers, including free
fraction of available FXa inhibitor as well as through restoration of thrombin generation. In addition, 
andexanet alfa has been shown to inhibit TFPI-activity.
Commercial anti-FXa-activity assays are unsuitable for measuring anti-FXa activity following 
administration of andexanet alfa. Due to the reversible binding of andexanet alfa to the FXa inhibitor, 
the high sample dilution currently used in these assays leads to dissociation of the inhibitor from 
andexanet alfa, resulting in detection of erroneously elevated anti-FXa activity levels, thereby causing 
7
a substantial underestimation of the reversal activity of andexanet alfa.
In prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging studies in healthy subjects, the dose and
dose regimen of andexanet alfa required to reverse anti-FXa activity and restore thrombin generation
for FXa inhibitors (apixaban or rivaroxaban) were determined with modified assays that are not 
commercially available.
The maximal reversal of anti-FXa activity was achieved within two minutes of completing the bolus
administration. Administration of andexanet alfa as a bolus followed by continuous infusion
resulted in a sustained decrease in anti-FXa activity. The anti-FXa activity returned to the placebo
levels and above approximately two hours after the end of a bolus or infusion dependent on dosage.
When andexanet alfa was administered as a bolus followed by a continuous infusion, the maximum
decrease in unbound FXa inhibitors was rapid (within two minutes of the end of the bolus) and was
sustained over the course of the infusion then gradually increased over time, reaching a maximum at
approximately two hours following the end of infusion.
Restoration of thrombin generation following administration was dose- and dose-regimen-dependent
and did not correlate with anti-FXa-activity beyond approximately four hours (see below,
“restoration of thrombin generation”).
Plasma TFPI activity has been shown to be inhibited completely from 2 minutes to 14.5 hours after
andexanet alfa bolus-administration in healthy subjects, and returned to baseline within 3 days. 
Tissue-factor (TF)-initiated thrombin generation immediately increased above the baseline (prior to 
anticoagulation) and remained elevated for > 20 hours in contrast to placebo. Plausibility of a pro-
coagulant effect of TFPI-inhibition is supported by consecutive and sustained slopes of D-Dimers, 
TAT, and F1+2. 
Population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modelling and simulation
PK/PD modelling and simulations rely on the interplay between andexanet alfa and FXa inhibitor PK 
and on the relationships between biomarkers, here anti FXa-activity, TFPI-activity, and ETP. There 
remain uncertainties regarding the differing effect of the anticoagulant apixaban or rivaroxaban, 
duration of the reversal effect dependent on the anti-TFPI-effect, and on the necessity of continuous 
infusion. Precision of simulations in bleeding patients is less than that within healthy volunteers due 
to the high inter-individual variability.
Clinical efficacy and safety
The efficacy and safety of andexanet alfa have been evaluated in the following: 1) randomised,
placebo-controlled, Phase II dose-ranging trials with healthy volunteers administered FXa inhibitors to
establish doses required for reversal; 2) two Phase III studies, one with apixaban and the other with
rivaroxaban, to confirm the efficacy of the high and low dose regimens; and 3) a global, multicentre,
prospectively defined, open-label Phase IIIb/IV study 14-505 in patients with an acute major bleeding
episode requiring urgent reversal of FXa anticoagulation.
Reversal of anticoagulation in healthy subjects aged 50-75 (Studies 14-503 and 14-504)
In a prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled study, healthy subjects with a median age of
56.5 years on apixaban 5 mg twice daily received andexanet alfa (n=24) administered as a 400 mg IV
bolus immediately followed by a 4 mg per minute IV infusion for 120 minutes (480 mg) or placebo
(n=8).
In a similar study, subjects with a median age of 57 years on rivaroxaban 20 mg daily received
andexanet alfa (n=26) administered as an 800 mg IV bolus immediately followed by an 8 mg per
minute IV infusion for 120 minutes (960 mg) or placebo (n=13).
Reduction in anti-FXa activity
The primary endpoint for both Study 14-503 (apixaban) and Study 14-504 (rivaroxaban) was the
percent change in anti-FXa activity from baseline to post-infusion nadir.
8
Among the apixaban-treated subjects in Study 14-503, the percent change [± standard deviation (SD)] 
in anti-FXa activity was -92.34% (± 2.809%) for the andexanet alfa group and -32.70% (± 5.578%) for
the placebo group (p < 0.0001), the latter reflecting the intrinsic clearance of the anticoagulant.
Among the rivaroxaban-treated subjects in Study 14-504, the percent change (± SD) in anti-FXa
activity was -96.72% (± 1.838%) for the andexanet alfa group and -44.75% (± 11.749%) for the
placebo group (p < 0.0001), the latter reflecting the intrinsic clearance of the anticoagulant.
The time courses of anti-FXa activity before and after andexanet alfa administration are shown in
Figure 1. Reduction in anti-FXa activity correlates with restoration of thrombin generation. The anti-
FXa activity thresholds for normalization of thrombin generation (defined by mean ETP and standard
deviations) were estimated to be 44.2 ng/mL (within one standard deviation of normal ETP) based on
pooled data from Studies 14-503 and 14-504, as indicated in the figure.
Figure 1: Change in anti-FXa activity (ng/mL) in healthy subjects anticoagulated with 
apixaban (A) and rivaroxaban (B)
(A)
                                 (B)
Restoration of thrombin generation
In both, Study 14-503 and Study 14-504, treatment with andexanet alfa also resulted in a statistically
significant increase in thrombin generation in healthy subjects anticoagulated with apixaban or
rivaroxaban versus placebo (p < 0.0001). Restoration of thrombin generation to within normal ranges
(defined as one standard deviation from baseline levels) within two minutes and maintained for 20 
hours was achieved with bolus only and bolus plus infusion for low-dose andexanet alfa in subjects
on apixaban. For subjects on rivaroxaban, high-dose andexanet alfa (bolus plus infusion) resulted in
increased thrombin generation above two standard deviations. No clinical evaluation for apixaban-
treated subjects with high-dose andexanet alfa and no evaluation for rivaroxaban-treated subjects with
9
low-dose andexanet alfa was performed in these studies.
Change from baseline in free FXa inhibitor concentration at nadir
The mean unbound concentrations of apixaban and rivaroxaban were < 3.5 ng/mL and 4 ng/mL,
respectively, after bolus andexanet alfa administration and were maintained throughout the
continuous infusion. These levels of unbound FXa inhibitor provide little or no anticoagulant effect.
Reversal of FXa inhibitor anticoagulation in patients with acute major bleeding (study 14-505)
In Study 14-505 (ANNEXA-4), a Phase IIIb/IV multinational, prospective, single-arm, open-label
study, Ondexxya was administered to 477 patients on FXa inhibitors, 419 of whom were on 
apixaban and rivaroxaban, who presented with acute major bleeding. The two co-primary endpoints
were: a) percent change in anti-FXa activity from baseline to the nadir between five minutes after the 
end of the bolus until the end of the infusion, and; b) rate of good or excellent (compared to poor or
none) haemostatic efficacy within 12 hours after infusion, as rated by an independent endpoint
adjudication committee.
Approximately half of the patients were male, and the mean age was 77.9 years. Most patients had
previously received either apixaban (245/477; 51.4%) or rivaroxaban (174/477; 36.5%), or edoxaban 
(36/477; 7.5%) or enoxaparin (22/477; 4.6%) and experienced either an ICH (329/477; 69%) or a 
gastrointestinal (GI) bleed (109/477; 22.9 %).
381/477 (79.9%) received the low-dose regimen of andexanet, while 96/477 patients (20.1%) received 
the high-dose regimen, accordingly to section 4.2.
Of 477 enrolled patients, 347 (73%) were evaluable for efficacy as they were dosed with andexanet 
for a confirmed major bleed and had a baseline anti-FXa activity above 75 ng/mL. For these 
patients, median anti-FXa activity at baseline was 147 ng/mL for patients taking apixaban, and 214
ng/mL for patients taking rivaroxaban. For anti-FXa activity, the median (95% CI) decrease from 
baseline to nadir in anti-FXa activity for apixaban was -93.3% (-94.2%, -92.5%); and rivaroxaban
was -94.1% (-95.1%; -93.0%).
Haemostatic efficacy was good or excellent in 79% of 169 patients taking apixaban and in 80% of 
127 patients taking rivaroxaban.
Anti-TFPI-effect
Immediate and sustained (for about 3 days post infusion) pro-coagulant anti-TFPI-effect was 
documented in patients with major bleeding – consistent with respective results from studies in healthy 
volunteers (14-503, 14-504, 16-508, 19-514).
Analysis of study 14-505 demonstrated that the change in anti-FXa activity (surrogate) was not 
predictive for achievement of haemostatic efficacy.
Deaths
In the safety population (n=419), 75 patients (18%) died. Of the 75 subjects who died, the bleeding 
type was intracranial bleeding in 55 (73%), gastrointestinal bleeding in 14 (19%), and other bleeding 
types in 6 (8%) subjects. The mortality rates were 19.0% (55/289) in patients presenting with ICH,
14.7% (14/95) with GI bleeding, and 17.1% (6/35) with other types of bleeding. The mortality rates
were 23.0% (64/278) in patients aged > 75 years old and 7.8% (11/141) in patients aged ≤ 75 years.
According to region, death rates were 24.9% (53/213) in patients recruited in the European Union
and 11.3% (22/194) in patients recruited in North America. The higher mortality rate in Europe is 
only present in older patients or patients with heart failure. Compared with patients recruited in 
North America, EU patients were significantly older (81.0 years vs. 79.0 years), more frequently had 
ICH as index event (75.1% vs. 60.3%) and more ICHs were intraparenchymal (69.3% vs. 42.7%).
Cardiovascular causes of death (n=36) included: haemorrhagic stroke (n=6),
(n=10), sudden cardiac death (including unwitnessed) (n=6), cardiomechanical/pump failure (n=4),
myocardial infarction (n=2), bleeding other than haemorrhagic stroke (n=2), and other
cardiovascular causes (n=6). Non-cardiovascular deaths (n=39) included: infection/sepsis (n=11), 
ischaemic stroke
10
respiratory failure (n=6), accident/trauma (n=2), cancer (n=2), and other/non-vascular cause (n=18).
The average time to death was 15 days after treatment. All deaths occurred before Day 44.
Thromboembolic events
In study 14-505, 45/419 (11%) patients experienced one or more of the following thromboembolic
events: cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (19/45; 42%), deep venous thrombosis (11/45; 24%),
myocardial infarction (MI) including acute myocardial infarction and myocardial ischaemia (9/45; 
20%), pulmonary embolism (PE) (5/45; 11%), and transient ischaemic attack (TIA) (1/45; 2%). The
median time to first thromboembolic event was 10 days. A total of 38% of patients with
thromboembolic events (17/45) experienced the thromboembolic event during the first three days. Of
the 419 subjects who received andexanet alfa, 266 received at least one anticoagulation dose within 30 
days after treatment as a prophylactic measure. Of these 266, 14 subjects (5%) had a thrombotic event 
after resumption of anticoagulation; while of the 153 subjects who did not receive anticoagulation as a 
prophylactic, 31 (20.3%) had a thrombotic event (see section 4.4).
Pro- thrombotic laboratory markers
Dose-dependent increases in coagulation markers F1+2, TAT, and D-dimers after administration of
andexanet alfa were observed, in 223 healthy volunteers who received FXa inhibitors and were
treated with andexanet alfa; no thromboembolic events occurred in these healthy volunteers. F1+2, 
TAT and D-dimers were not measured in patients enrolled in the study 14-505; their relevance in
bleeding patients is not known.
Immunogenicity
345 andexanet alfa-treated healthy subjects were tested for antibodies cross reacting with andexanet
alfa and antibodies to factor X and FXa. Treatment-emergent, non-neutralizing antibodies to
andexanet alfa were detected in approximately 10% (35/345). These antibodies were generally low
titre, and no clinical consequences were observed. No neutralising antibodies or antibodies to factor
X or FXa were detected. The occurrence of positive, non-neutralizing antibodies to andexanet alfa
following treatment in patients in the study 14-505 (8% or 22/276 patients) has been similar to that
observed in healthy subjects.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with
andexanet alfa in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in treatment and prevention of
FXa inhibitor-associated haemorrhages (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
Conditional approval
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. The European Medicines Agency 
will review new information on this medicinal product at least every year, and this SmPC will be
updated as necessary.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Studies of andexanet alfa in the presence of direct FXa inhibitors in healthy subjects demonstrated
dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the intended therapeutic dose range evaluated for both Cmax
and area under the curve (AUC). The pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa has not been studied in 
bleeding patients due to feasibility reasons.
Table 5. Pharmacokinetic parameters for Andexanet bolus-injection of 400 and 800mg
PK Parameter
AUC0-∞ (hr*g/mL)
Cmax (g/mL)
Clearance (L/hr)
400 mg Bolus
61.3
[43.8, 94.9]
61.0
[40.3, 98.5]
6.52
[4.21, 9.13]
800 mg Bolus
127
[57.5, 209]
118
[50.2, 191]
6.29
[3.83, 13.9]
11
T1/2 (hr)
Vss (L)
3.78
[2.59, 6.39]
9.47
[6.08, 15.3]
4.24
[2.47, 6.52]
8.94
[5.36, 23.1]
Source: Study 19-514
Data presented are geometric mean [min, max]
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Elderly population
In a study comparing andexanet alfa pharmacokinetics in elderly (65-69 years) and younger
(26-42 years) healthy subjects who had received apixaban, the pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa in
the elderly subjects were not statistically different than those in the younger subjects.
Renal impairment
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa in renally
impaired patients. Based on the available PK data, andexanet alfa has little to no renal clearance, and
thus would not require dose adjustment for patients with renal impairment.
Hepatic impairment
No trials have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa in patients with
hepatic impairment. Biliary and/or faeces elimination of protein therapeutics is not a known route of
protein elimination. Therefore, dose adjustment is not considered needed for patients with hepatic
impairment.
Gender
Based on population pharmacokinetics analysis, gender does not have a clinically meaningful effect on
the pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa.
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of andexanet alfa has not been studied in paediatric patients.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety
pharmacology and repeated dose toxicity studies up to two weeks in rats and monkeys.
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of andexanet alfa have not been
performed. Based on its mechanism of action and on the characteristics of proteins, no carcinogenic
or genotoxic effects are anticipated.
Animal reproductive and developmental studies have not been conducted with andexanet alfa.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1
List of excipients
Tris base
Tris hydrochloride
L-arginine hydrochloride
Sucrose
Mannitol
Polysorbate 80
12
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal
products.
6.3
Shelf life
Vial (unopened)
Four years stored at 2°C to 8°C.
Reconstituted medicinal product
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 16 hours at 2°C to 8°C in the
primary packaging vial. If needed, the reconstituted solution once transferred into the IV bag can be
stored for an additional eight hours at room temperature. From a microbiological point of view, once
reconstituted, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times
and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C).
Do not freeze.
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5
Nature and contents of container
Powder in a 20 mL vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (butyl rubber).
Pack size of four or five vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Reconstitution
The following are needed before starting reconstitution:




Calculated number of vials (see section 4.2).
Same number of 20 mL (or larger) solvent syringes equipped with a 20 gauge (or larger)
needle.
Alcohol swabs.
Large (50 mL or larger) sterile syringe. If a syringe pump is used for administration, multiple
syringes should be used to contain the final volume of reconstituted product.
Intravenous bags of polyolefin (PO) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) material (150 mL or
larger) to contain the final volume of reconstituted product (if administration is performed
with IV bag).
 Water for injections.

0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter.

Andexanet alfa does not need to be brought to room temperature before reconstitution or
administration to the patient. Aseptic technique during the reconstitution procedure should be used.
Each vial is reconstituted according to the following instructions:
1. Remove the flip-top from each vial.
2. Wipe the rubber stopper of each vial with an alcohol swab.
3. Using a 20 mL (or larger) syringe and a 20 gauge (or larger) needle, withdraw 20 mL of
water for injections.
Insert the syringe needle through the centre of the rubber stopper.
4.
5. Push the plunger down to slowly inject the 20 mL of water for injections into the 
13
vial, directing the stream toward the inside wall of the vial to minimise foaming.
6. Gently swirl each vial, until all of the powder is completely dissolved. DO NOT SHAKE the
vials, as this can lead to foaming. The dissolution time for each vial is approximately three to
five minutes.
7. The reconstituted solution should be inspected for particulate matter and/or
discolouration prior to administration. Do not use if opaque particles or discolouration
are present.
8. For the most efficient reconstitution of the needed dose, and to minimise errors, inject
each vial needed with 20 mL of water for injections before proceeding to the next step.
9. Use within eight hours after reconstitution when stored at room temperature.
Administration using a syringe pump
1. Once all required vials are reconstituted, the reconstituted solution is withdrawn from each
vial, using the large volume (50 mL or larger) syringe equipped with a 20 gauge (or larger)
needle.
2. The bolus and infusion are prepared in separate large volume syringes.
3. Due to the additional volume, the high dose bolus and infusion have to be further
separated into additional syringes (two syringes apiece for bolus and infusion).
4. To prevent the inadvertent transfer of air, be careful to hold the syringe needle up, and do 
not set the syringe down between multiple withdrawals from vials.
5. Attach ancillary equipment (i.e., extension tubing, 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line 
polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter, syringe pump) in 
preparation for administration.
6. Administer the reconstituted solution at the appropriate rate.
7. Discard all used syringes, needles, and vials, including any unused portion of
reconstituted solution.
Administration using intravenous bags
1. Once all required vials are reconstituted, withdraw the reconstituted solution from each vial,
using the large volume (50 mL or larger) syringe equipped with a 20 gauge (or larger)
needle.
2. Transfer the reconstituted solution from the syringe into an appropriate IV bag.
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 as necessary to transfer the complete volume of the bolus and
4.
the infusion into a PO or PVC IV bags.
It is recommended that the bolus and infusion be split into two separate bags to ensure the 
correct administration rate. Although it is also permissible to use one PO or PVC IV bag 
for the bolus and infusion, the correct infusion rate must be ensured when switching from 
the bolus to the infusion.
5. Attach ancillary equipment (i.e., extension tubing, 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line 
polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter, IV pump) in 
preparation for administration.
6. Administer the reconstituted solution at the appropriate rate.
Disposal
All used syringes, needles, and vials, including any unused portion of reconstituted solution, should be
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
7.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
8.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
14
EU/1/18/1345/001 4 vials
EU/1/18/1345/002 5 vials
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 April 2019
Date of latest renewal: 24 April 2023
10.
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
15
ANNEX II
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
16
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance
Lonza Biologics Porrino, S.L.
C/ La Relba s/n
Porrino
Pontevedra
36410 Spain
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited 
Alexion Dublin Manufacturing Facility
College Business and Technology Park
Blanchardstown Rd North 
Dublin D15 R925 
Ireland
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
 Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall 
submit PSURs every 6 months.
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD  list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC  and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 
months following authorisation.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
 Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;

Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new

information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the
result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
17
E.
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following
measures:
Description
In order to substantiate correlation of the biomarker (antiFXa-activity) with haemostatic
efficacy and clarify the risk of thromboses and thromboembolic events, the MAH
should submit the results of a global randomised controlled clinical trial to investigate
the use of andexanet versus standard of care treatment in patients with intracranial
haemorrhage (ICH) taking apixaban, rivaroxaban, or edoxaban (study 18-513).
Due date
Submission of
the final CSR
by 31 July 
2024
Remaining from former SOB 001: Results of study 14-505 (ANNEXA-4) do not 
substantiate correlation of the biomarker (anti-FXa-% change from baseline) with 
haemostatic efficacy and the risk of thromboses and thromboembolic events.
This issue is directly linked with the posology – as posology is based upon the 
biomarker, only. High- versus low-dose regimen, and the recommendation for re-
introduction of anticoagulation after reversal require validation.
Results of study 18-513 (ANNEXA-I) should finally clarify the open issues, and justify 
posology together with the results from the completed Modelling and Simulation 
approaches.
18
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
20
A. LABELLING
20
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ondexxya 200 mg powder for solution for infusion
andexanet alfa
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 200 mg of andexanet alfa.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Tris base, Tris hydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sucrose, mannitol, polysorbate
80
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for solution for infusion
4 x 1 vial of 200 mg
5 x 1 vial of 200 mg
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For single use only.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze.
21
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/18/1345/001 4 vials
EU/1/18/1345/002 5 vials
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
22
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Ondexxya 200 mg powder for solution for infusion
andexanet alfa
Intravenous use
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
200 mg
6.
OTHER
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
For single use only.
    AstraZeneca AB 
23
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
Package Leaflet: Information for the patient and
user
Ondexxya 200 mg powder for solution for infusion
andexanet alfa
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section
4 for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully, because it contains important information for you. Please note 
this medicine is mainly used in emergency situations, and the doctor will have decided that you 
needed it.
 Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.


If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Ondexxya is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you receive Ondexxya
3. How Ondexxya is used
4. Possible side effects
5. How Ondexxya is stored
6. Contents of the pack and other information
What Ondexxya is and what it is used for
1.
Ondexxya contains the active ingredient andexanet alfa. It reverses the effects of certain
anticoagulants called factor Xa inhibitors (apixaban or rivaroxaban). Factor Xa inhibitors are given
to prevent clots in your blood vessels. Your doctor may decide to give you Ondexxya to rapidly
reverse the effects of the anticoagulant in case of a life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding
situation.
2.
What you need to know before you receive Ondexxya Do not use Ondexxya:
if you are allergic to andexanet alfa or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed
in section 6).
if you are allergic to hamster proteins
if you are receiving heparin 



Warnings and precautions
Reversing the effect of a factor Xa inhibitor with Ondexxya may increase the risk of blood clots.
After treatment with Ondexxya, your doctor will decide when to restart anticoagulant therapy.
An independent pro-coagulant effect of andexanet alfa may pose an additional risk of developing 
thrombosis.
If you suffer side effects when you are being given Ondexxya by infusion (drip), your doctor may
decide to slow down or pause your treatment. Your doctor may give you an antihistamine medicine
to help with any side effects (see section 4).
If a surgery is planned for you which requires anticoagulation with heparin, Ondexxya should be 
avoided.
25
Children and adolescents
There is no information on the use of Ondexxya in children and adolescents.
Other medicines and Ondexxya
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take, any other medicines.
This medicine has been designed to reverse the effects of factor Xa inhibitor medicines only. It is
unlikely that Ondexxya will influence the effect of other medicines or that other medicines will
influence Ondexxya.
Ondexxya-treatment should be avoided if anticoagulation with heparin might become necessary. 
Ondexxya causes unresponsiveness to heparin.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to
have a baby.
Ondexxya is not recommended during pregnancy or if you have the potential to become pregnant 
and are not using birth control.
Do not breast-feed your child while you are taking this medicine. It is unknown if andexanet alfa is
excreted in human milk.
Driving and using machines
This medicine is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines.
How Ondexxya is used
3.
This medicine is for hospital use only.
Your doctor or nurse will give you this medicine by injection or infusion into a vein.
Your doctor or nurse will work out the dose of this medicine that you need. This is based on the
specific anticoagulant medicine you take as well as on the dose and the time since your last dose of
anticoagulant medicine.
After you have received Ondexxya, your doctor will decide when to restart your anticoagulant
treatment.
Detailed instructions for your doctor or nurse on how to give Ondexxya are given at the end of
this package leaflet (see ‘Handling instructions’).
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor.
Possible side effects
4.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
List of side effects seen in bleeding people
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
Stroke

 Heart-attack
 Blood clot in the leg, arm, lung or brain

Fever
26
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
 Mini stroke
 Cardiac arrest

Signs/symptoms of infusion related reactions such as chills, high blood pressure, shortness of 
breath, confusion or agitation.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this
medicine.
How Ondexxya is stored
5.
This medicine will be stored in the hospital, and these instructions are intended for hospital staff
only.
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial and the carton after
EXP.
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C).
Do not freeze.
Once reconstituted, Ondexxya is for immediate use.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information What Ondexxya contains
 The active substance is andexanet alfa.
 The other ingredients are Tris base, Tris hydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride,
sucrose, mannitol, and polysorbate 80.
What Ondexxya looks like and contents of the pack
Ondexxya is supplied in glass vials as a white to off-white powder for solution for infusion, which
is reconstituted (dissolved) before use. The reconstituted solution is a clear, colourless, or slightly
yellow solution.
Each pack contains four or five vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited 
Alexion Dublin Manufacturing Facility
College Business and Technology Park
Blanchardstown Rd North 
Dublin D15 R925 
Ireland
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
27
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 24455000
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca 
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777 
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
28
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
This leaflet was last revised in .
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to 
come about this medicine.
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year
and this leaflet will be updated as necessary.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only.
Andexanet has not been shown to be effective for, and is not indicated for, the treatment of bleeding 
related to any FXa inhibitor other than rivaroxaban or apixaban. Also, it will not reverse the effects of
non-FXa inhibitors.
Dosage and administration
Andexanet alfa is administered as an intravenous (IV) bolus at a target rate of approximately
30 mg/min over 15 (low dose) or 30 minutes (high dose), immediately followed by administration of a 
continuous infusion of 4 mg (low dose) or 8 mg (high dose) per minute for 120 minutes (see table 1).
Table 1: Dosing regimens
Initial
intravenous
bolus
Continuous
intravenous
infusion
Total number
of 200 mg
vials needed
Low dose
High dose
400 mg at a target rate of
30 mg/min
4 mg/min for 120 minutes
(480 mg)
800 mg at a target rate of
30 mg/min
8 mg/min for 120 minutes
(960 mg)
5
9
Dosage recommendations have been defined from the effects of andexanet alfa in healthy
volunteers administered a direct FXa inhibitor and from the ability to reverse the levels of anti-
FXa activity. The dosage was used in a study in patients with acute major bleeding.
Reversal of apixaban
The recommended dose regimen of andexanet alfa is based on the dose of apixaban the patient is
taking at the time of anticoagulation reversal, as well as on the time since the patient’s last dose of
apixaban (see table 2). If the strength of the last dose of anticoagulant or the interval between the 
last dosage and the bleeding episode are unknown, no dose recommendation is available.
Measurement of baseline anti-FXa-level should support the clinical decision of starting treatment
(if level is available in an acceptable timely frame).
29
Table 2: Summary of dosing for reversal of apixaban
FXa
inhibitor
Apixaban
FXa inhibitor
last dose
≤ 5 mg
> 5 mg
Timing of FXa inhibitor last dose before
andexanet alfa initiation
< 8 hours
Low dose
High dose
≥ 8 hours
Low dose
Reversal of rivaroxaban
The recommended dose regimen of andexanet alfa is based on the dose of rivaroxaban the patient is
taking at the time of anticoagulation reversal, as well as on the time since the patient’s last dose of
rivaroxaban (see table 3). If the strength of the last dose of anticoagulant or the interval between the 
last dosage and the bleeding episode are unknown, no dose recommendation is available.
Measurement of baseline anti-FXa-level should support the clinical decision of starting treatment (if 
level is available in an acceptable timely frame).
Table 3: Summary of dosing for reversal of rivaroxaban
FXa
inhibitor
FXa inhibitor
last dose
Timing of FXa inhibitor last dose before
andexanet alfa initiation
Rivaroxaban
≤ 10 mg
> 10 mg
< 8 hours
Low dose
High dose
≥ 8 hours
Low dose
Patients being treated with FXa inhibitor therapy have underlying disease states that predispose
them to thromboembolic events. Reversing FXa inhibitor therapy exposes patients to the
thrombotic risk of their underlying disease. To reduce this risk, resumption of anticoagulant
therapy should be considered as soon as medically appropriate.
Handling instructions
Andexanet alfa is to be reconstituted and the 10 mg/mL solution then transferred without further 
dilution to sterile large volume syringes in case a syringe pump is used for administration or to suitable
empty IV bags comprised of polyolefin (PO) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) material. Prior to
administration by IV infusion a 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low
protein- binding filter should be used.
For reconstituted solutions, chemical and physical in-use stability have been demonstrated for at
least eight hours at 25°C. From a microbiological point of view, once opened, the product should
be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are
the responsibility of the user.
Reconstitution
Before starting reconstitution, you will need the following:
 Calculated number of vials as given in table 1.

Same number of 20 mL (or larger) solvent syringes equipped with a 20 gauge (or
larger) needle.
30
 Alcohol swabs.
 Large (50 mL or larger) sterile syringe. If administration is done with a syringe

pump, multiple syringes should be used to contain the final volume of reconstituted
product.
Intravenous bags of polyolefin (PO) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) material (150 mL or
larger) to contain the final volume of reconstituted product (if administration is done with
IV bags).
 Water for injection

0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter
Andexanet alfa does not need to be brought to room temperature before reconstitution or
administration to the patient. Use aseptic technique during the reconstitution procedure.
Reconstitute each vial according to the following instructions:
1. Remove the flip-top from each vial.
2. Wipe the rubber stopper of each vial with an alcohol swab.
3. Using a 20 mL (or larger) syringe and a 20 gauge (or larger) needle, withdraw 20 mL of
water for injection.
Insert the syringe needle through the centre of the rubber stopper.
4.
5. Push the plunger down to slowly inject the 20 mL of water for injections into the 
vial, directing the stream toward the inside wall of the vial to minimise foaming.
6. Gently swirl each vial until all of the powder is completely dissolved. DO NOT SHAKE the
vials, as this can lead to foaming. The dissolution time for each vial is approximately three
to five minutes.
7. The reconstituted solution should be inspected for particulate matter and/or
discolouration prior to administration. Do not use if opaque particles or discolouration
are present.
8. For the most efficient reconstitution of the needed dose, and to minimise errors, inject
each vial needed with 20 mL of water for injections before proceeding to the next step.
9. Use andexanet alfa within eight hours after reconstitution when stored at room temperature.
Administration using a syringe pump
1. Once all required vials are reconstituted, withdraw the reconstituted solution from each vial,
using the large volume (50 mL or larger) syringe equipped with a 20 gauge (or larger)
needle.
2. Prepare the bolus and infusion in separate large volume syringes.
3. Due to the additional volume, the high dose bolus and infusion will need to be
further separated into additional syringes (two syringes apiece for bolus and
infusion).
4. To prevent the inadvertent transfer of air, be careful to hold the syringe needle up, and do 
not set the syringe down between multiple withdrawals from vials.
5. Attach ancillary equipment (i.e., extension tubing, 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line 
polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter, syringe pump) in 
preparation for administration.
6. Administer the reconstituted solution at the appropriate rate.
7. Discard all used syringes, needles, and vials, including any unused portion of
reconstituted solution.
Administration using intravenous bags
1. Once all required vials are reconstituted, withdraw the reconstituted solution from each vial,
using the large volume (50 mL or larger) syringe equipped with a 20 gauge (or larger)
needle.
2. Transfer the reconstituted solution from the syringe into appropriate IV bags.
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 as necessary to transfer the complete volume of the bolus and
the infusion into PO or PVC IV bags.
31
4.
It is recommended that the bolus and infusion be split into two separate bags to ensure the 
correct administration rate. Although it is also permissible to use one PO or PVC IV bag 
for the bolus and infusion, the correct infusion rate must be ensured when switching from 
the bolus to the infusion.
5. Attach ancillary equipment (i.e., extension tubing, 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line 
polyethersulfone (PES) or equivalent low protein-binding filter, IV pump) in 
preparation for administration.
6. Administer the reconstituted solution at the appropriate rate.
Disposal
All used syringes, needles, and vials, including any unused portion of reconstituted solution, should be
disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
32
