EMA/348579/2017 
EMEA/H/C/001039 
EPAR summary for the public 
Onglyza 
saxagliptin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Onglyza. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Onglyza. 
For practical information about using Onglyza, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Onglyza and what is it used for? 
Onglyza is a diabetes medicine used with diet and exercise to treat adults with type 2 diabetes to 
control their blood glucose (sugar) level. It is used either on its own in patients who cannot take 
metformin (another diabetes medicine) or as ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines, including insulin. 
Onglyza contains the active substance saxagliptin. 
How is Onglyza used? 
Onglyza is available as tablets (2.5 and 5 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. The 
recommended dose is 5 mg once a day. The dose of Onglyza should be reduced to 2.5 mg once a day 
in patients with moderate or severe kidney problems. If used in combination with a sulphonylurea 
(medicines that make the body produce insulin) or insulin, the dose of these medicines may need to be 
reduced to avoid hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels). 
How does Onglyza work? 
In type 2 diabetes, the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of glucose in the 
blood or the body is unable to use insulin effectively. This leads to high levels of glucose in the blood. 
The active substance in Onglyza, saxagliptin, is a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by 
blocking the breakdown of incretin hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
and stimulate the pancreas to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, 
saxagliptin stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. 
Saxagliptin does not work when the blood glucose is low. Saxagliptin also reduces the amount of 
glucose made by the liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone 
glucagon. Together, these processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
What benefits of Onglyza have been shown in studies? 
Saxagliptin, the active substance in Onglyza, has been shown to be more effective than placebo (a 
dummy treatment) at controlling blood glucose in 8 main studies in over 3,900 patients. In these 
studies saxagliptin was used as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines in patients in whom previous 
treatment had failed. The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in blood levels of a 
substance called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) after 24 weeks of treatment. This gives an 
indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. Results showed that: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
In 743 patients not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone, HbA1c levels fell by around 0.7 
percentage points (from around 8.1% to around 7.4%) in patients adding saxagliptin compared 
with a rise of around 0.1 percentage points in patients adding placebo. 
In 768 patients not satisfactorily controlled on a sulphonylurea, HbA1c levels fell by around 0.6 
percentage points in patients adding saxagliptin compared with a rise of around 0.1 percentage 
points in patients who added placebo. 
In 565 patients not satisfactorily controlled on a thiazolidinedione (diabetes medicines such as 
pioglitazone and rosiglitazone), HbA1c levels fell by around 0.9 percentage points in patients 
adding saxagliptin compared with a fall of around 0.3 percentage points in patients who added 
placebo. 
In 457 patients not satisfactorily controlled on insulin (with or without metformin), HbA1c levels 
fell by around 0.7 percentage points in patients adding saxagliptin compared with a fall of around 
0.3 percentage points in patients adding placebo.  
In 257 patients who took saxagliptin with metformin and a sulphonylurea, HbA1c levels fell by 
around 0.7 percentage points, compared with a fall of 0.1 percentage points in patients who were 
given placebo in place of saxagliptin. 
In 534 patients not satisfactorily controlled with metformin alone, adding saxagliptin reduced 
HbA1c levels by around 0.9 percentage points and adding saxagliptin and dapagliflozin reduced 
HbA1c levels by 1.5 percentage points. Adding dapagliflozin to metformin reduced HbA1c levels by 
1.2 percentage points. HbA1c levels were on average around 9% at the start of the study. 
In 315 patients not satisfactorily controlled with metformin and dapagliflozin, adding saxagliptin to 
treatment with dapagliflozin and metformin reduced HbA1c levels by 0.5 percentage points, 
compared with a reduction of 0.2 percentage points when placebo was added to dapagliflozin and 
metformin. HbA1c levels were around 8% at the start of the study. 
In 320 patients not controlled with metformin and saxagliptin, adding dapagliflozin to saxagliptin 
and metformin reduced HbA1c levels by 0.8 percentage points, compared with a reduction of 0.1 
percentage points when placebo was added to saxagliptin and metformin. 
Saxagliptin given on its own has also been shown to be more effective than placebo at controlling 
blood glucose in four studies: in patients given saxagliptin HbA1c levels fell by around 0.5 percentage 
points more than in patients given placebo.  
Onglyza  
EMA/348579/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
A further study compared saxagliptin with metformin in patients who had not previously received 
substantial treatment with diabetes medicines. However, the results were not considered to be 
clinically relevant and the company withdrew its application for the use of saxagliptin as an initial 
combination medicine in previously untreated patients. 
What are the risks associated with Onglyza? 
The most common side effects with Onglyza (seen in more than 5 patients in 100) are upper 
respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection), urinary tract infection and headache. For the full 
list of all side effects reported with Onglyza, see the package leaflet. 
Onglyza must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to saxagliptin, any of the other 
ingredients or who have ever had a serious allergic reaction to any DPP-4 inhibitor. 
Why is Onglyza approved? 
Onglyza has been shown to be effective at controlling blood glucose levels both on its own and as add-
on to other diabetes medicines. Regarding safety, Onglyza is generally well tolerated. The European 
Medicine Agency therefore decided that Onglyza’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended 
that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Onglyza? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Onglyza have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Onglyza 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Onglyza on 1 October 2009.  
The full EPAR for Onglyza can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Onglyza, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017.  
Onglyza  
EMA/348579/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
