ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 4.3 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
One 10 ml vial of concentrate contains 43 mg irinotecan anhydrous free base (as irinotecan 
sucrosofate salt in a pegylated liposomal formulation).  
One ml of concentrate contains 4.3 mg irinotecan anhydrous free base (as irinotecan sucrosofate salt in 
a pegylated liposomal formulation).  
Excipient with known effect 
One ml of concentrate contains 0.144 mmol (3.31 mg) sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for dispersion for infusion. 
White to slightly yellow opaque isotonic liposomal dispersion. 
The concentrate has a pH of 7.2 and an osmolality of 295 mOsm/kg. 
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
and leucovorin (LV), in adult patients who have progressed following gemcitabine based therapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal must only be prescribed and administered to patients by healthcare 
professionals experienced in the use of anti-cancer therapies. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is not equivalent to non-liposomal irinotecan formulations and should 
not be interchanged. 
Posology 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil should be administered sequentially. 
The recommended dose and regimen of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is 70 mg/m2 intravenously 
over 90 minutes, followed by LV 400 mg/m2 intravenously over 30 minutes, followed 
by 5-FU 2,400 mg/m2 intravenously over 46 hours, administered every 2 weeks. ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal should not be administered as a single agent. 
A reduced starting dose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal of 50 mg/m2 should be considered for 
patients known to be homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). A dose 
increase of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal to 70 mg/m2 should be considered if tolerated in 
subsequent cycles. 
2 
Pre-medication 
It is recommended that patients receive pre-medication with standard doses of dexamethasone (or an 
equivalent corticosteroid) together with a 5-HT3 antagonist (or other antiemetic) at least 30 minutes 
prior to ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal infusion. 
Dose adjustments 
All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity. The LV dose does not require 
adjustment. For Grade 1 and 2 toxicities there are no dose modifications recommended. Dose 
adjustments, as summarised in Table 1 and Table 2, are recommended to manage 
Grade 3 or 4 toxicities related to ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
For patients who start treatment with 50 mg/m2 ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal and do not dose 
escalate to 70 mg/m2, the recommended first dose reduction is to 43 mg/m2 and the second dose 
reduction is to 35 mg/m2. Patients who require further dose reduction should discontinue treatment. 
Patients who are known to be homozygous for UGT1A1*28 and without drug related toxicities during 
the first cycle of therapy (reduced dose of 50 mg/m2) may have the dose of ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal increased to a total dose of 70 mg/m2 in subsequent cycles based on individual patient 
tolerance. 
Table 1: Recommended dose modifications for ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV for 
Grade 3-4 toxicities for patients not homozygous for UGT1A1*28 
Toxicity grade (value) 
by NCI CTCAE v 4.01 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal /5-FU adjustment 
(for patients not homozygous for UGT1A1*28) 
Haematological toxicities 
Neutropenia 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until the absolute neutrophil 
count is ≥ 1,500 cells/mm3 
Grade 3 or 
Grade 4 (< 1,000 
cells/mm3) or 
Neutropenic fever 
First occurrence 
Second occurrence 
Third occurrence 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 50 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by 25% (1,800 mg/m2). 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 43 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by an additional 25% 
(1,350 mg/m2). 
Discontinue treatment 
Thrombocytopenia 
Leukopenia 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until the platelet count is 
≥ 100,000 platelets/mm3 
Dose modifications for leukopenia and thrombocytopenia are based on 
NCI CTCAE toxicity grading and are the same as recommended for 
neutropenia above. 
Non-haematological toxicities2 
Diarrhoea 
Grade 2 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until diarrhoea resolves 
to ≤ Grade 1 (2-3 stools/day more than pre-treatment frequency). 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until diarrhoea resolves 
to ≤ Grade 1 (2-3 stools/day more than pre-treatment frequency). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicity grade (value) 
by NCI CTCAE v 4.01 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal /5-FU adjustment 
(for patients not homozygous for UGT1A1*28) 
Grade 3 or 4 
First occurrence 
Second occurrence 
Third occurrence 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 50 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by 25% (1,800 mg/m2) 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 43 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by an additional 25% 
(1,350 mg/m2) 
Discontinue treatment 
Nausea/vomiting 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until nausea/vomiting resolves 
to ≤ Grade 1 or baseline 
Grade 3 or 4 (despite 
antiemetic therapy) 
First occurrence 
Second occurrence 
Third occurrence 
Optimise antiemetic therapy 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 50 mg/m2 
Optimise antiemetic therapy 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 43 mg/m2  
Discontinue treatment 
Hepatic, renal, 
respiratory or 
other2 toxicities 
Grade 3 or 4 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until the adverse reaction 
resolves to ≤ Grade 1 
First occurrence 
Second occurrence 
Third occurrence 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 50 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by 25% (1,800 mg/m2) 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose 
to 43 mg/m2 
Reduce 5-FU dose by an 
additional 25% (1,350 mg/m2) 
Discontinue treatment 
Anaphylactic reaction 
First occurrence 
Discontinue treatment 
1 
2 
NCI CTCAE v 4.0 = National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse 
Events version 4.0 
Excludes asthenia and anorexia; Asthenia and Grade 3 anorexia do not require dose adjustment. 
Table 2: Recommended dose modifications for ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV for 
Grade 3-4 toxicities in patients homozygous for UGT1A1*28  
Toxicity grade (value)  
by NCI CTCAE v 4.01  
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal /5-FU adjustment 
(for patients homozygous for UGT1A1*28 without previous 
increase3 to 70 mg/m2) 
A new cycle of therapy should not begin until adverse event resolves 
to ≤ Grade 1 
Adverse reactions2 
Grade 3 or 4 
First occurrence 
Second occurrence 
4 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose to 
43 mg/m2 
5-FU dose modification as in Table 1 
Reduce ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal dose to 
35 mg/m2 
5-FU dose modification as in Table 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third occurrence 
Discontinue treatment 
1 
2 
3 
NCI CTCAE v 4.0 = National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse 
Events version 4.0 
Excludes asthenia and anorexia; asthenia and Grade 3 anorexia do not require dose adjustment. 
In case of a dose increase of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal to 70 mg/m2 if tolerated in 
subsequent cycles, recommended dose modifications should follow Table 1.  
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
No dedicated hepatic impairment study has been conducted with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. The 
use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be avoided in patients with bilirubin > 2.0 mg/dl, or 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) > 2.5 times upper limit of 
normal (ULN) or > 5 times ULN if liver metastasis is present (see section 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
No dedicated renal impairment study has been conducted with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. No 
dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is not recommended for use in patients with 
severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/min). 
Elderly 
Forty-one percent (41%) of patients treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal across the clinical 
program were ≥ 65 years. No dose adjustment is recommended. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in children and adolescents aged ≤ 18 years 
have not yet been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is for intravenous use. The concentrate must be diluted prior to 
administration and given as a single intravenous infusion over 90 minutes. For more details, see 
section 6.6. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is a cytotoxic medicinal product. The use of gloves, goggles and 
protective clothing when handling or administering ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is recommended. 
Pregnant staff should not handle ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
4.3  Contraindications 
History of severe hypersensitivity to irinotecan or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
General 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is a liposomal formulation of irinotecan with different 
pharmacokinetic properties compared to non-liposomal irinotecan. The dose concentration and 
strength are different in comparison to non-liposomal irinotecans. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is not equivalent to other non-liposomal irinotecan formulations and 
should not be interchanged. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the limited number of patients with prior exposure to non-liposomal irinotecan, no benefit of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal has been demonstrated. 
Myelosuppression/neutropenia 
Complete blood cell count monitoring is recommended during ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
treatment. Patients should be aware of the risk of neutropenia and the significance of fever. The 
median time to nadir for ≥ Grade 3 neutropenia is 23 (range 8-104) days post first dose of treatment 
with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. Febrile neutropenia (body temperature > 38°C and neutrophil 
count ≤ 1,000 cells/mm³) should be urgently treated in the hospital with broad-spectrum intravenous 
antibiotics. ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be withheld if neutropenic fever occurs or the 
absolute neutrophil count drops below 1,500 cells/mm3. Sepsis with neutropenic fever and consequent 
septic shock with fatal outcome has been observed in patients with metastatic pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
In patients who experienced severe haematological events, a dose reduction or treatment 
discontinuation is recommended (see section 4.2). Patients with severe bone marrow failure should not 
be treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
History of prior abdominal radiation increases the risk of severe neutropenia and febrile neutropenia 
following ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment. Close monitoring of blood counts is 
recommended, and the use of myeloid growth factors should be considered for patients with a history 
of abdominal radiation. Caution should be exercised in patients receiving concurrent administration of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal with irradiation. 
Patients with deficient glucuronidation of bilirubin, such as those with Gilbert’s syndrome, may be at 
greater risk of myelosuppression when receiving therapy with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
Compared to Caucasian patients, Asian patients have an increased risk of severe and febrile 
neutropenia following treatment with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
Immunosuppressive effects and vaccines 
Administration of live or live-attenuated vaccines in patients immunocompromised by 
chemotherapeutic medicinal products including ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal may result in serious 
or fatal infections; therefore vaccination with a live vaccine should be avoided. Killed or inactivated 
vaccines may be administered; however, the response to such vaccines may be diminished. 
Interactions with strong CYP3A4 inducers 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should not be administered with strong CYP3A4-enzyme inducers 
such as anticonvulsants (phenytoin, phenobarbital or carbamazepine), rifampin, rifabutin and St. 
John’s wort unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. The appropriate starting dose for patients 
taking these anticonvulsants or other strong inducers has not been defined. Consideration should be 
given to substituting with non-enzyme inducing therapies at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal therapy (see section 4.5). 
Interactions with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or strong UGT1A1 inhibitors 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should not be administered with strong CYP3A4-enzyme inhibitors 
(e.g. grapefruit juice, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, 
ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, voriconazole). Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be discontinued at 
least 1 week prior to starting ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal therapy. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should not be administered with strong UGT1A inhibitors 
(e.g. atazanavir, gemfibrozil, indinavir) unless there are no therapeutic alternatives. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diarrhoea 
Diarrhoea can occur early (onset in ≤ 24 hours after starting ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal) or late 
(> 24 hours) (see section 4.8).  
In patients experiencing early diarrhoea, therapeutic and prophylactic atropine should be considered 
unless contraindicated. Patients should be made aware of the risk of delayed diarrhoea which can be 
debilitating and, on rare occasions, life threatening since persistent loose or watery stools can result in 
dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, colitis, gastrointestinal (GI) ulceration, infection or sepsis. 
As soon as the first liquid stool occurs, the patient should start drinking large volumes of beverages 
containing electrolytes. Patients should have loperamide (or equivalent) readily available to begin 
treatment for late diarrhoea. Loperamide should be initiated at first occurrence of poorly formed or 
loose stools or at the earliest onset of bowel movements more frequent than normal. Loperamide 
should be given until patient is without diarrhoea for at least 12 hours. 
If diarrhoea persists while patient is on loperamide for more than 24 hours, adding oral antibiotic 
support (e.g. fluoroquinolone for 7 days) should be considered. Loperamide should not be used for 
more than 48 consecutive hours due to risk of paralytic ileus. If diarrhoea persists for more 
than 48 hours, stop loperamide, monitor and replace fluid electrolytes and continue antibiotic support 
until resolution for accompanying symptoms. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment should be delayed until diarrhoea resolves 
to ≤ Grade 1 (2-3 stools/day more than pre-treatment frequency). ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
must not be administered to patients with bowel obstruction, and chronic inflammatory bowel disease, 
until it is resolved. 
Following Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea, the subsequent dose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be 
reduced, (see section 4.2). 
Cholinergic reactions 
Early onset diarrhoea may be accompanied by cholinergic symptoms such as rhinitis, increased 
salivation, flushing, diaphoresis, bradycardia, miosis and hyperperistalsis. In case of cholinergic 
symptoms atropine should be administered.  
Acute infusion and related reactions 
Infusion reactions primarily consisting of rash, urticaria, periorbital oedema or pruritus were reported 
in patients receiving ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment. New events (all grade 1 or grade 2) 
occurred generally early during ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment, with only 2 out 
of 10 patients noted with events after the fifth dose. Hypersensitivity reactions, including acute 
infusion reaction, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction and angioedema may occur. ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal should be discontinued in case of severe hypersensitivity reactions. 
Prior Whipple procedure 
Patients with a history of a Whipple procedure have a higher risk of serious infections following 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in combination with 5-FU and leucovorin (see section 4.8). Patients 
should be monitored for signs of infections.  
Vascular disorders 
Onivyde pegylated liposomal has been associated with thromboembolic events such as pulmonary 
embolism, venous thrombosis and arterial thromboembolism. A thorough medical history should be 
obtained in order to identify patients with multiple risk factors in addition to the underlying neoplasm. 
Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism and advised to 
contact their physician or nurse immediately if any such signs or symptoms should occur. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulmonary toxicity 
Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)-like events leading to fatalities have occurred in patients receiving 
non-liposomal irinotecan. No cases of ILD-like events have been reported with ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal therapy in clinical studies. Risk factors include pre-existing lung disease, use of 
pneumotoxic medicinal products, colony stimulating factors or having previously received radiation 
therapy. Patients with risk factors should be closely monitored for respiratory symptoms before and 
during ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal therapy. A reticulo-nodular pattern on chest X-ray was 
observed in a small percentage of patients enrolled in a clinical study with irinotecan. New or 
progressive dyspnoea, cough, and fever should prompt interruption of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
treatment, pending diagnostic evaluation. ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be discontinued in 
patients with a confirmed diagnosis of ILD. 
Hepatic impairment 
Patients with hyperbilirubinaemia had higher concentrations for total SN-38 (see section 5.2) and 
therefore the risk of neutropenia is increased. Regular monitoring of complete blood counts should be 
conducted in patients with total bilirubin of 1.0-2.0 mg/dl. Caution should be exercised in patients with 
hepatic impairment (bilirubin > 2 times upper limit of normal [ULN]; transaminases > 5 times ULN). 
Caution is required when ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is given in combination with other 
hepatotoxic medicinal products, especially in patients with pre-existing hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
The use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in patients with significant renal impairment has not been 
established (see section 5.2). 
Underweight patients (body mass index < 18.5 kg/m2) 
In the clinical study evaluating ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV, 5 of 8 underweight 
patients experienced Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions, mostly myelosuppression, while 7 of the 
8 patients required dose modification such as dose delay, dose reduction or dose discontinuation. 
Caution should be exercised when using ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in patients with body mass 
index < 18.5 kg/m2. 
Excipients 
This  medicinal  product  contains  33,1  mg  sodium  per  vial,  equivalent  to  1,65%  of  the  WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Information about drug interactions with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is referenced from the 
published scientific literature for nonliposomal irinotecan. 
Interaction affecting the use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
Strong CYP3A4 inducers 
Patients receiving concomitant non-liposomal irinotecan and CYP3A4 enzyme-inducing 
anticonvulsants phenytoin, phenobarbital or carbamazepine have substantially reduced exposure to 
irinotecan (AUC reduction by 12% with St John’s wort, 57%-79% with phenytoin, phenobarbital, or 
carbamazepine) and SN-38 (AUC reduction by 42% with St John’s wort, 36%-92% with phenytoin 
phenobarbital, or carbamazepine). Therefore, co-administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
with inducers of CYP3A4 may reduce systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and UGT1A1 inhibitors 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients receiving concomitant non-liposomal irinotecan and ketoconazole, a CYP3A4 and 
UGT1A1 inhibitor, have increased SN-38 exposure by 109%. Therefore, co-administration of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal with other inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. grapefruit juice, 
clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, 
telaprevir, voriconazole) may increase systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. Based 
on the drug interaction of non-liposomal irinotecan and ketoconazole, co-administration of ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal with other inhibitors of UGT1A1 (e.g. atazanavir, gemfibrozil, indinavir, 
regorafenib) may also increase systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. 
Co-administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV does not alter the pharmacokinetics 
of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Antineoplastic agents (including flucytosine as a prodrug for 5-fluorouracil) 
Adverse effects of irinotecan, such as myelosuppression, may be exacerbated by other 
antineoplastic agents having a similar adverse-effect profile. 
No interaction of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal with other medicinal products is known. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal treatment and 7 months thereafter. Males should use condoms during ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal treatment and 4 months thereafter. 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data on the use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in pregnant women. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal can cause harm to the foetus when administered to the pregnant 
woman, as the main ingredient irinotecan has been shown to be embryotoxic and teratogenic in 
animals (see section 5.3). Therefore, based on results from animal studies and the mechanism of action 
of irinotecan, ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. If ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes 
pregnant while receiving therapy, the patient should be informed about the potential hazard to the 
foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal or its metabolites are excreted into human 
milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in 
breast-feeding infants, ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see 
section 4.3). Patients should not breast-feed until one month after the last dose. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the impact of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal on human fertility. Non-liposomal 
irinotecan was shown to cause atrophy of male and female reproductive organs after multiple daily 
irinotecan doses in animals (see section 5.3). Prior to starting the administration of ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal consider advising patients on the preservation of gametes. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
During treatment patients should observe caution when driving or using machines. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety profile is based on the NAPOLI-1 clinical study. The following adverse reactions, 
considered to be possibly or probably related to the administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, 
were reported in 264 patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, 147 of whom received 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal monotherapy (100 mg/m2) and 117 received ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal (70 mg/m2) in combination with 5-FU/LV. 
The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 20%) of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV 
were: diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, neutropenia, fatigue, asthenia, anaemia, 
stomatitis and pyrexia. The most common serious adverse reactions (≥ 2%) of ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal therapy were diarrhoea, vomiting, febrile neutropenia, nausea, pyrexia, sepsis, dehydration, 
septic shock, pneumonia, acute renal failure, and thrombocytopenia. 
The rates of adverse reactions leading to permanent treatment discontinuation were 11% for the 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV arm and 12% for the monotherapy arm. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were infection and diarrhoea 
for ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV arm, and vomiting and diarrhoea for the monotherapy 
arm. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions described in this section are derived from study data and post-marketing 
experience of Onivyde Pegylated Liposomal.  
The adverse reactions that may occur during treatment with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal are 
summarised below and are presented by system organ class and frequency category (Table 3). Within 
each system organ class and frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. Frequencies categories used for adverse reactions are: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) *and not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data).  
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal therapy  
MedDRA system organ 
class 
Infections and infestations 
Adverse reaction frequency* 
Common: Septic shock, Sepsis, Pneumonia, Febrile neutropenia, 
Gastroenteritis, Oral candidiasis 
Uncommon: Biliary sepsis 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Very common: Neutropenia, Leukopenia, Anaemia, 
Thrombocytopenia 
Common: Lymphopenia 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: Hypersensitivity 
Not known: Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid reaction, Angioedema 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Very common: Hypokalaemia, Hypomagnesaemia, Dehydration, 
Decreased appetite 
Common: Hypoglycaemia, Hyponatraemia, Hypophosphataemia 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common: Insomnia 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ 
class 
Nervous system disorders 
Adverse reaction frequency* 
Very common: Dizziness 
Common: Cholinergic syndrome, Dysgeusia 
Cardiac disorders 
Common: Hypotension 
Vascular disorders 
Common: Pulmonary embolism, Embolism, Deep vein thrombosis 
Uncommon: Thrombosis 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Common: Dyspnoea, Dysphonia 
Uncommon: Hypoxia 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: Diarrhoea, Vomiting, Nausea, Abdominal pain, 
Stomatitis 
Common: Colitis, Haemorrhoids 
Uncommon: Oesophagitis, Proctitis 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: Hypoalbuminaemia 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Very common: Alopecia 
Common: Pruritus 
Uncommon: Urticaria, Rash, Rash maculo-papular, Nail 
discolouration 
Not known: Erythema 
Renal and urinary disorders  Common: Acute renal failure 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Very common: Pyrexia, Peripheral oedema, Mucosal inflammation, 
Fatigue, Asthenia 
Common: Infusion related reaction, Oedema 
Investigations 
Very common: Weight decrease 
Common: Increased bilirubin, Increased alanine aminotransferase, 
Increased aspartate aminotransferase, Increased international 
normalised ratio 
* 
Rare occurrence cannot be estimated from the NAPOLI-1study due to the small sample size 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions were observed in the NAPOLI-1 clinical study: 
Myelosuppression 
Myelosuppression (neutropenia/leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and, anaemia) was more common in 
the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV arm compared to the 5-FU/LV control arm. 
Neutropenia/leukopenia 
Neutropenia/leukopenia was the most notable important haematological toxicity. Grade 3 or higher 
neutropenia occurred more frequently in patients treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
+5-FU/LV (27.4%) compared to patients treated with 5-FU/LV (1.5%). Neutropenic fever/sepsis 
appeared more frequently in the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV combination arm 
[in 4 patients (3.4%)] compared to 5-FU/LV control arm [in 1 patient (0.7%)]. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia 
Grade 3 or higher thrombocytopenia occurred in 2.6% of patients treated with ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal +5-FU/LV and 0% in patients treated with 5-FU/LV. 
Anaemia 
Grade 3 or higher anaemia occurred in 10.3% of patients treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
+5-FU/LV and in 6.7% of patients treated with 5-FU/LV. 
Acute renal failure 
Renal impairment and acute renal failure have been identified, usually in patients who become volume 
depleted from nausea/vomiting and/or diarrhoea. Acute renal failure was reported in 6 of 117 patients 
(5.1%) in the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV arm, 10 of 147 (6.8%) in the ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal monotherapy arm and 6 of 134 patients (4.5%) in the 5-FU/LV arm. 
Diarrhoea and related adverse reactions 
Diarrhoea is a very common adverse reaction leading to colitis, ileus, gastroenteritis, fatigue, 
dehydration, weight loss, renal toxicities, hyponatraemia, and hypokalaemia. Renal impairment and 
acute renal failure have been identified, usually in patients who became volume depleted from severe 
vomiting and/or diarrhoea. In the clinical study Grade 3 or Grade 4 diarrhoea occurred in 15 out 
of 117 patients (12.8%) receiving ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV. For patients 
experiencing late diarrhoea, the median time to late diarrhoea onset was 8 days from the previous dose 
of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. Early onset diarrhoea, typically appearing ≤ 24 hours after dose 
administration, can occur and is usually transient. Early onset diarrhoea may also be accompanied by 
cholinergic symptoms that can include rhinitis, increased salivation, flushing, diaphoresis, 
bradycardia, miosis and hyperperistalsis that can induce abdominal cramping. In the clinical study, 
early diarrhoea onset occurred in 35 patients (29.9%) and cholinergic events occurred in 4 patients 
(3.4%) receiving ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV. 
Withhold ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal for Grade 2-4 diarrhoea and initiate treatment for diarrhoea. 
Following recovery to Grade 1 diarrhoea, resume ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal at a reduced dose 
(see section 4.2). 
Infusion reaction 
Acute infusion reactions were reported in 8 of 117 patients (6.8%) in the ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal +5-FU/LV arm, 3 of 147 patients (2.0%) in the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
monotherapy arm, and 8 of 134 patients (6.0%) in the 5-FU/LV arm. 
Other special populations 
Elderly 
Overall, no major clinical differences in safety or efficacy were reported between patients ≥ 65 years 
and patients < 65 years, although a higher frequency of discontinuation (14.8% vs 7.9%) was noted in 
the former group treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV in the NAPOLI-1 study and 
in some cases the adverse reactions did not resolve. Grade 3 or higher and serious treatment emergent 
adverse reactions were more frequent in patients < 65 years (84.1% and 50.8%) compared to 
patients ≥ 65 years (68.5 % and 44.4%). Conversely, patients > 75 years (n=12) experienced more 
frequent serious adverse reactions, dose delay, dose reduction and discontinuation compared to 
patients ≤ 75 years (n=105) when treated with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV in the 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma study. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asian population 
Compared to Caucasians, Asian patients were observed with a lower incidence of diarrhoea 
[14 (19.2%) out of 73 Caucasians had a ≥ Grade 3 diarrhoea, and 1 out of 33 (3.3%) Asians had a 
≥ Grade 3 diarrhoea], but a higher incidence and higher severity of neutropenia. In patients receiving 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV, the incidence of ≥ Grade 3 neutropenia was higher among 
Asian patients [18 of 33 (55%)] compared to Caucasian patients [13 of 73 (18%)]. Neutropenic 
fever/neutropenic sepsis was reported in 6% of Asian patients compared to 1% of Caucasian patients. 
This is consistent with the population pharmacokinetic analysis that showed a lower exposure to 
irinotecan and a higher exposure to its active metabolite SN-38 in Asians than in Caucasians. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
In clinical studies of non-liposomal irinotecan administered on a weekly dosage schedule, patients 
with modestly elevated baseline serum total bilirubin levels (1.0 to 2.0 mg/dl) had a significantly 
greater likelihood of experiencing first cycle Grade 3 or Grade 4 neutropenia than those with bilirubin 
levels that were less than 1.0 mg/dl. 
Patients with prior Whipple procedure 
In the clinical study evaluating ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV, patients with a prior 
Whipple procedure had a higher risk of serious infections following treatment with ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV [9 of 29 (30%)] compared to 11 of 88 (12.5%) patients with no prior 
Whipple procedure. 
Patients with UGT1A1 allele 
Individuals who are 7/7 homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele are at increased risk for neutropenia 
from non-liposomal irinotecan. In the clinical study evaluating ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
+5-FU/LV, the frequency of ≥ Grade 3 neutropenia in these patients [2 of 7 (28.6%)] was similar to 
the frequency in patients not homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele who received a starting dose of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal of 70 mg/m2 [30 of 110 (27.3%)] (see section 5.1). 
Underweight patients (body mass index < 18.5 kg/m2) 
In the clinical study evaluating ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV, 5 of 8  underweight 
patients experienced a grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction, mostly myelosuppression, while 7 of 
the 8 patients required dose modification such as dose delay, dose reduction or dose discontinuation 
(see section 4.4).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In clinical studies, ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal was administered at doses up to 210 mg/m2 to 
patients with various cancers. The adverse reactions in these patients were similar to those reported 
with the recommended dose and regimen. 
There have been reports of overdose with non-liposomal irinotecan at doses up to approximately twice 
the recommended therapeutic dose of irinotecan, which may be fatal. The most significant adverse 
reactions reported were severe neutropenia and severe diarrrhoea. 
There is no known antidote for overdose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. Maximum supportive 
care should be instituted to prevent dehydration due to diarrhoea and to treat any infectious 
complications. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Topoisomerase 1 (TOP1) inhibitors. ATC Code: L01CE02. 
Mechanism of action 
The active substance in ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is irinotecan (topoisomerase I inhibitor) 
encapsulated in a lipid bilayer vesicle or liposome. 
Irinotecan is a derivative of camptothecin. Camptothecins act as specific inhibitors of the enzyme 
DNA topoisomerase I. Irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38 bind reversibly to the 
topoisomerase I-DNA complex and induce single-strand DNA lesions which block the DNA 
replication fork and are responsible for the cytotoxicity. Irinotecan is metabolised by carboxylesterase 
to SN-38. SN-38 is approximately 1,000 times as potent as irinotecan as an inhibitor of topoisomerase 
I purified from human and rodent tumour cell lines. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In animal models, ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal has been shown to extend plasma levels of 
irinotecan and prolong the exposure to the active metabolite SN-38 at the site of the tumour. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The safety and efficacy of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal were investigated in a multinational, 
randomised, open label, controlled clinical study (NAPOLI–1) that tested two treatment regimens for 
patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma who had documented disease progression after 
gemcitabine or gemcitabine-containing therapy. The study was designed to assess the clinical efficacy 
and safety of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal monotherapy or ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
+5-FU/LV compared to an active control arm of 5-FU/LV. 
Patients randomised to ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV received ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal at 70 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion over 90 minutes, followed by 
LV 400 mg/m2 intravenously over 30 minutes, followed by 5-FU 2,400 mg/m2 intravenously 
over 46 hours, administered every 2 weeks. Patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele were 
given a lower initial dose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal (see section 4.2). Patients randomised 
to 5-FU/LV received leucovorin 200 mg/m2 intravenously over 30 minutes, followed 
by 5-FU 2,000 mg/m2 intravenously over 24 hours, administered on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of a 6-week 
cycle. Patients randomised to ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal monotherapy received 100 mg/m2 as an 
intravenous infusion over 90 minutes every 3 weeks. 
Key eligibility criteria for patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas in the 
NAPOLI-1 clinical study were Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) ≥ 70, normal bilirubin level, 
transaminase levels ≤ 2.5 times the ULN or ≤ 5 times the ULN for patients with liver metastases and 
albumin ≥ 3.0 g/dl. 
A total of 417 patients were randomised to the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV 
arm (N=117), ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal monotherapy arm (N=151) and 5-FU/LV arm (N=149). 
Patient demographic and entry disease characteristics were well balanced between study arms. 
In the intent to treat (all randomised) population, the median age was 63 years 
(range 31-87 years), 57 % were males, and 61% were Caucasian and 33% were Asian. Mean baseline 
albumin level was 3.6 g/dl, and baseline KPS was 90-100 in 55% of patients. Disease characteristics 
included 68% of patients with liver metastases and 31% with lung metastases; 12% of patients had no 
prior lines of metastatic therapy, 56 % of patients had 1 prior line of metastatic therapy, 32% of 
patients had 2 or more prior lines of metastatic therapy. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients received treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary outcome 
measure was Overall survival (OS). Additional outcome measures included Progression free survival 
(PFS) and Objective response rate (ORR). Results are shown in Table 4. Overall survival is illustrated 
in Figure 1. 
Table 4: Efficacy results from NAPOLI-1 clinical study 
5-FU/LV 
(N= 119) 
80 (67) 
4.2 
(3.3, 5.3) 
92 (77) 
1.5 
(1.4, 1.8) 
1 
0.8 
0.0, 2.5 
Overall survival11 
Number of deaths, n (%) 
Median OS (months) 
ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal +5-FU/LV 
(N= 117) 
75 (64) 
6.1 
(95% Confidence Interval (CI)) 
(4.8, 8.9) 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)3 
p-value4 
Progression-free survival1,2 
Death or progression, n (%) 
Median PFS (months) 
(95% CI) 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)3 
p-value4 
Objective response rate2 
N 
ORR (%) 
95% CI of Rate5 
Rate Difference (95% CI)5 
p-value6 
0.67 (0.49-0.92) 
0.0122 
0.56 (0.41-0.75) 
0.0001 
15.4 (8.5, 22.3) 
< 0.0001 
83 (71) 
3.1 
(2.7, 4.2) 
19 
16.2 
9.6, 22.9 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Median is the Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median survival time 
Per RECIST guidelines, v 1.1. 
Cox model analysis 
Unstratified log-rank test 
Based on Normal approximation 
Fisher’s exact test 
Abbreviations: 5-FU/LV=5-fluorouracil/leucovorin; CI=confidence interval 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Overall survival 
In the limited number of patients with prior exposure to non-liposomal irinotecan, no benefit of 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal has been demonstrated. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal in all subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Liposome encapsulation of irinotecan extends circulation and limits distribution relative to those of the 
non-liposomal irinotecan. 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of total irinotecan and total SN-38 were evaluated in patients with 
cancer who received ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, as a single agent or as part of combination 
chemotherapy, at doses between 50 and 155 mg/m2. The pharmacokinetic parameters of total 
irinotecan and SN-38 analytes, following the administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
70 mg/m2 are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5: Summary of mean (±standard deviation) total irinotecan and total SN-38 
Analyte 
PK parameters 
Unit 
Total 
irinotecan 
AUC 
Cmax 
h×ng/ml 
ng/ml 
Clearance (CL) 
l/h/m2 
Volume (V) 
l/m2 
ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal  
geomean (95% CI)a 
70 mg/m2 (n=353)b 
919,228 
(845,653-999,204) 
28,353 
(27,761-28,958) 
0.087 
(0.080-0.094) 
2.6 
(2.6-2.7) 
16 
Non-liposomal 
irinotecan  
mean (SD)  
125 mg/m2 (n=99)c 
10,529 
(3,786) 
1,492 
(452) 
13.0  
(5.6) 
138 
(60.9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analyte 
PK parameters 
Unit 
t1/2 effective 
h 
Total 
SN-38 
AUC 
Cmax 
h×ng/ml 
ng/ml 
t1/2 effective 
h 
ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal  
geomean (95% CI)a 
70 mg/m2 (n=353)b 
20.8 
(19.4-22.3) 
341 
(326-358) 
3.0 
(2.9-3.1) 
40.9 
(39.8-42.0) 
Non-liposomal 
irinotecan  
mean (SD)  
125 mg/m2 (n=99)c 
6.07  
(1.19) 
267 
(115) 
27.8  
(11.6) 
11.7  
(4.29) 
SD= standard deviation 
AUC= area under the plasma concentration curve (extrapolated to infinity for ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal and AUC24h for non-liposomal irinotecan) 
Cmax= maximum plasma concentration 
t1/2 effective= effective half-lives 
aValues are estimated from population PK analysis 
bN=353 refers to all the subjects included in the population PK analysis 
cValues are obtained from published data [Schaaf LJ et al. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 Jun 15;12:3782-91] 
Distribution 
Direct measurement of liposomal irinotecan shows that 95% of irinotecan remains 
liposome-encapsulated during circulation. Non-liposomal irinotecan displays a large volume of 
distribution (138 l/m2). The volume of distribution of ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal 70 mg/m2 was 2.6 l/m2, which suggests that ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is largely 
confined to vascular fluid. 
The plasma protein binding of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is negligible (< 0.44% of total 
irinotecan in ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal). The plasma protein binding of non-liposomal 
irinotecan is moderate (30% to 68%), and SN-38 is highly bound to human plasma proteins 
(approximately 95%). 
Biotransformation 
Irinotecan released from liposome encapsulation follows a similar metabolic pathway reported with 
non-liposomal irinotecan. 
The metabolic conversion of irinotecan to the active metabolite SN-38 is mediated by carboxylesterase 
enzymes. In vitro studies indicate that irinotecan, SN-38 and another metabolite aminopentane 
carboxylic acid (APC) do not inhibit cytochrome P-450 isozymes. SN-38 is subsequently conjugated 
predominantly by the enzyme UDP-glucuronosyl transferase 1A1 (UGT1A1) to form a glucuronide 
metabolite. UGT1A1 activity is reduced in individuals with genetic polymorphisms that lead to 
reduced enzyme activity such as the UGT1A1*28 polymorphism. In the population pharmacokinetic 
analysis in patients with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal using the results of a subset with 
UGT1A1*28 genotypic testing, in which the analysis adjusted for the lower dose administered to 
patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, patients homozygous (N=14) and non-homozygous 
(N=244) for this allele had total SN-38 average steady-state concentrations of 1.06 and 0.95 ng/ml, 
respectively. 
Elimination 
The disposition of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal and non-liposomal irinotecan has not been fully 
elucidated in humans. 
The urinary excretion of non-liposomal irinotecan is 11% to 20%; SN-38 < 1%; and 
SN-38 glucuronide is 3%. The cumulative biliary and urinary excretion of irinotecan and its 
metabolites (SN-38 and SN-38 glucuronide) over a period of 48 hours following administration of 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
non-liposomal irinotecan in two patients ranged from approximately 25% (100 mg/m2) to 50% 
(300 mg/m2). 
Renal impairment 
No dedicated pharmacokinetic study has been conducted in patients with renal impairment. In a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis, mild-to-moderate renal impairment had no effect on the 
exposure of total SN-38 after adjusting for body surface area (BSA). The analysis included 68 patients 
with moderate (CLcr 30-59 ml/min), 147 patients with mild (CLcr 60-89 ml/min) renal impairment, 
and 135 patients with normal renal function (CLcr > 90 ml/min). There was insufficient data in 
patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/min) to assess its effect on pharmacokinetics (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dedicated pharmacokinetic study has been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. In a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis, patients with baseline total bilirubin concentrations of 1-2 mg/dl 
(n=19) had average steady state concentrations for total SN-38 that were increased 
by 37% (0.98 [95%CI: 0.94-1.02] and 1.29 [95%CI: 1.11-1.5] ng/ml, respectively) compared to 
patients with baseline bilirubin concentrations of < 1 mg/dl (n=329); however, there was no effect of 
elevated ALT/AST concentrations on total SN-38 concentrations. No data are available in patients 
with total bilirubin more than 2 times the ULN. 
Other special populations 
Age and gender 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients aged 28 to 87 years, of whom 11% were 
≥75 years suggests that age had no clinically meaningful effect on the exposure to irinotecan and 
SN-38. 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis in 196 male and 157 female patients suggests that gender 
had no clinically meaningful effect on the exposure to irinotecan and SN-38 after adjusting for BSA. 
Ethnicity 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis suggest that Asians have 56% lower total irinotecan average 
steady state concentration (3.93 [95%CI: 3.68-4.2] and 1.74 [95%CI: 1.58-1.93] mg/l, respectively) 
and 8% higher total SN-38 average steady state concentration (0.97 [95%CI: 0.92-1.03] 
and 1.05 [95%CI: 0.98-1.11] ng/ml, respectively) than Caucasians. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
In a pooled analysis from 353 patients, higher plasma SN-38 Cmax was associated with increased 
likelihood of experiencing neutropenia, and higher plasma total irinotecan Cmax was associated with 
increased likelihood of experiencing diarrhoea. 
In the clinical study demonstrating effectiveness of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, higher plasma 
exposures of total irinotecan and SN-38 for patients in the ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5-FU/LV 
treatment arm were associated with longer OS and PFS as well as with higher ORR (objective 
response rate). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In single and repeated dose toxicity studies in mice, rats and dogs, the target organs of toxicity were 
the gastrointestinal tract and the hematologic system. The severity of effects was dose-related and 
reversible. The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) in rats and dogs following 90 min 
intravenous infusion of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal once every 3 weeks for 18 weeks was  
155 mg/m2. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In safety pharmacology studies in dogs, ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal had no effect on 
cardiovascular, hemodynamic, electrocardiographic, or respiratory parameters at doses up to 18 mg/kg 
or 360 mg/m2  . No findings indicative of CNS related toxicity were observed in the repeated dose 
toxicity studies in rats. 
Genotoxic and carcinogenic potential 
No genotoxicity studies have been performed with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. Non-liposomal 
irinotecan and SN-38 were genotoxic in vitro in the chromosomal aberration test on CHO-cells as well 
as in the in vivo micronucleus test in mice. However, in other studies with irinotecan they have been 
shown to be devoid of any mutagenic potential in the Ames test. 
No carcinogenicity studies have been performed with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal. For 
non-liposomal irinotecan, in rats treated once a week during 13 weeks at the maximum dose 
of 150 mg/m², no treatment related tumours were reported 91 weeks after the end of treatment. Under 
these conditions, there was a significant linear trend with dose for the incidence of combined uterine 
horn endometrial stromal polyps and endometrial stromal sarcomas. Due to its mechanism of action, 
irinotecan is considered a potential carcinogen. 
Reproduction toxicity 
No reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have been performed with ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal. 
Non-liposomal irinotecan was teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses below the human therapeutic 
dose. In rats, pups born from treated animals and having external abnormalities showed a decrease in 
fertility. This was not seen in morphologically normal pups. In pregnant rats there was a decrease in 
placental weight and in the offspring a decrease in foetal viability and increase in behavioural 
abnormalities. 
Non-liposomal irinotecan caused atrophy of male reproductive organs both in rats and dogs after 
multiple daily doses of 20 mg/kg and 0.4 mg/kg, respectively.These effects were reversible upon 
cessation of treatment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Liposome forming lipids 
1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DSPC) 
Cholesterol 
N-(carbonyl-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-1, 2-distearoly-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine 
(MPEG-2000-DSPE) 
Other excipients 
Sucrose octasulphate 
2- [ 4- (2-Hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl] ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES buffer) 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those 
mentioned in section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 years. 
After dilution 
Chemical and physical stability for the diluted dispersion for infusion has been demonstrated 
at 15-25°C for up to 6 hours or in the refrigerator (2ºC-8ºC) for no more than 24 hours. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I glass vial with a grey chlorobutyl stopper and an aluminium seal with a flip-off cap, 
containing 10 ml of concentrate. 
Each pack contains one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is a cytotoxic medicinal product, and caution should be exercised in 
handling it. The use of gloves, goggles and protective clothing when handling or administering 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is recommended. If the dispersion contacts the skin, the skin should 
be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. If the dispersion contacts mucous 
membranes, they should be flushed thoroughly with water. Pregnant staff should not handle 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal considering the cytotoxic nature of the medicinal product. 
Preparation of the dispersion and administration 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is supplied as a sterile liposomal dispersion at a concentration 
of 4.3 mg/ml and must be diluted prior to administration using a needle not larger than 21 gauge. 
Dilute with 5% glucose solution for injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection 
to prepare a dispersion of the appropriate dose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal diluted to a final 
volume of 500 ml. Mix the diluted dispersion by gentle inversion. The diluted dispersion is clear to 
slightly white to slightly opalescent and free from visible particles. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be administered before LV followed by 5-FU. ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal must not be administered as a bolus injection or an undiluted dispersion. 
Aseptic techniques must be followed during the preparation of the infusion. ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal is for single use only. 
Care should be taken to avoid extravasation, and the infusion site should be monitored for signs of 
inflammation. Should extravasation occur, flushing the site with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection and/or sterile water and applications of ice are recommended. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Les Laboratoires Servier 
50, rue Carnot 
92284 Suresnes cedex 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1130/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 14 October 2016 
Date of latest renewal: 16 July 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Les Laboratoires Servier Industrie 
905 Route de Saran 
45520 Gidy  
France  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing 
Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING
25 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 4.3 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
irinotecan  
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE
One 10 ml vial of concentrate contains 43 mg irinotecan anhydrous free base (as irinotecan 
sucrosofate salt in a pegylated liposomal formulation).  
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: 
DSPC 
Cholesterol 
MPEG-2000-DSPE 
Sucrose octasulphate 
HEPES buffer 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
See leaflet for further information. 
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for dispersion for infusion. 
43 mg/10 ml 
1 vial 
5. METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Onivyde pegylated liposomal (irinotecan) is not equivalent to non-liposomal formulations. Do not 
interchange. 
26 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution and special disposal. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Les Laboratoires Servier 
50, rue Carnot 
92284 Suresnes cedex 
France  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1130/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 4.3 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
irinotecan  
IV use after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
43mg/10 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 4.3 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
irinotecan  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used 
Possible side effects 
How to store ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for 
What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is and how it works 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance irinotecan. 
This active substance is held in tiny lipid (fatty) particles called liposomes. 
Irinotecan belongs to a group of cancer medicines called ‘topoisomerase inhibitors’. It blocks an 
enzyme called topoisomerase I, which is involved in the division of cell DNA. This prevents the 
cancer cells from multiplying and growing, and they eventually die. 
The liposomes are expected to accumulate within the tumour and release the medicine slowly over 
time, thereby allowing it to act for longer. 
What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used for 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used to treat adult patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer 
(cancer of the pancreas that has already spread elsewhere in the body) whose previously cancer 
treatment included a medicine called gemcitabine. ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used in 
combination with other cancer medicines, called 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. 
If you have any questions about how ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal works or why this medicine has 
been prescribed for you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you use ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
Follow carefully all instructions given to you by your doctor. They may differ from the general 
information contained in this leaflet. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
- 
- 
if you have a history of a severe allergy to irinotecan, or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are breast-feeding. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
- 
- 
if you have ever had any liver problems or jaundice 
if you have ever had lung disease or have previously received medicines (colony stimulating 
factors) to increase your blood count or radiation therapy 
if you are taking other medicines (see section “Other medicines and ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal”) 
if you are planning to have a vaccination as many vaccinations must not be given during 
chemotherapy 
if you are on a controlled sodium diet as this medicine contains sodium. 
- 
- 
- 
Talk to your doctor or nurse immediately during treatment with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
- 
if you feel sudden shortness of breath, flushing, headache, skin rash or hives (itchy rash with 
swollen red bumps on the skin that appear suddenly), itching, swelling around the eyes, 
tightness in the chest or throat during or shortly after your infusion 
if you experience fever, chills or other symptoms of infection 
if you get diarrhoea with frequent liquid stools and cannot control this after 12 to 24 hours of 
treatment (see below) 
if you get breathlessness or cough.  
if you experience signs or symptoms of a blood clot, like sudden pain and swelling in a leg or an 
arm, sudden onset of coughing, chest pain or difficulty breathing. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
What to do in case of diarrhoea 
As soon as the first liquid stool occurs, start drinking large volumes of rehydration fluids (е.g. water, 
soda water, fizzy drinks, soup) to avoid losing too much liquid and salts from your body. Contact your 
doctor immediately to give you a suitable treatment. Your doctor may give you a medicine which 
contains loperamide to begin treatment at home but it must not be used for longer than 48 consecutive 
hours. If loose stools persist, contact your doctor. 
Blood tests and medical examinations 
Before you start treatment with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, your doctor will perform blood tests 
(or other medical examinations) to determine the best starting dose for you. You will need to have 
further (blood or other) tests during treatment so that your doctor can monitor your blood cells and 
assess how you are responding to the treatment. Your doctor may need to adjust the dose or  your 
treatment. 
Children and adolescents 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is not recommended for use in adolescents and children below the age 
of 18 years. 
Other medicines and ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
It is especially important that you tell your doctor if you have been given irinotecan in any form 
earlier. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal must not be used instead of other medicines containing irinotecan 
because it behaves differently when it is contained in the liposomes than when it is given in its free 
form. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are already having, or have recently had chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy or treatment with the antifungal medicine flucytosine. 
It is also especially important that you tell your doctor if you are also taking the following medicines, 
since they reduce the level of irinotecan in your body: 
- 
- 
- 
phenytoin, phenobarbital or carbamazepine (medicines used to treat convulsions and falls) 
rifampicin and rifabutin (medicines used to treat tuberculosis) 
St. John´s wort (a plant-based medicine used to treat depression and low mood) 
It is especially important that you tell your doctor if you are also taking the following medicines, since 
they increase the level of irinotecan in your body: 
- 
- 
- 
ketoconazole, itraconazole or voriconazole (medicines used to treat fungal infections) 
clarithromycin (an antibiotic medicine used to treat bacterial infections) 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, atazanavir (medicines against HIV 
infection)  
regorafenib (a medicine against certain forms of cancer) 
telaprevir (a medicine used to treat a liver disease called hepatitis C) 
nefazodone (a medicine used to treat depression, low mood) 
gemfibrozil (medicine used to treat high fat levels in the blood) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal with food and drink 
Avoid eating grapefruits and drinking grapefruit juice while you are receiving ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal as it may increase the level of irinotecan in your body. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
You should not be given ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal if you are pregnant as it may harm the baby. 
Tell your doctor if you are or think you may be pregnant. Ask your doctor for advice if you are 
planning to have a baby. If you are given ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal you should not breast-feed 
until one month after the last dose. 
Prior to taking this medicine talk with your doctor about the possible risk with this medicine and the 
options that may preserve your ability to have children. 
During your ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment and for seven months after you should choose 
an effective birth control method which suits you to prevent pregnancy in this period of time. Males 
should use condoms during ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal treatment and for 4 months thereafter. 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. You must not be given ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal if 
you are breast-feeding as this may be harmful to your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal may influence your ability to drive and use machines (as you may be 
sleepy, dizzy and exhausted with the use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal). You should avoid 
driving, using machines or performing other tasks that need full attention if you feel sleepy, dizzy and 
exhausted. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal contains sodium 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine contains 33,1 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 1,65% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is used 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal must only be given by healthcare professionals trained in giving 
anticancer medicines. 
Carefully follow all instructions given to you by your doctor or nurse. 
Your doctor will decide upon the doses you will receive. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is given as a drip (infusion) into a vein, which should take at 
least 90 minutes and should be given as a single dose. 
After you have been given ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal you will be given two other medicines, 
leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil. 
The treatment will be repeated every two weeks. 
In certain cases, lower doses or longer dosing intervals may be required. 
You may receive pre-medication against nausea and vomiting. If you have experienced sweating, 
abdominal cramping and salivation together with early frequent and liquid stools in previous 
treatments with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal, you may receive additional medicines before 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal to prevent or reduce this in the following treament cycles. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. It is 
important that you are aware of what these side effects may be. 
Your doctor may also prescribe other medicines to help control your side effects. 
Tell your doctor or nurse about any of the following serious side effects straight away: 
- 
- 
- 
if you experience swelling under the skin (angioedema) and/or symptoms of possible 
anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions such as sudden shortness of breath, flushing, nausea, 
headache, skin rash or hives (itchy rash with swollen red bumps on the skin that appear 
suddenly), itching, swelling around the eyes, and tightness in the chest or throat during the 
infusion or shortly after it. Severe allergic reactions may be life threatening.The infusion may 
need to be stopped and you may need to be treated or observed for the side effects 
if you get fever, chills and signs of an infection (as this might require immediate treatment) 
if you have severe persistent diarrhoea (liquid and frequent stools)—see section 2 
The following other side effects may occur: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Low levels of white blood cells (neutropenia and leukopenia), Low level of red blood cells 
(anaemia) 
Low level of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) 
Diarrhoea (loose or watery and frequent stools) 
Nausea and vomiting 
Pain in the stomach or in the gut area 
Sore mouth 
Loss of weight 
Loss of appetite 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Loss of body fluid (dehydration) 
Low level of salts (electrolytes) in the body (e.g. of potassium, magnesium) 
Unusual hair loss 
Tiredness 
Dizziness 
Swelling and fluid retention in the soft tissues (peripheral oedema) 
Soreness and swelling of the digestive tract lining (mucosal inflammation) 
Fever 
Generalised weakness 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
Chills 
Infections, for example fungal infections in the mouth (oral candidiasis), fever with low counts 
of white blood cells (febrile neutropenia), infections related to the administration of the product 
into a vein 
Inflammation of the stomach and the guts (gastroenteritis) 
Systemic body inflammation, caused by infection (sepsis) 
Potentially life-threatening complication of whole body inflammation (septic shock) 
Infection of the lungs (pneumonia) 
Low level of white blood cells subtype, called lymphocytes with important function for the 
immune system (lymphopenia) 
Decrease in some salts (electrolytes) in the body (e.g. phosphate, sodium) 
Low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia) 
Sleeplessness 
Bad taste in the mouth 
A syndrome called cholinergic syndrome with sweating, salivation and abdominal cramping 
Low blood pressure (hypotension) 
Formation of a blood clot in a deep vein (deep vein thrombosis) or blockage of the main artery 
of the lung or one of its branches (pulmonary embolism), or blockage due to a blood clot 
elsewhere in the blood stream (embolism) 
Voice impairment, hoarse or excessively breathy voice 
Shortness of breath 
Inflammation in the gut 
Piles(haemorrhoids) 
Increases in liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase) in 
laboratory blood tests 
Increase in bilirubin levels (an orange-yellow pigment, waste product of the normal breakdown 
of the red blood cells) in other laboratory measurements related to liver function 
Increase in other laboratory measurements (increased international normalized ratio) related to 
the blood clotting system function 
Abnormally low blood levels of albumin (major protein in the body) 
Itching 
Sudden problems with kidney function which may lead to rapid deterioration or loss of the 
kidney function 
Abnormal reaction to the infusion causing symptoms like shortness of breath, flushing, 
headache, tightness in the chest or throat 
Abnormal fluid retention in the body causing swelling in the affected tissues (oedema) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
Systemic body inflammation, caused by infection of the gall bladder and bile ducts (biliary 
sepsis) 
Allergic reaction to ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal (the active substance or the excipients) 
Diminished availability of oxygen to the body tissues 
Inflammation of the oesophagus (food pipe) 
Formation or presence of a blood clot within a blood vessel – vein or artery (thrombosis) 
Inflammation of the lining of the rectum (the end of the large intestine) 
Hives (swollen red bumps)  
35 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Skin rash  
Type of rash, characterised by appearance of a flat, red area on the skin covered with bumps 
(maculo-papular rash) 
Change in the colour of the nail plates 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
Reddening of the skin  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Once the concentrate has been diluted for infusion with 5% glucose solution for injection or sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, the dispersion should be used as soon as possible, but 
may be stored at ambient temperature (15°C to 25°C) for up to 6 hours. The diluted dispersion for 
infusion can be stored in the refrigerator (2°C - 8°C) for no more than 24 hours prior to use. It must be 
protected from light, and it must not be frozen. 
Do not throw away this medicine via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is irinotecan. One 10 ml vial of concentrate contains 43 mg irinotecan 
anhydrous free base (as sucrosofate salt in a pegylated liposomal formulation).  
The other ingredients are: 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DSPC); cholesterol, 
N-(carbonyl-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-1,2-distearoly-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolam
ine (MPEG-2000-DSPE); sucrose 
octasulphate; 2- [4- (2-Hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES buffer); 
sodium chloride and water for injections. ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal contains sodium, if 
you are on a controlled sodium diet, see section 2. 
What ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal looks like and contents of the pack 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is supplied as a white to slightly yellow opaque isotonic liposomal 
dispersion in a glass vial. 
Each pack contains one vial with 10 ml of concentrate. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Les Laboratoires Servier 
50, rue Carnot 
92284 Suresnes cedex 
France 
Manufacturer 
Les Laboratoires Servier Industrie 
905 Route de Saran 
45520 Gidy  
France  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
S.A. Servier Benelux N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 529 43 11 
България 
Сервие Медикал ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 921 57 00 
Česká republika 
Servier s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 222 118 111 
Danmark 
Servier Danmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 36 44 22 60 
Deutschland 
Servier Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)89 57095 01 
Eesti 
Servier Laboratories OÜ  
Tel:+ 372 664 5040 
Lietuva 
UAB “SERVIER PHARMA” 
Tel: +370 (5) 2 63 86 28 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
S.A. Servier Benelux N.V. 
Tel: +32 (0)2 529 43 11 
Magyarország 
Servier Hungaria Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 238 7799 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Servier Nederland Farma B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0)71 5246700 
Norge 
Servier Danmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 36 44 22 60 
Eλλάδα 
ΣΕΡΒΙΕ ΕΛΛΑΣ ΦΑΡΜΑΚΕΥΤΙΚΗ ΕΠΕ 
Τηλ: + 30 210 939 1000 
Österreich 
Servier Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 (1) 524 39 99 
España 
Laboratorios Servier S.L. 
Tel: + 34 91 748 96 30 
France 
Les Laboratoires Servier 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 55 72 60 00 
Hrvatska 
Servier Pharma, d. o. o. 
Tel: + 385 (0)1 3016 222 
Polska 
Servier Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 (0) 22 594 90 00 
Portugal 
Servier Portugal, Lda 
Tel: + 351 21 312 20 00 
România 
Servier Pharma SRL 
Tel: + 4 021 528 52 80 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Servier Laboratories (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 663 8110 
Ísland 
Servier Laboratories 
c/o Icepharma hf 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Servier Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (06) 669081 
Κύπρος 
CA Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: + 357 22 741 741 
Latvija 
SIA Servier Latvia 
Tel: + 371 67502039 
Slovenija 
Servier Pharma d. o. o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 563 48 11 
Slovenská republika 
Servier Slovensko spol. s r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5920 41 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Servier Finland Oy 
P. /Tel: +358 (0)9 279 80 80 
Sverige 
Servier Sverige AB 
Tel : +46 (0)8 522 508 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Servier Laboratories (Ireland) Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0)1753 666409 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
How to prepare and administer ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is supplied as a sterile liposomal dispersion at a concentration 
of 4.3 mg/ml and must be diluted prior to administration using a needle not larger than 21 
gauge. Dilute with 5% glucose solution for injection or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection to prepare a dispersion of the appropriate dose of ONIVYDE pegylated 
liposomal diluted to a final volume of 500 ml. Mix diluted dispersion by gentle inversion. 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal should be administered before leucovorin followed 
by 5-fluorouracil. ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal must not be administered as a bolus injection 
or an undiluted dispersion. 
Aseptic techniques must be followed during the preparation of the infusion. ONIVYDE 
pegylated liposomal is for single use only. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used as soon as possible after 
dilution. The diluted dispersion for infusion can be stored at ambient temperature 
(15°C to 25°C) for up to 6 hours or in the refrigerator (2ºC - 8ºC) for no more than 24 hours 
prior to use. It must be protected from light, and it must not be frozen. 
Care should be taken to avoid extravasation, and the infusion site should be monitored for signs 
of inflammation. Should extravasation occur, flushing the site with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) solution for injection and/or sterile water and applications of ice are recommended. 
How to handle and dispose of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal 
• 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is a cytotoxic medicine and caution should be exercised in 
handling it. The use of gloves, goggles and protective clothing when handling or administering 
ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal is recommended. If the dispersion contacts the skin, the skin 
should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. If the dispersion contacts 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mucous membranes, they should be flushed thoroughly with water. Pregnant staff should not 
handle ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal considering the cytotoxic nature of the medicine. 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
• 
39 
Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation(s) 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for irinotecan (liposomal 
formulations), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on the Hypersensitivity reactions: Angioedema and 
Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid reaction and Skin reaction (Rash, Urticaria, Erythema and Pruritus) 
from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports and in view of a plausible mechanism of 
action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between irinotecan (liposomal formulations) and 
such reactions to be at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing irinotecan (liposomal formulations) should be amended 
accordingly. 
In view of available data on drug-drug interactions (DDI) with flucytosine as a prodrug for 5-
fluorouracil from the literature and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers 
an interaction between irinotecan (liposomal formulations) and flucytosine to be at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing irinotecan 
(liposomal formulations) should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for irinotecan (liposomal formulations) the CHMP is of 
the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing irinotecan 
(liposomal formulations) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
41 
 
 
 
