Part VI : Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of risk management plan for ONIVYDE (liposomal irinotecan) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  ONIVYDE.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of ONIVYDE, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about ONIVYDE's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
ONIVYDE's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ONIVYDE should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for ONIVYDE should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
ONIVYDE’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
ONIVYDE is authorised for the treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains irinotecan encapsulated in a lipid bilayer vesicle or 
liposome as the active substance and it is given intravenously. 
Further information about the evaluation of ONIVYDE’s benefits can be found in ONIVYDE’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks 
Important risks of ONIVYDE, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about ONIVYDE's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition to  these measures, information  about  adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of ONIVYDE is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of ONIVYDE are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ONIVYDE. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 17. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Thromboembolic events 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Table 18. Important Identified Risk – Thromboembolic Events 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Thromboembolic  events  have  been  reported  in  clinical  trials  and  medical 
literature.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Risk of thromboembolism in cancer patients depends on the tumour type, stage 
of  the  disease,  surgical  intervention,  presence  of  an  indwelling  central  venous 
catheter,  age,  and  a  previous  history  of  thromboembolism.  There  are  no  risk 
factors  specific  to non-liposomal  irinotecan.  Risk  of venous  thromboembolism 
was found to be highest among patients with cancers of the pancreas, brain, and 
lung. However, this can vary widely by cancer type and time since diagnosis. [24] 
Altered  liver  function  may  contribute  to  impaired  coagulation  or  coagulation 
complications.  As  such,  patients  with  liver  disease  maybe  at  greater  risk  for 
thromboembolic events. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 – Table 1, Recommended dose modifications for ONIVYDE. 
SmPC Section 4.4: Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and advised to contact their physician or nurse immediately if 
any such signs or symptoms should occur. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 – Patients should notify their doctor immediately if they have any 
blood clots. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of ONIVYDE. 
II.C.2 Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for ONIVYDE. 
