PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
ONGENTYS/ONTILYV (OPICAPONE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ongentys / Ontilyv. The RMP details 
important risks of Ongentys / Ontilyv, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Ongentys' / Ontilyv’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Ongentys’ / Ontilyv’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ongentys / Ontilyv should 
be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ongentys / Ontilyv should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ongentys' / 
Ontilyv’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ongentys / Ontilyv is authorised as adjunctive therapy to preparations of levodopa/ DOPA 
decarboxylase inhibitors (DDCI) in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose 
motor fluctuations who cannot be stabilised on those combinations (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains opicapone as the active substance and it is given as oral hard capsule. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ongentys’ / Ontilyv’s benefits can be found in 
Ongentys’ / Ontilyv’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ontilyv 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ongentys / Ontilyv, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Ongentys' / Ontilyv’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ongentys / Ontilyv are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ongentys / Ontilyv. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  None 
•  None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ongentys / Ontilyv. 
 
 
 
