Summary of risk management plan for Ontozry 
(cenobamate) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Ontozry.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of 
Ontozry, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information  will be obtained about Ontozry's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ontozry's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Ontozry should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ontozry should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ontozry's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ontozry  is  authorised  for  the  adjunctive  treatment  of  focal  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation in adult patients with epilepsy who have not been adequately controlled despite a history of 
treatment with at least 2 anti-epileptic products (see SmPC for the full indication).  
It contains cenobamate as the active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ontozry’s benefits can be found in Ontozry’s EPAR, including in 
its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ontozry.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ontozry, together with measures to minimise  such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Ontozry's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Ontozry  is  not  yet  available,  it  is  listed  under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ontozry are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use 
of Ontozry. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing 
and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)  
Important potential risks 
Hypersensitivity 
Suicidality (class effect) 
QT shortening 
Reproductive/embryofoetal toxicity 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risk 1: DRESS 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Three cases of DRESS were seen in the clinical development of 
cenobamate in clinical studies with high starting doses and rapid 
titration.  In large safety study designed to mitigate the risk of 
DRESS utilising a lower starting dose and slower titration scheme 
there were no additional cases of DRESS seen in 1340 patients. 
Risk factors and risk groups  Rapid titration and initiating treatment at a higher starting dose.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Warning not to exceed the titration schedule in SmPC 
section 4.2. 
Warning to monitor patients closely for the signs and symptoms 
of DRESS in SmPC Section 4.4 and PL section 2.  
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 4 
Legal status: medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Potenital Risk 1: Hypersensitivity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
In double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, 4 (0.9%) cenobamate 
treated patients and 1 (0.5%) placebo patient experienced 
hypersensitivity reaction. 
For the 4 cenobamate patients, 2 experienced events of drug 
hypersensitivity, 1 experienced an event of hypersensitivity and 1 
experienced an event on eyelid oedema.  The placebo patient 
experienced an event of hypersensitivity. All events were classified 
 
 
 
as mild or moderate severity; there were no other severe adverse 
events indicative of systemic hypersensitivity other than DRESS.   
Overall, the rate of hypersensitivity observed in the clinical studies 
was low and the cases were not severe. However, as hypersensitivity 
can be life-threatening, hypersensitivity is an important potential risk 
of cenobamate. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Rapid titration (weekly or faster titration) of cenobamate and 
initiating treatment at a higher starting dose. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures:  
Warning not to exceed the titration schedule in SmPC section 
4.2. 
Contraindication for patients with hypersensitivity to the active 
ingredient or excipients in SmPC section 4.3 and PL section 2. 
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 4 
Legal status: medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Potential Risk 2: Suicidality (class effect) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In the pooled double-blind studies, rates of suicidal ideation and 
behaviours are similar for patients treated with cenobamate and 
placebo, and in the long-term open-label studies, for many instances 
of suicidal ideation or behaviour there is not enough evidence of 
causality based on the timing of when the patient was treated with 
cenobamate and when the suicidal ideation or behaviour occurred.  
While there is not enough evidence from the clinical studies that 
would support an increased risk for cenobamate of suicidal ideation 
and behaviour as patients with epilepsy have an increased risk, 
suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients 
treated with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) in several indications. A 
meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials of anti-
epileptic medicinal products has also shown a small increased risk of 
suicidal ideation and behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not 
known, but the available data do not exclude the possibility of an 
increased risk for cenobamate.  
Important risk factors identified for suicidality in general for people 
with epilepsy are prior or current psychiatric history and family 
psychiatric history. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Warning to monitor patients for signs of suicidal ideation and 
behaviours and to consider appropriate treatment in SmPC 
section 4.4.  
Guidance for patients (and caregivers of patients) to be advised 
to seek medical advice should signs of suicidal ideation or 
behaviour emerge in SmPC section 4.4 and PL section 2. 
Legal status: medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Potential Risk 3: QT shortening 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
In vitro studies found some potential for effects on the 
cardiovascular system. 
 
 
 
 
 
In healthy volunteers cenobamate showed a dose-dependent 
shortening of the QT interval at the recommended 200 mg/day dose 
(Day 35) and at higher than the clinically recommended 500 mg/day 
dose (Day 63) that were not considered clinically concerning.  
There is presently no substantial evidence of a QT shortening non-
antiarrhythmic drug increasing the risk of repolarization related 
arrhythmias in humans.   
Patients with Familial Short QT Syndrome, a very rare, inherited 
syndrome characterised by syncope, atrial or ventricular fibrillation 
and sudden death in the setting of a short QT interval as measured 
on a 12-lead ECG (Bjerregaard 2018), may be at increased risk. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Contraindication for patients with Familial Short-QT syndrome 
in SmPC Section 4.3 
Warning to use clinical judgment when assessing whether to 
prescribe cenobamate to patients with Familial Short QT 
Syndrome in SmPC Section 4.4. 
Contraindication for the patient not to take cenobamate in case 
of heart problems related to Familial Short QT Syndrome in PL 
Section 2. 
Warning for the patient to inform their doctor if they take any 
medicines which may change the electrical activity of the heart  
in PL Section 2. 
SmPC section 5.1 
Legal status: medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risk 4: Reproductive/embryofoetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Information about using cenobamate during pregnancy is limited.  
Animal studies have shown that cenobamate can affect development 
including decreased body weights, changes in behaviour, and how 
the reproductive system functions. An increase in embryo/foetal 
deaths was also found. 
Women of childbearing potential who are not using an effective 
method of contraception during cenobamate treatment are at risk of 
toxicity to the unborn child. In addition, women of reproductive 
potential concomitantly using oral contraceptives not practising an 
additional or alternative non-hormonal measure of birth control 
during treatment are at risk of toxicity to the unborn child. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Warning for women of reproductive potential concomitantly 
using oral contraceptives to practice additional or alternative 
non-hormonal birth control in SmPC sections 4.5 and 4.6 and 
PL section 2. 
Warning that cenobamate should not be used during pregnancy 
unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment in 
SmPC section 4.6 and PL section 2. 
SmPC section 5.3 
Legal status: medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
EURAP - An International Registry of Antiepileptic Drugs and 
Pregnancy 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Ontozry. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
EURAP - An International Registry of Antiepileptic Drugs and Pregnancy 
Purpose of the study:  
The primary goal is to  compare  the risk of major congenital malformations following maternal intake of 
different antiepileptic drugs and their combinations.  
Secondary  objectives  include  the  evaluation  of  any  specific  pattern  of  foetal  abnormalities,  dose-effect 
relationships, other risk factors. 
List of references in the RMP Public Summary 
Bjerregaard P. Diagnosis and management of short QT syndrome. Heart Rhythm. 2018;15(8):1261-
1267. 
 
 
 
 
 
