PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN  
 
1. 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ONUREG 
(ORAL AZACITIDINE) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for oral azacitidine (Onureg). The RMP 
details important risks of Onureg, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Onureg’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Onureg’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Onureg should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Onureg should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Onureg’s 
RMP. 
1.1. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Onureg is indicated as maintenance therapy in adult patients with acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML) who achieved complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood 
count recovery (CRi) following induction therapy with or without consolidation treatment and 
who are not candidates for, including those who choose not to proceed to, haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation (HSCT).  
See SmPC for the full indication. It contains azacitidine as the active substance and it is given by 
oral route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Onureg’s benefits can be found in the EPAR for 
Onureg, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
[link to EPAR to be added once available]. 
1.2. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Onureg, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Onureg’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Onureg is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
1.3. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Onureg are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Onureg. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified and potential risks, together with missing information, are summarised in 
Table 1. 
Table 1: 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks: 
 
Infections 
Important Potential Risks: 
Missing Information: 
  None 
  None 
1.4. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2: 
Infections 
Important Identified Risk 
Evidence for 
linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors 
and risk 
groups 
In the clinical study in AML maintenance (CC-486-AML-001), serious adverse reactions 
were reported in patients receiving oral azacitidine. 
Risk factors include chemotherapy-induced immunosuppression, myelosuppression, stem cell 
transplant, and graft-versus-host disease.  
There is the potential risk of re-activation of latent viruses, including Epstein-Barr virus, in 
patients who become immunocompromised secondary to disease or treatment with anticancer 
agents that can affect the host immune system. A study by Chan and colleagues found that 
expression of previously silent viral antigens observed in 1viral antigen (Zta) was detected in 
only 1 of the study’s 10 patients, and this re-expression did not result in clinical infection or 
the development of secondary EBV malignancy (Chan, 2004). In higher-risk patients with 
MDS (> 10% blasts), there is a high rate of transformation to AML or progressive bone 
marrow failure, which can lead to infection (Fukumoto, 2005). However, in an international, 
multicentre, controlled, open-label, randomised, parallel-group, Phase 3 comparative study, 
azacitidine treatment was associated with a reduction in cytopenias, and their related 
symptoms (Section 5.1 of the SmPC for azacitidine for injection). An examination of the  
Table 2: 
Infections (Continued) 
Important Identified Risk 
azacitidine safety database did not reveal any case reports linking treatment, viral reactivation 
(for example EBV) and the development of clinical disease, including non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma. 
Risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC — Dose recommendations are provided. 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC — Advice regarding management of infections is provided. 
Section 4.8 of the SmPC — Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) of infections are listed. 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None. 
1.5. 
Postauthorisation Development Plan 
1.5.1. 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or a specific obligation 
of Onureg.  
1.5.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorisation Development Plan 
There are no required additional pharmacovigilance activities for Onureg.  
 
