EMA/550989/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Opatanol  
olopatadine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000407/P46/019 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Rapporteur’s CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation .................. 9 
4. Additional clarification requested .......................................................... 10 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 2/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On the 13th April 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Opatanol 1 mg/ml eye 
drops solution in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that Study C-07-01 a Phase III, multi-centre, randomized, double-masked, vehicle-
controlled, parallel-group study to assess the safety and efficacy of olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% 
nasal spray in pediatric patients aged 6 to 11 years with seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR), when 
administered  twice  daily  (BID)  for  2 weeks is a stand - alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The pharmaceutical form used in the study was olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 
Olopatadine hydrochloride for nasal use was approved in the US on 18-Apr-2008. It has not been 
registered in any other country for nasal use. The product is available as olopatadine hydrochloride 
0.6% (i.e. 6.65 mg/mL) intranasal spray and is registered for the relief of the symptoms of seasonal 
allergic rhinitis in adults and children 6 years of age and older. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
•  Study C-07-01 
•  A Phase III, multi-centre randomized, double-masked, vehicle-controlled, parallel-group 
study to assess the safety and efficacy of olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray in 
paediatric patients aged 6 to 11 years with seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR), when 
administered  twice  daily  (BID)  for  2 weeks. 
Clinical study number and title 
•  Study C-07-01 
A Phase III, multi-centre, randomized, double-masked, vehicle-controlled, parallel-group 
study to assess the safety and efficacy of olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray in 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 3/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
paediatric patients aged 6 to 11 years with seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR), when 
administered  twice  daily  (BID)  for  2 weeks.   
Description 
The purpose of study C-07-01 was to assess the safety and efficacy of olopatadine hydrochloride 
0.6% nasal spray in pediatric patients aged 6 to 11 years. The estimated target sample size was 
1000 patients. The  study  started  on  28-Sep-2007  (first  patient first visit) and completed on 24-Nov-
2008 (last patient last visit). The study was conducted in 173 study centres in the United States. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the superiority of olopatadine hydrochloride 
0.6% nasal spray compared to vehicle (i.e. placebo) in patients with SAR, when given as 1 or 2 sprays 
per nostril BID for 2 weeks. 
Study design 
The study consisted of a vehicle run-in period and a randomized treatment period. The vehicle run-in 
period was 4 to 16 days in duration and was single (patient) masked. During the vehicle run-in period, 
patients received 1 spray  of vehicle  per nostril daily, and assessments (including scoring of nasal 
symptoms) were completed in the same manner as during the treatment period. At the end of the 
run-in period, the patient’s nasal symptoms scores were reviewed. Only those patients who achieved 
a reflective total nasal symptom score (rTNSS) score of  ≥ 36 units (the  sum  of the rTNSS scores 
from 3 of the 4 calendar days immediately prior to randomization (Visit 2)) were eligible for 
randomization. Eligible patients were randomized to 1 of the following 4 treatment groups: 
•  Olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 1 spray per nostril, 
•  Olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 2 sprays per nostril, 
•  Olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle 1 spray per nostril, 
•  Olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle 2 sprays per nostril. 
Study population /Sample size 
Of the 1188 patients evaluable for the ITT data set, all patients were 6 to 11 years of age, with more 
patients  in  the  9  to  11  years  age  group  than  in  the  6  to  8  years  age  group  (59.2%  vs. 
40.8%). There were more males than females (57.8% vs. 42.2%) and the majority of patients were 
White (72.7%). There were no notable differences across the treatment groups with regard to 
demographic characteristics ,including age, sex, race, and ethnicity. 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 4/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
•  olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray  
•  olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle 
During the randomized double-masked treatment period, treatment was administered for ≥ 2 weeks, 
BID  (morning  (AM)  and  evening  (PM)).  The  randomized  treatment  period  was approximately 16 
days in duration; however, only the first 14 consecutive days of treatment where patients had both 
AM and PM assessments were analysed for each patient. Parents/caregivers were instructed to 
complete the AM allergy symptom ratings prior to administration of the AM dose, and to complete 
the PM allergy symptom ratings prior to the PM dose, and to maintain a 12-hour dosing interval 
between the AM and PM doses. There were  2  scheduled  post-randomization  visits:  a  telephone 
contact  (Visit  3;  7  ±  1  day  from Visit 2) and an office visit (Visit 4; 16 + 7 days from Visit 2). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the percent change from baseline in the rTNSS, calculated as the 
average of the AM and PM reflective (how the patient felt for the last 12 hours) severity scores for 
the sum of the assessments of the patient’s runny nose, stuffy nose, itchy nose, and sneezing 
(averaged across 14 days). The reflective severity scores for runny nose, stuffy nose, itchy nose, 
and sneezing were evaluated twice daily while on study medication via a patient diary, using a 4-
unit rating scale (i.e. 0 = none, 1  = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe). Analysis of covariance was 
used to compare percent changes from baseline between olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal 
spray (1 spray per nostril or 2 sprays per nostril) and the corresponding dose  of olopatadine 
hydrochloride  nasal spray  vehicle  (1 or 2 sprays   per nostril). Analyses were conducted on all data 
sets, but the primary inference was based on the ITT data set. 
The key secondary efficacy variable was the percent change from baseline in the reflective total   
ocular symptom score (rTOSS), calculated as the average of the AM and PM reflective severity 
scores for the sum of the assessments of the patient’s itchy eyes and watery eyes (averaged across 
14 days). 
The safety variables analysed included extent of exposure to study medication, nasal examination 
parameters (significant anatomic abnormalities, evidence of infection, and bleeding and ulcerations 
of the mucosa), general physical examination parameters (head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat 
(HEENT), neck, cardiovascular, pulmonary, abdomen, skin, and extremities, neurological, and lymph 
nodes), cardiovascular parameters (pulse, systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure), and 
adverse events (AEs). 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 5/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Methods 
The following datasets were used for the statistical analysis: 
•  All patients who received ≥ 1 dose of study drug were evaluable for the safety analyses. 
•  All patients who received study drug and  had ≥ 1 on-therapy visit were  evaluable for the 
intent-to-treat (ITT) analyses. 
•  All  patients  who  received  study  drug,  had  ≥ 1  on-therapy  visit,  and  met  inclusion  and 
exclusion criteria were evaluable for the per-protocol (PP) analyses. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 2388 patients were screened for possible study participation and were given olopatadine 
hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle to administer as run-in treatment. Of   these,   1200 patients  
failed   screening   for   the   following   reasons: insufficient  diary  score  (836 patients),  protocol  
violation  (186 patients),  lost  to  follow-up (63 patients),  AEs  (54 patients),  patient  decision 
unrelated  to  an  AE  (53 patients),  and  other reasons (8 patients), as presented.  
The remaining 1188 patients  were  enrolled into the randomized  treatment  period as follows: 
298 patients in the olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 1 spray per nostril group, 
297 patients in the olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle 1 spray per nostril group 
296 patients in the olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 2 sprays per nostril group, 
297 patients  in  the  olopatadine  hydrochloride  nasal  spray  vehicle  2  sprays  per  nostril group. 
Of the 1188 randomized patients, a total of 53 patients were discontinued prematurely for the 
following   reasons:   AEs   (20 patients),   treatment   failure   (17 patients),     lost   to   follow-up (4 
patients), decision unrelated to an AE (4 patients), protocol violation (4 patients), and other reasons 
(4 patients). 
Baseline data 
Efficacy results 
Primary analysis – Percent change from baseline in reflective total nasal symptom 
score 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 6/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rTNSS was calculated as the average of the AM and PM reflective (how the patient felt since the 
last symptom assessment) severity scores for the sum of the assessments of the patient’s runny 
nose, stuffy nose, itchy nose, and sneezing (averaged across 14 days). 
Olopatadine  hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray, administered as 2 sprays per nostril, was superior to the 
corresponding dose  of  olopatadine  hydrochloride  nasal  spray  vehicle (p = 0.0120) for the percent 
change from baseline in the rTNSS for the ITT data set. 
Comparison  involving  1  spray  per  nostril  was  consistent  with  that  involving 2 sprays per nostril, 
indicating that patients receiving the active treatment had notably greater percent  change  from 
baseline  in  the  rTNSS  compared  to  the  corresponding  dose  of  vehicle 
(p = 0.0007). 
The results obtained for the PP  data  set were similar to those for the ITT data set. 
Key secondary analysis – Percent change from baseline in reflective total ocular 
symptom score 
The rTOSS was calculated as the average of the  AM and PM reflective (how the patient felt for the 
last 12 hours) severity scores for the sum of the assessments of the patient’s itchy eyes and watery 
eyes (averaged across 14 days). 
Olopatadine  hydrochloride  0.6%  nasal  spray,  administered  as  2  sprays  per  nostril,  was superior  
to   the   corresponding   dose   of   olopatadine   hydrochloride   nasal   spray   vehicle (p = 0.0010) for 
the percent change from baseline in the rTOSS for the ITT data set. 
Comparison  involving  1  spray  per  nostril  was  consistent  with  that  involving 
2 sprays per nostril, indicating that patients receiving the active treatment had notably greater 
percent  change  from  baseline  in  the  rTOSS  compared  to  the  corresponding  dose  of  vehicle (p = 
0.0084). 
The other secondary analyses confirmed the results of the primary analysis. 
Olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray, administered as 2 sprays per nostril, was notably 
different (i.e. greater improvement from baseline) compared to the 2 sprays per nostril vehicle. 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 7/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety results 
The  safety  evaluation  was  conducted  on  all  patients  who  received  ≥ 1  dose  of  olopatadine 
hydrochloride nasal spray vehicle during the run-in period of the study (overall safety population), 
and separately  for  all  patients  randomized  to  study  medication  (randomized safety population). 
No notable differences were observed across the treatment groups with regard to mean duration of 
exposure to study drug. The  majority  of  patients  (i.e.  66.4%  to  67.9%)  in  all  treatment groups 
were exposed to the study drug for > 16 days.  
Nasal examinations were performed at Visit 1 (screening/baseline), Visit 2, and Visit 4 (exit). The 
post-baseline nasal examinations consisted of 2 parts: an initial examination of the nasal cavity 
(Section A) and a follow-up examination of positive findings from the initial examination  (Section  B). 
Any  clinically  relevant  change  (absent  to  present)  from  Visit 1  in any nasal examination parameter 
was reported as an AE. 
Overall, a review of the changes from baseline in the physical examination parameters revealed no 
safety issues and no clinically relevant differences were observed among the treatment groups. 
The majority of patients in all treatment groups experienced some changes (increases or decreases) 
in cardiovascular parameters from baseline values to exit visit or to any visit; however,  these 
fluctuations  were  attributed  to  normal  inter-patient  variability  and  were  not considered to be 
clinically significant. Overall, based upon the analysis of the cardiovascular parameters (pulse rate, 
systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure), no safety issues were identified 
Adverse event profile 
Overall, 298 of 2388 patients (12.5%) had an AE during the vehicle run-in period and 292 of 
1188 patients (24.6%) had an AE during the randomized treatment period. The frequency of AEs 
during the randomized treatment period was similar among patients treated with either olopatadine 
hydrochloride  0.6%  nasal  spray  groups  (1  spray  group:  25.2%;  2  sprays  group: 
27.0%) and their corresponding vehicle groups (1 spray group: 21.9%; 2 sprays group: 24.2%) 
During the vehicle run-in period, the most frequently reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs; i.e. 
AEs that were considered to be related to the study treatment) were epistaxis (13 patients; 
0.5%) and headache (6 patients; 0.3%). The remaining ADRs, reported in ≤ 4 patients, included 
nasal discomfort, dysgeusia, dry throat, nasal ulcer, pharyngolaryngeal pain, and throat irritation. 
During the randomized treatment period, epistaxis and dysgeusia were the most commonly reported 
ADRs. Epistaxis was reported in all treatment groups, occurring at an incidence rate of 1.7% to 3.0%. 
Dysgeusia was reported in all treatment groups except the olopatadine hydrochloride  nasal  spray 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 8/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vehicle  1 spray  group,  occurring  at  an  incidence  rate  of  0.3%  to 1.4%. The remaining ADRs were 
reported in ≤ 1% of patients in any of the treatment groups. 
No deaths were reported during the  study.  During the vehicle run-in period, 1 patient experienced a 
serious adverse event (SAE) of vasovagal syncope that was assessed as not related to study 
medication and the patient discontinued participation in the study due to this event prior to any 
exposure to randomized study medication. No other SAEs were reported during the course of the 
study. 
2.3.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Based upon a review of AEs and an assessment of nasal, general physical, and cardiovascular 
parameters,  no  safety issues  were  identified  in  the  population  of  pediatric  patients  aged  6  to 
11 years with SAR administered olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray 1 or 2 sprays per nostril  
BID  or  corresponding  dose  of  olopatadine  hydrochloride  nasal  spray  vehicle  for 
2 weeks. 
Olopatadine  hydrochloride  0.6%  nasal  spray,  administered  as  2  sprays  per  nostril  BID  for 
2 weeks,  was  found  to  be  superior  to  the  corresponding  dose  of  olopatadine  hydrochloride nasal 
spray vehicle for the treatment of SAR in pediatric patients 6 to 11 years of age. 
3.  Rapporteur’s CHMP overall conclusion and 
recommendation 
In conclusion, the benefit-risk assessment for olopatadine hydrochloride 0.6% nasal spray remains 
positive for the currently approved indications outlined in the CCDS and justifies the continued use of 
the product in the approved paediatric patient populations. 
No changes to the paediatric information of the current olopatadine hydrochloride CCDS or the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  of  the  approved  Opatanol 1 mg/ml eye drops solution  in the 
EU are proposed as a result of this study. Olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray is not registered in 
the EU. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 9/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
N/A 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Active substance: 
Study title 
Study number  Date of completion 
Date of submission of final study report 
Clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Active substance: 
Study title 
Study number  Date of completion 
Date of submission of final study report 
EMA/550989/2018  
Page 10/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
