ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Opatanol 1 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One mL of solution contains 1 mg olopatadine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Benzalkonium chloride 0.1 mg/ml. 
Disodium phosphate dodecahydrate (E339) 12.61 mg/ml (equivalent to 3.34 mg/ml of phosphates). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, solution (eye drops). 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of ocular signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The dose is one drop of Opatanol in the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) twice daily (8 hourly). 
Treatment may be maintained for up to four months, if considered necessary. 
Use in elderly 
No dosage adjustment in elderly patients is necessary. 
Paediatric patients 
Opatanol may be used in paediatric patients three years of age and older at the same dose as in adults. 
The safety and efficacy of Opatanol in children aged under 3 years has not been established. No data 
are available. 
Use in hepatic and renal impairment 
Olopatadine in the form of eye drops (Opatanol) has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic 
disease. However, no dosage adjustment is expected to be necessary in hepatic or renal impairment 
(see section 5.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
For ocular use only. 
After the bottle cap is removed, if the tamper evident snap collar is loose, remove before using the 
product. To prevent contamination of the dropper tip and solution, care must be taken not to touch the 
eyelids, surrounding areas, or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. Keep the bottle tightly 
closed when not in use. 
In case of concomitant therapy with other topical ocular medicines, an interval of five minutes should 
be allowed between successive applications. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Opatanol is an antiallergic/antihistaminic agent and, although administered topically, is absorbed 
systemically. If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur, discontinue the use of this 
treatment. 
Opatanol contains benzalkonium chloride which may cause eye irritation. 
Benzalkonium chloride has also been reported to cause punctate keratopathy and/or toxic ulcerative 
keratopathy. Close monitoring is required with frequent or prolonged use in dry eye patients, or in 
conditions where the cornea is compromised. 
Contact lenses 
Benzalkonium is known to discolour soft contact lenses. Avoid contact with soft contact lenses. 
Patients should be instructed to remove contact lenses prior to administration of the eye drop and wait 
at least15 minutes after instillation before re-inserting contact lenses. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies with other medicinal products have been performed. 
In vitro studies have shown that olopatadine did not inhibit metabolic reactions which involve 
cytochrome P-450 isozymes 1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. These results indicate that 
olopatadine is unlikely to result in metabolic interactions with other concomitantly administered active 
substances. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of ophthalmic olopatadine in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity following systemic administration (see 
section 5.3). 
Olopatadine is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
Available data in animals have shown excretion of olopatadine in milk following oral administration 
(for details see section 5.3). 
A risk to the newborn/infants cannot be excluded. 
Opatanol should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
Studies have not been performed to evaluate the effect of topical ocular administration of olopatadine 
on human fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Opatanol has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
As with any eye drop, temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may affect the ability to 
drive or use machines. If blurred vision occurs at instillation, the patient must wait until the vision 
clears before driving or using machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
In clinical studies involving 1680 patients, Opatanol was administered one to four times daily in both 
eyes for up to four months as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy to loratadine 10 mg. Approximately 
4.5% of patients can be expected to experience adverse reactions associated with the use of Opatanol; 
however, only 1.6% of patients discontinued from the clinical studies due to these adverse reactions. 
No serious ophthalmic or systemic adverse reactions related to Opatanol were reported in clinical 
studies. The most frequent treatment-related adverse reaction was eye pain, reported at an overall 
incidence of 0.7%. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported during clinical studies and post-marketing data 
and are classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common 
(≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1000)very rare (<1/10,000) 
or not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
System Organ Classification 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic, and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Common 
Not known 
Adverse Reactions 
rhinitis 
hypersensitivity, swelling face 
headache, dysgeusia 
dizziness, hypoaesthesia 
somnolence 
eye pain, eye irritation, dry eye, abnormal 
sensation in eyes 
corneal erosion, corneal epithelium 
defect, corneal epithelium disorder, 
punctate keratitis, keratitis, corneal 
staining, eye discharge, photophobia, 
vision blurred, visual acuity reduced, 
blepharospasm, ocular discomfort, eye 
pruritus, conjunctival follicles, 
conjunctival disorder, foreign body 
sensation in eyes, lacrimation increased, 
erythema of eyelid, eyelid oedema, eyelid 
disorder, ocular hyperaemia 
corneal oedema, eye oedema, eye 
swelling, conjunctivitis, mydriasis, visual 
disturbance, eyelid margin crusting 
nasal dryness 
dyspnoea, sinusitis 
nausea, vomiting, 
dermatitis contact, skin burning sensation, 
dry skin 
dermatitis, erythema 
fatigue 
asthenia, malaise 
Cases of corneal calcification have been reported very rarely in association with the use of phosphate 
containing eye drops in some patients with significantly damaged corneas. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
No data are available in humans regarding overdose by accidental or deliberate ingestion. Olopatadine 
has a low order of acute toxicity in animals. Accidental ingestion of the entire contents of a bottle of 
Opatanol would deliver a maximum systemic exposure of 5 mg olopatadine. This exposure would 
result in a final dose of 0.5 mg/kg in a 10 kg infant, assuming 100% absorption. 
Prolongation of the QTc interval in dogs was observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in 
excess of the maximum human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use. A 5 mg oral dose 
was administered twice-daily for 2.5 days to 102 young and elderly male and female healthy 
volunteers with no significant prolongation of QTc interval compared to placebo. The range of peak 
steady-state olopatadine plasma concentrations (35 to 127 ng/ml) seen in this study represents at least 
a 70-fold safety margin for topical olopatadine with respect to effects on cardiac repolarisation. 
In the case of overdose, appropriate monitoring and management of the patient should be 
implemented. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: ophthalmologicals; decongestant and antiallergics; other antiallergics, 
ATC code: S01GX 09 
Olopatadine is a potent selective antiallergic/antihistaminic agent that exerts its effects through 
multiple distinct mechanisms of action. It antagonises histamine (the primary mediator of allergic 
response in humans) and prevents histamine induced inflammatory cytokine production by human 
conjunctival epithelial cells. Data from in vitro studies suggest that it may act on human conjunctival 
mast cells to inhibit the release of pro-inflammatory mediators. In patients with patent nasolacrimal 
ducts, topical ocular administration of Opatanol was suggested to reduce the nasal signs and symptoms 
that frequently accompany seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. It does not produce a clinically significant 
change in pupil diameter. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Olopatadine is absorbed systemically, as are other topically administered medicinal products. 
However, systemic absorption of topically applied olopatadine is minimal with plasma concentrations 
ranging from below the assay quantitation limit (<0.5 ng/ml) up to 1.3 ng/ml. These concentrations are 
50-to 200-fold lower than those following well tolerated oral doses. 
Elimination 
From oral pharmacokinetic studies, the half-life of olopatadine in plasma was approximately eight to 
12 hours, and elimination was predominantly through renal excretion. Approximately 60-70% of the 
dose was recovered in the urine as active substance. Two metabolites, the mono-desmethyl and the N-
oxide, were detected at low concentrations in the urine. 
Since olopatadine is excreted in urine primarily as unchanged active substance, impairment of renal 
function alters the pharmacokinetics of olopatadine with peak plasma concentrations 2.3-fold greater 
in patients with severe renal impairment (mean creatinine clearance of 13.0 ml/min) compared to 
healthy adults. Following a 10 mg oral dose in patients undergoing haemodialysis (with no urinary 
output), plasma olopatadine concentrations were significantly lower on the haemodialysis day than on 
the non-haemodialysis day suggesting olopatadine can be removed by haemodialysis. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies comparing the pharmacokinetics of 10 mg oral doses of olopatadine in young (mean age 
21 years) and elderly (mean age 74 years) showed no significant differences in the plasma 
concentrations (AUC), protein binding or urinary excretion of unchanged parent drug and metabolites. 
A renal impairment study after oral dosing of olopatadine has been performed in patients with severe 
renal impairment. The results indicate that a somewhat higher plasma concentration can be expected 
with Opatanol in this population. Since plasma concentrations following topical ocular dosing of 
olopatadine are 50-to 200-fold lower than after well-tolerated oral doses, dose adjustment is not 
expected to be necessary in the elderly or in the renally impaired population. Liver metabolism is a 
minor route of elimination. Dose adjustment is not expected to be necessary with hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety, 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and toxicity to 
reproduction. 
Studies in animals have shown reduced growth of nursing pups of dams receiving systemic doses of 
olopatadine well in excess of the maximum level recommended for human ocular use. Olopatadine has 
been detected in the milk of nursing rats following oral administration. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Sodium chloride 
Disodium phosphate dodecahydrate (E339) 
Hydrochloric acid (E507) (to adjust pH) 
Sodium hydroxide (E524) (to adjust pH) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf-life 
3 years. 
Shelf-life after first opening 
Discard four weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and content of container 
5 ml opaque low density polyethylene bottles with polypropylene screw caps. 
Cartons containing 1 or 3 bottles. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/02/217/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 May 2002 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2007 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Names and addresses of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOX OF 1 BOTTLE + BOX OF 3 BOTTLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Opatanol 1 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
olopatadine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
1 mL of solution contains 1 mg olopatadine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Benzalkonium chloride, sodium chloride, disodium phosphate dodecahydrate, hydrochloric 
acid/sodium hydroxide and purified water. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Eye drops, solution 
1 x 5 mL 
3 x 5 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For ocular use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard four weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2): 
Opened (3): 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/02/217/001 
EU/1/02/217/002 
1 x5 ml 
3 x 5 ml 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Opatanol 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Opatanol 1 mg/mL eye drops 
olopatadine 
For ocular use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard four weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 mL 
6 
OTHER 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Opatanol 1 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
olopatadine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Opatanol is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Opatanol 
3.  How to use Opatanol 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Opatanol 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Opatanol is and what it is used for 
Opatanol is used for the treatment of signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. 
Allergic conjunctivitis. Some materials (allergens) like pollens, house dust or animal fur may cause 
allergic reactions resulting in itching, redness as well as swelling of the surface of your eye. 
Opatanol is a medicine for treatment of allergic conditions of the eye. It works by reducing the 
intensity of the allergic reaction. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Opatanol 
Do not use Opatanol 
• 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to olopatadine or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
You should not use Opatanol if you are breast-feeding. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Opatanol. 
You should remove contact lenses that are in your eyes before using Opatanol. 
Children 
Do not use Opatanol in children under the age of 3 years. Do not give this medicine to children under 
the ages of 3 years because there is no data to indicate that it is safe and work in children under 
3 years. 
Other medicines and Opatanol 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
If you are using other eye drops or eye ointment medicines, leave at least 5 minutes between each 
medicine. Eye ointments should be administered last. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a 
baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
You should not use Opatanol if you are breast-feeding, ask your doctor for advice before using this 
medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
You may find that your vision is blurred for a time just after you use Opatanol. Do not drive or use 
machines until this has worn off. 
Opatanol contains Benzalkonium chloride 
This medicine contains 0.5 mg benzalkonium chloride in each 5 ml which is equivalent to 0.1 mg/ml. 
The preservative in Opatanol, benzalkonium chloride, may be absorbed by soft contact lenses and may 
change the colour of the contact lenses. You should remove contact lenses before using this medicine 
and put them back 15 minutes afterwards. 
Benzalkonium chloride may also cause eye irritation, especially if you have dry eyes or disorders of 
the cornea (the clear layer at the front of the eye). If you feel abnormal eye sensation, stinging or pain 
in the eye after using this medicine, talk to your doctor. 
Opatanol contains Disodium Phosphate Dodecahydrate 
This medicine contains 16.72 mg phosphates (in 63.05 mg disodium phosphate dodecahydrate) in each 
bottle of 5 ml, which is equivalent to 3.34 mg/ml. 
If you suffer from severe damage to the clear layer at the front of the eye (the cornea), phosphates may 
cause in very rare cases cloudy patches on the cornea due to calcium build-up during treatment. 
3. 
How to use Opatanol 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one drop in the eye or eyes, twice a day, morning and evening. 
Use this much unless your doctor tells you to do differently. Only use Opatanol in both eyes if your 
doctor told you to. Use it for as long as your doctor told you to. 
Opatanol should only be used as an eye drop. 
TURN THE PAGE FOR MORE ADVICE. 
Now turn over. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to use Opatanol (continued) 
1 
2 
How much to use 
see side 1 
Get the Opatanol bottle and a mirror. 
• 
•  Wash your hands. 
• 
• 
Take the bottle and twist off the cap. 
After cap is removed, if the tamper evident snap collar is loose, remove before using the 
product. 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and middle finger. 
Tilt your head back. Pull down your eyelid with a clean finger, until there is a ‘pocket’ between 
the eyelid and your eye. The drop will go in here (picture 1). 
Bring the bottle tip close to the eye. Use the mirror if it helps. 
Don’t touch your eye or eyelid, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It could 
infect the drops left in the bottle. 
Gently press on the base of the bottle to release one drop of Opatanol at a time. 
Don’t squeeze the bottle, it is designed so that just a gentle press on the bottom is needed 
(picture 2). 
If you use drops in both eyes, repeat the steps for your other eye. 
Put the bottle cap back on firmly immediately after use. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If a drop misses your eye, try again. 
If you use more Opatanol than you should 
Rinse it all out with warm water. Do not put in any more drops until it’s time for your next regular 
dose. 
If you forget to use Opatanol 
Use a single drop as soon as you remember, and then go back to your regular dosing routine. 
However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose before going back to your 
regular dosing routine. Do not use a double dose to make up for the one missed. 
If you stop using Opatanol 
Do not stop using this medicine without first speaking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects have been seen with Opatanol: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Effects in the eye: 
Eye pain, eye irritation, dry eye, abnormal eye sensation, eye discomfort. 
General side effects 
Headache, fatigue, dry nose, bad taste. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Effects in the eye 
Blurred, reduced, or abnormal vision, corneal disorder, eye surface inflammation with or without 
surface damage, inflammation or infection of the conjunctiva, eye discharge, sensitivity to light, 
increased tear production, itchy eye, redness of the eye, eyelid abnormality, itching, redness, swelling, 
or crusting of the eyelid. 
General side effects 
Abnormal or decreased sensation, dizziness, runny nose, dry skin, skin inflammation. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Effects in the eye 
Eye swelling, corneal swelling, change in pupil size. 
General side effects 
Shortness of breath, increased allergic symptoms, facial swelling, drowsiness, generalized weakness, 
nausea, vomiting, sinus infection, skin redness and itching. 
In very rare cases, some patients with severe damage to the clear layer at the front of the eye (the 
cornea) have developed cloudy patches on the cornea due to calcium build-up during treatment. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Opatanol 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and the box after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
You should throw away the bottle four weeks after you first opened it to prevent infections, and use a 
new bottle. Write down the date you opened it in the space on each bottle label and box. 
Do not throw away medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
Content of the pack and other information 
What Opatanol contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is olopatadine. Each mL of solution contains 1 mg of olopatadine (as 
hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are benzalkonium chloride, sodium chloride, disodium phosphate 
dodecahydrate (E339), hydrochloric acid (E507) and/or sodium hydroxide (E524) and purified 
water. 
What Opatanol looks like and contents of the pack 
Opatanol is a clear and colourless liquid (a solution) supplied in a pack containing either one 5 ml 
bottle or three 5 ml plastic bottles with screw caps. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.emea.europa.eu/ 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
