This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Opatanol.    For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Allergic conjunctivitis is an allergen induced inflammatory response, which usually affects adults between 
20  and  40  years  of  age.    Patients  may  be  allergic  to  substances  such  as  airborne  allergens,  drugs, 
cosmetics or contact lens products although the specific cause may not always be found.  Upon exposure 
to a specific allergen, allergic patients elicit a hypersensitivity response, which may take minutes or even 
days  to  manifest.    Symptoms  and  signs  of  allergic  conjunctivitis  include  itching  (either  intermittent  or 
constant)  located  under  the  superior  eyelid  or  inner  canthus,  injection  (redness,  hyperaemia)  of 
conjunctiva, chemosis, discharge and tearing.  Intermittent episodes may evolve into constant symptoms 
and an associated rhinitis may occur.   
Seasonal allergic conjunctivitis (SAC) and Perennial Allergic Conjunctivitis (PAC) are the most prevalent 
forms of “ allergic conjunctivitis”.  Allergic rhino conjunctivitis accounts for more than half the cases of 
ocular allergy although many patients only present with the ocular symptoms. 
SAC and PAC have been classified as type 1 mast cell dependent IgE mediated immune hypersensitivity 
reactions and exposure to environmental antigens stimulates the immune system to produce specific IgE 
antibodies  which  bind  to  the  surface  of  mast  cells  and  sensitise  them.    With  subsequent  exposure, 
allergens traverse the tear film and come in contact with the sensitised mast cells initiating degranulation 
of  these  cells,  and  so  release  of  the  chemical  mediators  responsible  for  the  inflammatory  response.  
Histamine is the cardinal mediator responsible for the signs and symptoms of SAC. 
Olopatadine  is  a  new  dibenzoxipine  derivative  developed  initially  for  systemic  treatment  of  allergic 
rhinitis,  urticaria,  and  bronchial  asthma  and  developed  by  this  applicant  as  a  topical  anti-allergic  agent 
(OPATANOL 1  mg/ml eye drops, solution; hereafter referred to as OPATANOL), which is a selective 
antihistamine (at the end organ) and also thought to be an inhibitor of the release of histamine and other 
pro-inflammatory mediators from the mast cell. It is considered to have high affinity for the histamine H1 
receptor and no effect on alpha-adrenergic and serotonin receptors. 
OPATANOL  is  indicated  in  the  treatment  of  ocular  signs  and  symptoms  of  seasonal  allergic 
conjunctivitis. 
The recommended posology is one drop of OPATANOL in the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) 
twice daily (8 hourly). Treatment may be maintained for up to four months, if considered necessary. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
OPATANOL eye drops is a 1mg/ml (0.1%w/v) solution  of olopatadine as the hydrochloride salt.  The 
composition is adequately described and consists of known pharmaceutical excipients routinely used 
in  eye  drop  formulations:  i.e.  sodium  chloride  (tonicity),  benzalkonium  chloride  (preservative, 
equivalent  to  0.01%w/v),  disodium  phosphate  dodecahydrate  (buffering  agent),  hydrochloric  acid 
and/or  sodium  hydroxide  to  adjust  the  pH  and  purified  water  as  the  solvent.    Up  to  3  %  overage  of 
benzalkonium chloride is used to compensate for loss during manufacture.   
The sterile solution is packaged in a 5 ml opaque LDPE bottle with a clear LDPE dispensing plug and 
white polypropylene closure.  The bottle is tamper-evident. 
Active substance 
Olopatadine (INN) is present as the hydrochloride salt.  
Information on this active substance has been provided in the form of an EDMF, with letter of access. 
The synthesis of olopatadine is well established as this product had been marketed in the U.S. for 4 
years at the time of submission of the EU dossier.  The synthetic route is a 5 step process followed by 
a 3 step purification sequence ending in crystallisation from acetone.  Proof of structure has been 
established by means of the usual spectroscopic techniques -  UV, IR, 1H and 13C- NMR and mass 
1/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
spectra. The configuration about the C11 – C1 double bond which determines geometrical isomerism 
was determined by the Nuclear Overhauser Effect (NOE) in the 1H-NMR 13C-NMR spectrum and 
confirmed by X-ray diffraction analysis. 
DSC and Powder X-ray analysis on product recrystallised from a range of solvents indicate that there 
are no polymorphs.  However, polymorphism is not important in this case as olopatadine is in solution 
in the finished product. 
Olopatadine has no chiral centres but can exist as two geometric isomers. The preferred configuration 
for  optimal  pharmacological  activity  is  the  Z-  isomer  (CIP  convention).  The  E-  configuration  is  a 
contaminant and degradant, and is controlled in the active substance at less than 0.1%.   
Active substance specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for identity, assay (HPLC ( 99-101%)) and a number 
of purity tests for related substances ( max. 0.25%), residual acetone ( GC, 1000ppm) etc. Considering 
the use of olopatadine in an ophthalmic product, the specification reasonably also includes a test for 
microbial bioburden (PhEur). 
Batch  analytical  data  are  presented  on  10  production  scale  batches  and  3  development  batches,  all 
indicating compliance with the specification and good uniformity and control of the synthetic process.   
Stability 
The  stability  of  the  active  substance  has  been  investigated  under  stressed  conditions  which  indicate 
that it is resistant except under high stress. Potential degradants are the E- isomer , another degradant 
which is only formed under highly stressed conditions (in solution at pH 10, 40°C).  The structure has 
been elucidated and is provided.  In addition ‘SOX’ (an intermediate in the synthesis of olopatadine) 
and the N-oxide (a metabolite) are also named as potential degradants in solution.  
Long term ICH stability studies were conducted by the active ingredient manufacturer on 6 production 
scale batches at 25°C/60% RH for up to 42 months and 40°C/75% RH for up to 6 months.  The study 
included 2 container types: a double polyethylene bag in a paper bag and a double polyethylene bag in 
a  metal  can (3 recent  batches).  Methods  are  validated and stability indicating.  They include assay, 
related  substances  (TLC  and  HPLC),  pH,  appearance  of  solution  and  loss  on  drying.    The  active 
ingredient indicates no trend for instability, and all test results after 39 months at 25°C comply with 
the  specification.    Similarly  all  results  comply  with  the  specification  after  6  months  at  40°C.    Total 
related substances are below 0.1%.  Therefore, on this basis the proposed re-test period of 36 months 
is acceptable. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients are tested to and meet current PhEur. requirements.  In addition all excipients (except 
Sodium Hydroxide and Hydrochloric acid) are tested for bioburden with a limit of NMT 100 CFU/g.  
The bioburden limit for purified water is NMT 1CFU/100ml.   
Certificates  of  analyses  are  provided  for  each  excipient,  and  documentation  is  provided  from  the 
suppliers declaring that each excipient (1) does not contain any materials of animal origin and (2) did 
not come in contact with material of animal or human origin during their manufacture.  Therefore the 
excipients  are  in  compliance  with  Directive  1999/82/EEC  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmission  of 
TSE.  
Specifications  (chemical  and  physical)  are  also  provided  for  the  opaque  LDPE  bottle,  clear  LDPE 
dispensing  plug  and  the  white  polypropylene  cap.    All  meet  the  requirements  of  the  PhEur  for 
containers  for  ophthalmic  use  and  the  PhEur  monograph  for  polyolefins.    The  cap  meets  the 
requirements for containers for parenteral use. 
Product development and finished product 
Development pharmaceutics addresses optimisation of pH, preservative efficacy, choice of excipients 
and container and method of sterilisation of the eye drops and container.  Compatibility of the active 
ingredient  was  demonstrated  with  all  excipients  used  in  the  formulation.    This  was  done  by  HPLC 
analyses of prototype formulations of active and excipients.  
2/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
The choice of benzalkonium chloride 0.01% as preservative is justified on the basis that it is a broad 
spectrum  antimicrobial  agent  and  has  been  shown  to  be  safe  in  ocular  tissues.    It  is  widely  used  in 
topical ophthalmic products.   
The applicant justifies the choice of container on the basis that LDPE bottles are widely used for eye 
drops.    The  LDPE  bottle  offers  advantages  in  terms  of  patient  convenience  and  compliance  but  the 
applicant  claims is  not suitable for  terminal sterilisation.   Satisfactory compatibility studies  with  the 
proposed formulation and leaching studies are presented in part IIC of the dossier.  No leaching was 
detected from the proposed pack after 24 hours at 70°C (limit of detection of 1ppm). 
Photostability  investigations  support  the  choice  of  an  opaque  bottle,  as  the  product  is  light  sensitive.  
Olopatadine  solution  0.1%  stored  in  clear  ampoules  exposed  to  1,000  foot-candles  at  26  ±  1°C  for  7 
days (equivalent to 1.25 years of home lighting) exhibited substantial degradation compared to control 
samples in amber ampoules. 
The method of sterilisation proposed for the LDPE container utilises ethylene oxide. Investigations were 
carried  out  using  OPATANOL  Eye  Drops  Solution  packaged  in  both  ethylene  oxide  and  gamma 
sterilised (5.0 Mrad/50 kGy) containers.  Stability results for 52 weeks at 25°C/40% RH and accelerated 
conditions show significantly greater amounts of degradation products (up to 0.4%) and greater loss in 
potency  in  gamma  sterilised  packaging  compared  to  ethylene  oxide  sterilised  packaging.    Negligible 
levels  of  degradation  products  were  found  in  the  ethylene  oxide  sterilised  packaging.  (Ethylene  oxide 
and related residues comply with current EU guidance). 
The  bulk  eye  drop  solution  is  mixed  and  then  sterilised  by  filtration  through  two  0.22  µm  filters  in 
series, and filled into sterilised containers.  The manufacturing process has been validated by a number 
of  studies  including  media  fill  runs,  and  overall  the  development  pharmaceutics  is  adequately 
documented and is acceptable for a product of this type. 
Product Specification 
The  specification  includes  tests  by  validated  methods  for  identification  (TLC  and  HPLC),  assay 
(standard release limits, i.e. 95-105% by HPLC), degradation products of olopatadine detected in the 
finished product are N-oxide and SOX.  Individual and total impurity limits in the finished product are 
justified with reference to batch analytical data and toxicology studies, bearing in mind the ophthalmic 
use  of  the  product.  Based  on  the  maximum  dose  of  0.24  mg/day,  the  proposed  limits  are  also  in 
compliance  with  the  ICH  guideline  on  impurities  in  drug  products.  The  release  specification  for 
benzalkonium chloride is 90-110%. Sterility, pH, osmolality, and clarity are also tested.    
Batch data are provided for 4 production scale batches and indicate satisfactory uniformity. 
Stability of the Product 
Four  batches  (2x  production  scale,  2x  smaller)  in  the  market  pack  manufactured  at  the  proposed 
manufacturing site were studied, and storage conditions used were based on scientific advice given to 
the company by the CPMP in 1996.  Stability data are presented at 25°C ± 2°C/35-40% RH, 40°C ± 
2°C/10-20% RH, 4°C (refrigerated), freeze thaw cycle, temperature cycle (4 to 30°C) and light cabinet 
(1000 foot candles).  Data are available for up to 156 weeks at appropriate test intervals.   
Real  time  and  accelerated  conditions  are  more  stressful  than  ICH  conditions  for  semi-permeable 
containers with respect to relative humidity (25°C ± 2°C/40%±5% RH and 40°C ± 2°C/10-20% RH).  
The  guideline  (CPMP/ICH/2736/99,  effective  June  2001)  states  that  ‘ultimately,  it  should  be 
demonstrated  that  aqueous-based  drug  products  stored  in  semi-permeable  containers  can  withstand 
low relative humidity environments’, and it was concluded that the storage conditions used meet this 
requirement. 
All batches tested complied with the shelf-life specification.  There is an increase in active ingredient 
content and preservative content over shelf-life most likely due to moisture loss, therefore particular 
attention has been paid to levels of degradation products.  
Degradation product levels are within specification up to 156 weeks at 25°C and for 26 weeks at 40°C. 
Individual identified degradants N-oxide and SOX are present at justified levels under both conditions.  
Osmolality, pH, clarity, colour and visual particulates are within specification with very little change.   
3/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
The product passes the PhEur sterility test at 52, 104 and 156 weeks ‘real-time’. 
Batches  tested  under  other  conditions,  (temperature  cycling,  refrigerated  freeze  thaw  cycle  for  6 
weeks), showed no significant change with all results were within specification.   
Based on these results, the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC are justified. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product have been investigated and 
are controlled in a validated way. The pharmaceutical aspects of this product have been well 
documented and indicate a uniform product with reliably consistent performance in the clinic. The 
stability of products in semi-permeable containers has a history of being problematical with regard to 
the relevance of certain low-humidity studies required by the old CPMP/ICH guidelines. However, 
since the publication of a revised ICH guideline this has been rationalised to some extent, and the 
company has carried out relevant stability studies in this regard, with satisfactory results.  
At the time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no 
impact on the benefit/risk profile, e.g. process validation studies were needed to confirm the soundness 
of the manufacturing process for large-scale batches of product. The applicant committed to provide 
the necessary information as follow-up measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations 
if required following the evaluation of this additional information. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Good Laboratory Practices 
Most  of  the  studies  were  conducted  under  GLP  in  Japan  according  to  MHW  guidelines  prior  to  the 
implementation of ICH.  Although the studies are of an older style they are sufficient in quality, number 
and type, to assess the pharmaco/toxicologic profile of olopatadine in laboratory animals. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies 
In  vitro  receptor  binding  studies  and  functional  potency  studies  in  whole  (intact)  cells  have 
demonstrated the affinity and selectivity of olopatadine for the histamine H1 receptor.  Olopatadine has 
a  higher  selectivity  for  the  histamine  H1  receptor  over  H2  and  H3  receptors  than  reference  anti-
histamines  (ketotifen,  levocabastine,  antazoline,  pheniramine).  In  human  ocular  cells  possessing 
histamine H1 receptors, olopatadine inhibits histamine-induced phosphoinositide-turnover (IC50 = 9-39 
nM).    In  human  conjunctival  epithelial  cells,  olopatadine  prevented  the  secretion  of  the  pro-
inflammatory  cytokines  IL-6  and  IL-8  following  histamine  stimulation  (IC50  =  5.5  nM  &  1.7  nM, 
respectively). 
In separate studies, the affinity of two metabolites (the N-desmethyl and N-didesmethyl forms) for the 
histamine-H1 receptor was 1.5-2.0 fold lower than that of the parent compound. 
Olopatadine inhibits the release of histamine from human conjunctival mast cells in vitro (IC50 = 559 
µM).    This  compares  favourably  with  other  marketed  agents  in  the  same  model;  cromolyn  sodium, 
nedocromil,  N-acetylaspartyl  glutamic  acid  and  ketotifen.  In  a  separate  study,  olopatadine-N-oxide, 
the main metabolite in man, also inhibited histamine release, though less potently, with an IC50 of 3.07 
mM.  Olopatadine  also  inhibits  the  release  of  the  pro-inflammatory  cytokine  TNFα  from  human 
conjunctival  mast  cells  (IC50  =  13.1  µM),  suggesting  that  the  compound  may  limit  the  sustained 
inflammatory cell infiltration observed in chronic allergic eye disease. 
• 
In vivo studies 
The guinea pig model of passive conjunctival anaphylaxis (PCA) was used to demonstrate the topical 
ocular  efficacy  of  olopatadine.    Administered  prior  to  topical  ocular  antigen  challenge,  olopatadine 
reduced  the  severity  of  the  immediate  hypersensitivity  response.  Similarly,  histamine-induced 
increases  in  vascular  permeability  were  inhibited.  Onset  of  action  is  somewhat  slower  than 
4/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
emedastine.  Duration  of  action  data  suggests  that  the  effectiveness  of  olopatadine  0.1%  did  not 
diminish significantly through 24 hours. 
The  anti-allergic activity of oral  olopatadine was  studied in  models of PCA in rats. The response  to 
topically  applied  antigen  was  significantly  and  dose-dependently  inhibited  by  olopatadine.  The 
inhibitory  activity  was  higher  for  olopatadine  than  for  other  anti-allergic  agents  in  the  same  model.  
Olopatadine  also  showed  stronger  activity  than  other  anti-allergics  in  models  of  antigen-induced 
bronchoconstriction, in inhibition of lethal anaphylactic shock, in inhibition of allergic pleurisy, and in 
inhibiting allergic late phase reaction. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In  studies  of  drug  interaction,  the  inhibitory  activity  of  olopatadine  on  the  metabolism  of  six 
cytochrome  P-450  (CYP)  isozyme  specific  substrates  was  determined  in  human  liver  microsomes. 
Olopatadine did not inhibit the metabolism of any isozyme specific substrate tested at concentrations 
that  were  4  orders  of  magnitude  higher  than  in  humans  after  ocular  administration  of  0.15% 
olopatadine ophthalmic solution.  
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
The  general  pharmacology  included  studies  on  in  vitro  selectivity,  on  nervous  system,  on 
cardiovascular and respiratory effects, and on QT-prolonging effects. 
The  CNS  studies  indicated  that  the  potential  for  CNS  effects  after  olopatadine  treatment  will  be 
minimal. 
The cardiovascular studies showed that olopatadine did not produce any notable change in respiratory 
rate, heart rate and ECG in dogs at IV doses of 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg. At 5 mg/kg, there were temporary 
increases in respiratory rate and heart rate. At high doses, a decrease in blood pressure and increase in 
heart rate were noted. Blood flow of the femoral artery and peripheral blood vascular resistance also 
decreased. To evaluate the prolonged effects of olopatadine on the cardiovascular system as assessed 
by  ECG,  heart  rate  and  blood  pressure,  doses  from  3  to  100  mg/kg  were  given  orally  to  conscious 
dogs.  A  significant  QTc  prolongation  caused  by  100  mg/kg  olopatadine  was  considered  to  be  an 
apparent  effect  caused  by  increase  of  heart  rate.  The  potential  risk  of  torsade  de  pointes  caused  by 
olopatadine would only be at dosages largely exceeding what will be used clinically. The potential for 
altered  hepatic  metabolism  and  resulting  cardiotoxic  effects  after  co-administration  of  olopatadine 
with the CYP3A4 inhibiting drug itraconazole was studied in dogs. No difference in heart rate, blood 
pressure or QT interval were observed between the group receiving olopatadine alone and the group 
receiving both olopatadine and itraconazole. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
The potential for efficacy of olopatadine in the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis has been demonstrated 
in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies.  In vitro olopatadine HCl has high affinity for the histamine H1 
receptor  and  may  act  on  human  conjunctival  mast  cells  to  inhibit  the  release  of  pro-inflammatory 
mediators.  In  vivo  olopatadine  HCl  significantly  reduced  the  allergic  response  in  conjunctival  and 
classical systemic models. 
Secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects,  including  those  on  the  cardiovascular  system,  were  seen  only  at 
doses and exposures well in excess of those anticipated following topical ocular administration in man.  
Studies  on  various  metabolising  enzymes  suggest  that  drug  interactions  are  unlikely  in  the  cytochrome 
P450 system. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  single  ocular  pharmacokinetic  study  was  performed  in  rabbits  with  a  0.15%  ophthalmic  solution. 
Systemic  exposure  was  demonstrated,  absorption  was  rapid  and  plasma  concentrations  reached 
maximal  levels  of  10  ng/ml  in  30  minutes.  The  bioavailability  was  high  (83%).  Elimination  was 
biphasic with a half-life of 0.8 hour. 
Ocular  tissue  distribution  was  studied  by  dosing  of  0.15%  14C-olopatadine  ophthalmic  solution  to 
rabbits. Radioactivity was rapidly absorbed into the anterior ocular tissues, and maximal tissue levels 
5/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
were  reached  within  30-60  minutes.  The  radioactivity  concentrations  in  ocular  tissues  decreased 
rapidly with elimination half-lives of 1-2 hours. 
Pharmacokinetics  after  oral  and  IV-doses  of  olopatadine  was  studied  in  rats,  rabbits,  dogs  and 
monkeys. Elimination half-life from plasma was rapid in all animals after IV administration (0.7 hours 
in rabbits, 5 hours in rats, 7 hours in dogs and 10 hours in monkeys). Oral bioavailability was high in 
all animals ranging from 70% in the rat to 100% in the monkeys. 
Rats  were  given  single  1  mg/kg  oral  or  IV  doses  of  14C-olopatadine.  At  168  hours  post  dose 
radioactivity was completely eliminated from most tissues. There was a high level of biliary excretion 
(45% of dose) and enterohepatic recirculation.  
The  percentage  of olopatadine  excreted unchanged in urine  after  an  oral  dose  of 1  mg/kg  was  32%, 
58% and 40% in rats, dogs and monkeys, respectively, and in humans given oral doses of 5-80 mg, the 
percentage was 58.7-73.4%. The urinary elimination as studied in rats and monkeys occurred by both 
glomerular filtration (20%) and tubular secretion (80%).  
In rats given an oral dose of 1 mg/kg 14C-olopatadine, the highest tissue concentration was in the small 
intestines  at  0.5  hours,  22  times  the  concentration  in  plasma.  Organs  involved  in  metabolism  and 
excretion,  and  secretory  organs  showed  the  highest  distribution.  Radioactivity  in  the  brain  was 
extremely low.  
In  a  21-day  study  in  rats,  an  increase  in  radioactivity  concentration  was  seen  due  to  repeated 
administration, with a steady state being reached  between the 7th and 14th dose. Whereas the t½ of 
plasma  radioactivity  after  the  single  dose  administration  was  about  16  hours,  the  t½  in  the  repeated 
dose 21-day study was 41 hours. 
The  metabolism  of  14C-olopatadine  was  similar  in  rats  and  dogs.  Metabolism  in  rats  and  dogs 
consisted of oxidative N-demethylation of the side chain and hydroxylation of the dibenzoxipine ring, 
its  sulfation  and  further  oxidation  of  the  N-atom  in  the  side  chain.  Similar  metabolites  were 
demonstrated  in  man.  The  major  metabolites  in  rats  and  dogs  were  N-desmethyl-olopatadine  and 
olopatadine  N-oxide,  respectively.  Specific  cytochrome  P-450  enzymes  responsible  for  olopatadine 
metabolism have not been determined but this omission is acceptable because of the very low plasma 
exposure, the very predominant elimination through renal excretion and a large margin of safety. 
Distribution in the eye following ocular administration is primarily to the cornea, but levels were detected 
in all structures tested. In the rabbit, increased exposure of pigmented tissue (iris/ciliary body) was noted 
in terms of higher Cmax (2-fold) and T½ (10-fold).   
Exposure  was  demonstrated  in  the  foetus  and  milk  of  lactating  rats.  Kinetic  parameters  appear  to  run 
parallel in both dam and foetus. 
In  summary,  oral  and  topical  pharmacokinetics  were  similar  in  all  relevant  species.  Absorption, 
distribution  and  elimination  are  rapid  and  biphasic.  Exposure  appears  to  be  dose  proportional  to  a 
threshold level that exceeds likely clinically relevant levels in all species. The role of cytochrome P450 
enzymes in olopatadine HCl metabolism has not been elucidated fully. Elimination is mainly in the urine 
and bile. 
Toxicology 
Acute dose toxicology studies were old and of poor quality, and did not contribute useful information to 
the assessment process. Adverse clinical signs in repeated dose toxicology studies included; reduced body 
weight  gain,  mydriasis,  blepharoptosis,  relaxed  scrotum,  conjunctival  hyperaemia  and  oral  mucosal 
dryness.  Post-mortem findings included; reduced relative weight of the heart and prostate, also interstitial 
nephritis, fatty vacuolar degeneration of the liver, the renal tubular epithelium and the pancreatic ductular 
epithelium and hypocellular bone marrow.  Severity of findings correlated with both dose and duration of 
treatment.  In  all  cases  effects  were  seen  only  at  high  oral  doses,  with  exposures  well  in  excess  of 
anticipated clinical levels. 
Topical ocular studies in rabbits (1 and 6 month studies) and monkeys (6 month study) showed no long 
term  adverse  effects.  Based  on  available  pre-clinical  data,  together  with  clinical  experience,  adverse 
effects  related  to  prolonged  anti-cholinergic  effect  and  potentials  for  cataractogenesis  or  for  optic 
nerve damage are not expected.  
6/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
Additional  local  tolerance  studies  suggest  that  olopatadine  is  non-sensitising  and  non-antigenic.  The 
dermal  sensitisation  potential  of  olopatadine  was  evaluated  in  guinea  pigs.  In  this  study,  75% 
olopatadine HCl in propylene glycol did not act as a contact sensitiser in the guinea pigs. A study was 
conducted to investigate if olopatadine might be antigenic by binding to high molecular proteins and 
thus acting as a haptene. It was concluded that olopatadine showed no antigenicity either alone or in 
combination with protein in the passive anaphylaxis test, in the in vitro passive hemagglutination test 
and in the systemic anaphylaxis test. 
Studies  were  conducted  to  investigate  the  effects  of  olopatadine  on  fertility,  general  reproductive 
capacity, foetal development and early postnatal growth and development. In the fertility study, oral 
doses of up to 400 mg/kg/day were given to rats. The peri- and postnatal toxicity studies were done in 
rats at oral doses up to 600 mg/kg. Reproductive toxicity studies showed adverse effects on the pups (e.g. 
low  birth  weight)  at  high  oral  doses,  associated  with  maternal  toxicity.  No  teratogenic  potential  was 
shown in rats at 600 mg/kg and in rabbits at 400 mg/kg. Adverse effects were seen at non-materna-toxic 
doses in lactation studies (e.g. poor weight gain and survival, delayed development). It was demonstrated 
that this was due to secretion of the drug in the milk and subsequent dosing of the pups. Caution should 
be  exercised  when  prescribing  OPATANOL  to  pregnant  women.  OPATANOL  is  not  recommended 
for breast-feeding mothers. 
A battery of mutagenicity studies (bacterial reverse mutation assay, the chromosomal aberration test, 
and  the  micronucleus  test)  was  conducted  and  all  were  negative  when  testing  mutagenicity  of 
olopatadine. 
Rat (104  weeks) and  mouse  (78 weeks) oncogenicity studies were performed. It was concluded that 
olopatadine  showed  no  carcinogenic  potential  in  mice  at  doses  up  to  500  mg/kg/day  and  in  rats  at 
doses up to 200 mg/kg/day. Thickened stomach walls were observed in male mice at 500 mg/kg/day, 
which  appeared  to  be  associated  with  high,  continuous,  oral  dosing  and  not  associated  with  an 
oncogenic  response.  The  finding  bears  no  relevance  for  carcinogenic  risk  to  man  in  the  current 
indication.  
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
In  toxicology  studies,  effects  were  seen  only  at  high  oral  doses,  with  exposures  well  in  excess  of 
anticipated  clinical  levels.  Topical  ocular  studies  in  rabbits  and  monkeys showed  no  long-term  adverse 
effects. Based on available pre-clinical data, together with clinical experience, adverse effects related to 
prolonged anti-cholinergic effect and potentials for cataractogenesis or for optic nerve damage are not 
expected.  Adverse  effects  were  seen  at  non-materna-toxic  doses  in  lactation  studies,  therefore 
OPATANOL should not be recommended for breast-feeding mothers. In an old, but adequate, series of 
studies, olopatadine was shown to be non-genotoxic and non-carcinogenic. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  trials  in  this  submission  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed 
international ethical principles. 
The clinical development program consists of 28 studies that involved 2587 subjects. The studies were 
conducted in the period 1993-2000. Apart from one cardiovascular safety study, which was conducted 
with an oral  formulation of olopatadine, all studies  were conducted with an ophthalmic formulation. 
There were 15 studies assessing pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic aspects of olopatadine, including 
7  conjunctival  allergen  challenge  (CAC)  studies  and  a  dose-response  study.  Five  studies  assessed 
efficacy, 4 of these being pivotal studies. Three safety studies were conducted, two of these using a 
higher  daily  dose  than  the  one  recommended  in  the  SPC,  the  third  one  being  the  above  mentioned 
cardiovascular  safety  study.  Moreover,  5  studies  were  carried  out  in  other  indications  than  SAC 
(vernal conjunctivitis); these studies are included in the safety evaluation. 
7/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Dynamic studies  
The  principle in the CAC  test is as follows:  Patients with an established  history of SAC  and with  a 
positive  skin  test/RAST  are  given  a  predetermined  topical  ocular  dose  of  the  allergen  to  induce  a 
reaction.  This  allergic  clinical  reaction  is  consistent  with  the  “naturally”  occurring  allergic  reaction 
with mast cell degranulation, release of mediators and clinical signs (e.g. redness) and symptoms (e.g. 
itching)  which  can  be  quantified  and  which  are  reproducible.  The  provoked  reaction  can  be  used  to 
evaluate  any  allergic  topical  ocular  products,  with  the  patient  acting  as  his/her  own  control.  The 
clinical  signs  and  symptoms  are  evaluated  at  predetermined  times  after  the  challenge.  The  test 
medication  can  be  compared  to  placebo,  or  an  active  comparator  as  medication  can  be  applied 
bilaterally. 
The  conjunctival  allergen  challenge  (CAC)  test  is  a  validated  model  for  studying  allergic 
conjunctivitis.  It  provides  standardised  reproducible  results,  thereby  avoiding  the  variability  in 
symptoms and signs inherent in the naturally occurring condition. Seven CAC studies were presented in 
the clinical programme. The following figure gives an outline of the CAC studies. Efficacy parameters 
were:  Ocular  redness  (0-12  scale)  assessed,  and  ocular  itching  (0-4  scale,  none-extremely  severe) 
recorded prior to and 3, 10 and 20 minutes after each CAC. 
Study  Number of Subjects Treated 
Dose 
CAC Tests 
Ref. 
Olopatadine 
Placebo  Comparator  Per 
eye 
27-min 
6-hour  8-hour 
0.01% 0.05% 
0.10%  0.15% 
24 
C-94-10  25 
24 
60 
30 
C-94-39 
C-94-58 
C-96-15a 
25 
60 
30 
36 
C-96-76c 
66+31c 
Contralat. 
Eye 
Contralat. 
Eye 
Contralat. 
Eye 
Contralat. 
Eye 
31+32c 
Contralat. 
Eye 
None 
1 drop  (cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
None 
1 drop  (cid:57) 
None 
1 drop  (cid:57) 
2 drops  (cid:57) 
2 drops  (cid:57) 
36 
Ketorolac 
0.5% 
66+32c 
Levocabastine 
0.05% 
C-96-79 
C-96-82 
20 
30+30b 
20 
30+30b 
None 
None 
2 drops  (cid:57) 
2 drops  (cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
(cid:57) 
27-min, 6-hour, 8-hour = Time of CAC post olopatadine instillation 
a Crossover study 
b 30 subjects in each group received olopatadine or placebo only in both eyes, and 30 subjects received 2 
drops olopatadine into one eye and 2 drops placebo into the contralateral eye 
c 
levocabastine/placebo n=32; one treatment in each eye 
olopatadine/levocabastine, 
olopatadine/placebo, 
parallel 
groups, 
n=66; 
Three 
n=31; 
8/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose response 
Studies C-94-10, C-94-39, C-94-58 and C-94-80 looked at the dose response of olopatadine in the clinical 
setting. 
Study C-94-10 investigated the onset and duration of action of olopatadine and sought to determine the 
optimal  concentration  of  olopatadine  ophthalmic  solution  (OOS)  for  clinical  use.  This  study  was  a 
randomised, double-masked placebo-controlled, parallel-group study. 98 male and female volunteers with 
a history of symptoms of a clinically active allergic conjunctivitis and a positive allergen diagnostic test 
were enrolled. Two weeks after a confirmatory CAC was performed the action of OOS was assessed by 
giving  one  of  four  concentrations  (0.01%,  0.05%,  0.10%  or  0.15%)  to  the  volunteers  prior  to  CAC. 
Giving the drug 8 hours before CAC assessed long-term duration of action and 27 minutes prior to CAC 
investigated onset of action. Signs and symptoms were then evaluated prior to, 3, 10 and 20 minutes after 
CAC.  All four concentrations of OOS were statistically superior to placebo  (dosed in the contralateral 
eye) inhibiting itching and redness at all post-CAC time points for challenges performed 27 minutes, 6 
hours  and  8  hours  after  OOS  dosing.  Comparisons  of  the  magnitude  and  maintenance  of  the  response 
produced by the four concentrations of the solution showed a non-linear dose response. The 0.10% and 
the 0.05% concentrations appeared to be more effective than the other doses. The difference between the 
0.10% and the 0.05% was not statistically significant but at peak challenge times (CAC at 8 hours post 
olopatadine  instillation)  the  0.10%  concentration  produced  an  overall  better  result  profile.  On  this 
evidence the 0.10% dose was chosen as the optimal concentration for clinical usage.  
Study  C-94-39  was  a  comparison  of  the  efficacy  of  0.05%  and  0.10%  OOS  versus  placebo  and  also 
investigated the 27 minutes and 8 hours duration of action of olopatadine. 120 male and female volunteers 
were enrolled in this double-masked, placebo controlled, randomised, contralateral eye comparison study. 
Both  0.05%  and  0.10%  concentrations  of  OOS  were  statistically  and  clinically  superior  to  placebo  in 
preventing ocular itching and redness with a clinically significant duration of action for at least 8 hours. 
Both concentrations of OOS were equally effective in the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. 
Study  C-94-58  was  similar  in  design  and  objective  to  study  C-94-39.  A  0.05%  and  0.10%  OOS  were 
evaluated  in  60  healthy  male  and  female  volunteers.  Both  concentrations  of  OOS  were  statistically 
superior to placebo in preventing ocular itching and redness and in inhibiting itching 8 hours after dosing. 
The two concentrations of OOS were shown to be equally effective in inhibiting redness and itching.  
Study C-94-80 was not a CAC study but it is appropriate to discuss it here as it contributes to the evidence 
for  the  chosen  clinical  dose  concentration.  Study  C-94-80  was  a  Japanese  double  blind,  intergroup, 
comparative  study  of  efficacy,  safety  and  utility  of  OOS  in  patients,  aged  6  years  or  older,  with  a 
diagnosis of allergic conjunctivitis (including pollinosis). Concentrations of 0.10%, 0.025% and 0.005% 
of OOS were used to investigate the optimum effective dose. The primary evaluation parameters included 
assessing final global improvement taking both changes in subjective symptoms and clinical findings into 
consideration coupled with evaluating overall safety and utility. Treatment lasted for four weeks.  In the 
evaluation of final global improvement the rates of “moderately improved or better” were 53.7% in the 
0.005%  group,  55.8%  in  the  0.025%  group  and  67.4%  in  the  0.10%  group.  No  statistically  significant 
differences in the improvement rates were observed among the groups but those treated with the 0.10% 
concentration of OOS showed the highest improvement rates. In the evaluation of utility the 0.10% group 
reported the highest rate of 67.4% for “useful or better”.  
Studies on the proposed dose of 0.1% OOS 
Studies  C-96-15,  C-96-76,  C-96-79  and  C-96-82  supported  the  selected  dose  of  OOS  0.10% 
(OPATANOL) and the proposed indication. 
Study  C-96-15  (cross-over  superiority  study)  looked  at  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  OOS  0.10%  in 
comparison  to  Ketorolac  0.5%  in  the  treatment  of  allergen-mediated  conjunctivitis  induced  by  ocular 
allergen challenge in 36 male and female volunteers with a history of symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis. 
The study concluded that 0.10% of OOS was effective in inhibiting the symptoms of conjunctivitis at all 
post-CAC time points for challenges performed 27 minutes, and 8 hours after OOS dosing and superior to 
treatment  with  ketorolac  or  placebo.  OOS  was  well  tolerated  and  significantly  more  comfortable  than 
ketorolac. 
Study  C-96-76  compared  the  efficacy  of  OOS  0.10%  versus  levocabastine  in  the  treatment  of  allergen 
mediated  conjunctivitis  induced  by  ocular  allergen  challenge  in  135  adult  males  and  females  with  a 
9/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
history of  symptoms  of  clinically active allergic  conjunctivitis,  a  positive  allergen  diagnostic test  and  a 
successful allergen challenge. It was concluded that OOS 0.10% was superior to levocabastine 0.05% or 
placebo in inhibiting the symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis at all post-CAC time points for challenges 
performed 27 minutes, and 8 hours after OOS dosing and also that it was safe and well tolerated. 
In Study C-96-79, OOS 0.10% was evaluated for efficacy using placebo as a comparator in 40 male and 
female volunteers with a history of clinically active allergic conjunctivitis. OOS 0.10% was found to be 
superior to placebo in inhibiting ocular redness, itching and chemosis and was found to be safe and well 
tolerated. 
Study C-96-82 evaluated the efficacy of OOS 0.1% in the treatment of allergen-mediated conjunctivitis 
induced by ocular allergen challenge in 90 healthy male and female volunteers. OOS 0.10% was found to 
be superior to placebo in inhibiting ocular itching and redness at all post-CAC time points for challenges 
performed 27 minutes and 8 hours after OOS dosing, with effects not carried over to the contralateral 
placebo eye. 
• 
Other pharmacological studies 
Ocular comfort 
Three studies evaluated ocular discomfort. Study C-93-79 looked at the ocular comfort and safety upon 
instillation  of  one  drop  of  0.15%,  0.10%,  0.05%  and  0.01%  of  OOS  relative  to  a  marketed  product 
(ketorolac tromethamine 0.50%) in 30 healthy male and female volunteers. Each subject was randomly 
assigned  to  one  of  ten  treatment  sequences.  Subjects  received  one  drop  of  each  concentration  of 
olopatadine and one drop of ketorolac tromethamine 0.50%. At least 24 hours washout period separated 
the treatments. Immediately following the instillation of each test article subjects completed a 3-minute 
burning profile and a questionnaire evaluating the comfort of each test solution. The comfort level of the 
five test solutions was evaluated based on ocular discomfort composite, membrane discomfort composite, 
visual clarity and burning profile. Adverse events related to all concentrations of OOS were non-serious, 
mild,  usually  occurred  upon  or  within  one  hour  of  instillation,  resolved  without  treatment  and  did  not 
interrupt  continuation  in  the  study.  Ketorolac  tromethamine  0.50%  ophthalmic  solution  produced 
significantly greater ocular discomfort (burning and stinging) than OOS 0.15%, 0.10%, 0.05% or 0.01% 
and greater membrane discomfort than OOS 0.15%, 0.10% or 0.05%. Ketorolac tromethamine 0.50% also 
produced  a  significantly  poorer  visual  clarity  profile  compared  to  OOS  0.15%,  0.10%  and  0.05%.  No 
significant differences in ocular discomfort were noted between concentrations of olopatadine ophthalmic 
solutions. 
Study  C-95-12  and  Study  C-95-18  evaluated  the  ocular  comfort  and  safety  of  OOS  as  compared  to 
marketed  products;  Ketorolac  tromethamine  0.50%  Ophthalmic  solution  and  Levocabastine  0.05% 
Ophthalmic suspension. Using the same study design and methodology coupled with the same evaluation 
criteria as Study C-93-79 it was shown in both studies that when administered as a single drop in normal 
healthy adults OOS 0.1% is significantly more comfortable and produces a less severe burning profile and 
has significantly less effect on visual clarity than Ketorolac tromethamine 0.50% Ophthalmic solution and 
Levocabastine  0.05%  Ophthalmic  suspension.  OOS  0.10%  produces  significantly  less  membrane 
discomfort relative to Ketorolac tromethamine 0.50% ophthalmic solution. 
Pupil diameter 
Topical  ocular  administration  of  some  antihistamine  decongestant  combination  products  have  been 
known to produce pupil dilation as an adverse effect. This mydriatic effect can be produced by either 
component  of the combination. Study C-94-65 looked  at the  effect of OOS  0.1% versus  placebo on 
pupil  diameter  one  hour  following  topical  administration  of  one  drop  in  the  nondominant  eye  of 
normal  volunteers.  No  statistically  or  clinically  significant  difference  in  pupil  diameter  change  from 
baseline was observed between treatment groups or in either treatment groups. 
Tear tryptase level 
As  current  theories  suggest  that  tryptase  is  released  by  activated  human  conjunctival  mast  cells,  by 
quantifying  mast  cell  activation  via  tear  assays  one  may  be  able  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  certain 
pharmacologic agents at the cellular level, e.g. mast-cell stabilising properties. To test this theory an 
exploratory  study  (C-95-73)  to  observe  the  mast  cell  stabilising  properties  of  OPATANOL  by 
measuring  tear  tryptase  levels  following  antigen  challenge  was  performed.  But  due  to  technical 
10/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
problems  in  the  tear  sample  collection  or  in  the  sample  handling  very  low  yields  of  measurable 
tryptase were obtained. No new conclusions could be drawn from these data. 
Thus the membrane stabilising effect of olopatadine that was suggested in vitro on human mast cells 
has not been confirmed. 
A study to assess the effect on QTc interval of a twice daily regimen over 2  1/2 days of dosing with 
5mg of oral olopatadine solution compared to placebo oral solution in 100 young and elderly, healthy 
male and female volunteers was carried out. From Day –2 to Day –1 each subject had a baseline 24-
hour ambulatory ECG (Holter) and a serial 12-lead ECG performed. On Day 1 subjects received either 
of  the  test  solutions  every  12  hours  for  2  1/2  days.  After  a  washout  period  of  5  days  the  subjects 
returned  to  receive  the  other  solution  dosed  over  the  same  time  frame.  To  investigate  any  potential 
effect  of  olopatadine  serial  ECGs,  24  hour  Holter  monitoring,  plasma  samples  and  vital  sign 
measurements were taken. It was concluded that olopatadine 5mg BID was safe and well tolerated and 
was not associated with any effect on QTc interval and did not prolong QTc interval relative to placebo. 
• 
Summary of pharmacodynamic data 
Seven CAC studies were presented in the clinical programme. Results of the CAC studies confirmed a 
rapid onset of action and duration of action of at least 8 hours. The selection of a twice daily dosing 
regimen  seems  reasonable  given  the  duration  of  action  and  that  the  product  will  be  used  during  the 
daytime hours. Based on the positive results of the dose ranging studies the dose of 0.10% of olopatadine 
was  chosen.  The  efficacy  of  the  chosen  concentration  of  olopatadine  was  shown  in  the  CAC  studies. 
Olopatadine  0.10%  was  shown  to  be  significantly  superior  to  placebo  and  to  other  marketed  ocular 
products  (ketorolac  0.5%  and  levocabastine  0.05%)  in  reducing  itching  and  redness.    Even  if  a 
comparison  with  placebo  would  have  been  more  accurate,  the  ocular  comfort  studies  showed  that  all 
concentrations  of  OOS  were  well  tolerated  when  instilled  and  were  safe  for  ocular  use  as  all  adverse 
events  related  to  OOS  were  non-serious  and  self-limiting.  The  membrane  stabilising  effect  of 
olopatadine on mast cells has not been confirmed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Both oral and ocular pharmacokinetic studies have been carried out. 
In the  pharmacokinetic studies on the  oral formulation  of olopatadine, blood  samples were analysed 
using a validated radioimmunoassay using  3H-olopatadine and rabbit anti-serum against olopatadine. 
The method had cross-reactivity against some of the metabolites, but this was considered acceptable as 
concentrations of these metabolites were low. The limit of quantification was around 0.1-0.2 ng/ml. 
The pharmacokinetic studies following topical ocular administration of olopatadine included another 
bioanalytical  method,  gas  chromatography  -  mass  spectrometry  (GC/MS).  The  lower  limit  of 
quantification was 0.5 ng/ml. 
The concentrations of olopatadine, the desmethyl metabolite and the N-oxide metabolite in urine were 
analysed by HPLC. 
Pharmacokinetic  data  were  obtained  from  studies  in  young  and  elderly  healthy  subjects  (mainly 
Caucasian  and  Japanese)  of  both  sexes.  The  table  below  lists  the  studies  investigating  the 
pharmacokinetics of olopatadine. The study population, the number of subjects, the overall design, and 
the treatments administered in each study are also presented. 
Study 
Population 
Design 
KW 4679 (1) 
Healthy young 
males  
Randomised, double-
masked, 
Placebo-controlled, single-
dose, single-centre 
Dose regimens 
(number of subjects) 
Single oral doses of olopatadine 0.5, 
1, 2.5, 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, 120, 160, 
200, 240, 280, 320, 360 and 400, or 
placebo  (on each dose level, 3 
subjects received active drug and 1 
received placebo) 
11/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
KW 4679 (2) 
Healthy young 
males  
Randomised, double-
masked, 
KW 4679 (3) 
Healthy young 
males  
KW 4679 (4) 
Healthy young 
males  
placebo-controlled, single-
dose and multiple-dose, 
single-centre 
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose, single-
centre (Japan) 
Single oral doses of olopatadine 80 
mg or placebo followed by multiple 
oral doses of olopatadine 80 mg TID 
or placebo TID for 10 days (12 
received active drug and 8 received 
placebo) 
Single oral doses of olopatadine 5, 
10, 20, 40 and 80 mg (6 subjects on 
each dose level, except 10 mg with 
12 subjects) 
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose and 
multiple dose, single-centre 
(Japan) 
Single oral doses of olopatadine 10 
mg followed by multiple oral doses 
of olopatadine 10 mg BID for 6½ 
days (8 subjects) 
C-00-23 
Healthy adult males 
and females 
Randomised, double-
masked, 
placebo-controlled, 
multiple-dose, two-period, 
crossover, single-centre 
Multiple oral doses of olopatadine 5 
mg BID for 2½ days and placebo 
BID for 2½ days (102 subjects) 
C-93-75 
C-93-83 
94-314 
95-205 
Healthy adult males 
and females 
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose, single-
centre (USA) 
Multiple doses of olopatadine 0.15% 
BID for 15 days (15 subjects), two 
drops in each eye 
Healthy young 
males  
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose, single-
centre (Japan) 
Multiple doses of olopatadine 0.15% 
BID for 15 days (9 subjects), two 
drops in each eye 
Healthy young and 
elderly males 
Patients with 
impaired renal 
function 
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose and 
multiple dose, single-centre 
(Japan) 
Single oral doses of olopatadine 10 
mg (6 young subjects and 6 elderly 
subjects) followed by multiple oral 
doses of olopatadine 10 mg BID for 
6 days (6 elderly subjects) 
Non-randomised, open-
label, single-dose 
Single oral dose of olopatadine 10 
mg (six subjects) 
• 
General: 
After  oral  administration  peak  plasma  concentrations  are  seen  1-2  hours  after  dosing.  Mean  Cmax 
values range from about 10 ng/ml after an oral dose of 0.5 mg to 7800 ng/ml for the 400 mg dose. No 
absolute bioavailability study has been reported. Plasma protein binding is about 55-65%. The volume 
of distribution divided by the extent of bioavailability (V/F) is approximately 200-300 l. Elimination 
half-life is approximately 8-12 hours. The apparent (oral) clearance is about 16-20 l/h. Olopatadine is 
metabolised only to a minor degree. Two metabolites have been identified in the urine: N-desmethyl 
and N-oxide metabolite. About 70% of unchanged olopatadine is excreted in the urine within 48 hours 
after oral administration of 10 mg olopatadine. With regard to dose-concentration linearity, Cmax and 
AUC values appear to increase in a dose-proportional manner in studies. The elimination half-life is 
moderately  higher  at  steady-state  than  after  single  dose.  Elderly  subjects  and  patients  with  impaired 
renal function have higher (<3-fold) exposure after oral olopatadine than healthy young subjects. 
Following topical ocular administration in man, olopatadine was shown to have low systemic exposure.  
Two  studies  in  normal  volunteers  (totalling  24  subjects)  dosed  bilaterally  with  olopatadine  0.15% 
ophthalmic solution once every 12 hours for 2 weeks demonstrated plasma concentrations to be generally 
below the quantitation limit of the assay (<0.5 ng/ml).   
12/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Samples in which olopatadine was quantifiable were typically found within 2 hours of dosing and ranged 
from  0.5  to  1.3  ng/ml.  The  mean  elimination  half-life  in  plasma  was  approximately  8-12  hours  and 
elimination  was  predominantly  through  renal  excretion.  Approximately  60-70%  of  the  dose  was 
recovered in the urine as parent drug. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
No  specific  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  presented  for  olopatadine.  As  there  appears  to  be  low 
systemic absorption of OPATANOL and as metabolism is a minor elimination pathway with 70% of 
the unchanged drug eliminated via renal excretion the potential for systemic drug interactions is low. 
Given  the  results  of  lack  of  activity  of  olopatadine  in  human  liver  microsomes  it  is  unlikely  that 
metabolic interactions through CYP P-450 inhibition would occur or that pharmacological effects are 
likely to be observed by interaction with drugs causing metabolic blockade. 
• 
Special population: 
Renal  impairment  and  elderly:  Pharmacokinetic  studies  with  orally  administered  olopatadine  have 
been conducted in healthy, young and  elderly Japanese  subjects, and in Japanese patients with renal 
impairment and those requiring haemodialysis. The findings from these studies, which were conducted 
with single or twice-daily oral 10 mg doses of olopatadine, showed no clinically relevant differences 
in  the  plasma  concentrations  or  urinary  recovery  of  unchanged  olopatadine  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment  or  in  the  elderly.  These  findings  support  that  no  adjustment  of  dose  is  warranted  in  the 
elderly or in patients with compromised renal function.   
Children: The systemic pharmacokinetics of olopatadine have not been studied in children following 
either  topical  or  oral  administration.  The  ocular  volume  of  drug  distribution  in  children  at  age  of  3 
years and above is similar to that in adults. As a result, the ocular distribution of olopatadine following 
topical ocular administration of OPATANOL would be similar in adults and children. This estimated 
peak systemic exposure of olopatadine in paediatric patients ages 3 years and greater following topical 
doses  of  olopatadine  eye  drops  is  expected  to  be  considerably  lower  (about  15-fold)  than  the  mean 
peak  plasma  concentration  obtained  in  adult  subjects  (~ 76  ng/ml)  who  were  administered  a 
therapeutic oral regimen of 5 mg twice-daily in study C-00-23. These oral doses were safe and well-
tolerated.     
Clinical efficacy  
Apart from the CAC studies, five studies were performed in Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis, four pivotal 
(one versus cromolyn sodium 2% for six weeks, one versus levocabastine  0.05% for six weeks, and two 
studies versus placebo for 8 to 14 weeks and for 10 weeks.  The fifth study looked at use of olopatadine as 
adjunctive treatment. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose response studies are  described in the clinical  pharmacodynamic part, the four  pivotal trials are 
described below. 
In the pivotal studies, 688 patients were randomised, and 684 were administered active product.  Of these 
684,  336  were  administered  olopatadine.  All  studies  were  double-masked,  randomised  (1:1  ratio), 
parallel  group  trials.  Two  of  the  studies  involved  also  paediatric  patients  ≥  4  years  of  age.  An 
overview over the patient population is given below.  
13/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
Patient population in the Pivotal Efficacy Studies 
Study 
Number 
of Sites 
Patients Evaluable 
ITT Analysis 
Patients Evaluable  
PP Analysis 
C-00-16 
Vs.  
Placebo 
C-98-37 
Vs. 
Placebo 
C-98-40 
Vs. 
Levocabastine 
0.05% 
C-94-61 
Vs.  
Cromolyn 
sodium 2% 
7 
(US) 
5 
(US) 
17 
(EU/ 
AUS) 
14 
(EU/ 
AUS) 
OPATANOL 
Comparator* 
OPATANOL  Comparator* 
64 
67 
64 
65 
26 M / 38 F 
29 M / 38 F 
mean  age  38 
(range 20-61) 
mean  age  39
(range 18-87) 
80 
79 
79 
77 
34 M / 46 F 
31 M / 48 F 
mean  age  37 
(range 17-64) 
mean  age  38
(range 18-68) 
101  
109 
96 
105 
44 M / 57 F 
47 M / 62 F 
mean  age  36  
(range 5-81) 
mean  age  34
(range 5-70) 
91 
94 
82 
87 
51 M / 40 F 
52 M / 42 F 
mean  age  33 
(range 4-77) 
mean  age  37
(range 4-75) 
Total  
336 
CS =   94 
LE =  109 
PL =  146 
321 
CS =  87 
LE = 105 
PL = 142 
 *  CS = cromolyn sodium 2%     LE = levocabastine 0.05%    PL =  placebo 
   EU = Europe    AUS = Australia    US = United States 
ITT 
M = Male     F = Female                mean = mean age in years 
Intent-to-treat 
= 
PP 
= 
Per 
protocol  
The  symptom  itching  and  sign  redness,  were  part  of  the  primary  endpoints  in  all  4  trials.  However, 
these  endpoints  were  defined  in  different  ways:  in  study  C-98-37  the  primary  endpoint  was  the 
percentage  of  visits  with  patient-assessed  scores  for  itching  and  redness  being  zero  whereas  in  the 
remaining studies ocular redness and itching were assessed by either patient or investigator at different 
time points. 
Two  of  the  studies,  C-98-37  and  C-00-16  were  placebo  controlled  and  were  designed  not  only  to 
demonstrate the efficacy of OPATANOL in treatment of SAC but also in prevention of SAC. Patients 
were enrolled before or at the beginning of the active pollen season and a CAC challenge was used to 
confirm ocular allergy at enrolment, though on-going symptoms were not demanded. 
Study C-94-61 
Patients with a history of allergic conjunctivitis and a positive skin test within the past 12 months to at 
least one common pollen antigen and with a score of at least 4 on a scale (from none 0 to 4 severe) for 
ocular  itching  and  2  for  conjunctival  hyperaemia  in  both  eyes  were  randomised  to  treatment  with 
either olopatadine 0.1%  morning and evening and  placebo noon  and afternoon, or cromolyn sodium 
2% four times daily (QID) for 6 weeks. 
14/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  of  child  bearing  potential  were  expected  to  have  a  negative  pregnancy  test  and  to  practise 
contraception and all patients had to avoid certain named concurrent medications. 
Efficacy and ocular signs and symptoms were determined at clinic visits at screening and on days 0, 3, 
7, 14, 30, and 42. A final visit was performed 2-3 days off therapy. 
Daily pollen counts were obtained for most of the common pollens. 
Primary  efficacy  criteria  were  injection  (slit  lamp  redness  scored  by  use  of  standard  reference 
photographs) and itching (assessed by the patient). Redness was quantified on a nine-point scale from 
0.0-4.0 and itching on a five-point scale 0-4. Secondary efficacy variables were chemosis (slit lamp); 
eyelid-swelling  (slit  lamp)  scored  0.0  none  to  4.0  lid  closure,  physician’s  impression  (scored  0= 
clinical cure to 5 = significantly clinically worse) and patients’ daily diary for redness and itching for 
the first and last two weeks of the study (four times a day and scored 0=none to 9= severe). 
Primary and secondary efficacy criteria were based on scores for the listed items. Repeated measures 
analysis of variance was used for treatment comparisons and interval estimation for the primary and 
secondary efficacy parameters. With 86 patients per treatment group, it was considered that the study 
had  greater  than  80%  coverage  probability  that  a  95%  confidence  interval  would  fall  within  plus  or 
minus 0.5 units for itching and redness score. Olopatadine was therefore to be declared non inferior 
(equivalent)  to  cromolyn  if  the  upper  95%  confidence  interval  of  the  mean  difference  between 
treatments in ocular itching and redness was less than  plus 0.5  units. The plus 0.5 unit was selected 
because  it  represented  one  half  of  the  smallest  increment  on  the  itching  scale  and  the  smallest 
increment on the redness scale. The following was listed as an analysis clarification: if two sided 95% 
confidence  intervals  for  the  treatment  difference  between  olopatadine  and  cromolyn  were  to  lie 
entirely below zero then it is suggested that it is acceptable to calculate the probability associated with 
a test of superiority. 
Results 
For the tests of non-inferiority, the PP data set was used. Wherever the upper 95% confidence limits 
lay  entirely  below  zero,  the  ITT  data  set  was  used  to  obtain  probabilities  associated  with  two-sided 
tests of superiority. 
Using  per  protocol  data,  for  itching  and  redness  differences,  the  upper  95%  confidence  limits  at  all 
visits were less than +0.5 units suggesting that olopatadine was non-inferior to cromolyn. 
Because  the  upper  confidence  limit  lay  below  0  for  3  of  5  points  for  ocular  itching  and  1  of  5  for 
ocular  redness,  it  was  considered  that  this  represented  evidence  of  superiority  for  olopatadine.  The 
observed upper 95% confidence limit for the difference between treatments was less than zero (much 
less than 0.5 unit) for itching by day 14 and redness by day 42. 
Per protocol  analyses showed statistically significant  differences  in favour  of  olopatadine on itching 
for days 14, 30 and 42. 
Intent to treat data was significant only at day 42 and the differences between the intent to treat and 
per  protocol  analyses  is  thought  to  have  been  due  to  9  patients  who  were  excluded  (6  in  the 
olopatadine  group  and  3  in  the  cromolyn  group)  because  of  unproven  allergic  status  at  the  time  of 
entry. 
15/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
C-94-61: Mean Ocular Itching Score by Treatment 
Intent-to-Treat  
Per Protocol 
Olopatadine
Opticrom
*
p=0.0473
i
g
n
h
c
t
I
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Olopatadine
Opticrom
*
*
*
0
3
7
14
30
42
Day
0
7
14
* = p<0.05
21
Day
28
35
42
Opticrom = cromolyn sodium 2%        Olopatadine = OPATANOL 
C-94-61: Mean Ocular Redness Score by Treatment 
Intent-to-Treat 
Per Protocol 
Olopatadine
Opticrom
*
p=0.0130
s
s
e
n
d
e
R
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Olopatadine
Opticrom
*
i
g
n
h
c
t
I
4.5
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
3
2.5
s
s
e
n
d
e
R
1.5
2
1
0.5
0
0
3
7
14
30
42
Day
0
7
14
* = p<0.05
21
Day
28
35
42
Opticrom = cromolyn sodium 2%        Olopatadine = OPATANOL 
Exploratory analyses were performed to assess impact of pollen levels on the efficacy variables and 
pollen levels were checked every day. As graminacees were the most common pollen type (in 115 of 
185  patients  at  baseline)  and  as  the  study  was  performed  in  the  active  period  of  graminacees,  these 
levels were chosen for the analysis. Olopatadine relative to cromolyn statistically significantly reduced 
the effect of graminacees on both itching and redness. The slopes of the lines predicting ocular itching 
and  redness  from  the  graminacees  counts  for  olopatadine  were  more  than  five  times  lower  than  the 
slopes for cromolyn. 
C-94-61: Correlation between Itching and Redness, and Pollen Counts (Intent-to-Treat) 
i
g
n
h
c
t
I
4
3
2
1
0
0
C9461: Itching
C9461: Redness
Olopatadine
Opticrom
slope=0.0129
slope=0.0023
pvalue=0.0023
s
s
e
n
d
e
R
4
3
2
1
0
Olopatadine
Opticrom
slope=0.0059
slope=0.0009
pvalue=0.0156
50
100
Graminacees count
150
200
0
50
100
150
200
250
Graminacees count
Opticrom = cromolyn sodium 2%        Olopatadine = OPATANOL  
16/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With  regard  to  secondary  efficacy  criteria,  according  to  physician’s  impression  Olopatadine  was 
superior to cromolyn on day 30 and 42 in the  per protocol analysis. Intent to treat showed  marginal 
non-significance  in  alleviating  ocular  signs  and  symptoms  on  days  30  and  42.  There  were  no 
differences for chemosis and eyelid swelling. 
 C-94-61: Physician’s Impression by Treatment (Per Protocol) 
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
p
m
I
n
a
i
c
i
s
y
h
P
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
*
Olopatadine
Opticrom
*
42
0
7
14
* = p<0.05
28
35
21
Day
Opticrom = cromolyn sodium 2%        Olopatadine = OPATANOL 
In the patient diary a visual analogue scale was used to score itching and redness from 0 (none) to 9 
(severe) four times a day for the first 15 days and from days 30 to 42 of the study. Maximum scores 
were  used  for  the  analysis.  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  the  intent  to  treat  data  for  peak 
itching or peak redness although there was a suggestion in favour of Olopatadine in the per protocol 
analysis. 
Olopatadine  was  noted  to  produce  immediate  relief  from  itching  and  redness  with  a  clinically 
significant reduction from baseline within 30 minutes and this reduction progressed over four hours. 
By  four  hours,  olopatadine  had  caused  a  reduction  in  itching  and  redness  in  38%,  while  reductions 
were noted for cromolyn in 37% for itching and 26% for redness. 
In  summary,  olopatadine  was  not  inferior/superior  to  cromolyn  in  alleviating  ocular  itching  and 
redness,  and  physicians  rated  olopatadine  superior  to  cromolyn  by  day  30.  The  exploratory  analysis 
relating pollen levels and allergic response offered supportive evidence that olopatadine significantly 
reduced the effect of pollen on itching relative to cromolyn sodium. 
Study C98-40 
This study was comparing efficacy and safety in patients over 4 years of age with moderate to severe 
SAC.  Levocabastine  is  noted  to  be  highly  selective  second-generation  histamine  H1  receptor 
antagonist which is on the market in several countries in the European Union. 
Patients with a history of allergic conjunctivitis for at least one allergy season and a positive skin test 
within the past 12 months to at least one common pollen antigen and with a score of at least 4 on a 
scale  (from  0  none  to  5  continuously)  for  ocular  itching  and  2  (on  a  9-point  scale  from  0-4)  for 
conjunctival hyperaemia (slit lamp) in both eyes were randomised to treatment for 6 weeks.  
Products were administered  “in the morning and in the evening”. 
Efficacy and ocular signs and symptoms were determined at clinic visits on days 0, 7, 14, 30, and 42. 
A final visit was performed 2-3 days off therapy. 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  demonstrate  the  superiority  of  olopatadine  over 
levocabastine  in  reducing  ocular  itching  and  injection  (slit  lamp  redness).  Primary  efficacy  criteria 
were  injection  (slit  lamp  redness  assessed  by  the  investigator)  and  itching  assessed  by  the  patient 
during the visit. Itching was graded on a 0-5 scale (0= none and 5=continuously) and slit lamp redness 
was graded on a nine point 0.0-4.0 scale (0=none and 4=severe). 
17/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
         
 
 
 
Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  redness  (self  assessed  by  the  patient),  chemosis,  eyelid  swelling, 
nasal signs and symptoms, physician’s impression and patient’s diary for redness and itching. From a 
safety  point  of  view,  visual  acuity  and  pupil  diameter  were  recorded  at  every  visit  and  intraocular 
pressure and undilated fundus examination were performed at beginning and end of the study. 
Results 
Primary  efficacy  criteria:  the  study  did  not  suggest  that  olopatadine  was  superior  to  levocabastine. 
Using intent to treat data, olopatadine was superior to levocabastine with regard to slit lamp redness 
only  on  day  42,  although  this  became  non  significant  after  adjustment  for  multiplicity.  Olopatadine 
was  marginally  non  significant  for  itching  on  days  14  and  42.  Otherwise  there  were  no  statistically 
significant  differences  between  the  two  treatments.  Differences  noted  in  the  intent  to  treat  analysis 
were not significant in the per protocol data set. The main factor causing the difference was thought to 
relate to whether patients discontinued prematurely. 
C-98-40: Mean Ocular Itching and Slit-lamp Redness Score by Treatment 
(Intent-to-Treat) 
Itching 
Slit-lamp Redness 
i
g
n
h
c
t
I
5
4
3
2
1
0
Olopatadine
Levocabastine
t
t
s
s
e
n
d
e
R
-
L
S
3
2
1
0
t
0
7
14
t = 0.05<p<0.07
21
Day
28
35
42
0
7
14
t = 0.05<p<0.10
Olopatadine = OPATANOL 
Olopatadine
Levocabastine
*
21
Day
28
35
42
* = p<0.05
Regarding secondary efficacy criteria, according to Physician’s impression (recorded on a 6-unit scale 
ranging from 0-cure to 5-worse), olopatadine was superior to levocabastine on day 14, 30, and 42 in 
the  intent  to  treat  analysis  and  this  was  maintained  after  adjustment  for  multiplicity.  Chemosis  and 
eyelid  swelling  were  evaluated  on  a  5-unit  scale  from  0  (none)  to  4  (severe).  Redness  was  self 
evaluated  by  the  patient  (0=none  and  5=continuously).  Using  intent  to  treat  data,  olopatadine  was 
statistically  superior  to  levocabastine  for  chemosis  at  all  visit  points,  eyelid  swelling  (7,  14  and  42) 
and self assessment of redness on day 42. In the patient diary a visual analogue scale was used to score 
itching and redness from 0 (none) to 9 (severe) daily before the evening dose for the duration of the 
study.  Maximum  scores  were  used  for  the  analysis.  In  the  intent  to  treat  data  there  were  significant 
differences in favour of Olopatadine on days 14 and 30 for itch. There were no significant differences 
regarding redness. Nasal signs and symptoms were included as secondary efficacy variables with nasal 
stuffiness,  sneezing,  runny  nose,  itchy  nose,  and  postnasal  drip  evaluated  on  a  6-unit  scale  (0=none 
and  5=continuously).  Both  Olopatadine  and  levocabastine  produced  significant  reductions  from 
baseline for stuffy nose, sneezing, runny nose and itchy nose at each follow up visit. Olopatadine had 
a consistent effect on nasal drip but levocabastine had an effect only at day 30 and 42. Results for per 
protocol and intent to treat were similar.  
Pollen  data  were  analysed  for  graminacees  which  was  selected  for  15  of  the  17  sites  and  the  pollen 
type  to  which  185  patients  were  allergic.  Results  suggested  no  difference  between  Olopatadine  and 
levocabastine. 
In  summary,  using  intent  to  treat  data,  olopatadine  twice  daily  (BID)  was  superior  to  levocabastine 
BID in alleviating ocular redness (slit lamp) by day 42 only. Itching was marginally better by day 42. 
Overall, the trial failed to show that olopatadine was superior to levocabastine. 
18/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Study C98-37 
This  study  was  assessing  efficacy  of  olopatadine  (1  drop  BD  at  an  interval  of  6  to  8  hours)  in 
prevention  and  relief  of  signs  and  symptoms  in  patients  with  allergic  conjunctivitis,  versus  placebo 
(vehicle).  Adult  patients  with  a  history  of  SAC  and  a  positive  skin  prick  test  with  ragweed  antigen 
within  the  last  two  years  (and  a  positive  bilateral  conjunctival  antigen  CAC  test  to  ragweed  at 
baseline)  were  administered  olopatadine  or  placebo  (vehicle)  for  at  least  8  weeks,  until  first  killing 
frost or ragweed pollen counts of zero. 
Patients were evaluated at screening and on days 7, 14, 28, 42, 56, 70, 84, and 98. Patients were asked 
using a scale (0=none to 4= very frequently) how often in the previous days had their eyes itched or 
were  more  red  than  normal.  Primary  efficacy  criterion  was  percent  of  visits  with  ocular  itching  and 
redness  scores=  zero  (patient’s  assessment).  For  each  patient  a  score  was  calculated  that  was  the 
percentage  of  that  patient’s  evaluable  visits  when  itching  and  redness  were  concurrently  zero. 
Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  percent  of  visits  with  zero  scores  for  individual  ocular  signs  and 
symptoms  of itching, redness, tearing,  slit  lamp redness, chemosis and  eyelid swelling;  mean scores 
for individual ocular signs and symptoms averaged over three consecutive weeks when pollen counts 
were maximal at the site; percent of visits with zero scores for individual nasal signs and symptoms. 
From a safety point of view, visual acuity, intraocular pressure and undilated fundus examination were 
performed at beginning and end of the study. 
Results 
The  statistical  objective  was  to  show  superiority  of  olopatadine  over  placebo  in  the  prevention  of 
itching  and  redness.  All  efficacy  analyses  used  only  data  from  the  active  ragweed  season.  The 
secondary  analysis  that  compared  average  scores  for  signs  and  symptoms  of  allergic  conjunctivitis 
used only data from the three-week peak pollen season at the site. 
Although olopatadine consistently reduced signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis and allergic 
rhino conjunctivitis compared to placebo, the results did not gain statistical significance in the study 
primary and secondary analyses. It is suggested that the poor results were related to the low ragweed 
pollen counts at one site where 42% of this study were enrolled. 
C-98-37: Mean Itching Scores by Visit Day (Intent-to-treat) 
e
r
o
c
S
g
n
h
c
t
I
i
2
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
Placebo
Olopatadine
T
0
7
14
21
28
35
42
49
56
63
70
77
84
91
98
T = 0.05<p<0.10 by CMH test
Day
19/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
          C-98-37: Mean Redness Scores by Visit Day (Intent-to-treat) 
e
r
o
c
S
s
s
e
n
d
e
R
2
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
Placebo
Olopatadine
*
*
*
0
7
14 21 28 35 42 49 56 63 70 77 84 91 98
* = p<0.05 by CMH test
Day
There were no statistically significant differences in the number of patients free of concurrent itching 
and redness between the olopatadine and placebo groups although percentages were slightly higher in 
the  olopatadine  group.  Results  for  individual  ocular  signs  and  symptoms  scores  were  similar.  Mean 
scores for both itching and redness decreased for both Olopatadine and placebo over the period of the 
study. Pollen levels were variable and the lowest counts were seen at a site, which had recruited 42% 
of the patients.  Because of this finding, exploratory analyses were performed on all patients and all 
study  visits  and  based  on  the  correlation  between  efficacy  parameters  and  pollen  counts.  Excluding 
data from this site did not produce statistically significant differences for the primary efficacy variable 
but did suggest that olopatadine produced a significant improvement in concurrent itching and redness 
over  the  three-week  peak  pollen  season.  The  percentage  of  visits  when  patients  were  free  of  ocular 
redness and slit lamp redness during active pollen season was marginally greater for olopatadine than 
placebo. 
C-98-37: Correlation between Itching and Redness and Pollen Counts 
Itching 
C9837: Itching
Patanol
Placebo
5
4
3
2
1
0
slope=0.00389
slope=0.00198
p=0.0075
5
4
3
2
1
0
0
50
100
150
200
250
Ragweed count
Redness 
C9837: Redness
Patanol
Placebo
slope=0.00247
slope=0.00124
p=0.0413
0
50
100
150
200
250
Ragweed count
There  appeared  to  be  a  significant  correlation  between  pollen  levels  and  signs  and  symptoms  of 
allergic conjunctivitis and slopes of pollen counts against ocular itching, redness and tearing were two 
to  three  times  lower  with  olopatadine  than  with  placebo.  Olopatadine  effects  were  greatest  when 
pollen counts were medium or high. For slit lamp redness, slopes were not significant. Similarly, for 
chemosis and eyelid swelling there were no significant differences between the slopes. The applicant 
suggested that the lack of correlation for these variables could be explained by the fact that patients 
20/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drive to the doctor’s office and so remove themselves from their usual environment to an environment 
containing low levels of allergen in the clinic. 
Olopatadine produced a significant increase in the percent of visits with runny nose scores of zero and 
a marginally significant effect in the runny nose average score during the 3-week peak pollen season.  
In summary, results were  not  statistically significant for  the  planned  primary or secondary  analyses. 
Olopatadine  failed  to  demonstrate  superiority  to  placebo  in  prevention  of  redness  and  itching  as 
documented  by  the  percent  of  visits  with  a  zero  score  for  both  redness  and  itching.  The  post-hoc 
exploratory analysis appeared to suggest a significant correlation between pollen levels and signs and 
symptoms  of  allergic  conjunctivitis  as  slopes  of  pollen  counts  against  ocular  itching,  redness  and 
tearing were two to three times lower with olopatadine than with placebo. 
Study C00-16 
This study compared olopatadine and placebo (Opti-Tears II- an OTC artificial tear preparation) in the 
prevention  and  relief  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  allergic  conjunctivitis  and  rhino-conjunctivitis.  This 
study was performed to confirm the results of C98-37 in which a post hoc analysis correlated pollen 
and signs and symptoms of allergic rhino-conjunctivitis. 
Adult patients with a history of SAC and a positive skin prick test with grass pollen allergen within the 
last two years and a positive bilateral CAC test of the required magnitude to grass allergen at baseline 
were administered olopatadine or placebo to each eye daily morning and evening for 10 weeks. Pollen 
counts were obtained over the entire treatment period. Patients were evaluated at screening and once a 
week for 10  weeks  during the study. Assessments alternated  between telephone and  in patient visits 
and patients were asked using a scale (0=none to5=continuously) how often in the previous days had 
their eyes itched or were more red than normal. 
Primary efficacy parameters were patient self-assessments scored on a 6-unit scale of the frequency of 
ocular  itching  and  ocular  redness  during  the  three  days  before  each  evaluation  (0=none  and  5= 
continuously). Repeated measures analysis of variance was used to compare treatment differences in 
the slopes for ocular itching and redness as a function of grass pollen counts. 
Secondary  efficacy  variables  included  scores  for  slit  lamp  total  redness  (0=none  and  4=extremely 
severe);  chemosis,  slit  lamp  (0=none  to  4=severe);  eyelid  swelling,  slit  lamp  (0=none  to  4=  lid 
closure) and tearing, patient self assessment (0=none to 5=continuously). In addition, scores (0=none 
to 5=continuously) were collected for itchy nose, stuffy nose, runny nose, postnasal drip and sneezing. 
Repeated  measures analysis of variance was used to  compare treatment differences in the  slopes for 
secondary efficacy parameters as a function of grass pollen counts. From a safety point of view, visual 
acuity,  intraocular  pressure  and  undilated  fundus  examination  were  performed  at  the  beginning  and 
end of the study. 
Results 
Olopatadine significantly reduced the effects of pollen counts on ocular itching and redness relative to 
placebo; slopes of lines predicting ocular itching and redness from pollen counts for the olopatadine 
group were significantly lower than the slopes with placebo. Results of per protocol and intent to treat 
data sets were similar. Mean scores for itching and redness were consistently lower in the Olopatadine 
group  compared  to  placebo  for  all  assessment  time  points.  There  were  significant  difference  for 
itching on days 7, 14, 35, 63, and 70. There were significant differences for redness on days 14, 28, 
42, and 63. 
21/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
C-00-16: Correlation between Itching and Redness and Pollen Count (Intent-to-treat) 
Itching 
C0016: Itching
Olopatadine
Placebo
slope=0.017154
p=0.0025
slope=0.003997
5
4
3
2
1
0
5
4
3
2
1
0
Redness 
C0016: Redness
Olopatadine
Placebo
slope=0.008608
p=0.0349
slope=0.000191
0
10
20
30
40
50
Grass count
60
70
80
0
10
20
30
50
40
Grass count
60
70
80
No  significant  differences  were  noted  in  scores  for  slit  lamp  redness,  chemosis,  or  eyelid  swelling. 
Olopatadine  did  reduce  the  effect  of  pollen  counts  on  tearing  (marginally  non-significant).  
Olopatadine  significantly  reduced  the  effects  of  pollen  on  sneezing,  runny  nose,  and  itchy  nose 
relative  to  placebo.  The  slopes  relating  sneezing,  runny  nose,  and  itchy  nose  to  pollen  counts  were 
lower  for  olopatadine  than  for  placebo  but  there  were  no  significant  differences  between  them  for 
postnasal drip and stuffy nose. 
In  summary,  olopatadine,  using  a  planned  slopes  analysis  to  show  the  correlation  between  pollen 
counts  and  symptoms,  was  superior  to  placebo  in  reducing  ocular  redness  and  itching.  There  were 
significant difference between olopatadine and placebo for itching on days 7, 14, 35, 63, and 70 and 
for redness on days 14, 28, 42, and 63, but no differences for slit lamp redness, chemosis, or eyelid 
swelling. 
Supportive study 
Study C98-04 was a multicentre, randomised, observer masked, parallel group, in which patients were 
randomised  to  receive  either  loratadine  10mg  once  daily  or  loratadine  once  daily  plus  one  drop  of 
olopatadine  into  each  eye  twice  daily  for  7  days.  This  study  sought  to  compare  the  effect  of 
olopatadine use with loratadine to loratadine alone on ocular signs and symptoms in patients (at least 6 
years of age) with moderate to severe SAC. 
94  patients  were  enrolled  but  10  did  not  meet  inclusion  exclusion  criteria  and  6  patients  were 
discontinued  from  each  group.  45  patients  received  loratadine  and  olopatadine  and  49  received 
loratadine alone. Patients recruited  had a history of SAC and a positive skin test within the last two 
years and a score of 4 (scale 0-4) for ocular itching and 2 or more (scale 0-4) for conjunctiva on day 0. 
Primary  efficacy  parameters  were  ocular  itching  and  redness.  Patients  scored  ocular  itching  at  each 
visit (scale 0-4). The investigator scored redness at clinic visits (scale 0-4) on days 0, 3 & 7. 
Patients scored  nasal signs and symptoms such as  stuffy nose,  sneezing,  runny nose, itchy  nose and 
postnasal drip (scale 0-4). Physician’s global assessment of ocular and nasal conditions was on a scale 
of 0-5 (clinical cure to significantly clinically worse). Patient’s diary assessment (4 times per day) of 
ocular itching and redness scored 0-9 (none to severe). Quality of life questionnaires consisted of 28 
items from 7 domain areas.  
The primary parameter conjunctival redness, assessed by the investigator, did not show any treatment 
differences,  the  differences  for  the  primary  parameter  itching,  assessed  in-office,  was  significant  at 
study end whereas apart from nasal symptoms, all patient assessed parameters showed an advantage 
for  the  OPATANOL  adjunctive  group.  It  should  be  noted  that  it  was  single-masked  (investigator) 
study, therefore, patients may have biased in their evaluation of the efficacy parameters. 
22/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Apart  from  the  evidence  provided  by  the  CAC  studies,  the  pivotal  efficacy  studies  were  performed 
comparing olopatadine with levocabastine (six weeks treatment), cromolyn sodium (six weeks treatment), 
and placebo (eight to fourteen weeks treatment). 
The  study  with  cromolyn  showed  that  for  slip  lamp  redness  and  itching,  olopatadine  was  non  inferior. 
Results  for  secondary  efficacy  criteria  showed  no  difference  for  chemosis  or  eyelid  swelling  and 
physician’s impression suggested superiority on days 30 and 42 only. 
The  study  with  levocabastine,  which  used  the  standard  lower  dose  of  levocabastine  that  is  usually 
prescribed, showed superiority for slit lamp redness or itching only on day 42.  For secondary end points 
olopatadine was superior in controlling ocular swelling and chemosis. 
The first  study  with  placebo  had  fairly difficult  criteria  to  meet in  order to  be  significant  but  the  study 
failed  to  meet either  primary  or secondary  efficacy criteria. Even with the  exploratory  analysis  relating 
pollen levels to signs and symptoms, results were not always significant. Although placebo is known to be 
associated with some clinical improvement it was surprising to see the degree of progressive improvement 
that appeared to occur with placebo administration. 
A second study using placebo and performing the slope analysis suggested that olopatadine was superior 
to  placebo  for  patient  assessment  of  ocular  itching  and  redness  but  was  negative  for  investigator 
assessment of slit lamp redness or chemosis. 
The  concept  of  the  slope  analysis  (relationship  between  pollen  count  and  allergic  response)  and  the 
differences between subjective and objective measurements were therefore questioned for supporting 
the efficacy of olopatadine. 
With regard to nasal signs and symptoms, these were secondary end points in the two placebo studies and 
in the study using levocabastine as comparator.  Overall, the results were inconsistent, but data suggested 
that Opatanol may reduce the nasal signs and symptoms in patients with patent nasolacrimal ducts. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
In the development of olopatadine there were 2587 subjects or patients who were enrolled in 28 trials. 16 
of the 28 clinical trials were in normal subjects. The total number who received olopatadine whether alone 
or in association with any other drug was 1415 of whom 710 were normal subjects and 705 were allergy 
patients. 
Duration of exposure ranged from 1 to 184 days. 
Of the 705 patients, 246 were administered one to two drops bid in one or both eyes, 429 one drop bid 
daily in both eyes, and 30 patients one to two drops QID in one or both eyes. 
Eight  of  the  16  clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  with  a  history  of  clinically  active  allergic 
conjunctivitis who underwent a CAC. 
268 of the subjects were between 3 and 17 years. 
Two studies were performed to specifically address safety of olopatadine. 
In C-94-52, olopatadine was administered to 369 volunteers three times per day (TID) for 42 days. Ages 
ranged from 3 to 79 years. Patients were randomised to drug or placebo in this double-masked parallel 
group study in asymptomatic subjects. Safety measures included intraocular pressure, pulse, systolic and 
diastolic blood pressure, and visual acuity. No clinically significant changes in visual acuity, ocular signs, 
dilated fundus, intraocular pressure, pulse or mean arterial pressure were seen in either group. Ninety of 
the 244 subjects (36.9%) receiving olopatadine experienced adverse events compared to 44/125 (35.2%) 
given placebo. Four of the 23 (17.4%) olopatadine patients aged 3-6 and four of the 13 placebo patients 
(30.8%)  experienced  adverse  events.  Overall  the  study  suggested  that  topical  dosing  with  olopatadine 
0.1%  (OPATANOL)  administered  three  times  (TID)  a  day  for  up  to  42  days  was  safe  both  in  the  55 
subjects  who  were  under  17  years  (23,  3-6  years,  and  32,  7-16  years)  and  in  the  189  subjects  over  17 
years. 
23/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  second  study  performed  to  assess  safety,  C96-81  was  a  single  centre,  double  masked,  parallel 
group,  randomised,  active  control  study  to  examine  corneal  safety  following  administration  of 
olopatadine 0.1% (OPATANOL) or cromolyn sodium 4% ophthalmic solution in patients with vernal 
keratoconjunctivitis, administered 1 drop QID at 4-6 hourly intervals for 90 days. The object was to 
estimate  the  difference  in  effects  on  corneal  thickness  endothelium  cell  density  and  morphology. 
There were 30 patients in each group. Mean age was 9.63 years in this group and the range was 5 to 17 
years.  Safety  was  based  on  the  extent  of  exposure  to  study  drug,  visual  acuity,  ocular  signs  and 
symptoms,  corneal  thickness  (using  pachymetry),  and  density  (using  specular  microscopy)  and 
adverse  events.  There  were  no  statistically  or  clinically  significant  changes  from  baseline  for 
pachymetry  (corneal  thickness)  or  corneal  cell  density.  Adverse  events  were  mild  to  moderate  and 
there  were  no  serious  adverse  events  recorded  in  this  study.  There  were  no  clinically  or  statistically 
significant changes in visual acuity. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
The overall rate of adverse events with olopatadine monotherapy was 21.5% compared to 31.2% in the 
placebo group. The most common overall (treatment related and unrelated) adverse events were ocular 
discomfort and headache. 
Events related to therapy: The most common ocular event related to olopatadine was ocular 
discomfort (burning or stinging). Ocular pruritus, ocular hyperaemia, ocular discharge and keratitis 
were also associated. The most common non-ocular events were headache, asthenia, dry nose and taste 
perversion. 
Events not related to therapy: The most frequent ocular events were keratitis and ocular hyperaemia. 
The  most  frequent  non-ocular  events  were  headache,  cold  syndrome,  and  rhinitis.  Severe  headache, 
cold  syndrome, 
infection,  surgical/medical  procedure,  abdominal  pain,  migraine,  diarrhoea, 
gastrointestinal disorder, convulsion, drug dependency with addiction, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, 
pneumothorax, laryngismus and pleural disorder were reported in a total of 15 patients. 
In the main clinical studies (CAC and environmental studies) involving approximately 950 patients, 
the following undesirable effects were determined to be definitely, probably or possibly related to 
treatment: 
- 
- 
Ocular Effects: ocular discomfort (0.9%), ocular pruritus (0.6%), ocular hyperaemia (0.4%), 
ocular discharge (0.4%), keratitis (0.4%), dry eye (0.3%), lid oedema (0.2%), foreign body 
sensation (0.2%), photophobia (0.2%). 
Systemic Effects: Headache (0.4%), asthenia (0.3%), dry nose (0.3%), dizziness (0.2%). 
The incidence of all undesirable effects was uncommon. 
Deaths and Serious Adverse Events: No deaths occurred during the trials. Three patients experienced 
serious non-ocular adverse events unrelated to olopatadine(surgical/medical procedure, pneumothorax, 
bronchitis, convulsion, pleural disorder, pneumonia, drug dependency with addiction, gastrointestinal 
disorder).  
In  post-marketing  experiences  with  olopatadine,  the  following  additional  undesirable  effects  have 
been  very  rarely  (<0.01%)  reported:  blurred  vision,  dry  mouth,  rhinitis,  and  erythema.  They  are 
generally accepted as related to the use of antiallergic/antihistaminic agents. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The overall rate of discontinuation due to an adverse event while on treatment with olopatadine was 
1.7% and the rate of treatment related discontinuation due to olopatadine was 0.5%. 
Six  subjects  were  discontinued  because  of  ocular  events  (ocular  discomfort,  ocular  pruritus, 
epitheliopathy,  keratitis,  ocular  pain,  ocular  discharge,  and  corneal  erosion).  Three  subjects  were 
discontinued due to non-ocular events (contact dermatitis, dizziness, hypoesthesia, and headache). 
Eleven  subjects  discontinued  due  to  ocular  events  not  considered  related  to  therapy;  conjunctivitis, 
keratoconjunctivitis, corneal ulcer, chalazion, increased ocular pressure, pigment dispersion syndrome, 
foreign  body  sensation,  ocular  oedema,  hordeolum,  corneal  abrasion,  ocular  discharge,  ocular 
24/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
haemorrhage, blepharitis, surgical/medical procedure or ocular hyperaemia. Five subjects discontinued 
due to allergy, asthma, cold syndrome, dermatitis, sinusitis, or bronchitis. 
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory values were evaluated in 2 clinical studies (C-93-75 and C-93-83) with topical ophthalmic 
olopatadine and in one clinical study (C-00-23) where the effect of oral olopatadine was investigated. 
No  clinically  significant  changes  were  noted  for  blood  chemistry,  haematology,  or  urinary  analysis 
values.  
Cardiovascular  parameters  were  measured  in  four  clinical  studies.    Pulse  and  blood  pressure  were 
evaluated in 3 clinical studies, no significant changes were observed.  No clinically significant trend 
toward  QT  prolongation  was  associated  with  oral  administration  of  Olopatadine  5  mg  twice  daily 
(BID) in 1 clinical study. 
Visual  acuity  was  measured  in  21  clinical  studies.  A  clinically  significant  decrease  of  visual  acuity, 
expressed  as  a  decrease  of  ≥3  Snellen  lines,  was  observed  in  6  subjects  out  of  988  receiving 
olopatadine 0.1% (0.6%) and in 2 subjects out of 336 receiving placebo (0.6%). 
Intraocular pressure was measured in 14 studies. A clinically significant increase in IOP was defined 
as an increase of  ≥10  mmHg  and was  observed  in  1 subject  receiving  olopatadine and  in  2 subjects 
receiving placebo. 
Pupil  diameter  was  measured  in  7  clinical  studies  in  710  subjects  using  a  standardised  graduated 
(0.5mm  increments)  pupil  diameter  scale.  No  significant  changes  were  noted  for  any  of  the  applied 
treatments. 
Pupillary response was evaluated in 24 subjects receiving olopatadine 0.15%. Abnormalities were not 
observed. 
Ocular signs (eyelids/conjunctiva, cornea, iris/anterior chamber) for changes unrelated to the efficacy 
measurements  were  recorded  in  12  clinical  studies  involving  1268  subjects;  the  incidence  of  an 
increase in these ocular signs was not higher than in the placebo group.  
Fundus  examinations  were  performed  in  11  clinical  studies  and  changes  in  fundus  parameters  were 
reported  as  adverse  events.  Retinal  degeneration  unrelated  to  olopatadine  was  noted  in  one  patient, 
otherwise, no significant changes in fundus parameters were noted. 
Corneal thickness was measured in study C-96-81 (see above). 
Safety in special populations 
A  breakdown  by  age  of  adverse  events  following  olopatadine,  comparator  groups  and  placebo  was 
provided.  The age categories include children (3 to 11 years of age), adolescents (12 to 17 years of 
age), adults (18 to 64 years of age) and the elderly (≥ 65 years of age).  
A review of this information suggests that children in the age range of 3 to 17 years experienced more 
ocular adverse events (i.e., keratitis) compared to the older age groups (≥ 18 years of age) following 
treatment with olopatadine. Keratitis, fever, rhinitis were adverse events with a notable difference in 
the incidence for children and adults (keratitis incidence 4.3% in children vs. 0.5% in adults and 2.3% 
in  elderly,  fever  incidence  2.2%  in  children  vs.  1.2%  in  adolescents  and  0.2%  in  adults  and  rhinitis 
incidence  3.2%  in  children  vs.1.8%  in  adults).  Most  of  the  paediatric  cases  of  keratitis  occurred  in 
vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC), which is a more serious disease than SAC predominantly affecting 
children.  If  the  patients  with  VKC  are  not  included,  the  overall  incidences  of  keratitis  in  non-VKC 
patients  are  similar  comparing  children  (3  to  17  years  of  age;  2/269,  0.8%  incidence)  and  older 
patients  (≥ 18  years  of  age;  5/1033,  0.5%  incidence).  An  exclusion  of  these  keratitis  cases  when 
comparing incidences between the different age groups seems justified.  
There was no age related patterns in the incidence of other ocular and all non-ocular adverse events.   
Discussion on clinical safety 
Olopatadine administered one to four times daily for up to 120 days or more as monotherapy, adjunctive 
therapy  or  by  eye  treatment  was  safe  and  well  tolerated  in  both  normal  subjects  and  patients.  Adverse 
25/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
events  were  for  the  most  part  mild  to  moderate,  and  usually  resolved  without  treatment.  The  most 
common ocular adverse events were ocular discomfort (burning and stinging). 
Overall keratitis was reported as an adverse event in 14 of the 1415 subjects/patients (1.0%) receiving 
olopatadine and in 3 of the 385 subjects/patients receiving placebo (0.8%). Keratitis was reported as 
being related to olopatadine in 4 of the 14 patients (0.3%) and was characterised as non-serious and 
mild  to  moderate,  occurred  within  the  first  15  days  of  therapy,  usually  resolved  with  or  without 
therapy  and  generally  did  not  interrupt  patient  continuation  in  the  study.  Keratitis  was  reported  as 
being unrelated to olopatadine in 10 of the 14 patients (0.7%). The unrelated cases were attributed to 
the  illness  being  treated  (allergic  conjunctivitis  or  vernal  keratoconjunctivitis),  intercurrent  illness 
(meibomitis, conjunctivitis, upper respiratory infection), idiosyncratic effect, or ocular irritation from 
rubbing  of  the  eye(s).  Finally,  there  have  been  three  spontaneous  reports  of  keratitis  based  upon  a 
review  of  the  post-marketing  experience  with  olopatadine  for  the  period  from  January  1,  1997  to 
December  31,  2000.    This  translates  into  a  very  low  incidence  of  0.000036%  based  upon  the  8.3 
million  units  that  were sold  during this  time  period. Therefore,  keratitis  was  not considered a  major 
safety issue. 
Safety  profiles  were  similar  among  children,  adolescent,  adult  and  elderly  patients.  There  were  no 
clinically significant different changes from baseline in visual acuity, intraocular pressure, pupil diameter, 
ocular  signs,  or  fundus  parameters  between  olopatadine  or  any  of  the  comparators.    There  were  no 
clinically significant changes from baseline in corneal thickness or endothelial cell density observed over 
a  three-month  period.  There  were  no  clinically  significant  changes  from  baseline  in  pulse  or  blood 
pressure noted in patients receiving olopatadine. There were no clinically significant trends toward QTc 
prolongation found to be associated with olopatadine 5mg twice times daily (BID). 
The safety profile of olopatadine is acceptable particularly in the context of drug type and the small dose 
required for topical administration. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The important quality characteristics of the active substance are well-defined and controlled, and the 
product  is  formulated,  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  way  that  is  characteristic  of  a  solution  for 
ophthalmic  use.  The  specifications  and  batch  analytical  results  indicate  a  consistent  product  with  a 
uniform clinical performance from batch to batch. There are no outstanding quality issues which have 
a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  some  outstanding  minor  quality  issues  which  had  no 
impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as 
follow  up  measures  within  an  agreed  timeframe,  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the 
evaluation of this additional information. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that olopatadine has high in 
vitro affinity for the histamine H1 receptor and suggest that it may act on human conjunctival mast cells 
to  inhibit  the  release  of  pro-inflammatory  mediators.  Olopatadine  significantly  reduced  the  allergic 
response  in  in  vivo  conjunctival  and  classical  systemic  models  of  allergic  conjunctivitis.  The  general 
pharmacology  studies  showed  that  secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects,  including  those  on  the 
cardiovascular system, are possible at doses and exposures well in excess of those anticipated following 
topical ocular administration in man. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, oral and topical pharmacokinetics were similar in all relevant 
species.  Absorption,  distribution  and  elimination  are  rapid  and  biphasic.  Exposure  appears  to  be  dose 
proportional  to  a threshold  level that  exceeds likely clinically relevant levels in all species. The role  of 
cytochrome P450 enzymes in olopatadine HCl metabolism has not been elucidated fully. Elimination is 
mainly in the urine and bile. 
Overall, the toxicology programme revealed no special hazard for humans. 
26/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
Efficacy 
Olopatadine  appears  to  have  similar  efficacy  to  that  of  either  cromolyn  sodium  or  levocabastine  in  the 
treatment of symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis.  However the placebo-controlled studies failed 
to show superiority of olopatadine in one case and showed clinically significant evidence of superiority in 
the second where the slope analysis attempted to relate signs and symptoms to pollen levels. 
Explanations  were  requested  on  the  slope  analysis  and  the  hypothesis  that  the  relationship  (slope) 
between pollen and allergic response is different for drug and placebo, and the clinical significance of 
difference between these slopes. 
In Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis (SAC), signs and symptoms are a series of relatively short-lived 
events and depend upon environmental conditions (mainly pollen levels). 
In the slope analysis, it is assumed that the amount of pollen in the atmosphere is roughly predictive of 
the exposure of a group of patients to pollen and that atmospheric pollen is predictive of the 
manifestation of allergic response for the group of patients. The slopes analysis aligns the data (signs 
and symptoms) based upon pollen level rather than time on study (as in classical analysis of clinical 
trial results). This analysis was employed in the two placebo-controlled trials (C-98-37 and C-00-16), 
and was exploratory in C-98-37 but was declared as the primary efficacy analysis in C-00-16. The 
slopes analysis used in these studies tests whether the treatment controls allergic response to pollen in 
the environment. Specifically, the slopes analysis tests the hypothesis that the relationship (i.e., slope) 
between pollen and allergic response is different for drug and placebo. The test of homogeneity of 
slope recognises that there is no expected difference between treatments when pollen levels are low 
but that there are expected treatment differences when pollen levels are high. Under this test (slopes 
analysis), a placebo or ineffective drug would have a positive slope indicating that signs and 
symptoms increase when pollen increases.  On the other hand, a perfect drug would have a slope of 
zero indicating that when pollen levels are high, patients would be predicted to have no more signs 
and symptoms than when pollen levels are low. 
The traditional analysis for both studies showed lower mean itching and redness scores for 
OPATANOL than placebo, but statistically significant differences were only shown at some visits, 
while at other visits there is little or no difference. In the slope analysis, there was about 50% or more 
reduction in the slopes for itching and redness in both studies, suggesting OPATANOL reduces 
tendency for the signs and symptoms to increase as pollen levels increased. The slopes analysis shows 
a statistically significant (p<0.05) difference between OPATANOL and placebo for both C-98-37 and 
C-00-16.  
than  2  (corresponding 
The  clinical  relevance  of  this  statistical  difference  was  illustrated  by  measuring  how  many  patients 
exhibit  significant  levels  of  signs  and  symptoms.  Significant  itching  and  redness  was  defined  as  a 
score  greater 
to  a  report  of  “Frequently”,  “Very  Frequently”  or 
“Continuously”).  In  both  studies,  the  proportion  of  patients  who  had  significant  (>2  score  units) 
itching  or  redness  was  less  for  OPATANOL  than  for  placebo.  The  proportion  of  patients  with 
significant itching or redness increased with increasing pollen levels for patients treated with placebo. 
The proportion of patients with significant itching or redness was much smaller for OPATANOL and 
did  not  increase  with  increasing  pollen  levels.  Nevertheless,  this  retrospective  responder  analysis 
should be considered with caution.  
Concerns  were  raised  regarding  the  relevance  of  the  slopes  analysis  used  in  the  placebo-controlled 
studies but the slopes analysis were considered as supportive of the efficacy of OPATANOL, even if 
the slope analysis has not yet been validated. 
Preventive effect was not considered to have been demonstrated. The approach of demonstrating both a 
treatment  effect  and  a  prevention  effect  (in  the  placebo-controlled  studies)  does  not  appear 
appropriate. On one hand, a low score at inclusion for the sign(s) and symptom(s) chosen as primary 
efficacy  parameters  must  be  presented  for  the  demonstration  of  prevention.  On  the  other  hand,  a 
higher score at inclusion must be presented for the demonstration of a treatment effect.  
Regarding the differences between subjective and objective measurements, the company outlined that 
symptoms  seen  in  the  patient  in  the  consulting  rooms  are  often  less  than  those  given  in  the  history, 
probably due to removal from the offending environment. 
27/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
Safety 
Olopatadine administered one to four times daily for up to 120 days or more as monotherapy, adjunctive 
therapy  or  by  eye  treatment  was  safe  and  well  tolerated  in  both  normal  subjects  and  patients.  Adverse 
events  were  for  the  most  part  mild  to  moderate,  and  usually  resolved  without  treatment.  The  most 
common ocular adverse events were ocular discomfort (burning and stinging). 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Taking into account that olopatadine showed: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
a high affinity for the histamine H1 receptor, 
No specific safety issue, 
To be effective in the conjunctival allergen challenge studies, 
To be non inferior to cromolyn sodium and to not substantially deviate from levocabastine (even if 
olopatadine  showed  superiority  only  at  day  42)  in  environmental  studies  in  the  treatment  of 
symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, 
To be superior to placebo in a supportive (though as yet unvalidated) analysis taking into account 
pollen levels (slope analysis) in two placebo-controlled studies, 
the  CPMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  assessment  of  olopatadine  was  positive  in  the  treatment  of  
“ocular signs and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis”. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of OPATANOL in the treatment of ocular signs and symptoms of 
seasonal allergic conjunctivitis was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
28/28 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
