18 August 2009 
EMEA/530385/2009 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Opatanol 
Olopatadine 
Procedure No.:   
EMEA/H/C/000407/A45/0013 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
Invented name of the medicinal 
product(s): 
Opatanol 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
olopatadine 
MAH (s): 
Alcon 
 
 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The  MAH  has  provided  no  clinical  study  reports  but  24  references.  Most  of  the  references 
provided relate to the use of olopatadine 0.1% eye drops in general. Additional papers relate to 
the  unlicensed  olopatadine  0.2%  eye  drops  and  olopatadine  nasal  spray  and  provide  limited 
evidence of use in children and adolescents respectively 
  Recommendation  
The Rapporteur agrees with the MAH that no further action is required. 
II. 
RECOMMENDATION 
III. 
INTRODUCTION 
The  MAH  has  submitted  a  number  of  published  reports  for  olopatadine,  in  accordance  with 
Article  45  of  the  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  as  amended  on  medicinal  products  for 
paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  studies  do  not  influence  the  benefit  risk  for 
Opatanol and that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
IV. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
IV.1 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the clinical study(ies) 
The  only  licensed  olopatadine  is  Opatanol  is  1mg/ml  eye  drop  solution.  The  papers  included 
studies using 2mg/ml olopadatine and an olopatadine nasal spray, neither of which is available 
in the EU. 
IV.2  Non-clinical aspects  
No non clinical studies have been submitted 
IV.3  Clinical aspects 
1.  Introduction 
No clinical study reports were submitted. 
The MAH has submitted 24 papers most of which dealt with olopatadine in general in the context 
of treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific papers deal with: Olopatadine 0.2%: 
Lichtenstein S.J., Pasquine T.A.; Edwards M.R.; Wells D.T.; Robertson S.M., Gross R.D.  
Safety and tolerability of olopatadine 0.2% in children and adolescents. 
Journal of Ocular Pharmacology and Therapeutics( United States ) August 1, 2007 , 23/4 (366-
371) 
And Lichtenstein et al review of safety and efficacy of olopatadine 0.2% 
There is also a paper of a study with Olopatadine 0.6% 
Effects  of  Olopatadine  Hydrochloride  Nasal  Spray  0.6%  in  the  Treatment  of  Seasonal  Allergic 
Rhinitis:  A  Phase  111,Multicentre,  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Active-  and  Placebo-Controlled 
Study in Adolescents and Adults by  Shah, Nayak, Ratner et al 
There is also 
One paper (Houchin and Rogol) on Idiopathic Growth Hormone Deficiency (?), and two papers 
on Lodoxamide 
2.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In the original dossier for olopatadine 0.1%, there were 268 children and adolescents included 
among the 900 subjects or patients in the studies of at least 4 weeks duration. Children over 4 
years  were  included  in  the  efficacy  studies  and  safety  data  were  available  from  children  more 
than 3 years. 
Olopatadine 0.1% eye drops were licensed for use in children older than 3 years of age. 
The usual dose of the ophthalmic formulation is one drop in each eye twice daily (olopatadine 1 
mg/ml) and one a day (olopatadine 2 mg/ml).  
The MAH has submitted 24 papers most of which dealt with olopatadine in general in the context 
of treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. 
The  clinical  expert  cites  a  paper  by  Chapin  MJ,  Geroge  MA,  Abelson  MB.  Olopatadine: 
Broadening  choices  for  the  treatment  of  allergic  conjunctivitis.  Today’s  Therapeutic  Trends 
1999;17(1):67-84  
This  paper  mentions  a    6-week  safety  study  to  evaluate  paediatric  tolerance  of  ophthalmic 
olopatadine  1  mg/ml  eye  drops  in  children  3  years  of  age  and  older  where  eye  drops  were 
administered three times a day for 6 weeks. Parameters used to assess the efficacy were ocular 
redness and itching and patient’s condition improved after using product. 
Results obtained from this study apparently showed no change in visual acuity, no change in slit 
lamp  or  any  fundus  examination  findings.  There  was  neither  rebound  conjunctival  hyperaemia 
nor change in heart rate or blood pressure. With regard to adverse reactions, the report states 
that  there  were  no  significant  differences  between  adults  and  children.  Analysing  adverse 
events,  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  were  asthenia,  foreign  body  sensation, 
headache,  ocular  discomfort,  ocular  hyperaemia,  ocular  pruritus  and  superficial  keratitis.  All  of 
them were reported with an incidence lower than 1.5 %. 
The  expert  concludes  that  this  mention  of  this  study  demonstrates  that  olopatadine  for 
ophthalmic use is safe in adults but also in children older than 3 years. However, it appears that 
this study has not been published although the authors state that the data are on file. 
The  MAH  has  provided  two  references  to  other  studies  performed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
efficacy of olopatadine 2 mg/ml eye drops, which is not licensed in the EU. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  studies  included  44  children  aged  from  10  to  17  years.  Results  obtained  from  these 
studies  concluded  that  olopatadine  reduced  significantly  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  allergic 
conjunctivitis,  as  well  as  suggesting  that  olopatadine  2  mg/ml  was  effective  for  up  to  24  hours 
after  instillation  and  is  a  safe  product  used  in  children  older  than  3  years  when  dosed  once  a 
day.  No  serious  adverse  event  was  reported  in  either  study.  The  most  frequent  adverse  event 
reported  was  ocular  dryness  occurring  in  a  percentage  lower  than  2%.  Other  ocular  effects 
reported were ocular discomfort and ocular fatigue. No treatment was necessary to relieve these 
symptoms. 
One  further  study  was  carried  out  in  126  patients  between  3  and  17  years  of  age  using 
olopatadine  2  mg/ml  eye  drops  for  6  weeks.  No  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  this 
study and no treatment-related changes from visual acuity, IOP, pulse, blood pressure or dilated 
fundus  examinations  were  found.  The  only  adverse  event  reported  was  discomfort  (1.1%). 
Events resolved without treatment. No systemic adverse events related to therapy were reported 
during  the  study.  At  the  end  of  the  study,  authors  concluded  that  olopatadine  2  mg/ml 
administered once a day was safe and well tolerated in children and adolescents. 
Nasal spray: No olopatadine nasal spray formulation is licensed in the EU.  
One study was carried out to evaluate safety and efficacy of olopatadine nasal spray. Patients 
enrolled in this study included children from 12 to 18 years of age. No serious adverse events 
were reported during the period of the study. Additionally, non-serious adverse events reported 
were  mild  to  moderate,  usually  were  resolved  without  treatment,  and  did  not  interrupt  patient 
continuation  in  the  study.  The  most  common  adverse  event  reported  was  bitter  taste,  and  it 
seemed  to  be  dose-related.  No  safety  issues  were  identified  and  data  demonstrated  that 
treatment with olopatadine nasal spray provides relief from allergy symptoms. 
Therefore,  it  can  be  said  that  this  study  did  not  suggest  any  new  safety  issues  with  the  nasal 
spray. 
V. 
. 
RAPPORTEUR’S 
RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
OVERALL 
CONCLUSION 
AND 
Most  of  the  references  provided  relate  to  the  use  of  olopatadine  0.1%  eye  drops.  Additional 
papers  relate  to  the  unlicensed  olopatadine  0.2%  eye  drops  and  olopatadine  nasal  spray  and 
provide limited evidence of use in children and adolescents respectively 
  Recommendation  
The Rapporteur agrees with the MAH that no further action is required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
