EMA/727056/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000407 
EPAR summary for the public 
Opatanol 
olopatadine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Opatanol. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Opatanol. 
What is Opatanol? 
Opatanol is a clear eye drop solution, which contains the active substance olopatadine. 
What is Opatanol used for? 
Opatanol is used to treat the eye symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis (inflammation of the 
eyes caused by pollen in patients with hayfever). These include itching, redness and swelling. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Opatanol used? 
Opatanol is used in adults and children aged three years and older. It is given as one drop into the 
affected eye(s) twice a day, given eight hours apart. If another eye treatment is also being used, there 
should be a gap of five minutes between treatments; eye ointments should be administered last. 
Opatanol can be used for up to four months, if needed. 
How does Opatanol work? 
The active substance in Opatanol, olopatadine, is an antihistamine. Olopatadine works by blocking the 
receptors on which histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally 
attaches itself. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a 
decrease in the symptoms of allergy. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Opatanol been studied? 
Opatanol has been studied in 688 patients in four main studies lasting between six and 14 weeks. Two 
of these studies included children. Opatanol was compared with cromolyn sodium (another anti-allergy 
medicine), with levocabastine (another antihistamine) and, in two studies, with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was based on the degree of itching 
and redness in the eye. One of the placebo studies also looked at these symptoms in relation to pollen 
counts. 
What benefit has Opatanol shown during the studies? 
Opatanol was as effective as cromolyn sodium and as levocabastine. When compared with placebo, 
Opatanol was more effective only when pollen counts were taken into account, showing that the higher 
the level of pollen in the air, the greater the difference between the effects of Opatanol and those of 
placebo. At lower pollen counts, there were no differences between the two treatments. 
What is the risk associated with Opatanol? 
The most common side effects with Opatanol (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
headache, dysgeusia (taste disturbances), eye pain, eye irritation, dry eyes, abnormal sensations in 
the eye, dry nose and fatigue (tiredness). For the full list of all side effects reported with Opatanol, see 
the Package Leaflet. 
Opatanol contains benzalkonium chloride, which is known to discolour soft contact lenses. Therefore 
care should be taken by people who wear soft contact lenses. 
Why has Opatanol been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Opatanol’s benefits are greater than its risks for the treatment of ocular signs 
and symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Opatanol 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Opatanol on 17 May 2002. 
The full EPAR for Opatanol can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Opatanol, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor of 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2013. 
Opatanol  
EMA/727056/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
