ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OPDIVO 10 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 10 mg of nivolumab. 
One vial of 4 mL contains 40 mg of nivolumab. 
One vial of 10 mL contains 100 mg of nivolumab. 
One vial of 12 mL contains 120 mg of nivolumab. 
One vial of 24 mL contains 240 mg of nivolumab. 
Nivolumab is produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of concentrate contains 0.1 mmol (or 2.5 mg) sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid that may contain few light particles. The solution 
has a pH of approximately 6.0 and an osmolality of approximately 340 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Melanoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients with 
low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults and adolescents 12 years of 
age and older with Stage IIB or IIC melanoma, or melanoma with involvement of lymph nodes or 
metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose tumours have no 
sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoadjuvant treatment of NSCLC 
OPDIVO in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated for the neoadjuvant 
treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer at high risk of recurrence in adult patients whose 
tumours have PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% (see section 5.1 for selection criteria). 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults. 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and treatment with 
brentuximab vedotin. 
Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell 
cancer of the head and neck in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see section 5.1). 
Urothelial carcinoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy. 
Adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with muscle invasive 
urothelial carcinoma (MIUC) with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, who are at high risk of 
recurrence after undergoing radical resection of MIUC (see section 5.1). 
Mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer after prior 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPDIVO in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or 
metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced, 
recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior fluoropyrimidine- and 
platinum-based combination chemotherapy. 
Adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (OC or GEJC) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with oesophageal or 
gastro-oesophageal junction cancer who have residual pathologic disease following prior neoadjuvant 
chemoradiotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
OPDIVO in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or metastatic 
gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumours express PD-L1 
with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 5. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
PD-L1 testing 
If specified in the indication, patient selection for treatment with OPDIVO based on the tumour 
expression of PD-L1 should be confirmed by a validated test (see sections 4.1, 4.4, and 5.1). 
Posology 
OPDIVO as monotherapy 
The recommended dose of OPDIVO is either nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks or 480 mg 
every 4 weeks depending on the indication and population (see sections 5.1 and 5.2), as presented in 
Table 1. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: 
Indication* 
Recommended dose and infusion time for intravenous administration of 
nivolumab monotherapy 
Recommended dose and infusion time 
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older and 
weighing at least 50 kg): 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes or over 30 minutes 
(adjuvant melanoma, see section 5.1) 
Adolescents (12 years of age and older and weighing less than 
50 kg): 
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
6 mg/kg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 30 minutes for the first 16 weeks, 
followed by 480 mg every 4 weeks over 30 minutes 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes 
Melanoma (advanced or adjuvant 
treatment) 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Muscle invasive urothelial 
carcinoma (MIUC) (adjuvant 
treatment) 
Oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal 
junction cancer (adjuvant 
treatment) 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
Squamous cell cancer of the head 
and neck 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Oesophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma 
*As per monotherapy indication in section 4.1. 
If melanoma, RCC, OC, GEJC or MIUC (adjuvant treatment) patients need to be switched from the 
240 mg every 2 weeks schedule to the 480 mg every 4 weeks schedule, the first 480 mg dose should 
be administered two weeks after the last 240 mg dose. Conversely, if patients need to be switched 
from the 480 mg every 4 weeks schedule to the 240 mg every 2 weeks schedule, the first 240 mg dose 
should be administered four weeks after the last 480 mg dose. 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab 
Melanoma 
In adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 50 kg, the recommended 
dose is 1 mg/kg nivolumab in combination with 3 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously every 
3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which nivolumab 
monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 240 mg every 2 weeks or at 480 mg every 
4 weeks (see sections 5.1 and 5.2), as presented in Table 2. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose 
of nivolumab should be administered: 
 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 240 mg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 480 mg 
every 4 weeks. 
 
In adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 50 kg, the recommended dose is 
1 mg/kg nivolumab in combination with 3 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously every 
3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which nivolumab 
monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or 6 mg/kg every 4 weeks 
(see sections 5.1 and 5.2), as presented in Table 2. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose of 
nivolumab should be administered: 
 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 3 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 6 mg/kg 
every 4 weeks. 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: 
Recommended doses and infusion times for intravenous administration of 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab for melanoma 
Combination phase, every 
3 weeks for 4 dosing cycles 
Monotherapy phase 
Nivolumab 
Adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older: 
1 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older and 
weighing at least 50 kg): 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
Adolescents (12 years of age and older and weighing less 
than 50 kg): 
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
6 mg/kg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
Ipilimumab 
Adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older: 
3 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
- 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
The recommended dose is 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
3 weeks in combination with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
6 weeks. Treatment is continued for up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
Renal cell carcinoma and dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
The recommended dose is 3 mg/kg nivolumab in combination with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered 
intravenously every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which 
nivolumab monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 240 mg every 2 weeks or at 480 mg 
every 4 weeks (RCC only), as presented in Table 3. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose of 
nivolumab should be administered; 
 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 240 mg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 480 mg 
every 4 weeks (RCC only). 
 
Table 3: 
Recommended doses and infusion times for intravenous administration of 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab for RCC and dMMR or MSI-H CRC 
Combination phase, every 
3 weeks for 4 dosing cycles 
Monotherapy phase 
Nivolumab 
3 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes (RCC only) 
Ipilimumab 
1 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
- 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
The recommended dose is either 3 mg/kg nivolumab every 2 weeks or 360 mg nivolumab every 
3 weeks administered intravenously over 30 minutes in combination with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab 
administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 weeks. Treatment is recommended until disease 
progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib 
Renal cell carcinoma 
The recommended dose is nivolumab administered intravenously at either 240 mg every 2 weeks or 
480 mg every 4 weeks in combination with 40 mg cabozantinib administered orally every day. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: 
Recommended doses and infusion times for intravenous administration of 
nivolumab in combination with oral administration of cabozantinib for RCC 
Combination phase 
Nivolumab 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
Cabozantinib  40 mg once daily 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
The recommended dose is 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
3 weeks in combination with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
6 weeks, and platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks. After completion of 2 cycles 
of chemotherapy, treatment is continued with 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously every 
3 weeks in combination with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab every 6 weeks. Treatment is recommended until 
disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
OPDIVO in combination with chemotherapy 
Neoadjuvant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 
The recommended dose is 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes in 
combination with platinum-based chemotherapy every 3 weeks for 3 cycles (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
The recommended dose of nivolumab is 240 mg every 2 weeks or 480 mg every 4 weeks administered 
intravenously over 30 minutes in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based 
chemotherapy (see section 5.1). Treatment with nivolumab is recommended until disease progression, 
unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
The recommended dose is 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes in 
combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks or 
240 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes in combination with fluoropyrimidine- 
and platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 2 weeks (see section 5.1). Treatment with 
nivolumab is recommended until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in 
patients without disease progression. 
Duration of treatment 
Treatment with OPDIVO, either as a monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab or other 
therapeutic agents, should be continued as long as clinical benefit is observed or until treatment is no 
longer tolerated by the patient (and up to maximum duration of therapy if specified for an indication). 
For adjuvant therapy, the maximum treatment duration with OPDIVO is 12 months. 
For OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib, OPDIVO should be continued until disease 
progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
Cabozantinib should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Refer to the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for cabozantinib. 
Atypical responses (i.e., an initial transient increase in tumour size or small new lesions within the first 
few months followed by tumour shrinkage) have been observed. It is recommended to continue 
treatment with nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab for clinically stable patients 
with initial evidence of disease progression until disease progression is confirmed. 
Dose escalation or reduction is not recommended for OPDIVO as monotherapy or in combination with 
other therapeutic agents. Dosing delay or discontinuation may be required based on individual safety 
and tolerability. Guidelines for permanent discontinuation or withholding of doses are described in 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Detailed guidelines for the management of immune-related adverse reactions are described in 
section 4.4. When nivolumab is administered in combination with other therapeutic agents, refer to the 
SmPC of these other combination therapeutic agents regarding dosing. 
Table 5: 
Immune-related 
adverse reaction 
Recommended treatment modifications for OPDIVO or OPDIVO in combination 
Severity 
Treatment modification 
Immune-related 
pneumonitis 
Grade 2 pneumonitis 
Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis 
Grade 2 diarrhoea or colitis 
Immune-related colitis 
Grade 3 diarrhoea or colitis 
- 
OPDIVO monotherapy 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve, radiographic abnormalities 
improve, and management with 
corticosteroids is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve and management with 
corticosteroids, if needed, is complete 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve and management with 
corticosteroids is complete 
Immune-related 
hepatitis 
NOTE: for RCC 
patients treated 
with OPDIVO in 
combination with 
cabozantinib with liver 
enzyme elevations, see 
dosing guidelines 
following this table. 
Immune-related 
nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Immune-related 
endocrinopathies 
- 
OPDIVO+ipilimumaba 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Grade 4 diarrhoea or colitis 
Grade 2 elevation in aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), or total 
bilirubin 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until laboratory 
values return to baseline and 
management with corticosteroids, if 
needed, is complete 
Grade 3 or 4 elevation in AST, ALT, or 
total bilirubin 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Grade 2 or 3 creatinine elevation 
Grade 4 creatinine elevation 
Symptomatic Grade 2 or 3 
hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, 
hypophysitis, 
Grade 2 adrenal insufficiency 
Grade 3 diabetes 
Grade 4 hypothyroidism 
Grade 4 hyperthyroidism 
Grade 4 hypophysitis 
Grade 3 or 4 adrenal insufficiency 
Grade 4 diabetes 
Withhold dose(s) until creatinine 
returns to baseline and management 
with corticosteroids is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve and management with 
corticosteroids (if needed for symptoms 
of acute inflammation) is complete. 
Treatment should be continued in the 
presence of hormone replacement 
therapyb as long as no symptoms are 
present 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune-related 
adverse reaction 
Severity 
Grade 3 rash 
Immune-related skin 
adverse reactions 
Grade 4 rash 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) or 
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
Grade 2 myocarditis 
Immune-related 
myocarditis 
Treatment modification 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve and management with 
corticosteroids is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Permanently discontinue treatment (see 
section 4.4) 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms 
resolve and management with 
corticosteroids is completec 
Grade 3 or 4 myocarditis 
Grade 3 (first occurrence) 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) 
Other immune-related 
adverse reactions 
Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3; persistent 
Grade 2 or 3 despite treatment 
modification; inability to reduce 
corticosteroid dose to 10 mg prednisone 
or equivalent per day 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Note: Toxicity grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4). 
a 
During administration of the second phase of treatment (nivolumab monotherapy) following combination treatment, 
permanently discontinue treatment if Grade 3 diarrhoea or colitis occurs. 
Recommendation for the use of hormone replacement therapy is provided in section 4.4. 
The safety of re-initiating nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab therapy in patients previously 
experiencing immune-related myocarditis is not known. 
b 
c 
OPDIVO as monotherapy or in combination with other therapeutic agents should be permanently 
discontinued for: 
• 
• 
Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3 adverse reactions; 
Persistent Grade 2 or 3 adverse reactions despite management. 
Patients treated with OPDIVO must be given the patient alert card and be informed about the risks of 
OPDIVO (see also package leaflet). 
When OPDIVO is administered in combination with ipilimumab, if either agent is withheld, the other 
agent should also be withheld. If dosing is resumed after a delay, either the combination treatment or 
OPDIVO monotherapy could be resumed based on the evaluation of the individual patient. 
When OPDIVO is administered in combination with chemotherapy, refer to the SmPC of the other 
combination therapy agents regarding dosing. If any agents are withheld, the other agents may be 
continued. If dosing is resumed after a delay, either the combination treatment, OPDIVO monotherapy 
or chemotherapy alone could be resumed based on the evaluation of the individual patient. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib in RCC 
When OPDIVO is used in combination with cabozantinib, the above treatment modifications in 
Table 5 also apply to the OPDIVO component. In addition, for liver enzyme elevations, in patients 
with RCC being treated with OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib: 
• 
If ALT or AST > 3 times ULN but ≤ 10 times ULN without concurrent total bilirubin ≥ 2 times 
ULN, both OPDIVO and cabozantinib should be withheld until these adverse reactions recover 
to Grades 0-1. Corticosteroid therapy may be considered. Rechallenge with a single medicine or 
rechallenge with both medicines after recovery may be considered. If rechallenging with 
cabozantinib, refer to cabozantinib SmPC. 
If ALT or AST > 10 times ULN or > 3 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin ≥ 2 times 
ULN, both OPDIVO and cabozantinib should be permanently discontinued and corticosteroid 
therapy may be considered. 
• 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of OPDIVO in children below 18 years of age have not been established 
except in adolescents 12 years of age and older with melanoma. Currently available data of OPDIVO 
as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab are described in sections 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (≥ 65 years) (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic (PK) results, no dose adjustment is required in patients with 
mild or moderate renal impairment (see section 5.2). Data from patients with severe renal impairment 
are too limited to draw conclusions on this population. 
Hepatic impairment 
Based on the population PK results, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment (see section 5.2). Data from patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment are too 
limited to draw conclusions on these populations. OPDIVO must be administered with caution in 
patients with moderate (total bilirubin > 1.5 × to 3 × the upper limit of normal [ULN] and any AST) or 
severe (total bilirubin > 3 × ULN and any AST) hepatic impairment. 
Method of administration 
OPDIVO is for intravenous use only. It is to be administered as an intravenous infusion over a period 
of 30 or 60 minutes depending on the dose (see Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4). The infusion must be 
administered through a sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding in-line filter with a pore size 
of 0.2-1.2 μm. 
OPDIVO must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
The total dose of OPDIVO required can be infused directly as a 10 mg/mL solution or can be diluted 
with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution for 
injection (see section 6.6). 
When administered in combination with ipilimumab and/or chemotherapy, OPDIVO should be given 
first followed by ipilimumab (if applicable) and then by chemotherapy on the same day. Use separate 
infusion bags and filters for each infusion. 
For instructions on the preparation and handling of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Assessment of PD-L1 status 
When assessing the PD-L1 status of the tumour, it is important that a well-validated and robust 
methodology is used. 
Immune-related adverse reactions 
When nivolumab is administered in combination, refer to the SmPC of the other combination therapy 
agents prior to initiation of treatment. Immune-related adverse reactions have occurred at higher 
frequencies when nivolumab was administered in combination with ipilimumab compared with 
nivolumab as monotherapy. Immune-related adverse reactions have occurred at similar frequencies 
when OPDIVO was administered in combination with cabozantinib relative to nivolumab 
monotherapy. Therefore, the guidance below for immune-related adverse reactions applies to the 
OPDIVO component of the combination, except where specifically noted. Most immune-related 
adverse reactions improved or resolved with appropriate management, including initiation of 
corticosteroids and treatment modifications (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related adverse reactions affecting more than one body system can occur simultaneously. 
Cardiac and pulmonary adverse reactions including pulmonary embolism have also been reported with 
combination therapy. Patients should be monitored for cardiac and pulmonary adverse reactions 
continuously, as well as for clinical signs, symptoms, and laboratory abnormalities indicative of 
electrolyte disturbances and dehydration prior to and periodically during treatment. Nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab should be discontinued for life-threatening or recurrent severe cardiac 
and pulmonary adverse reactions (see section 4.2). 
Patients should be monitored continuously (at least up to 5 months after the last dose) as an adverse 
reaction with nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may occur at any time during 
or after discontinuation of therapy. 
For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation should be performed to confirm 
aetiology or exclude other causes. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, nivolumab or 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be withheld and corticosteroids administered. If 
immunosuppression with corticosteroids is used to treat an adverse reaction, a taper of at least 1 month 
duration should be initiated upon improvement. Rapid tapering may lead to worsening or recurrence of 
the adverse reaction. Non-corticosteroid immunosuppressive therapy should be added if there is 
worsening or no improvement despite corticosteroid use. 
Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should not be resumed while the patient is 
receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapy. 
Prophylactic antibiotics should be used to prevent opportunistic infections in patients receiving 
immunosuppressive therapy. 
Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued for any 
severe immune-related adverse reaction that recurs and for any life-threatening immune-related 
adverse reaction. 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Severe pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease, including fatal cases, has been observed with 
nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (see section 4.8). Patients 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be monitored for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis such as radiographic changes (e.g., focal 
ground glass opacities, patchy filtrates), dyspnoea, and hypoxia. Infectious and disease-related 
aetiologies should be ruled out. 
For Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be 
permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 2 to 4 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 (symptomatic) pneumonitis, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
should be withheld and corticosteroids initiated at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents. Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may be 
resumed after corticosteroid taper. If worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of 
corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should be increased to 2 to 4 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents and nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be permanently 
discontinued. 
Immune-related colitis 
Severe diarrhoea or colitis has been observed with nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for diarrhoea and 
additional symptoms of colitis, such as abdominal pain and mucus or blood in stool. Cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) infection/reactivation has been reported in patients with corticosteroid-refractory 
immune-related colitis. Infectious and other aetiologies of diarrhoea should be ruled out, therefore 
appropriate laboratory tests and additional examinations must be performed. If diagnosis of 
corticosteroid-refractory immune-related colitis is confirmed addition of an alternative 
immunosuppressive agent to the corticosteroid therapy, or replacement of the corticosteroid therapy, 
should be considered. 
For Grade 4 diarrhoea or colitis, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be 
permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. 
Nivolumab monotherapy should be withheld for Grade 3 diarrhoea or colitis, and corticosteroids 
initiated at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon improvement, 
nivolumab monotherapy may be resumed after corticosteroid taper. If worsening or no improvement 
occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, nivolumab monotherapy must be permanently 
discontinued. Grade 3 diarrhoea or colitis observed with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
requires permanent discontinuation of treatment and initiation of corticosteroids at a dose of 
1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 diarrhoea or colitis, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be 
withheld. Persistent diarrhoea or colitis should be managed with corticosteroids at a dose 
of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab 
in combination with ipilimumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. If worsening or 
no improvement occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should be increased 
to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents and nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued. 
Immune-related hepatitis 
Severe hepatitis has been observed with nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatitis such as 
transaminase and total bilirubin elevations. Infectious and disease-related aetiologies should be ruled 
out. 
For Grade 3 or 4 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination 
with ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose 
of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Grade 2 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab should be withheld. Persistent elevations in these laboratory values should be managed 
with corticosteroids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon 
improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may be resumed after 
corticosteroid taper, if needed. If worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of 
corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should be increased to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents and nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be permanently 
discontinued. 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
Severe nephritis and renal dysfunction have been observed with monotherapy treatment or nivolumab 
in combination with ipilimumab (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of nephritis or renal dysfunction. Most patients present with asymptomatic increases in 
serum creatinine. Disease-related aetiologies should be ruled out. 
For Grade 4 serum creatinine elevation, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
must be permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose 
of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 or 3 serum creatinine elevation, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
should be withheld, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper. If worsening or no improvement occurs despite 
initiation of corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should be increased to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents, and nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must 
be permanently discontinued. 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
Severe endocrinopathies, including hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency (including 
secondary adrenocortical insufficiency), hypophysitis (including hypopituitarism), diabetes mellitus, 
and diabetic ketoacidosis have been observed with nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of endocrinopathies and for 
hyperglycaemia and changes in thyroid function (at the start of treatment, periodically during 
treatment, and as indicated based on clinical evaluation). Patients may present with fatigue, headache, 
mental status changes, abdominal pain, unusual bowel habits, and hypotension, or nonspecific 
symptoms which may resemble other causes such as brain metastasis or underlying disease. Unless an 
alternate aetiology has been identified, signs or symptoms of endocrinopathies should be considered 
immune-related. 
For symptomatic hypothyroidism, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be 
withheld, and thyroid hormone replacement should be initiated as needed. For symptomatic 
hyperthyroidism, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be withheld and 
antithyroid medication should be initiated as needed. Corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents should also be considered if acute inflammation of the thyroid is 
suspected. Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may be 
resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. Monitoring of thyroid function should continue to ensure 
appropriate hormone replacement is utilised. Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued for life-threatening hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. 
For symptomatic Grade 2 adrenal insufficiency, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab should be withheld, and physiologic corticosteroid replacement should be initiated as 
needed. Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued 
for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) adrenal insufficiency. Monitoring of adrenal 
function and hormone levels should continue to ensure appropriate corticosteroid replacement is 
utilised. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For symptomatic Grade 2 or 3 hypophysitis, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
should be withheld, and hormone replacement should be initiated as needed. Corticosteroids at a dose 
of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents should also be considered if acute inflammation 
of the pituitary gland is suspected. Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. Nivolumab or nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued for life-threatening (Grade 4) 
hypophysitis. Monitoring of pituitary function and hormone levels should continue to ensure 
appropriate hormone replacement is utilised. 
For symptomatic diabetes, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be 
withheld, and insulin replacement should be initiated as needed. Monitoring of blood sugar should 
continue to ensure appropriate insulin replacement is utilised. Nivolumab or nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued for life-threatening diabetes. 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
Severe rash has been observed with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and, less commonly, 
with nivolumab as monotherapy (see section 4.8). Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab should be withheld for Grade 3 rash and discontinued for Grade 4 rash. Severe rash should 
be managed with high-dose corticosteroid at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents. 
Rare cases of SJS and TEN some of them with fatal outcome have been observed. If symptoms or 
signs of SJS or TEN appear, treatment with nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
should be discontinued and the patient referred to a specialised unit for assessment and treatment. If 
the patient has developed SJS or TEN with the use of nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab, permanent discontinuation of treatment is recommended (see section 4.2). 
Caution should be used when considering the use of nivolumab in a patient who has previously 
experienced a severe or life-threatening skin adverse reaction on prior treatment with other 
immune-stimulatory anticancer agents. 
Other immune-related adverse reactions 
The following immune-related adverse reactions were reported in less than 1% of patients treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in clinical trials across doses 
and tumour types: pancreatitis, uveitis, demyelination, autoimmune neuropathy (including facial and 
abducens nerve paresis), Guillain-Barré syndrome, myasthenia gravis, myasthenic syndrome, aseptic 
meningitis, encephalitis, gastritis, sarcoidosis, duodenitis, myositis, myocarditis, and rhabdomyolysis. 
Cases of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, hypoparathyroidism, and cystitis noninfective have been 
reported post-marketing (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation should be performed to confirm 
aetiology or exclude other causes. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, nivolumab or 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be withheld and corticosteroids administered. 
Upon improvement, nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may be resumed after 
corticosteroid taper. Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab must be permanently 
discontinued for any severe immune-related adverse reaction that recurs and for any life-threatening 
immune-related adverse reaction. 
Cases of myotoxicity (myositis, myocarditis, and rhabdomyolysis), some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported with nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab. If a patient develops 
signs and symptoms of myotoxicity, close monitoring should be implemented, and the patient referred 
to a specialist for assessment and treatment without delay. Based on the severity of myotoxicity, 
nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be withheld or discontinued (see 
section 4.2), and appropriate treatment instituted. 
The diagnosis of myocarditis requires a high index of suspicion. Patients with cardiac or 
cardio-pulmonary symptoms should be assessed for potential myocarditis. If myocarditis is suspected, 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prompt initiation of a high dose of steroids (prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg/day or methylprednisolone 
1 to 2 mg/kg/day) and prompt cardiology consultation with diagnostic workup according to current 
clinical guidelines should be initiated. Once a diagnosis of myocarditis is established, nivolumab or 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be withheld or permanently discontinued (see 
section 4.2). 
Solid organ transplant rejection has been reported in the post-marketing setting in patients treated with 
PD-1 inhibitors. Treatment with nivolumab may increase the risk of rejection in solid organ transplant 
recipients. The benefit of treatment with nivolumab versus the risk of possible organ rejection should 
be considered in these patients. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) has been observed with nivolumab as monotherapy and 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab. Caution should be taken when nivolumab is administered 
as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab. If HLH is confirmed, administration of 
nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be discontinued and treatment for 
HLH initiated. 
Infusion reactions 
Severe infusion reactions have been reported in clinical trials of nivolumab or nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (see section 4.8). In case of a severe or life-threatening infusion 
reaction, the nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab infusion must be discontinued 
and appropriate medical therapy administered. Patients with mild or moderate infusion reaction may 
receive nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab with close monitoring and use of 
premedication according to local treatment guidelines for prophylaxis of infusion reactions. 
Disease-specific precautions 
Advanced melanoma 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastases, 
autoimmune disease, and patients who had been receiving systemic immunosuppressants prior to 
study entry were excluded from the pivotal clinical trials of nivolumab or nivolumab in combination 
with ipilimumab (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). Patients with ocular/uveal melanoma were excluded from 
pivotal clinical trials of melanoma. In addition, CA209037 excluded patients who have had a Grade 4 
adverse reaction that was related to anti-CTLA-4 therapy (see section 5.1). Patients with baseline 
performance score of 2, treated leptomeningeal metastases, ocular/uveal melanoma, autoimmune 
disease and patients who have had a Grade 3-4 adverse reaction that was related to prior anti-CTLA-4 
therapy were included in study CA209172 (see section 5.1). In the absence of data for patients who 
had been receiving systemic immunosuppressants prior to study entry, and for patients with active 
brain or leptomeningeal metastases, nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after 
careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in PFS for the combination of nivolumab with 
ipilimumab is established only in patients with low tumour PD-L1 expression. The improvement in 
OS was similar between nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and nivolumab monotherapy in 
patients with high tumour PD-L1 expression (PD-L1 ≥ 1%). Before initiating treatment with the 
combination, physicians are advised to carefully evaluate the individual patient and tumour 
characteristics, taking into consideration the observed benefits and the toxicity of the combination 
relative to nivolumab monotherapy (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Use of nivolumab in melanoma patients with rapidly progressing disease 
Physicians should consider the delayed onset of nivolumab effect before initiating treatment in 
patients with rapidly progressing disease (see section 5.1). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
There are no data on adjuvant treatment in patients with melanoma with the following risk factors (see 
sections 4.5 and 5.1): 
• 
patients with prior autoimmune disease, and any condition requiring systemic treatment with 
either corticosteroids (≥ 10 mg daily prednisone or equivalent) or other immunosuppressive 
medications, 
patients with prior therapy for melanoma (except patients with surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy 
after neurosurgical resection for lesions of the central nervous system, and prior adjuvant 
interferon completed ≥ 6 months prior to randomisation), 
patients treated with prior therapy with anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, anti-PD-L2, anti-CD137, or anti 
CTLA-4 antibody (including ipilimumab or any other antibody or drug specifically targeting 
T cell co-stimulation or checkpoint pathways), 
subjects under the age of 18 years. 
• 
In the absence of data, nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful 
consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
• 
• 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
First-line treatment of NSCLC 
Patients with active autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial lung disease, medical conditions 
requiring systemic immunosuppression, active (untreated) brain metastasis, who received prior 
systemic treatment for advanced disease, or who had sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK 
translocations were excluded from the pivotal trial in first-line treatment of NSCLC (see sections 4.5 
and 5.1). Limited data are available in elderly patients (≥ 75 years) (see section 5.1). In these patients, 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy should be used with caution after 
careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Treatment of NSCLC after prior chemotherapy 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or autoimmune disease, 
symptomatic interstitial lung disease, and patients who had been receiving systemic 
immunosuppressants prior to study entry were excluded from the pivotal clinical trials of NSCLC (see 
sections 4.5 and 5.1). Patients with baseline performance score of 2 were included in study CA209171 
(see section 5.1). In the absence of data for patients with autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial 
lung disease, active brain metastases and patients who had been receiving systemic 
immunosuppressants prior to study entry, nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations 
after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Physicians should consider the delayed onset of nivolumab effect before initiating treatment in 
patients with poorer prognostic features and/or aggressive disease. In non-squamous NSCLC, a higher 
number of deaths within 3 months was observed in nivolumab compared to docetaxel. Factors 
associated with early deaths were poorer prognostic factors and/or more aggressive disease combined 
with low or no tumour PD-L1 expression (see section 5.1). 
Neoadjuvant treatment of NSCLC 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial 
lung disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, unresectable or metastatic 
disease, who received prior anti-cancer treatment for resectable disease, or who had known 
EGFR mutations or ALK translocations were excluded from the pivotal trial in neoadjuvant treatment 
of resectable NSCLC (see section 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the 
potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Patients with primitive peritoneal, pericardial, testis, or tunica vaginalis mesothelioma, interstitial lung 
disease, active autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, and 
brain metastasis (unless surgically resected or treated with stereotaxic radiotherapy and no evolution 
within 3 months prior to inclusion in the study) were excluded from the pivotal trial in first-line 
treatment of MPM (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab in combination with 
16 
 
 
 
 
ipilimumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the 
potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
Patients with any history of concurrent brain metastases, active autoimmune disease, or medical 
conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical trials of nivolumab 
or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be used with caution in these 
populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib 
Patients with any active brain metastases, autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring 
systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical trials of nivolumab in combination with 
cabozantinib (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab in combination with 
cabozantinib should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the 
potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
When nivolumab is given with cabozantinib, higher frequencies of Grades 3 and 4 ALT and AST 
elevations have been reported relative to nivolumab monotherapy in patients with advanced RCC (see 
section 4.8). Liver enzymes should be monitored before initiation of and periodically throughout 
treatment. Medical management guidelines for both medicines should be followed (see section 4.2 and 
refer to the SmPC for cabozantinib). 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
Patients with active autoimmune disease and symptomatic interstitial lung disease were excluded from 
clinical trials of cHL (see section 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab should be used with caution 
in these populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Complications of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in classical Hodgkin 
lymphoma 
Cases of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and transplant related mortality (TRM) have been 
observed from the follow-up of patients with cHL undergoing allogeneic HSCT after previous 
exposure to nivolumab. Careful consideration to the potential benefits of HSCT and the possible 
increased risk of transplant related complications should be made case-by-case (see section 4.8). 
In patients treated with nivolumab after allogeneic HSCT, rapid-onset and severe GVHD, some with 
fatal outcome, have been reported in the post-marketing setting. Treatment with nivolumab may 
increase the risk of severe GVHD and death in patients who have had prior allogeneic HSCT, mainly 
in those with prior history of GVHD. The benefit of treatment with nivolumab versus the possible risk 
should be considered in these patients (see section 4.8). 
Head and neck cancer 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain or leptomeningeal metastases, active 
autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, or carcinoma of the 
nasopharynx or salivary gland as the primary tumour sites were excluded from the SCCHN clinical 
trial (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab should be used with caution in these 
populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Physicians should consider the delayed onset of nivolumab effect before initiating treatment in 
patients with poorer prognostic features and/or aggressive disease. In head and neck cancer, a higher 
number of deaths within 3 months was observed in nivolumab compared to docetaxel. Factors 
associated with early deaths were ECOG performance status, fast progressive disease on prior 
platinum therapy and high tumour burden. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastases, 
active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were 
excluded from the clinical trials of urothelial carcinoma (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of 
data, nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the 
potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma 
Patients with a baseline performance score of ≥ 2 (except patients with a baseline performance score 
of 2 who have not received cisplatin based neoadjuvant chemotherapy and are considered ineligible 
for cisplatin adjuvant chemotherapy), evidence of disease after surgery, active autoimmune disease, or 
medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical trial of 
adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the potential 
benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastases, 
active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were 
excluded from the clinical trial in dMMR or MSI-H metastatic CRC (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the 
absence of data, nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab should be used with caution in these 
populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
First-line treatment of OSCC 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, any history of concurrent brain metastases, active 
autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, or at high risk of 
bleeding or fistula due to apparent invasion of tumour to organs adjacent to the oesophageal tumour 
were excluded from the clinical trial in OSCC (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab or chemotherapy should be used with caution in these 
populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
In the first-line OSCC trial, a higher number of deaths within 4 months was observed with nivolumab 
in combination with ipilimumab compared to chemotherapy. Physicians should consider the delayed 
onset of effect of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab before initiating treatment in patients 
with poorer prognostic features and/or aggressive disease (see section 5.1). 
Treatment of OSCC after prior first-line chemotherapy 
The majority of clinical data available in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma are in patients of 
Asian origin (see section 5.1). 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, brain metastases that were symptomatic or required 
treatment, apparent tumour invasion in organs located adjacent to the oesophagus (e.g. the aorta or 
respiratory tract), active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic 
immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical study in OSCC (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the 
absence of data, nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful 
consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Physicians should consider the delayed onset of nivolumab effect before initiating treatment in 
patients with OSCC. A higher number of deaths within 2.5 months after randomisation was observed 
with nivolumab compared to chemotherapy. No specific factor(s) associated with early deaths could 
be identified (see section 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, who did not receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy 
(CRT) prior to surgery, with stage IV resectable disease, active autoimmune disease, or medical 
conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical study in 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oesophageal and gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the potential 
benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
Patients who had baseline ECOG performance score ≥ 2, untreated central nervous system metastases, 
active, known, or suspected autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic 
immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical study in gastric, GEJ or oesophageal 
adenocarcinoma (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the 
potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Study CA209649 excluded patients with known HER2-positive status. Patients with undetermined 
status were allowed in the study and represented 40.3% of patients (see section 5.1). 
Patients on controlled sodium diet 
Each mL of this medicinal product contains 0.1 mmol (or 2.5 mg) sodium. This medicinal product 
contains 10 mg sodium per 4 mL vial, 25 mg sodium per 10 mL vial, 30 mg sodium per 12 mL vial or 
60 mg sodium per 24 mL vial, which is equivalent to 0.5%, 1.25%, 1.5% or 3% respectively, of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
Patient alert card 
All prescribers of OPDIVO must be familiar with the physician information and management 
guidelines. The prescriber must discuss the risks of OPDIVO therapy with the patient. The patient will 
be provided with the patient alert card with each prescription. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Nivolumab is a human monoclonal antibody, as such pharmacokinetic interaction studies have not 
been conducted. As monoclonal antibodies are not metabolised by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes 
or other drug metabolising enzymes, inhibition or induction of these enzymes by co-administered 
medicinal products is not anticipated to affect the pharmacokinetics of nivolumab. 
Other forms of interaction 
Systemic immunosuppression 
The use of systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressants at baseline, before starting 
nivolumab, should be avoided because of their potential interference with the pharmacodynamic 
activity. However, systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressants can be used after starting 
nivolumab to treat immune-related adverse reactions. The preliminary results show that systemic 
immunosuppression after starting nivolumab treatment does not appear to preclude the response on 
nivolumab. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of nivolumab in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
embryofoetal toxicity (see section 5.3). Human IgG4 is known to cross the placental barrier and 
nivolumab is an IgG4; therefore, nivolumab has the potential to be transmitted from the mother to the 
developing foetus. Nivolumab is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing 
potential not using effective contraception unless the clinical benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
Effective contraception should be used for at least 5 months following the last dose of nivolumab. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether nivolumab is secreted in human milk. Because many medicinal products, 
including antibodies, can be secreted in human milk, a risk to the newborns/infants cannot be 
excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue from 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nivolumab therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Studies to evaluate the effect of nivolumab on fertility have not been performed. Thus, the effect of 
nivolumab on male and female fertility is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab may have a minor influence on the ability 
to drive and use machines. Because of potential adverse reactions such as fatigue (see section 4.8), 
patients should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are certain 
that nivolumab does not adversely affect them. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Nivolumab as monotherapy (see section 4.2) 
Summary of the safety profile 
In the pooled dataset of nivolumab as monotherapy across tumour types (n = 4646) with minimum 
follow-up ranging from 2.3 to 28 months, the most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 10%) were fatigue 
(44%), musculoskeletal pain (28%), diarrhoea (26%), rash (24%),cough (22%), nausea (22%), pruritus 
(19%), decreased appetite (17%), arthralgia (17%), constipation (16%), dyspnoea (16%), abdominal 
pain (15%), upper respiratory tract infection (15%), pyrexia (13%), headache (13%), anaemia (13%) 
and vomiting (12%). The majority of adverse reactions were mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2). The 
incidence of Grade 3-5 adverse reactions was 44%, with 0.3% fatal adverse reactions attributed to 
study drug. With a minimum of 63 months follow-up in NSCLC, no new safety signals were 
identified. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in the pooled dataset for patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy 
(n = 4646) are presented in Table 6. These reactions are presented by system organ class and by 
frequency. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); not known 
(cannot be estimated from available post-marketing data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in the order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 6: 
Adverse reactions with nivolumab monotherapy 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
Infections and infestations 
Very common 
Common 
Rare 
upper respiratory tract infection 
pneumoniaa, bronchitis 
aseptic meningitis 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Rare 
histiocytic necrotising lymphadenitis (Kikuchi lymphadenitis) 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
lymphopaeniab, anaemiab,i, leucopoeniab, neutropaeniaa,b, thrombocytopaeniab 
eosinophilia 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
infusion related reaction (including cytokine release syndrome), 
hypersensitivity (including anaphylactic reaction) 
sarcoidosis 
solid organ transplant rejectionf 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tachycardia, atrial fibrillation 
myocarditisa, pericardial disordersh, arrhythmia (including ventricular arrhythmia) 
Endocrine disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyroiditis 
adrenal insufficiencyj, hypopituitarism, hypophysitis, diabetes mellitus 
diabetic ketoacidosis, hypoparathyroidism 
decreased appetite, hyperglycaemiab 
dehydration, weight decreased, hypoglycaemiab 
metabolic acidosis 
tumour lysis syndromeg 
headache 
peripheral neuropathy, dizziness 
polyneuropathy, autoimmune neuropathy (including facial and abducens nerve 
paresis) 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, demyelination, myasthenic syndrome, encephalitisa,k 
blurred vision, dry eye 
uveitis 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndromef 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Rare 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
hypertension 
vasculitis 
dyspnoeaa, cough 
pneumonitisa, pleural effusion 
lung infiltration 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation 
colitisa, stomatitis, dry mouth 
pancreatitis, gastritis 
duodenal ulcer 
hepatitis, cholestasis 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
rashc, pruritus 
Very common 
vitiligo, dry skin, erythema, alopecia 
Common 
psoriasis, rosacea, erythema multiforme, urticaria 
Uncommon 
toxic epidermal necrolysisa, d, Stevens-Johnson syndromea 
Rare 
lichen sclerosusg, other lichen disorders 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
musculoskeletal paine, arthralgia 
arthritis 
polymyalgia rheumatica 
Sjogren’s syndrome, myopathy, myositis (including polymyositis)a,, 
rhabdomyolysisa,d 
21 
 
renal failure (including acute kidney injury)a 
tubulointerstitial nephritis, cystitis noninfective 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common 
Rare 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Investigationsb 
Very common 
fatigue, pyrexia 
pain, chest pain, oedemal 
increased AST, hyponatraemia, hypoalbuminaemia, increased alkaline 
phosphatase, increased creatinine, increased ALT, increased lipase, 
hyperkalaemia, increased amylase, hypocalcaemia, hypomagnesaemia, 
hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
increased total bilirubin, hypernatraemia, hypermagnesaemia 
Common 
Adverse reaction frequencies presented in Table 6 may not be fully attributable to nivolumab alone but may contain 
contributions from the underlying disease. 
a 
b 
Fatal cases have been reported in completed or ongoing clinical studies. 
Frequencies of laboratory terms reflect the proportion of patients who experienced a worsening from baseline in 
laboratory measurements. See “Description of selected adverse reactions; laboratory abnormalities” below. 
Rash is a composite term which includes rash maculopapular, rash erythematous, rash pruritic, rash follicular, rash 
macular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, rash pustular, rash vesicular, exfoliative rash, dermatitis, dermatitis 
acneiform, dermatitis allergic, dermatitis atopic, dermatitis bullous, dermatitis exfoliative, dermatitis psoriasiform, 
drug eruption and pemphigoid. 
Reported also in studies outside the pooled dataset. The frequency is based on the program-wide exposure. 
Musculoskeletal pain is a composite term which includes back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, 
musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, myalgia intercostal, neck pain, pain in extremity, and spinal pain. 
Post-marketing event (also see section 4.4). 
Reported in clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Pericardial disorders is a composite term which includes pericarditis, pericardial effusion, cardiac tamponade, and 
Dressler’s syndrome. 
Anaemia is a composite term which includes, among other causes, haemolytic anaemia and autoimmune anaemia, 
haemoglobin decreased, iron deficiency anaemia and red blood cell count decreased. 
Includes adrenal insufficiency, adrenocortical insufficiency acute, and secondary adrenocortical insufficiency. 
Includes encephalitis and limbic encephalitis. 
Oedema is a composite term which includes generalised oedema, oedema peripheral, peripheral swelling and 
swelling. 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
i 
j 
k 
l 
Nivolumab in combination with other therapeutic agents (see section 4.2) 
Summary of the safety profile 
When nivolumab is administered in combination, refer to the SmPC for the other therapeutic agents 
for additional information on the safety profile, prior to initiation of treatment.  
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
In the pooled dataset of nivolumab administered in combination with ipilimumab (with or without 
chemotherapy) across tumour types (n = 2094) with minimum follow-up ranging from 6 to 47 months, 
the most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 10%) were fatigue (50%), rash (38%), diarrhoea (37%), nausea 
(31%), pruritus (29%), musculoskeletal pain (28%), pyrexia (25%), cough (24%), decreased appetite 
(23%), vomiting (20%), dyspnoea (19%), constipation (19%), arthralgia (19%), abdominal pain 
(18%), hypothyroidism (16%), headache (16%), upper respiratory tract infection (15%), oedema 
(13%), and dizziness (11%). The incidence of Grade 3-5 adverse reactions was 67% for nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), with 0.7% fatal adverse reactions 
attributed to study drug. Among patients treated with nivolumab 1 mg/kg in combination with 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, fatigue (62%), rash (57%), diarrhoea (52%), nausea (42%), pruritus (40%), 
pyrexia (36%), and headache (26%) were reported at an incidence rate ≥ 10% higher than the rates 
reported in the pooled dataset of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without 
chemotherapy) incidence rate. Among patients treated with nivolumab 360 mg in combination with 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg and chemotherapy, anaemia (32%) and neutropaenia (15%) were reported at an 
incidence rate ≥ 10% higher than the rates reported in the pooled dataset of nivolumab in combination 
with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy) incidence rate. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy 
In the pooled dataset of nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks or 360 mg every 3 weeks in combination 
with chemotherapy across tumour types (n = 1268), with a minimum follow-up ranging from 12.1 to 
20 months for gastric, GEJ or oesophageal adenocarcinoma, or OSCC, or following 3 cycles of 
treatment for resectable NSCLC, the most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 10%) were nausea (51%), 
peripheral neuropathy (39%), fatigue (39%), diarrhoea (33%), decreased appetite (33%), constipation 
(31%), vomiting (27%), stomatitis (22%), abdominal pain (21%), rash (18%), pyrexia (17%), 
musculoskeletal pain (16%), cough (13%), oedema (including peripheral oedema) (12%), and 
hypoalbuminaemia (11%). Incidences of Grade 3-5 adverse reactions were 71% for nivolumab in 
combination with chemotherapy, with 1.2% fatal adverse reactions attributed to nivolumab in 
combination with chemotherapy. Median duration of therapy was 6.44 months (95% CI: 5.95, 6.80) 
for nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy and 4.34 months (95% CI: 4.04, 4.70) for 
chemotherapy for gastric, GEJ or oesophageal adenocarcinoma, or OSCC. For resectable NSCLC, 
ninety-three percent (93%) of patients received 3 cycles of nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy. 
Nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib 
In the dataset of nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks in combination with cabozantinib 40 mg once daily 
in RCC (n =320), with a minimum follow-up of 16.0 months, the most frequent adverse 
reactions (≥ 10%) were diarrhoea (64.7%), fatigue (51.3%), palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome (40.0%), stomatitis (38.8%), musculoskeletal pain (37.5%), hypertension (37.2%), rash 
(36.3%), hypothyroidism (35.6%), decreased appetite (30.3%), nausea (28.8%), abdominal pain 
(25.0%), dysguesia (23.8%), upper respiratory tract infection (20.6%), cough (20.6%), pruritus 
(20.6%), arthralgia (19.4%), vomiting (18.4%), dysphonia (17.8%), headache (16.3%), dyspepsia 
(15.9%), dizziness (14.1%), constipation (14.1%), pyrexia (14.1%), oedema (13.4%), muscle spasm 
(12.2%), dyspnoea (11.6%), proteinuria (10.9%) and hyperthyroidism (10.0%). The incidence of 
Grade 3-5 adverse reactions was 78%, with 0.3% fatal adverse reactions attributed to study drug. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in the pooled dataset for patients treated with nivolumab in combination 
with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy) (n = 2094), nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy (n = 1268), and nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib (n = 320) are presented in 
Table 7. These reactions are presented by system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), not known (cannot be estimated from available post-marketing data). 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 7: 
Adverse reactions with nivolumab in combination with other therapeutic agents 
Combination with 
ipilimumab (with or 
without chemotherapy) 
Combination with 
chemotherapy 
Combination with 
cabozantinib 
Infections and infestations 
Very common 
Common 
Rare 
upper respiratory tract 
infection 
pneumonia, bronchitis, 
conjunctivitis 
aseptic meningitis 
upper respiratory tract 
infection, pneumoniaa 
upper respiratory tract 
infection 
pneumonia 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination with 
ipilimumab (with or 
without chemotherapy) 
Combination with 
chemotherapy 
Combination with 
cabozantinib 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
anaemiab,i, 
thrombocytopaeniab, 
leucopoeniab, 
lymphopaeniab, 
neutropaeniab 
eosinophilia 
neutropaeniab, anaemiab,i, 
leucopoeniab, 
lymphopaeniab, 
thrombocytopaeniab 
anaemiab, 
thrombocytopaeniab, 
leucopoeniab, lymphopaeniab, 
neutropaeniab 
febrile neutropaeniaa 
eosinophilia 
Uncommon 
febrile neutropaenia 
eosinophilia 
Not known 
haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis 
Immune system disorders 
infusion related reaction 
(including cytokine release 
syndrome), 
hypersensitivity 
hypersensitivity, infusion 
related reaction 
(including cytokine 
release syndrome) 
hypersensitivity (including 
anaphylactic reaction) 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
sarcoidosis 
solid organ transplant 
rejectionf 
Endocrine disorders 
Very common 
hypothyroidism 
Common 
Uncommon 
hyperthyroidism, 
thyroiditis, adrenal 
insufficiency, hypophysitis, 
hypopituitarism, diabetes 
mellitus 
diabetic ketoacidosis 
Rare 
hypoparathyroidism 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
decreased appetite, 
hyperglycaemiab, 
hypoglycaemiab 
dehydration, 
hypoalbuminaemia, 
hypophosphataemia, 
weight decreased 
metabolic acidosis 
Not known 
tumour lysis syndromeg 
infusion related 
hypersensitivity reaction 
hypothyroidism, 
hyperthyroidism 
adrenal insufficiency 
hypophysitis, thyroiditis 
hypothyroidism, 
hyperthyroidism 
adrenal insufficiency, 
thyroiditis, 
hypopituitarism, diabetes 
mellitus 
hypophysitis 
decreased appetite, 
hypoalbuminaemia, 
hyperglycaemiab, 
hypoglycaemiab 
hypophosphataemia 
decreased appetite, 
hypoglycaemiab, 
hyperglycaemiab, weight 
decreased 
dehydration 
tumour lysis syndrome 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination with 
ipilimumab (with or 
without chemotherapy) 
Combination with 
chemotherapy 
Combination with 
cabozantinib 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
headache, dizziness 
peripheral neuropathy 
dysgeusia, dizziness, headache 
Common 
peripheral neuropathy 
paraesthesia, dizziness, 
headache 
peripheral neuropathy 
Uncommon 
Rare 
polyneuropathy, peroneal 
nerve palsy, autoimmune 
neuropathy (including 
facial and abducens nerve 
paresis), encephalitis, 
myasthenia gravis 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, 
neuritis 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Common 
Eye disorders 
encephalitis autoimmune, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, 
myasthenic syndrome 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, encephalitis 
tinnitus 
Common 
blurred vision, dry eye 
dry eye, blurred vision 
dry eye, blurred vision 
Uncommon 
uveitis, episcleritis 
uveitis 
uveitis 
Rare 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada 
syndrome 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Vascular disorders 
Very common 
tachycardia, atrial 
fibrillation 
myocarditisa, arrhythmia 
(including ventricular 
arrhythmia)a, bradycardia 
pericardial disordersh 
Common 
hypertension 
tachycardia, atrial 
fibrillation 
myocarditis 
atrial fibrillation, tachycardia 
myocarditis 
thrombosisa, j, 
hypertension, vasculitis 
hypertension 
thrombosisj 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
cough, dyspnoea 
cough 
dysphonia, dyspnoea, cough 
Common 
pneumonitisa, pulmonary 
embolisma, pleural effusion 
pneumonitisa, dyspnoea 
pneumonitis, pulmonary 
embolism, pleural effusion, 
epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
diarrhoea, vomiting, 
nausea, abdominal pain, 
constipation 
colitisa, pancreatitis, 
stomatitis, gastritis, dry 
mouth 
duodenitis 
Rare 
intestinal perforationa 
diarrhoeaa, stomatitis, 
vomiting, nausea, 
abdominal pain, 
constipation 
colitis, dry mouth 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, stomatitis, 
abdominal pain, dyspepsia 
colitis, gastritis, oral pain, dry 
mouth, haemorrhoids 
pancreatitis 
pancreatitis, small intestine 
perforationa, glossodynia 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination with 
ipilimumab (with or 
without chemotherapy) 
Combination with 
chemotherapy 
Combination with 
cabozantinib 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
hepatitis 
Uncommon 
hepatitis 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
rashc, pruritus 
rashc 
Common 
alopecia, vitiligo, urticaria, 
dry skin, erythema,  
palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome, pruritus, skin 
hyperpigmentation, 
alopecia, dry skin, 
erythema 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, psoriasis 
toxic epidermal 
necrolysisa,d, lichen 
sclerosus, other lichen 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
musculoskeletal paine 
arthralgia, muscular 
weakness 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
musculoskeletal paine, 
arthralgia  
muscle spasms, muscular 
weakness, arthritis 
polymyalgia rheumatica, 
myopathy, myositis 
(including polymyositis)a 
spondyloarthropathy, 
Sjogren’s syndrome, 
rhabdomyolysisa 
Renal and urinary disorders 
hepatitis 
palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia syndrome, 
rashc, pruritus 
alopecia, dry skin, erythema, 
hair colour change 
psoriasis, urticaria 
lichen sclerosus, other lichen 
disorders 
musculoskeletal paine, 
arthralgia, muscle spasm 
arthritis 
myopathy, osteonecrosis of 
the jaw, fistula 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
renal failure (including 
acute kidney injury)a 
tubulointerstitial nephritis, 
nephritis 
cystitis noninfective 
renal failurea 
cystitis noninfective 
proteinuria 
renal failure, acute kidney 
injury 
nephritis 
nephritis 
cystitis noninfectiveg 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
fatigue, pyrexia, oedema 
(including peripheral 
oedema) 
chest pain, pain, chills 
fatigue, pyrexia, oedema 
(including peripheral 
oedema) 
malaise 
fatigue, pyrexia, oedema 
pain, chest pain 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Combination with 
ipilimumab (with or 
without chemotherapy) 
increased alkaline 
phosphataseb, increased 
ASTb, increased ALTb, 
increased total bilirubinb, 
increased creatinineb, 
increased amylaseb, 
increased lipaseb, 
hyponatraemiab, 
hyperkalaemiab, 
hypokalaemiab, 
hypercalcaemiab, 
hypocalcaemiab 
hypernatraemiab, 
hypermagnesaemiab, 
increased thyroid 
stimulating hormone, 
increased gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
Combination with 
chemotherapy 
Combination with 
cabozantinib 
hypocalcaemiab, 
increased transaminasesb, 
hyponatraemiab, 
increased amylaseb, 
hypomagnesaemiab, 
increased alkaline 
phosphataseb, 
hypokalaemiab,, 
increased creatinineb, 
increased lipaseb, 
hyperkalaemiab, 
increased total bilirubinb 
hypernatraemiab, 
hypercalcaemiab, 
hypermagnesaemiab 
increased alkaline 
phosphataseb, increased ALTb, 
increased ASTb, increased 
total bilirubinb, increased 
creatinineb, increased 
amylaseb, increased lipaseb, 
hypokalaemiab, 
hypomagnesaemiab, 
hyponatraemiab, 
hypocalcaemiab, 
hypercalcaemiab, 
hypophosphataemiab, 
hyperkalaemiab, 
hypermagnesaemiab, 
hypernatraemiab 
blood cholesterol increased, 
hypertriglyceridaemia 
Adverse reaction frequencies presented in Table 7 may not be fully attributable to nivolumab alone or in combination with 
other therapeutic agents, but may contain contributions from the underlying disease or from medicinal product used in 
combination. 
a 
b 
Fatal cases have been reported in completed or ongoing clinical studies. 
Frequencies of laboratory terms reflect the proportion of patients who experienced a worsening from baseline in 
laboratory measurements. See “Description of selected adverse reactions; laboratory abnormalities” below. 
Rash is a composite term which includes maculopapular rash, rash erythematous, rash pruritic, rash follicular, rash 
macular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, rash pustular, rash papulosquamous, rash vesicular, rash generalised, 
exfoliative rash, dermatitis, dermatitis acneiform, dermatitis allergic, dermatitis atopic, dermatitis bullous, dermatitis 
exfoliative, dermatitis psoriasiform, drug eruption, nodular rash, and pemphigoid. 
Reported also in studies outside the pooled dataset. The frequency is based on the program-wide exposure. 
Musculoskeletal pain is a composite term which includes back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, 
musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, myalgia intercostal, neck pain, pain in extremity, and spinal pain. 
Post-marketing event (also see section 4.4). 
Reported in clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Pericardial disorders is a composite term which includes pericarditis, pericardial effusion, cardiac tamponade, and 
Dressler’s syndrome. 
Anaemia is a composite term which includes, among other causes, haemolytic anaemia and autoimmune anaemia, 
haemoglobin decreased, iron deficiency anaemia and red blood cell count decreased. 
Thrombosis is a composite term which includes portal vein thrombosis, pulmonary vein thrombosis, pulmonary 
thrombosis, aortic thrombosis, arterial thrombosis, deep vein thrombosis, pelvic vein thrombosis, vena cava 
thrombosis, venous thrombosis, limb venous thrombosis. 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
i 
j 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Nivolumab or nivolumab in combination with other therapeutic agents is associated with 
immune-related adverse reactions. With appropriate medical therapy, immune-related adverse 
reactions resolved in most cases. Permanent discontinuation of treatment generally was required in a 
greater proportion of patients receiving nivolumab in combination with other agents than in those 
receiving nivolumab monotherapy. Table 8 presents the percentage of patients with immune-related 
adverse reactions who were permanently discontinued from treatment by dosing regimen. 
Additionally, for patients who experienced an event, Table 8 presents the percentage of patients who 
required high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg daily prednisone equivalents) by dosing regimen. 
The management guidelines for these adverse reactions are described in section 4.4. 
27 
 
 
 
Table 8: 
Immune-related adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation or 
requiring high-dose corticosteroids by dosing regimen (nivolumab monotherapy, 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, or nivolumab in combination with 
cabozantinib) 
Nivolumab 
monotherapy 
% 
Nivolumab in 
combination with 
ipilimumab (with 
or without 
chemotherapy) 
% 
Nivolumab in 
combination with 
chemotherapy 
% 
Nivolumab in 
combination with 
cabozantinib 
% 
2.0 
1.0 
0.3 
0.5 
0.8 
0.1 
2.5 
6 
5 
1.2 
1.4 
1.2 
1.1 
0.3 
Immune-related adverse reaction leading to permanent discontinuation 
Pneumonitis 
Colitis 
Hepatitis 
Nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Endocrinopathies 
Skin 
Hypersensitivity/Infusion 
reaction 
Immune-related adverse reaction requiring high-dose corticosteroidsa,b 
Pneumonitis 
Colitis 
Hepatitis 
Nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Endocrinopathies 
Skin 
Hypersensitivity/Infusion 
reaction 
a 
b 
59 
32 
37 
27 
65 
14 
21 
22 
5 
3.3 
18 
20 
8 
16 
2.1 
2.1 
1.0 
3.0 
0.5 
1.1 
2.3 
59 
8 
8 
9 
5 
6 
23 
2.5 
2.5 
4.1 
0.6 
1.3 
2.2 
0 
56 
8 
23 
9 
4.2 
8 
0 
at least 40 mg daily prednisone equivalents 
frequency is based on the number of patients who experienced the immune-related adverse reaction 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of pneumonitis, including interstitial 
lung disease and lung infiltration, was 3.3% (155/4646). The majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2 in 
severity reported in 0.9% (42/4646) and 1.7% (77/4646) of patients respectively. Grade 3 and 4 cases 
were reported in 0.7% (33/4646) and <0.1% (1/4646) of patients respectively. Six patients (0.1%) had 
a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 15.1 weeks (range: 0.7-85.1). Resolution occurred in 
107 patients (69.0%) with a median time to resolution of 6.7 weeks (range: 0.1+-109.1+); + denotes a 
censored observation. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of pneumonitis including interstitial lung disease, was 6.9% (145/2094). Grade 2, 
Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 3.5% (73/2094), 1.1% (24/2094), and 0.4% (8/2094) of 
patients, respectively. Four patients (0.2%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 2.7 months 
(range: 0.1-56.8). Resolution occurred in 119 patients (82.1%) with a median time to resolution of 
6.1 weeks (range: 0.3-149.3+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of pneumonitis 
including interstitial lung disease was 4.8% (61/1268). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were 
reported in 2.4% (31/1268), 1.0% (13/1268), and 0.2% (3/1268), of patients, respectively. Two 
patients (0.2%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 24.1 weeks (range: 1.6-96.9). 
28 
 
 
 
 
Resolution occurred in 42 patients (68.9%) with a median time to resolution of 10.4 weeks (range: 
0.3+-121.3+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of pneumonitis 
including interstitial lung disease was 5.6% (18/320). Grade 2 and Grade 3 cases were reported in 
1.9% (6/320) and 1.6% (5/320) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 26.9 weeks 
(range: 12.3-74.3 weeks). Resolution occurred in 14 patients (77.8%) with a median time to resolution 
of 7.5 weeks (range: 2.1-60.7+ weeks). 
Immune-related colitis 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of diarrhoea, colitis, or frequent bowel 
movements was 15.4% (716/4646). The majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2 in severity reported in 
9.9% (462/4646) and 4.0% (186/4646) of patients respectively. Grade 3 and 4 cases were reported 
in 1.4% (67/4646) and <0.1% (1/4646) of patients respectively. Median time to onset was 8.3 weeks 
(range: 0.1-115.6). Resolution occurred in 639 patients (90.3%) with a median time to resolution of 
2.9 weeks (range: 0.1-124.4+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of diarrhoea or colitis was 27.7% (580/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were 
reported in 8.8% (184/2094), 6.8% (142/2094), and 0.1% (3/2094), of patients, respectively. One 
patient (<0.1%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 1.4 months (range: 0.0-48.9). 
Resolution occurred in 577 patients (90.8%) with a median time to resolution of 2.7 weeks 
(range: 0.1-159.4+). Among patients treated with nivolumab 1 mg/kg in combination with 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, the incidence of diarrhoea or colitis was 46.7%, including Grade 2 (13.6%), 
Grade 3 (15.8%), and Grade 4 (0.4%). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of diarrhoea or 
colitis was 26.4% (335/1268). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 8.2% (104/1268), 
3.5% (45/1268), and 0.5% (6/1268) of patients, respectively. One patient (< 0.1%) had a fatal 
outcome. Median time to onset was 4.3weeks (range: 0.1-93.6). Resolution occurred in 293 patients 
(88.0%) with a median time to resolution of 1.4 weeks (range: 0.1-117.6+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of diarrhoea, 
colitis, frequent bowel movements or enteritis was 59.1% (189/320). Grade 2 and Grade 3 cases were 
reported in 25.6% (82/320) and 6.3% (20/320) of patients, respectively. Grade 4 were reported in 0.6% 
(2/320). Median time to onset was 12.9 weeks (range: 0.3-110.9 weeks). Resolution occurred in 
143 patients (76.1%) with a median time to resolution of 12.9 weeks (range: 0.1-139.7+ weeks). 
Immune-related hepatitis 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of liver function test abnormalities was 
8.0% (371/4646). The majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2 in severity reported in 4.3% (200/4646) and 
1.8% (82/4646) of patients respectively. Grade 3 and 4 cases were reported in 1.6% (74/4646) and 
0.3% (15/4646) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 10.6 weeks (range: 0.1-132.0). 
Resolution occurred in 298 patients (81.4%) with a median time to resolution of 6.1 weeks 
(range: 0.1-126.4+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of liver function test abnormalities was 19.2% (402/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and 
Grade 4 cases were reported in 4.2% (88/2094), 7.8% (163/2094), and 1.2% (25/2094) of patients, 
respectively. Median time to onset was 1.9 months (range: 0.0-36.6). Resolution occurred in 
351 patients (87.8%) with a median time to resolution of 5.3 weeks (range: 0.1-175.9+). Among 
patients treated with nivolumab 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, the incidence of 
liver function test abnormalities was 30.1% including Grade 2 (6.9%), Grade 3 (15.8%), and Grade 4 
(1.8%). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of liver function 
test abnormalities was 20% (253/1268). Grade 2, Grade 3 and Grade 4 cases were reported in 6.2% 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(78/1268), 2.9% (37/1268) and < 0.1% (1/1268) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 
7.0 weeks (range: 0.1-84.1). Resolution occurred in 202 patients (81.1%) with a median time to 
resolution of 7.4 weeks (range: 0.4-150.6+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of liver function 
test abnormalities was 41.6% (133/320). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 14.7% 
(47/320), 10.3% (33/320), and 0.6% (2/320) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 
8.3 weeks (range: 0.1-107.9 weeks). Resolution occurred in 101 patients (75.9%) with a median time 
to resolution of 9.6 weeks (range: 0.1-89.3+ weeks). 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of nephritis or renal dysfunction was 
2.6% (121/4646). The majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2 in severity reported in 1.5% (69/4646) and 
0.7% (32/4646) of patients respectively. Grade 3 and 4 cases were reported in 0.4% (18/4646) and 
<0.1% (2/4646) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 12.1 weeks (range: 0.1-79.1). 
Resolution occurred in 80 patients (69.0%) with a median time to resolution of 8.0 weeks 
(range: 0.3-79.1+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of nephritis or renal dysfunction was 6.1% (128/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 
cases were reported in 2.3% (49/2094), 1.0% (20/2094), and 0.5% (10/2094) of patients, respectively. 
Two patients (< 0.1%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 2.5 months (range: 0.0-34.8). 
Resolution occurred in 97 patients (75.8%) with a median time to resolution of 6.3 weeks 
(range: 0.1-172.1+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of nephritis or 
renal dysfunction was 8.8% (112/1268). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 
3.3% (42/1268), 1.0% (13/1268), and 0.2% (2/1268) of patients, respectively. One patient (< 0.1%) 
had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 9.6 weeks (range: 0.7-60.7). Resolution occurred in 
72 patients (64.3%) with a median time to resolution of 11.1 weeks (range: 0.1-191.1+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of nephritis, 
immune mediated nephritis, renal failure, acute kidney injury, blood creatinine increased or blood urea 
increased was 10.0% (32/320). Grade 2 and Grade 3 cases were reported in 3.4% (11/320), and 1.3% 
(4/320) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 14.2 weeks (range: 2.1-87.1 weeks). 
Resolution occurred in 18 patients (58.1%) with a median time to resolution of 10.1 weeks 
(range: 0.6-90.9+ weeks). 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of thyroid disorders, including 
hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, was 13.0% (603/4646). The majority of cases were Grade 1 or 2 
in severity reported in 6.6% (305/4646) and 6.2% (290/4646) of patients, respectively. Grade 3 thyroid 
disorders were reported in 0.2% (8/4646) of patients. Hypophysitis (3 Grade 1, 7 Grade 2, 9 Grade 3, 
and 1 Grade 4), hypopituitarism (6 Grade 2 and 1 Grade 3), adrenal insufficiency (including secondary 
adrenocortical insufficiency, adrenocortical insufficiency acute and blood corticotrophin decreased) 
(2 Grade 1, 23 Grade 2, and 11 Grade 3), diabetes mellitus (including Type 1 diabetes mellitus, and 
diabetic ketoacidosis) (1 Grade 1, 3 Grade 2 and 8 Grade 3 and 2 Grade 4), were reported. Median 
time to onset of these endocrinopathies was 11.1 weeks (range: 0.1-126.7). Resolution occurred in 
323 patients (48.7%). Median time to resolution was 48.6 weeks (range: 0.4-204.4+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of thyroid disorders was 22.9% (479/2094). Grade 2 and Grade 3 thyroid disorders were 
reported in 12.5% (261/2094) and 1.0% (21/2094) of patients, respectively. 
Grade 2 and Grade 3 hypophysitis (including lymphocytic hypophysitis) occurred in 2.0% (42/2094) 
and 1.6% (33/2094) of patients, respectively. Grade 2 and Grade 3 hypopituitarism occurred in 0.8% 
((16/2094)) and 0.5% ((11/2094)) of patients, respectively. Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 adrenal 
insufficiency (including secondary adrenocortical insufficiency) occurred in 2.3% (49/2094), 1.5% 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(32/2094) and 0.2% (4/2094) of patients, respectively. Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 
diabetes mellitus occurred in 0.1% (1/2094), 0.2% (4/2094), < 0.1% (1/2094), and 0.1 (3/2094) of 
patients, respectively, and Grade 4 diabetic ketoacidosis was reported in < 0.1% (2/2094) of patients. 
Median time to onset of these endocrinopathies was 2.1 months (range: 0.0-28.1). Resolution occurred 
in 201 patients (40.7%). Time to resolution ranged from 0.3 to 257.1+ weeks. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of thyroid 
disorders was 10.8% (137/1268). Grade 2 thyroid disorder was reported in 4.8% (61/1268) patients. 
Grade 3 hypophysitis occurred in < 0.1% (1/1268) of patients. Grade 2 and Grade 3 hypopituitarism 
occurred in 0.2% (3/1268) and 0.2% (3/1268) of patients, respectively. Grade 2, Grade 3 and 
Grade 4 adrenal insufficiency occurred in 0.6% (8/1268), 0.2% (2/1268) and <0.1% (1/1268) of 
patients, respectively. Diabetes mellitus including Type 1 diabetes mellitus and fulminant Type 1 
diabetes mellitus (2 Grade 2, 2 Grade 3 and 1 Grade 4), and diabetic ketoacidosis (1 Grade 4) were 
reported. Median time to onset of these endocrinopathies was 13.0 weeks (range: 2.0-124.3). 
Resolution occurred in 63 patients (40.9%). Time to resolution ranged from 0.4 to 221.6+ weeks. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of thyroid 
disorders was 43.1% (138/320). Grade 2 and Grade 3 thyroid disorders were reported in 23.1% 
(74/320) and 0.9% (3/320) of patients, respectively. Hypophysitis occurred in 0.6% (2/320) of 
patients, all Grade 2. Adrenal insufficiency (including secondary adrenocortical insufficiency) 
occurred in 4.7% (15/320) of patients. Grade 2 and Grade 3 adrenal insufficiency cases were reported 
in 2.2% (7/320) and 1.9% (6/320) of patients, respectively. Median time to onset of these 
endocrinopathies was 12.3 weeks (range: 2.0-89.7 weeks). Resolution occurred in 50 patients (35.2%). 
Time to resolution ranged from 0.9 to 132.0+ weeks. 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of rash was 30.0% (1396/4646). The 
majority of cases were Grade 1 in severity reported in 22.8% (1060/4646) of patients. Grade 2 and 
Grade 3 cases were reported in 5.9% (274/4646) and 1.3% (62/4646) of patients respectively. Median 
time to onset was 6.7 weeks (range: 0.1-121.1). Resolution occurred in 896 patients (64.6%) with a 
median time to resolution of 20.1 weeks (0.1-192.7+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of rash was 46.2% (968/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 
14.1% (296/2094), 4.6% (97/2094), and < 0.1% (2/2094) of patients, respectively. Median time to 
onset was 0.7 months (range: 0.0-33.8). Resolution occurred in 671 patients (69.6%) with a median 
time to resolution of 11.1 weeks (range: 0.1-268.7+). Among patients treated with nivolumab 1 mg/kg 
in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, the incidence of rash was 65.2%, including Grade 2 (20.3%) 
and Grade 3 (7.8%). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of rash was 
24.1% (306/1268). Grade 2 and Grade 3 cases were reported in 6.4% (81/1268), and 2.4% (31/1268) 
of patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 6.6 weeks (range: 0.1-97.4). Resolution occurred in 
205 patients (67.0%) with a median time to resolution of 13.6 weeks (range: 0.1-188.1+). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of rash was 
62.8% (201/320). Grade 2 and Grade 3 cases were reported in 23.1% (74/320) and 10.6% (34/320) of 
patients, respectively. Median time to onset was 6.14 weeks (range: 0.1-104.4 weeks). Resolution 
occurred in 137 patients (68.2%) with a median time to resolution of 18.1 weeks 
(range: 0.1-130.6+ weeks). 
Rare cases of SJS and TEN some of them with fatal outcome have been observed (see sections 4.2 
and 4.4). 
Infusion reactions 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the incidence of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions 
was 4.0% (188/4646), including 9 Grade 3 and 3 Grade 4 cases. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 4.9% (103/2094). Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3, 
and Grade 4 cases were reported in 2.1% (44/2094), 2.5% (53/2094), 0.2% (5/2094), and < 0.1% 
(1/2094) of patients, respectively. Among patients with MPM treated with nivolumab 3 mg/kg in 
combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg, the incidence of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 12%. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the incidence of 
hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 9.8% (124/1268). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were 
reported in 5.7% (72/1268), 1.4% (18/1268) and 0.2% (3/1268) of patients, respectively. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the incidence of 
hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 2.5% (8/320). All 8 patients were Grade 1 or 2 in severity. 
Grade 2 cases were reported in 0.3% (1/320) of patients. 
Complications of allogeneic HSCT in classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
Rapid onset of GVHD has been reported with nivolumab use before and after allogeneic HSCT (see 
section 4.4). 
In 62 evaluated patients from two cHL studies who underwent allogeneic HSCT after discontinuing 
nivolumab monotherapy, Grade 3 or 4 acute GVHD was reported in 17/62 patients (27.4%). 
Hyperacute GVHD, defined as acute GVHD occurring within 14 days after stem cell infusion, was 
reported in four patients (6%). A steroid-requiring febrile syndrome, without an identified infectious 
cause, was reported in six patients (12%) within the first 6 weeks post-transplantation. Steroids were 
used in four patients and three patients responded to steroids. Hepatic veno-occlusive disease occurred 
in two patients, one of whom died of GVHD and multi-organ failure. Nineteen of 62 patients (30.6%) 
died from complications of allogeneic HSCT after nivolumab. The 62 patients had a median follow-up 
from subsequent allogeneic HSCT of 38.5 months (range: 0-68 months). 
Elevated liver enzymes when nivolumab is combined with cabozantinib in RCC 
In a clinical study of previously untreated patients with RCC receiving nivolumab in combination with 
cabozantinib, a higher incidence of Grades 3 and 4 ALT increased (10.1%) and AST increased (8.2%) 
were observed relative to nivolumab monotherapy in patients with advanced RCC. In patients with 
Grade ≥ 2 increased ALT or AST (n=85): median time to onset was 10.1 weeks (range: 2.0 to 
106.6 weeks), 26% received corticosteroids for median duration of 1.4 weeks (range: 0.9 to 
75.3 weeks), and resolution to Grades 0-1 occurred in 91% with median time to resolution 
of 2.3 weeks (range: 0.4 to 108.1+ weeks). Among the 45 patients with Grade ≥ 2 increased ALT or 
AST who were rechallenged with either nivolumab (n=10) or cabozantinib (n=10) administered as a 
single agent or with both (n=25), recurrence of Grade ≥ 2 increased ALT or AST was observed in 
3 patients receiving OPDIVO, 4 patients receiving cabozantinib, and 8 patients receiving both 
OPDIVO and cabozantinib. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
In patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, the proportion of patients who experienced a shift 
from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormality was as follows: 3.4% for anaemia (all 
Grade 3), 0.7% for thrombocytopaenia, 0.7% for leucopoenia, 8.7% for lymphopaenia, 0.9% for 
neutropaenia, 1.7% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 2.6% for increased AST, 2.3% for increased 
ALT, 0.8% for increased total bilirubin, 0.7% for increased creatinine, 2.0% for hyperglycaemia, 0.7% 
for hypoglycaemia, 3.8% for increased amylase, 6.9% for increased lipase, 4.7% for hyponatraemia, 
1.6% for hyperkalaemia, 1.3% for hypokalaemia, 1.1% for hypercalcaemia, 0.6% for 
hypermagnesaemia, 0.4% for hypomagnesaemia, 0.6% for hypocalcaemia, 0.6% for 
hypoalbuminaemia, and <0.1% for hypernatraemia. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab(with or without chemotherapy),, 
the proportion of patients who experienced a worsening from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 laboratory 
abnormality was as follows: 4.9% for anaemia, 1.5% for thrombocytopaenia, 2.3% for leucopoenia, 
7.3% for lymphopaenia, 3.4% for neutropaenia, 2.9% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 7.3% for 
increased AST, 8.4% for increased ALT, 1.2% for increased total bilirubin, 1.6% for increased 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
creatinine, 5.8% for hyperglycaemia, 8.4% for increased amylase, 16.7% for increased lipase, 
0.8% for hypocalcaemia, 0.2% for hypernatraemia, 1.0% for hypercalcaemia, 1.9% for hyperkalaemia, 
0.5% for hypermagnesaemia, 3.4% for hypokalaemia, and 9.8% for hyponatraemia. 
Among patients treated with nivolumab 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, a higher 
proportion of patients experienced a worsening from baseline to Grade 3 or 4 increased ALT (15.3%). 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy, the proportion of patients who 
experienced a worsening from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormality was as follows: 
14.5% for anaemia, 5.4% for thrombocytopaenia, 10.7% leukopaenia, 14.0% for lymphopaenia, 25.7% 
neutropaenia, 2.4% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 3.6% for increased AST, 2.7% for increased 
ALT, 1.9% for increased bilirubin, 1.2% for increased creatinine, 4.6% for increased amylase, 5.6% 
for increased lipase, 0.5% for hypernatraemia, 7.8% for hyponatraemia, 1.6% for hyperkalaemia, 6.4% 
for hypokalaemia, 0.9% for hypercalcaemia, 1.8% for hypocalcaemia, 1.7% for hypomagnesaemia, 
3.4% for hyperglycaemia, and 0.6% for hypoglycaemia. 
In patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, the proportion of patients who 
experienced a worsening from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormality was as follows: 
3.5% for anaemia (all Grade 3), 0.3% for thrombocytopaenia, 0.3% for leucopoenia, 7.5% for 
lymphopaenia, 3.5% for neutropaenia, 3.2% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 8.2% for increased 
AST, 10.1% for increased ALT, 1.3% for increased total bilirubin, 1.3% for increased creatinine, 
11.9% for increased amylase, 15.6% for increased lipase, 3.5% for hyperglycaemia, 0.8% for 
hypoglycaemia, 2.2% for hypocalcaemia, 0.3% for hypercalcaemia, 5.4% for hyperkalaemia, 4.2% for 
hypermagnesaemia, 1.9% for hypomagnesaemia 3.2% for hypokalaemia, 12.3% for hyponatraemia, 
and 21.2% for hypophosphataemia. 
Immunogenicity 
Of the 3529 patients who were treated with nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg or 240 mg 
every 2 weeks and evaluable for the presence of anti-product-antibodies, 328 patients (9.3%) tested 
positive for treatment-emergent anti-product-antibodies with 21 patients (0.6%) testing positive for 
neutralising antibodies. 
Co-administration with chemotherapy did not affect nivolumab immunogenicity. Of the patients who 
were treated with nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks or 360 mg every 3 weeks in combination with 
chemotherapy and evaluable for the presence of anti-product-antibodies, 7.5% tested positive for 
treatment emergent anti-product-antibodies with 0.5% tested positive for neutralising antibodies. 
Of the patients who were treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and evaluable for 
the presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies, the incidence of anti-nivolumab antibodies was 26.0% with 
nivolumab 3 mg/kg and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks, 24.9% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks, and 37.8% with nivolumab 1 mg/kg and 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks. The incidence of neutralising antibodies against nivolumab was 
0.8% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks, 1.5% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks, and 4.6% with nivolumab 1 mg/kg and 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks. Of patients evaluable for the presence of anti-ipilimumab 
antibodies, the incidence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies ranged from 6.3 to 13.7% and neutralising 
antibodies against ipilimumab ranged from 0 to 0.4%. 
Of the patients who were treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy 
and evaluable for the presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies or neutralising antibodies against 
nivolumab, the incidence of anti-nivolumab antibodies was 33.8% and the incidence of neutralising 
antibodies was 2.6%. Of the patients who were treated with nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab and chemotherapy and evaluable for the presence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies or 
neutralising antibodies against ipilimumab, the incidence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies was 7.5%, and 
the neutralising antibodies was 1.6%. 
Although the clearance of nivolumab was increased by 20% when anti-nivolumab-antibodies were 
present, there was no evidence of loss of efficacy or altered toxicity profile in the presence of 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nivolumab antibodies based on the pharmacokinetic and exposure-response analyses for both 
monotherapy and combination. 
Paediatric population 
The safety of nivolumab as monotherapy (3 mg/kg every 2 weeks) and in combination with 
ipilimumab (nivolumab 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks 
for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg as monotherapy every 2 weeks) was evaluated in 
97 paediatric patients aged ≥ 1 year to < 18 years (including 53 patients 12 to < 18 years) with 
recurrent or refractory solid or haematological tumours, including advanced melanoma, in clinical 
study CA209070. The safety profile in paediatric patients was generally similar to that seen in adults 
treated with nivolumab as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab. No new safety signals 
were observed. Long-term safety data is unavailable on the use of nivolumab in adolescents 12 years 
of age and older. 
The most common adverse reactions (reported in at least 20% of paediatric patients) treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy were fatigue (35.9%) and decreased appetite (21.9%). The majority of 
adverse reactions reported for nivolumab monotherapy were Grade 1 or 2 in severity. Twenty-one 
patients (33%) had one or more Grades 3 to 4 adverse reactions. 
The most common adverse reactions (reported in at least 20% of paediatric patients) treated with 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab were fatigue (33.3%) and rash maculo-papular (21.2%). 
The majority of adverse reactions reported for nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab were 
Grade 1 or 2 in severity. Ten patients (30%) had one or more Grades 3 to 4 adverse reactions. 
No new safety signals were observed in clinical study CA209908 of 151 paediatric patients with 
high-grade primary central nervous system (CNS) malignancies (see section 5.1), relative to data 
available in adult studies across indications. 
Elderly 
No overall differences in safety were reported between elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger patients 
(< 65 years). Data from SCCHN, adjuvant melanoma, and adjuvant OC or GEJC patients 75 years of 
age or older are too limited to draw conclusions on this population (see section 5.1). Data from dMMR 
or MSI-H CRC patients 75 years of age or older are limited (see section 5.1). Data from cHL patients 
65 years of age or older are too limited to draw conclusions on this population (see section 5.1). 
In MPM patients, there was a higher rate of serious adverse reactions and discontinuation rate due to 
adverse reactions in patients 75 years of age or older (68% and 35%, respectively) relative to all 
patients who received nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (54% and 28%, respectively). 
For patients treated with nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, data from RCC patients 
75 years of age or older are too limited to draw conclusions on this population (see section 5.1). 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
In the non-squamous NSCLC study (CA209057), the safety profile in patients with baseline renal or 
hepatic impairment was comparable to that in the overall population. These results should be 
interpreted with caution due to the small sample size within the subgroups. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No cases of overdose have been reported in clinical trials. In case of overdose, patients should be 
closely monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and appropriate symptomatic treatment 
instituted immediately. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug 
conjugates, PD-1/PDL-1 (Programmed cell death protein 1/ death ligand 1) inhibitors. ATC code: 
L01FF01. 
Mechanism of action 
Nivolumab is a human immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody (HuMAb), which binds to 
the programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor and blocks its interaction with PD-L1 and PD-L2. The PD-1 
receptor is a negative regulator of T-cell activity that has been shown to be involved in the control of 
T-cell immune responses. Engagement of PD-1 with the ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2, which are 
expressed in antigen presenting cells and may be expressed by tumours or other cells in the tumour 
microenvironment, results in inhibition of T-cell proliferation and cytokine secretion. Nivolumab 
potentiates T-cell responses, including anti-tumour responses, through blockade of PD-1 binding to 
PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands. In syngeneic mouse models, blocking PD-1 activity resulted in decreased 
tumour growth. 
Combined nivolumab (anti-PD-1) and ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) mediated inhibition results in 
improved anti-tumour responses in metastatic melanoma. In murine syngeneic tumour models, dual 
blockade of PD-1 and CTLA-4 resulted in synergistic anti-tumour activity. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Based on modelling of dose/exposure efficacy and safety relationships, there are no clinically 
significant differences in efficacy and safety between a nivolumab dose of 240 mg every 2 weeks or 
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Additionally, based on these relationships, there were no clinically significant 
differences between a nivolumab dose of 480 mg every 4 weeks or 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks in adjuvant 
treatment of melanoma, advanced melanoma and advanced RCC. 
Melanoma 
Treatment of advanced melanoma 
Randomised phase 3 study vs. dacarbazine (CA209066) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, double-blind study (CA209066). The 
study included adult patients (18 years or older) with confirmed, treatment-naive, Stage III or IV 
BRAF wild-type melanoma and an ECOG performance-status score of 0 or 1. Patients with active 
autoimmune disease, ocular melanoma, or active brain or leptomeningeal metastases were excluded 
from the study. 
A total of 418 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab (n = 210) administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes at 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or dacarbazine (n = 208) at 1000 mg/m2 
every 3 weeks. Randomisation was stratified by tumour PD-L1 status and M stage (M0/M1a/M1b 
versus M1c). Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was 
no longer tolerated. Treatment after disease progression was permitted for patients who had a clinical 
benefit and did not have substantial adverse events with the study drug, as determined by the 
investigator. Tumour assessments, according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours 
(RECIST), version 1.1, were conducted 9 weeks after randomisation and continued every 6 weeks for 
the first year and then every 12 weeks thereafter. The primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Key 
secondary efficacy outcome measures were investigator-assessed PFS and objective response rate 
(ORR). 
Baseline characteristics were balanced between the two groups. The median age was 65 years 
(range: 18-87), 59% were men, and 99.5% were white. Most patients had ECOG performance score of 
0 (64%) or 1 (34%). Sixty-one percent of patients had M1c stage disease at study entry. Seventy-four 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percent of patients had cutaneous melanoma, and 11% had mucosal melanoma; 35% of patients had 
PD-L1 positive melanoma (≥ 5% tumour cell membrane expression). Sixteen percent of patients had 
received prior adjuvant therapy; the most common adjuvant treatment was interferon (9%). Four 
percent of patients had a history of brain metastasis, and 37% of patients had a baseline LDH level 
greater than ULN at study entry. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in Figure 1. 
Figure 1: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209066) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Overall survival (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
210 
Dacarbazine 
208 
185 
177 
150 
123 
105 
82 
45 
22 
8 
3 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab (events: 50/210), median and 95% CI: N.A. 
- - -- - -  Dacarbazine (events: 96/208), median and 95% CI: 10.84 (9.33, 12.09) 
The observed OS benefit was consistently demonstrated across subgroups of patients including 
baseline ECOG performance status, M stage, history of brain metastases, and baseline LDH level. 
Survival benefit was observed regardless of whether patients had tumours that were designated PD-L1 
negative or PD-L1 positive (tumour membrane expression cut off of 5% or 10%). 
Data available indicate that the onset of nivolumab effect is delayed such that benefit of nivolumab 
above chemotherapy may take 2-3 months. 
Efficacy results are shown in Table 9. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: 
Efficacy results (CA209066) 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
99.79% CI 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
At 12 months 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
At 12 months 
Objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
nivolumab 
(n = 210) 
50 (23.8%) 
dacarbazine 
(n = 208) 
96 (46.2%) 
0.42 
(0.25, 0.73) 
(0.30, 0.60) 
< 0.0001 
Not reached 
10.8 (9.33, 12.09) 
84.1 (78.3, 88.5) 
72.9 (65.5, 78.9) 
71.8 (64.9, 77.6) 
42.1 (33.0, 50.9) 
108 (51.4%) 
163 (78.4%) 
0.43 
(0.34, 0.56) 
< 0.0001 
5.1 (3.48, 10.81) 
2.2 (2.10, 2.40) 
48.0 (40.8, 54.9) 
41.8 (34.0, 49.3) 
84 (40.0%) 
(33.3, 47.0) 
18.5 (13.1, 24.6) 
NA 
29 (13.9%) 
(9.5, 19.4) 
4.06 (2.52, 6.54) 
< 0.0001 
16 (7.6%) 
68 (32.4%) 
35 (16.7%) 
2 (1.0%) 
27 (13.0%) 
46 (22.1%) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
Not reached 
(0+-12.5+) 
6.0 (1.1-10.0+) 
2.1 (1.2-7.6) 
2.1 (1.8-3.6) 
Randomised phase 3 study vs. chemotherapy (CA209037) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209037). The 
study included adult patients who had progressed on or after ipilimumab and if BRAF V600 mutation 
positive had also progressed on or after BRAF kinase inhibitor therapy. Patients with active 
autoimmune disease, ocular melanoma, active brain or leptomeningeal metastases or a known history 
of prior ipilimumab-related high-grade (Grade 4 per CTCAE v4.0) adverse reactions, except for 
resolved nausea, fatigue, infusion reactions, or endocrinopathies, were excluded from the study. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 405 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab (n = 272) administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes at 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or chemotherapy (n = 133) which consisted 
of the investigator’s choice of either dacarbazine (1000 mg/m2 every 3 weeks) or carboplatin 
(AUC 6 every 3 weeks) and paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks). Randomisation was stratified by 
BRAF and tumour PD-L1 status and best response to prior ipilimumab. 
The co-primary efficacy outcome measures were confirmed ORR in the first 120 patients treated with 
nivolumab, as measured by independent radiology review committee (IRRC) using RECIST, 
version 1.1, and comparison of OS of nivolumab to chemotherapy. Additional outcome measures 
included duration and timing of response. 
The median age was 60 years (range: 23-88). Sixty-four percent of patients were men and 98% were 
white. ECOG performance scores were 0 for 61% of patients and 1 for 39% of patients. The majority 
(75%) of patients had M1c stage disease at study entry. Seventy-three percent of patients had 
cutaneous melanoma and 10% had mucosal melanoma. The number of prior systemic regimen 
received was 1 for 27% of patients, 2 for 51% of patients, and > 2 for 21% of patients. Twenty-two 
percent of patients had tumours that tested BRAF mutation positive and 50% of patients had tumours 
that were considered PD-L1 positive. Sixty-four percent of patients had no prior clinical benefit 
(CR/PR or SD) on ipilimumab. Baseline characteristics were balanced between groups except for the 
proportions of patients who had a history of brain metastasis (19% and 13% in the nivolumab group 
and chemotherapy group, respectively) and patients with LDH greater than ULN at baseline 
(51% and 35%, respectively). 
At the time of this final ORR analysis, results from 120 nivolumab-treated patients and 
47 chemotherapy-treated patients who had a minimum of 6 months of follow-up were analysed. 
Efficacy results are presented in Table 10. 
Table 10: 
Best overall response, time and duration of response (CA209037) 
Confirmed objective response (IRRC) 
(95% CI) 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
nivolumab 
(n = 120) 
38 (31.7%) 
(23.5, 40.8) 
4 (3.3%) 
34 (28.3%) 
28 (23.3%) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 47) 
5 (10.6%) 
(3.5, 23.1) 
0 
5 (10.6%) 
16 (34.0%) 
Not reached 
3.6 (Not available) 
2.1 (1.6-7.4) 
3.5 (2.1-6.1) 
Data available indicate that the onset of nivolumab effect is delayed such that benefit of nivolumab 
above chemotherapy may take 2-3 months. 
Updated analysis (24-month follow-up) 
Among all randomised patients, the ORR was 27.2% (95% CI: 22.0, 32.9) in the nivolumab group and 
9.8% (95% CI: 5.3, 16.1) in the chemotherapy group. Median durations of response were 31.9 months 
(range: 1.4+-31.9) and 12.8 months (range: 1.3+-13.6+), respectively. The PFS HR for nivolumab vs. 
chemotherapy was 1.03 (95% CI: 0.78, 1.36). The ORR and PFS were assessed by IRRC per RECIST 
version 1.1. 
There was no statistically significant difference between nivolumab and chemotherapy in the final OS 
analysis. The primary OS analysis was not adjusted to account for subsequent therapies, with 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 (40.6%) patients in the chemotherapy arm subsequently receiving an anti-PD1 treatment. OS may 
be confounded by dropout, imbalance of subsequent therapies and differences in baseline factors. 
More patients in the nivolumab arm had poor prognostic factors (elevated LDH and brain metastases) 
than in the chemotherapy arm. 
Efficacy by BRAF status: Objective responses to nivolumab (according to the definition of the 
co-primary endpoint) were observed in patients with or without BRAF mutation-positive melanoma. 
The ORRs in the BRAF mutation-positive subgroup were 17% (95% CI: 8.4, 29.0) for nivolumab and 
11% (95% CI: 2.4, 29.2) for chemotherapy, and in the BRAF wild-type subgroup were 
30% (95% CI: 24.0, 36.7) and 9% (95% CI: 4.6, 16.7), respectively. 
The PFS HRs for nivolumab vs. chemotherapy were 1.58 (95% CI: 0.87, 2.87) for BRAF 
mutation-positive patients and 0.82 (95% CI: 0.60, 1.12) for BRAF wild-type patients. The OS HRs 
for nivolumab vs. chemotherapy were 1.32 (95% CI: 0.75, 2.32) for BRAF mutation-positive patients 
and 0.83 (95% CI: 0.62, 1.11) for BRAF wild-type patients. 
Efficacy by tumour PD-L1 expression: Objective responses to nivolumab were observed regardless of 
tumour PD-L1 expression. However, the role of this biomarker (tumour PD-L1 expression) has not 
been fully elucidated. 
In patients with tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, ORR was 33.5% for nivolumab 
(n = 179; 95% CI: 26.7, 40.9) and 13.5% for chemotherapy (n = 74; 95% CI: 6.7, 23.5). In patients 
with tumour PD-L1 expression <1%, ORR per IRRC was 13.0% (n = 69; 95% CI: 6.1, 23.3) and 
12.0% (n = 25; 95% CI: 2.5, 31.2), respectively. 
The PFS HRs for nivolumab vs. chemotherapy were 0.76 (95% CI: 0.54, 1.07) in patients with tumour 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% and 1.92 (95% CI: 1.05, 3.5) in patients with tumour PD-L1 expression < 1%. 
The OS HRs for nivolumab vs. chemotherapy were 0.69 (95% CI: 0.49, 0.96) in patients with tumour 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% and 1.52 (95% CI: 0.89, 2.57) in patients with tumour PD-L1 
expression < 1%. 
These subgroup analyses should be interpreted with caution given the small size of the subgroups and 
lack of statistically significant difference in OS in the all randomised population. 
Open-label phase 1 dose-escalation study (MDX1106-03) 
The safety and tolerability of nivolumab were investigated in a phase 1, open-label dose-escalation 
study in various tumour types, including malignant melanoma. Of the 306 previously treated patients 
enrolled in the study, 107 had melanoma and received nivolumab at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg, 0.3 mg/kg, 1 
mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg for a maximum of 2 years. In this patient population, objective response 
was reported in 33 patients (31%) with a median duration of response of 22.9 months 
(95% CI: 17.0, NR). The median PFS was 3.7 months (95% CI: 1.9, 9.3). The median OS 
was 17.3 months (95% CI: 12.5, 37.8), and the estimated OS rates were 42% 
(95% CI: 32, 51) at 3 years, 35% (95% CI: 26, 44) at 4 years, and 34% (95% CI: 25, 43) at 5 years 
(minimum follow-up of 45 months). 
Single-arm phase 2 study (CA209172) 
Study CA209172 was a single-arm, open label study of nivolumab monotherapy in patients with 
stage III (unresectable) or stage IV metastatic melanoma after prior treatment containing an 
anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody. Safety was the primary endpoint and efficacy was a secondary 
endpoint. Of the 1008 treated patients, 103 (10%) had ocular/uveal melanoma, 66 (7%) had an ECOG 
performance score of 2, 165 (16%) had asymptomatic treated and untreated CNS metastases, 
13 (1.3%) had treated leptomeningeal metastases, 25 (2%) had autoimmune disease, and 84 (8%) had 
Grade 3-4 immune-related AEs with prior anti-CTLA-4 therapy. No new safety signals were identified 
in all treated patients and the overall safety profile of nivolumab was similar across subgroups. 
Efficacy results based on investigator-assessed response rates at week 12 are presented in Table 11 
below. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: 
Response rate at week 12 - all response evaluable patients and by subgroup 
(CA209172) 
Total 
Grade 3-4 
irAEs with 
anti-CTLA-4 
13/46 
(28.3) 
Responses were assessed per RECIST 1.1 for 588/1008 (58.3%) of patients who continued treatment through 
week 12 and had a follow-up scan at week 12. 
Ocular/ 
Uveal 
melanoma 
4/61 
(6.6) 
Autoimmune 
disease 
CNS 
metastasis 
161/588 
(27.4) 
3/16 
(18.8) 
4/20 
(20.0) 
20/73 
(27.4) 
ECOG PS 2 
N 
(%)a 
a 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab or nivolumab as 
monotherapy vs. ipilimumab as monotherapy (CA209067) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg or nivolumab 
3 mg/kg vs. ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, double-blind study (CA209067). The 
differences between the two nivolumab-containing groups were evaluated descriptively. The study 
included adult patients with confirmed unresectable Stage III or Stage IV melanoma. Patients were to 
have ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1. Patients who had not received prior systemic 
anticancer therapy for unresectable or metastatic melanoma were enrolled. Prior adjuvant or 
neoadjuvant therapy was allowed if it was completed at least 6 weeks prior to randomisation. Patients 
with active autoimmune disease, ocular/uveal melanoma, or active brain or leptomeningeal metastases 
were excluded from the study. 
A total of 945 patients were randomised to receive nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
(n = 314), nivolumab monotherapy (n = 316), or ipilimumab monotherapy (n = 315). Patients in the 
combination arm received nivolumab 1 mg/kg over 60 minutes and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg over 
90 minutes administered intravenously every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 
3 mg/kg as monotherapy every 2 weeks. Patients in the nivolumab monotherapy arm received 
nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Patients in the comparator arm received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and 
nivolumab-matched placebo intravenously every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by placebo every 
2 weeks. Randomisation was stratified by PD-L1 expression (≥ 5% vs. < 5% tumour cell membrane 
expression), BRAF status, and M stage per the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging 
system. Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no 
longer tolerated. Tumour assessments were conducted 12 weeks after randomisation then every 
6 weeks for the first year, and every 12 weeks thereafter. The primary outcome measures were 
progression-free survival and OS. ORR and the duration of response were also assessed. 
Baseline characteristics were balanced across the three treatment groups. The median age was 61 years 
(range: 18 to 90 years), 65% of patients were men, and 97% were white. ECOG performance status 
score was 0 (73%) or 1 (27%). The majority of the patients had AJCC Stage IV disease (93%); 58% 
had M1c disease at study entry. Twenty-two percent of patients had received prior adjuvant therapy. 
Thirty-two percent of patients had BRAF mutation-positive melanoma; 26.5% of patients had PD-L1 
≥ 5% tumour cell membrane expression. Four percent of patients had a history of brain metastasis, and 
36% of patients had a baseline LDH level greater than ULN at study entry. Among patients with 
quantifiable tumour PD-L1 expression, the distribution of patients was balanced across the three 
treatment groups. Tumour PD-L1 expression was determined using the 
PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
At primary analysis (minimum follow-up 9 months) the median PFS was 6.9 months in the nivolumab 
group as compared with 2.9 months in the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.57, 99.5% CI: 0.43, 0.76; 
p < 0.0001). The median PFS was 11.5 months in the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
group, as compared with 2.9 months in the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.42, 99.5% CI: 0.31, 0.57; 
p < 0.0001). 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PFS results from descriptive analysis (with minimum follow up of 90 months) are shown in Figure 2 
(all randomised population), Figure 3 (at the tumour PD-L1 5% cut off), and Figure 4 (at the tumour 
PD-L1 1% cut off). 
Figure 2: 
Progression-free survival (CA209067) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival per investigator (months) 
126 
138 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
314 
175 
Nivolumab 
316 
151 
Ipilimumab 
78 
315 
120 
46 
34 
106 
112 
103 
99 
97 
31 
84 
28 
78 
21 
93 
73 
18 
87 
69 
16 
84 
66 
15 
78 
62 
12 
76 
70 
66 
57 
57 
54 
50 
44 
11 
10 
9 
9 
33 
21 
7 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - -  Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 189/314), median and 95% CI: 11.50 (8.90, 20.04). 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 49% (44, 55), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 36% (32, 42), PFS rate at 
90 months and 95% CI: 33% (27, 39) 
  Nivolumab (events: 208/316), median and 95% CI: 6.93 (5.13, 10.18). 
- - -- - - 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 42% (36, 47), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 29% (24, 35), PFS rate at 
90 months and 95% CI: 27% (22, 33) 
Ipilimumab (events: 261/315), median and 95% CI: 2.86 (2.79, 3.09). 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 18% (14, 23), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 8% (5, 12), PFS rate at 
90 months and 95% CI: 7% (4, 11) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.35, 0.51) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.53 (0.44, 0.64) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.79 (0.65, 0.97) 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: 
Progression-free survival by PD-L1 expression: 5% cut off (CA209067) 
PD-L1 expression < 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival (months) 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
113 
87 
210 
Nivolumab 
208 
91 
Ipilimumab 
45 
202 
73 
26 
78 
66 
19 
71 
64 
60 
60 
51 
49 
18 
16 
14 
56 
46 
13 
54 
52 
42 
40 
50 
38 
11 
10 
7 
49 
33 
6 
45 
31 
5 
43 
39 
22 
29 
27 
12 
4 
4 
3 
0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 127/210), median and 95% CI: 11.17 (7.98, 17.51) 
Nivolumab (events: 139/208), median and 95% CI: 5.39 (2.96, 7.13) 
Ipilimumab (events: 171/202), median and 95% CI: 2.79 (2.76, 3.02) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.33, 0.53) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.54 (0.43, 0.68) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.77 (0.61, 0.98) 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival (months) 
45 
37 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
68 
35 
Nivolumab 
80 
Ipilimumab 
75 
14 
41 
21 
52 
10 
36 
30 
33 
10 
29 
29 
9 
29 
27 
26 
24 
24 
24 
23 
23 
5 
5 
5 
5 
20 
21 
5 
19 
21 
5 
17 
15 
13 
20 
18 
14 
5 
5 
5 
8 
7 
4 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
-------- 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 36/68), median and 95% CI: 22.11 (9.72, 82.07) 
Nivolumab (events: 48/80), median and 95% CI: 22.34 (9.46, 39.13) 
Ipilimumab (events: 60/75), median and 95% CI: 3.94 (2.79, 4.21) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.38 (0.25, 0.58) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.43 (0.29, 0.64) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.89 (0.58, 1.35) 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
Progression-free survival by PD-L1 expression: 1% cut off (CA209067) 
PD-L1 expression < 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival (months) 
51 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
123 
46 
65 
Nivolumab 
117 
44 
Ipilimumab 
20 
113 
12 
35 
33 
9 
41 
30 
9 
38 
26 
7 
36 
33 
24 
21 
5 
5 
31 
19 
3 
29 
29 
17 
15 
3 
3 
28 
11 
2 
25 
24 
21 
13 
11 
1 
9 
0 
9 
0 
5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 76/123), median and 95% CI: 11.17 (6.93, 22.18) 
Nivolumab (events: 85/117), median and 95% CI: 2.83 (2.76, 5.62) 
Ipilimumab (events: 94/113), median and 95% CI: 2.73 (2.66, 2.83) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.39 (0.28, 0.53) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.59 (0.44, 0.79) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.66 (0.48, 0.90) 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival (months) 
73 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
155 
67 
93 
Nivolumab 
171 
99 
Ipilimumab 
46 
164 
20 
79 
69 
28 
60 
55 
63 
54 
19 
18 
53 
51 
14 
50 
49 
13 
47 
47 
13 
46 
41 
46 
44 
12 
9 
40 
43 
9 
37 
34 
31 
17 
40 
38 
32 
14 
9 
9 
9 
7 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
-------- 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 90/155), median and 95% CI: 16.13 (8.90, 45.08) 
Nivolumab (events: 102/171), median and 95% CI: 16.20 (8.11, 27.60) 
Ipilimumab (events: 137/164), median and 95% CI: 3.48 (2.83, 4.17) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.32, 0.55) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.45 (0.35, 0.59) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.92 (0.69, 1.22) 
The final (primary) OS analysis occurred when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 28 months. 
At 28 months, median OS was not reached in the nivolumab group as compared with 19.98 months in 
the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.63, 98% CI: 0.48, 0.81; p-value: < 0.0001). Median OS was not 
reached in the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab group as compared with the ipilimumab 
group (HR = 0.55, 98% CI: 0.42, 0.72; p-value: < 0.0001). 
OS results at an additional descriptive analysis undertaken at a minimum follow-up of 90 months 
show outcomes consistent with the original primary analysis. OS results from this follow-up analysis 
are shown in Figure 5 (all randomised), Figure 6 and 7 (at the tumour PD-L1 5% and 1% cut off). 
The OS analysis was not adjusted to account for subsequent therapies received. Subsequent systemic 
therapy was received by 36.0%, 49.1%, and 66.3% of patients in the combination, nivolumab 
monotherapy, and ipilimumab arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD1 
therapy, anti-CTLA-4 antibody, or other immunotherapy) was received by 19.1%, 34.2%, and 48.3% 
of patients in the combination, nivolumab monotherapy, and ipilimumab arms, respectively. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: 
Overall survival (CA209067) - Minimum follow-up of 90 months 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
314 
265  227  210 
Nivolumab 
316 
Ipilimumab 
315 
266  231  201 
253  203  163 
199 
187 
179  169  163 
158 
156 
153 
147 
144 
141 
129 
181 
171 
158  145  141 
137 
134 
130 
126 
123 
120 
107 
135 
113 
100 
94 
87 
81 
75 
68 
64 
63 
63 
57 
7 
4 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - -  Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 162/314), median and 95% CI: 72.08 (38.18, N.A.) 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 73% (68, 78), 24 months: 64% (59, 69), 36 months: 58% (52, 63), 
60 months: 52% (46, 57), and 90 months: 48% (42, 53) 
  Nivolumab (events: 182/316), median and 95% CI: 36.93 months (28.25, 58.71) 
- - -- - - 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 74% (69, 79), 24 months: 59% (53, 64), 36 months: 52% (46, 57), 
60 months: 44% (39, 50), and 90 months: 42% (36, 47) 
Ipilimumab (events: 235/315), median and 95% CI: 19.94 months (16.85, 24.61) 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 67% (61, 72), 24 months: 45% (39, 50), 36 months: 34% (29, 39), 
60 months: 26% (22, 31), and 90 months: 22% (18, 27) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.53 (0.44, 0.65) 
Nivolumab vs ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.63 (0.52, 0.77) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.84 (0.68, 1.04) 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: 
Overall survival by PD-L1 expression: 5% cut off (CA209067) - Minimum 
follow-up of 90 months 
PD-L1 expression < 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
139 
146 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
210 
178 
Nivolumab 
208 
169 
Ipilimumab 
158 
202 
124 
144 
99 
123 
130 
123 
116 
109 
106 
104 
102 
100 
98 
112 
108 
102 
92 
80 
69 
59 
57 
90 
55 
88 
50 
86 
46 
84 
41 
83 
39 
96 
80 
38 
96 
79 
38 
88 
70 
33 
6 
3 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 109/210), median and 95% CI: 65.94 (32.72, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 121/208), median and 95% CI: 35.94 months (23.06, 60.91) 
Ipilimumab (events: 157/202), median and 95% CI: 18.40 months (13.70, 22.51) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.51 (0.40, 0.66) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.62 (0.49, 0.79) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.83 (0.64, 1.07) 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
52 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
68 
45 
56 
Nivolumab 
80 
76 
Ipilimumab 
75 
69 
60 
66 
61 
46 
45 
57 
40 
43 
53 
34 
43 
47 
32 
41 
44 
29 
40 
43 
25 
37 
41 
24 
37 
41 
22 
36 
40 
20 
33 
38 
19 
32 
38 
19 
30 
36 
19 
27 
33 
18 
1 
1 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
-------- 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 33/68), median and 95% CI: N.A. (39.06, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 41/80), median and 95% CI: 64.28 months (33.64, N.A.) 
Ipilimumab (events: 51/75), median and 95% CI: 28.88 months (18.10, 44.16) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.61 (0.39, 0.94) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.61 (0.41, 0.93) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.99 (0.63, 1.57) 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: 
Overall survival by PD-L1 expression: 1% cut off (CA209067) - Minimum 
follow-up of 90 months 
PD-L1 expression < 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
82 
102 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
123 
Nivolumab 
117 
86 
Ipilimumab 
87 
113 
73 
71 
79 
62 
57 
74 
57 
44 
70 
65 
63 
53 
49 
43 
36 
33 
32 
62 
43 
31 
62 
42 
28 
62 
41 
27 
60 
59 
57 
41 
40 
38 
22 
22 
22 
56 
37 
22 
50 
33 
18 
5 
2 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 66/123), median and 95% CI: 61.44 (26.45, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 76/117), median and 95% CI: 23.46 months (13.01, 36.53) 
Ipilimumab (events: 87/113), median and 95% CI: 18.56 months (13.67, 23.20) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.55 (0.40, 0.76) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.77 (0.57, 1.05) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.71 (0.51, 0.99) 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
116 
132 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
155 
Nivolumab 
171 
159 
Ipilimumab 
137 
164 
140 
113 
105 
101 
96 
94 
87 
84 
79 
79 
77 
74 
122 
112  108 
100 
93 
90 
87 
86 
83 
81 
88 
76 
67 
58 
54 
49 
46 
41 
39 
36 
72 
80 
35 
70 
78 
35 
65 
70 
33 
2 
2 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
-------- 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 76/155), median and 95% CI: 82.30 (39.06, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 86/171), median and 95% CI: 85.09 months (39.00, N.A.) 
Ipilimumab (events: 121/164), median and 95% CI: 21.49 months (16.85, 29.08) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.52 (0.39, 0.70) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.52 (0.39, 0.69) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 1.01 (0.74, 1.37) 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum follow-up for the analysis of ORR was 90 months. Responses are summarised in Table 12. 
Table 12: 
Objective response (CA209067) 
Objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (vs. ipilimumab) 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Duration of response 
Median (range), months 
Proportion ≥ 12 months in duration 
Proportion ≥ 24 months in duration 
nivolumab + 
ipilimumab 
(n = 314) 
183 (58%) 
(52.6, 63.8) 
6.35 
(4.38, 9.22) 
71(23%) 
112 (36%) 
38 (12%) 
N.A. 
(69.1-N.A.) 
68% 
58% 
nivolumab 
(n = 316) 
142 (45%) 
(39.4, 50.6) 
3.5 
(2.49, 5.16) 
59 (19%) 
83 (26%) 
29 (9%) 
90.8 
(45.7-N.A.) 
73% 
63% 
ipilimumab 
(n = 315) 
60 (19%) 
(14.9, 23.8) 
19 (6%) 
41 (13%) 
69 (22%) 
19.3 
(8.8-47.4) 
44% 
30% 
ORR (95% CI) by tumour PD-L1 expression 
< 5% 
≥ 5% 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
56% (48.7, 62.5) 
n = 210 
72% (59.9, 82.3) 
n = 68 
54% (44.4, 62.7) 
n = 123 
65% (56.4, 72) 
n = 155 
43% (36, 49.8) 
n = 208 
59% (47.2, 69.6) 
n = 80 
36% (27.2, 45.3) 
n = 117 
55% (47.2, 62.6) 
n = 171 
18% (12.8, 23.8) 
n = 202 
21% (12.7, 32.3) 
n = 75 
18% (11.2, 26.0) 
n = 113 
20% (13.7, 26.4) 
n = 164 
Both nivolumab-containing arms demonstrated a significant PFS and OS benefit and greater ORR 
compared with ipilimumab alone. The observed PFS results at 18 months of follow-up and ORR and 
OS results at 28 months of follow-up were consistently demonstrated across subgroups of patients 
including baseline ECOG performance status, BRAF status, M stage, age, history of brain metastases, 
and baseline LDH level. This observation was maintained with the OS results with a minimum 
follow-up of 90 months. 
Among 131 patients who discontinued the combination due to adverse reaction after 28 months of 
follow-up, the ORR was 71% (93/131) with 20% (26/131) achieving a complete response and median 
OS was not reached. 
Both nivolumab-containing arms demonstrated greater objective response rates than ipilimumab 
regardless of PD-L1 expression levels. ORRs were higher for the combination of nivolumab and 
ipilimumab relative to nivolumab monotherapy across tumour PD-L1 expression levels (Table 12) 
after 90 months of follow-up, with a best overall response of complete response correlating to an 
improved survival rate. 
After 90 months of follow-up, median durations of response for patients with tumour PD-L1 
expression level ≥ 5% were 78.19 months (range: 18.07-N.A.) in the combination arm,77.21 months 
(range: 26.25-N.A.) in the nivolumab monotherapy arm and 31.28 months (range: 6.08-N.A.) in the 
ipilimumab arm. At tumour PD-L1 expression <5%, median durations of response were not reached 
(range: 61.93-N.A.) in the combination arm, were 90.84 months (range: 50.43-N.A.) in the nivolumab 
monotherapy arm and 19.25 months (range: 5.32-47.44) in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm. 
No clear cut off for PD-L1 expression can reliably be established when considering the relevant 
endpoints of tumour response and PFS and OS. Results from exploratory multivariate analyses 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
identified patient and tumour characteristics (ECOG performance status, M stage, baseline LDH, 
BRAF mutation status, PD-L1 status, and gender) which might contribute to the survival outcome. 
Efficacy by BRAF status: 
After 90 months of follow-up, BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab had a median PFS of 16.76 months 
(95% CI: 8.28, 32.0) and 11.7 months (95% CI: 7.0, 19.32), while those in the nivolumab 
monotherapy arm had a median PFS of 5.62 months (95% CI: 2.79, 9.46) and 8.18 months 
(95% CI: 5.13, 19.55), respectively. BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to ipilimumab monotherapy had a median PFS of 3.09 months (95% CI: 2.79, 5.19) and 
2.83 months (95% CI: 2.76, 3.06), respectively. 
After 90 months of follow-up, BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab had an ORR of 67.0% (95% CI: 57.0, 75.9; 
n = 103) and 54.0% (95% CI: 47.1, 60.9; n = 211), while those in the nivolumab monotherapy arm had 
an ORR of 37.87% (95% CI: 28.2, 48.1; n = 98) and 48.2% (95% CI: 41.4, 55.0; n = 218), 
respectively. BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients randomised to ipilimumab 
monotherapy had an ORR of 23.0% (95% CI: 15.2, 32.5; n = 100) and 17.2% (95% CI: 12.4, 22.9; 
n = 215). 
After 90 months of follow-up, in BRAF [V600] mutation-positive patients median OS was not reached 
in the combination arm and 45.5 months in the nivolumab monotherapy arm. Median OS for BRAF 
[V600] mutation-positive patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm was 24.6 months. In BRAF 
wild-type patients median OS was 39.06 months in the combination arm, 34.37 months in the 
nivolumab monotherapy arm and 18.5 months in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm. The OS HRs for 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab vs. nivolumab monotherapy were 0.66 
(95% CI: 0.44, 0.98) for BRAF[V600] mutation-positive patients and 0.95 (95% CI: 0.74, 1.22) for 
BRAF wild-type patients. 
Randomised phase 2 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and ipilimumab (CA209069) 
Study CA209069 was a randomised, Phase 2, double-blind study comparing the combination of 
nivolumab and ipilimumab with ipilimumab alone in 142 patients with advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma with similar inclusion criteria to study CA209067 and the primary analysis in 
patients with BRAF wild-type melanoma (77% of patients). Investigator assessed ORR was 
61% (95% CI: 48.9, 72.4) in the combination arm (n = 72) versus 11% (95% CI: 3.0, 25.4) for the 
ipilimumab arm (n = 37). The estimated 2 and 3 year OS rates were 68% (95% CI: 56, 78) and 61% 
(95% CI: 49, 71), respectively, for the combination (n = 73) and 53% (95% CI: 36, 68) and 44% 
(95% CI: 28, 60), respectively, for ipilimumab (n = 37). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab vs. placebo (CA20976K) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 480 mg monotherapy for the treatment of patients with 
completely resected melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, double-blind study 
(CA20976K). The study included patients with an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 who had 
Stage IIB or IIC American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC), 8th edition, histologically confirmed 
melanoma that had been completely surgically resected. Enrolment required complete resection of the 
primary melanoma with negative margins and a negative sentinel lymph node biopsy within 12 weeks 
prior to randomisation. Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. The study 
excluded patients with ocular/uveal or mucosal melanoma, active autoimmune disease, any condition 
requiring systemic treatment with either corticosteroids (≥ 10 mg daily prednisone or equivalent) or 
other immunosuppressive medications, as well as patients with prior therapy for melanoma except 
surgery. 
A total of 790 patients were randomised (2:1) to receive either nivolumab (n = 526) administered 
intravenously over 30 minutes at 480 mg every 4 weeks or placebo (n = 264) for up to 1 year or until 
disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. Randomisation was stratified by AJCC 8th edition 
T-category (T3b vs. T4a vs. T4b). Tumour assessments were conducted every 26 weeks during 
years 1-3 and every 52 weeks from 3 years to 5 years. The primary efficacy outcome measure was 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
recurrence-free survival (RFS). RFS, assessed by the investigator, was defined as the time between the 
date of randomisation and the date of first recurrence (local, regional, or distant metastasis), new 
primary melanoma, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. The secondary outcome 
measures included OS and distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS). 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
62 years (range: 19-92), 61% were men, and 98% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status 
score was 0 (94%) or 1 (6%). Sixty percent had stage IIB and 40% had stage IIC. 
At a primary pre-specified interim analysis (minimum follow-up 7.8 months) a statistically significant 
improvement in RFS was demonstrated with nivolumab compared to placebo with a HR of 0.42 
(95% CI: 0.30, 0.59; p < 0.0001). At an updated descriptive RFS analysis (minimum follow-up of 
15.6 months), nivolumab continued to demonstrate an RFS improvement with a HR of 0.53 
(95% CI: 0.40, 0.71). OS was not mature. Results reported from the analyses with minimum follow-up 
of 15.6 months are summarised in Table 13 and Figure 8. 
Table 13: 
Efficacy results (CA20976K) 
nivolumab 
(n = 526) 
Recurrence-free survival with minimum follow-up 15.6 months 
placebo 
(n = 264) 
Recurrence-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
102 (19.4%) 
84 (31.8%) 
0.53 
(0.40, 0.71) 
Median (95% CI) months 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsb 
Rate (95% CI) at 18 monthsb 
NR 
88.8 (85.6, 91.2) 
83.9 (80.3, 86.9) 
36.14 (24.77, NR) 
81.1 (75.7, 85.4) 
70.7 (64.5, 76.1) 
a 
b 
Based on stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
RFS benefit was consistent across key subgroups, including disease stage, T-category, and age. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8: 
Recurrence-free survival (CA20976K) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
-
e
c
n
e
r
r
u
c
e
R
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Recurrence-Free Survival per Investigator (months) 
Nivolumab 
526 
Placebo 
264 
244 
492 
474 
456 
422 
386 
291 
210 
122 
224 
208 
193 
165 
120 
77 
44 
74 
25 
40 
22 
12 
7 
13 
4 
0 
0 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab (events 102/526), median and 95% CI: NR 
Placebo (events: 84/264), median and 95% CI: 36.14 (24.77, NR) 
Nivolumab vs. Placebo – HR (95% CI): 0.53 (0.40, 0.71) 
Based on data cut-off: 21-February-2023, minimum follow-up of 15.6 months 
Tumour PD-L1 expression data were available for 302/790 (38.2%) randomised patients (36.3% and 
42.0% in the nivolumab and placebo arms, respectively), as PD-L1 expression was not a stratification 
factor for randomisation. The exploratory RFS analyses by PD-L1 expression showed a HR for 
nivolumab vs placebo of 0.43 (95% CI: 0.22, 0.84) in patients (N=167) with PD- L1 expression ≥ 1%, 
0.82 (95% CI: 0.44, 1.54) in patients (N=135) with PD-L1 expression < 1%, and 0.50 (95% CI: 0.34, 
0.73) in patients (N=488) with indeterminate/not reported/not evaluable PD-L1 expression. 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab vs ipilimumab 10 mg/kg (CA209238) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of patients with 
completely resected melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, double-blind study 
(CA209238). The study included adult patients, who had an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1, 
with Stage IIIB/C or Stage IV American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC), 7th edition, histologically 
confirmed melanoma that is completely surgically resected. Per the AJCC 8th edition, this corresponds 
to patients with lymph node involvement or metastases. Patients were enrolled regardless of their 
tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with prior autoimmune disease, and any condition requiring systemic 
treatment with either corticosteroids (≥ 10 mg daily prednisone or equivalent) or other 
immunosuppressive medications, as well as patients with prior therapy for melanoma (except patients 
with surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy after neurosurgical resection for lesions of the central nervous 
system, and prior adjuvant interferon completed ≥ 6 months prior to randomisation) prior therapy with, 
anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, anti-PD-L2, anti-CD137, or anti CTLA-4 antibody (including ipilimumab or 
any other antibody or drug specifically targeting T cell co-stimulation or checkpoint pathways), were 
excluded from the study. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
A total of 906 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 3 mg/kg (n = 453) administered 
every 2 weeks or ipilimumab 10 mg/kg (n = 453) administered every 3 weeks for 4 doses then every 
12 weeks beginning at week 24 for up to 1 year. Randomisation was stratified by tumour PD-L1 
expression (≥ 5% vs. < 5%/indeterminate), and stage of disease per the AJCC staging system. Tumour 
assessments were conducted every 12 weeks for the first 2 years then every 6 months thereafter. The 
primary endpoint was recurrence-free survival (RFS). RFS, assessed by investigator, was defined as 
the time between the date of randomisation and the date of first recurrence (local, regional, or distant 
metastasis), new primary melanoma, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
55 years (range: 18-86), 58% were men, and 95% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status 
score was 0 (90%) or 1 (10%). The majority of patients had AJCC Stage III disease (81%), and 19% 
had Stage IV disease. Forty-eight percent of patients had macroscopic lymph nodes and 32% had 
tumour ulceration. Forty-two percent of patients were BRAF V600 mutation positive while 45% were 
BRAF wild type and 13% BRAF were status unknown. For tumour PD-L1 expression, 34% of 
patients had PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% and 62% had < 5% as determined by clinical trial assay. Among 
patients with quantifiable tumour PD-L1 expression, the distribution of patients was balanced across 
the treatment groups. Tumour PD-L1 expression was determined using the 
PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
At a primary pre-specified interim analysis (minimum follow-up 18 months) a statistically significant 
improvement in RFS with nivolumab compared to ipilimumab with HR of 0.65 (97.56% CI: 0.51, 
0.83; stratified log-rank p<0.0001) was demonstrated. At an updated descriptive RFS analysis, with 
minimum follow-up of 24 months RFS improvement was confirmed with HR of 0.66 (95% Cl: 0.54, 
0.81; p<0.0001) and OS was not mature. Efficacy results with minimum follow-up of 36 months (RFS 
pre-specified final analysis) and 48 months (OS pre-specified final analysis) are shown in Table 14 
and Figure 9 and 10 (all randomised population). 
Table 14: 
Efficacy results (CA209238) 
nivolumab 
(n = 453) 
Final pre-specified analysis 
Recurrence-free survival with minimum follow-up 36 months 
188 (41.5%) 
ipilimumab 10 mg/kg 
(n = 453) 
239 (52.8%) 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
p-value 
0.68 
(0.56, 0.82) 
p<0.0001 
  Median (95% CI) months 
NR (38.67, NR) 
24.87 (16.62, 35.12) 
  Events 
Recurrence-free survival with minimum follow-up 48 months 
212 (46.8%) 
253 (55.8%) 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 18 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 36 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 48 months 
0.71 
(0.60, 0.86) 
52.37 (42.51, NR) 
70.4 (65.9, 74.4) 
65.8 (61.2, 70.0) 
62.6 (57.9, 67.0) 
57.6 (52.8, 62.1) 
51.7 (46.8, 56.3) 
24.08 (16.56, 35.09) 
60.0 (55.2, 64.5) 
53.0 (48.1, 57.6) 
50.2 (45.3, 54.8) 
44.4 (39.6, 49.1) 
41.2 (36.4, 45.9) 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nivolumab 
(n = 453) 
Final pre-specified analysis 
Overall survival with minimum follow-up 48 months 
100 (22.1%) 
ipilimumab 10 mg/kg 
(n = 453) 
0.87 
(0.66, 1.14) 
0.3148 
Not Reached 
96.2 (93.9, 97.6) 
91.9 (88.9, 94.1) 
88.0 (84.6, 90.7) 
81.7 (77.8, 85.1) 
77.9 (73.7, 81.5) 
111 (24.5%) 
Not Reached 
95.3 (92.8, 96.9) 
91.8 (88.8, 94.0) 
87.8 (84.4, 90.6) 
81.6 (77.6, 85.0) 
76.6 (72.2, 80.3) 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95.03% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 18 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 36 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 48 months 
a 
Derived from a stratified proportional hazards model. 
With a minimum follow-up of 36 months, the trial demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement in RFS for patients randomised to the nivolumab arm compared with the ipilimumab 
10 mg/kg arm. RFS benefit was consistently demonstrated across subgroups, including tumour 
PD-L1 expression, BRAF status, and stage of disease. With a minimum follow up of 48 months, 
shown in Figure 9, the trial continued to demonstrate improvement in RFS in the nivolumab arm 
compared with the ipilimumab arm. RFS benefit was sustained across all subgroups. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: 
Recurrence-free survival (CA209238) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
e
c
n
e
r
r
u
c
e
r
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Recurrence-free survival (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
453  395  354  332  311  293  283  271  262  250  245  240  233  224  218  206  147  37 
Ipilimumab 
453  366  316  273  253  234  220  208  201  191  185  177  171  168  163  154  113  32 
11 
0 
10 
0 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab 
 
Ipilimumab 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10: 
Overall survival (CA209238) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Overall survival (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
453  450  447  438  427  416  405  388  383  373  366  359  350  341  337  332  324  237  45 
Ipilimumab
453  447  442  430  416  407  395  382  373  363  350  345  340  333  322  316  315  218  40 
1 
0 
0 
0 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab 
 
Ipilimumab 
With a minimum follow-up of 48 months, shown in Figure 10, median OS was not reached in either 
group (HR = 0.87, 95.03% CI: 0.66, 1.14; p-value: 0.3148). The overall survival data are confounded 
by the effects of effective subsequent anti-cancer therapies. Subsequent systemic therapy was received 
by 33% and 42% of patients in the nivolumab and ipilimumab arms, respectively. Subsequent 
immunotherapy (including anti-PD1 therapy, anti-CTLA-4 antibody, or other immunotherapy) was 
received by 23% and 34% of patients in the nivolumab and ipilimumab arms, respectively. 
Quality of life (QoL) with nivolumab remained stable and close to baseline values during treatment, as 
assessed by valid and reliable scales like the European Organization for Research and Treatment of 
Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and the EQ-5D utility index and visual analog scale (VAS). 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Neoadjuvant treatment of NSCLC 
Randomised, open-label, phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with platinum-based 
chemotherapy vs. platinum-based chemotherapy (CA209816) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for 3 cycles 
were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209816). The study included patients 
with ECOG performance status 0 or 1, measurable disease (per RECIST version 1.1), and whose 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tumours were resectable, histologically confirmed Stage IB (≥ 4 cm), II, or IIIA NSCLC (per the 
7th edition AJCC/Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) staging criteria). 
The following selection criteria define patients with high risk of recurrence who are included in the 
therapeutic indication and are reflective of a patient population with stage II-IIIA disease according to 
the 7th edition AJCC/UICC staging criteria: any patient with a tumour size ≥5 cm; any patient with N1 
or N2 disease (regardless of primary tumour size); patients with multiple tumour nodules in either the 
same lobe or different ipsilateral lobes; patients with tumours that are invasive of thoracic structures 
(directly invade visceral pleura, parietal pleura, chest wall, diaphragm, phrenic nerve, mediastinal 
pleura, parietal pericardium, mediastinum, heart, great vessels, trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, 
oesophagus, vertebral body, carina); or tumours that involve the main bronchus; or tumours that are 
associated with atelectasis or obstructive pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region or involves the 
entire lung. 
The study did not include patients who had N2 status with tumours also invading the mediastinum, 
heart, great vessels, trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, oesophagus, vertebral body, carina, or with 
separate tumour nodule(s) in a different ipsilateral lobe. 
Patients with unresectable or metastatic NSCLC, known EGFR mutations or ALK translocations 
(testing for EGFR mutations or ALK translocations was not mandatory at study entry), Grade 2 or 
greater peripheral neuropathy, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic 
immunosuppression were excluded from the study. Randomisation was stratified by tumour PD-L1 
expression level (≥ 1% vs. < 1% or non-quantifiable), disease stage (IB/II vs. IIIA), and gender (male 
vs. female). Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Tumour PD-L1 expression 
was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
A total of 358 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab in combination with 
platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 179) or platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 179). Patients in the 
nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy arm received nivolumab 360 mg administered 
intravenously over 30 minutes in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy every 3 weeks for 
up to 3 cycles. Patients in the chemotherapy arm received platinum-based chemotherapy administered 
every 3 weeks for up to 3 cycles. Platinum-based chemotherapy consisted of investigator’s choice of 
paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 or 200 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC 5 or AUC 6 (any histology); pemetrexed 
500 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (non-squamous histology); or gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 or 
1250 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (squamous histology). In the chemotherapy arm, two additional 
treatment regimen options included vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 or 30 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2; or 
docetaxel 60 mg/m2 or 75 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (any histology). 
Tumour assessments were performed at baseline, within 14 days of surgery, every 12 weeks after 
surgery for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, and every year for 5 years until disease 
recurrence or progression. The primary efficacy outcome measures were event-free survival (EFS) 
based on BICR assessment and pathological complete response rate (pCR) by blinded-independent 
pathology review (BIPR). OS was a key secondary efficacy outcome measure and exploratory 
endpoints included feasibility of surgery. 
Baseline characteristics in the ITT population were generally balanced across treatment groups. The 
median age was 65 years (range: 34-84) with 51% of patients ≥ 65 years and 7% of patients 
≥ 75 years; 50% of patients were Asian, 47% were white, and 71% were male. Baseline ECOG 
performance status was 0 (67%) or 1 (33%); 50% of patients with PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 43% with 
PD-L1 < 1%; 5% had Stage IB, 17% had Stage IIA, 13% had Stage IIB, and 64% had Stage IIIA 
disease; 51% had squamous and 49% had non-squamous histology; and 89% were former/current 
smokers. Definitive surgery was performed on 83% of the patients in the nivolumab in combination 
with chemotherapy arm and on 75% of the patients in the chemotherapy arm. Adjuvant systemic 
treatment was received by 14.8% of patients in the nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy arm 
and by 25% of patients in the chemotherapy arm. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the final pCR analysis and pre-specified interim EFS analysis (minimum follow-up 21 months), in 
all randomised patients, a statistically significant improvement was demonstrated in pCR and EFS for 
patients randomised to nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy as compared to chemotherapy 
alone. The pCR response rate was 24% in the nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy arm and 
2.2% in the chemotherapy arm (difference of pCR 21.6, 99% CI: 13.0, 30.3; odds ratio of pCR 13.9, 
99% CI: 3.49, 55.75; stratified p-value < 0.0001). Median EFS was 31.6 months in the nivolumab in 
combination with chemotherapy arm and 20.8 months in the chemotherapy arm (HR = 0.63, 
97.38% CI: 0.43, 0.91; stratified log-rank p-value 0.0052). The HR for OS was 
0.57 (99.67% CI: 0.30, 1.07) for nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy. 
Exploratory subgroup analysis by tumour PD-L1 expression and disease stage 
The key efficacy results for the subgroup of patients with tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% and disease 
stage II-IIIA from an exploratory analysis with a minimum follow-up of 32.9 months are summarized 
in Table 15. 
Table 15: 
Efficacy results in patients with tumour PD-L1 ≥ 1% and stage II-IIIA disease* 
(CA209816) 
nivolumab + chemotherapy 
(n = 81) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 86) 
Event-free survival per BICR 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
(95% CI) 
Median (months)b 
(95% CI) 
Pathologic complete response per BIPR 
Responses 
95% CIc 
Difference of pCR (95% CI)d 
22 (27.2%) 
39 (45.3%) 
0.49 
(0.29, 0.83) 
NR 
(44.42, NR) 
26 (32.1%) 
(22.2, 43.4) 
26.71 
(13.40, NR) 
2 (2.3%) 
(0.3, 8.1) 
29.8% (19.0, 40.7) 
Based on an unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Based on Clopper and Pearson method. 
Two-sided 95% confidence interval for unweighted difference was calculated using Newcombe method. 
7th edition AJCC/UICC staging criteria. 
a 
b 
c 
d 
* 
Minimum follow-up for EFS was 32.9 months, data cut-off: 06-Sep-2022 
pCR data cut-off: 28-Jul-2020 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for EFS for the subgroup of patients with tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
and stage II-IIIA disease, with a minimum follow-up of 32.9 months, are shown in Figure 11. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of EFS in patients with tumour PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 
stage II-IIIA disease (CA209816) 
R
C
B
I
r
e
p
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
-
t
n
e
v
E
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of Subjects at Risk 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
81 
69 
Chemotherapy 
71 
86 
62 
60 
52 
59 
Event-Free Survival per BICR (Months) 
58 
55  53 
51 
51  50 
47 
37 
32 
21 
10 
44 
40  38 
36 
34  31 
30 
23 
18 
14 
7 
5 
6 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 22/81), median and 95% CI: NR (44.42, NR) 
Chemotherapy (events: 39/86), median and 95% CI: 26.71 (13.40, NR) 
Based on data cut-off: 06-Sep-2022, minimum follow-up of 32.9 months 
At the time of the updated EFS analysis, an interim analysis for OS was performed (minimum follow-
up of 32.9 months). The exploratory, descriptive HR for OS in patients with tumour PD-L1 expression 
≥ 1% and stage II-IIIA disease was 0.43 (95% CI: 0.22, 0.83) for nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy. The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS for the subgroup of patients with 
tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% and stage II-IIIA disease, with a minimum follow-up of 32.9 months, 
are shown in Figure 12. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in patients with tumour PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 
stage II-IIIA disease (CA209816) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of Subjects at Risk 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
Overall Survival (Months) 
  81  80  76  76  74  73  71  69  69  69  68  67  59  50  33  22  11 
Chemotherapy 
  86  84  80  79  77  74  67  61  60  57  56  55  50  41  27  20  10 
6 
5 
3 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 13/81), median and 95% CI: NR 
Chemotherapy (events: 29/86), median and 95% CI: NR 
Based on data cut-off: 06-Sep-2022, minimum follow-up of 32.9 months 
First-line treatment of NSCLC 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and 2 cycles of 
platinum-based chemotherapy vs. 4 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy (CA2099LA) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 360 mg every 3 weeks in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, 
open-label study (CA2099LA). The study included patients (18 years or older) with histologically 
confirmed non-squamous or squamous Stage IV or recurrent NSCLC (per the 7th International 
Association for the Study of Lung Cancer classification), ECOG performance status 0 or 1, and no 
prior anticancer therapy (including EGFR and ALK inhibitors). Patients were enrolled regardless of 
their tumour PD-L1 status. 
Patients with sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK translocations, active (untreated) brain metastases, 
carcinomatous meningitis, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic 
immunosuppression were excluded from the study. Patients with treated brain metastases were eligible 
if neurologically returned to baseline at least 2 weeks prior to enrolment, and either off corticosteroids, 
or on a stable or decreasing dose of < 10 mg daily prednisone equivalents. Randomisation was 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stratified by histology (squamous vs non-squamous), tumour PD-L1 expression level (≥ 1% vs < 1%), 
and gender (male vs female). 
A total of 719 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
and platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 361) or platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 358). Patients in 
the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and platinum-based chemotherapy arm received 
nivolumab 360 mg administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks in combination with 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 weeks and platinum-based 
chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks for 2 cycles. Patients in the chemotherapy arm received 
platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks for 4 cycles; non-squamous patients could 
receive optional pemetrexed maintenance therapy. 
Platinum-based chemotherapy consisted of carboplatin (AUC 5 or 6) and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2; or 
cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 for non-squamous NSCLC; or carboplatin (AUC 6) 
and paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 for squamous NSCLC. 
Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for up to 24 months. 
Treatment could continue beyond disease progression if the patient was clinically stable and was 
considered to be deriving clinical benefit by the investigator. Patients who discontinued combination 
therapy because of an adverse event attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab 
monotherapy. Tumour assessments were performed every 6 weeks after first dose of study treatment 
for the first 12 months, then every 12 weeks until disease progression or study treatment was 
discontinued. 
CA2099LA baseline characteristics were generally balanced across all treatment groups. The median 
age was 65 years (range: 26-86) with 51% ≥ 65 years of age and 10% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority 
of patients were white (89%) and male (70%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (31%) or 
1 (68%), 57% of patients with PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 37% with PD-L1 < 1%, 31% had squamous and 69% 
had non-squamous histology, 17% had brain metastases, and 86% were former/current smokers. No 
patients received prior immunotherapy. 
CA2099LA primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Additional efficacy endpoints were PFS, 
ORR, and duration of response as assessed by BICR. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant benefit in OS, PFS, and ORR for patients 
randomised to nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and platinum-based chemotherapy as 
compared to platinum-based chemotherapy alone at the prespecified interim analysis when 351 events 
were observed (87% of the planned number of events for final analysis). Minimum follow-up for OS 
was 8.1 months. 
Efficacy results are shown in Figure 13 (updated OS analysis with a minimum follow-up of 12.7 
months) and Table 16 (primary analysis with a minimum follow-up of 8.1 months). 
An updated efficacy analysis was performed when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 
12.7 months (see Figure 13). At the time of this analysis, the hazard ratio for OS was 0.66 (95% CI: 
0.55, 0.80) and the hazard ratio for PFS was 0.68 (95% CI: 0.57, 0.82). 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13: 
Kaplan-Meier plot of OS (CA2099LA) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
f
o
y
t
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall Survival (Months) 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab + chemotherapy 
361 
292 
326 
Chemotherapy 
319 
358 
208 
260 
250 
227 
166 
153 
116 
86 
67 
33 
26 
10 
11 
1 
0 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + ipilimumab + chemotherapy (events: 190/361), median and 95% CI: 15.64 (13.93, 
19.98) 
- - -- - -  Chemotherapy (events: 242/358), median and 95% CI: 10.91 (9.46, 12.55) 
Table 16: 
Efficacy results (CA2099LA) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(96.71% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valueb 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
nivolumab + ipilimumab + 
chemotherapy 
(n = 361) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 358) 
156 (43.2%) 
195 (54.5%) 
0.69 
(0.55, 0.87) 
0.0006 
14.1 
(13.24, 16.16) 
80.9 (76.4,84.6) 
10.7 
(9.46, 12.45) 
72.3 (67.4,76.7) 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(97.48% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valuec 
Median (months)d 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Overall response ratee 
(95% CI) 
Stratified CMH test p-valuef 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Duration of response 
  Median (months) 
(95% CI)d 
% with duration ≥ 6 monthsg 
nivolumab + ipilimumab + 
chemotherapy 
(n = 361) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 358) 
232 (64.3%) 
249 (69.6%) 
0.70 
(0.57, 0.86) 
0.0001 
6.83 
(5.55, 7.66) 
51.7 (46.2, 56.8) 
4.96 
(4.27, 5.55) 
35.9 (30.5, 41.3) 
0.0003 
136 (37.7%) 
(32.7, 42.9) 
7 (1.9%) 
129 (35.7%) 
10.02 
(8.21, 13.01) 
74 
90 (25.1%) 
(20.7, 30.0) 
3 (0.8%) 
87 (24.3%) 
5.09 
(4.34, 7.00) 
41 
Based on a stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0329 for this interim analysis. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0252 for this interim analysis. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Proportion with complete or partial response; CI based on the Clopper and Pearson Method. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.025 for this interim analysis. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates of duration of response. 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
CMH = Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
Subsequent systemic therapy was received by 28.8% and 41.1% of patients in the combination and 
chemotherapy arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, and 
anti-CTLA4) was received by 3.9% and 27.9% of patients in the combination and chemotherapy arms, 
respectively. 
In study CA2099LA, subgroup descriptive analysis relative to chemotherapy, OS benefit was shown 
in patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy with squamous 
histology (HR [95% CI] 0.65 [0.46, 0.93], n = 227) and in patients with non-squamous histology (HR 
[95% CI] 0.72 [0.55, 0.93], n = 492). 
Table 17 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by tumour PD-L1 expression in 
pre-specified subgroup analyses. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: 
Efficacy results by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA2099LA) 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
+ 
chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
+ 
chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
+ 
chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
+ 
chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
PD-L1 < 1% 
(n = 264) 
0.65 
(0.46, 0.92) 
0.77 
(0.57, 1.03) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% 
(n = 406) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% to 49% 
(n = 233) 
PD-L1 ≥ 50% 
(n = 173) 
0.67 
(0.51, 0.89) 
0.67 
(0.53, 0.85) 
0.69 
(0.48, 0.98) 
0.64 
(0.41, 1.02) 
0.71 
(0.52, 0.97) 
0.59 
(0.40, 0.86) 
31.1 
20.9 
41.9 
27.6 
37.8 
24.5 
48.7 
30.9 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
OS hazard 
ratio 
(95% CI)a 
PFS 
hazard 
ratio 
(95% CI)a 
ORR % 
a 
A total of 70 NSCLC patients aged ≥ 75 years were enrolled in study CA2099LA (37 patients in the 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy arm and 33 patients in the 
chemotherapy arm). A HR of 1.36 (95% CI: 0.74, 2.52) in OS and a HR of 1.12 (95% CI: 0.64, 1.96) 
in PFS was observed for nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy vs. 
chemotherapy within this study subgroup. ORR was 27.0% in the nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab and chemotherapy arm and 15.2% in the chemotherapy arm. Forty-three percent of 
patients aged ≥ 75 years discontinued treatment with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and 
chemotherapy. Efficacy and safety data of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and 
chemotherapy are limited in this patient population. 
In a subgroup analysis, a reduced survival benefit for nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and 
chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy was observed in patients who were never smokers. 
However, due to the small numbers of patients, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these 
data. 
Treatment of NSCLC after prior chemotherapy 
Squamous NSCLC 
Randomised phase 3 study vs. docetaxel (CA209017) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of advanced or 
metastatic squamous NSCLC were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209017). 
The study included patients (18 years or older) who have experienced disease progression during or 
after one prior platinum doublet-based chemotherapy regimen and an ECOG performance status score 
of 0 or 1. Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with active 
autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial lung disease, or active brain metastases were excluded 
from the study. Patients with treated brain metastases were eligible if neurologically returned to 
baseline at least 2 weeks prior to enrolment, and either off corticosteroids, or on a stable or decreasing 
dose of < 10 mg daily prednisone equivalents. 
A total of 272 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 3 mg/kg (n = 135) administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks or docetaxel (n = 137) 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. 
Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer 
tolerated. Tumour assessments, according to the RECIST, version 1.1, were conducted 9 weeks after 
randomisation and continued every 6 weeks thereafter. The primary efficacy outcome measure was 
OS. Key secondary efficacy outcome measures were investigator-assessed ORR and PFS. In addition, 
symptom improvement and overall health status were assessed using the Lung cancer symptom score 
(LCSS) average symptom burden index and the EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS), 
respectively. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age 
was 63 years (range: 39-85) with 44% ≥ 65 years of age and 11% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of 
patients were white (93%) and male (76%). Thirty-one percent had progressive disease reported as the 
best response to their most recent prior regimen and 45% received nivolumab within 3 months of 
completing their most recent prior regimen. Baseline ECOG performance status score was 0 (24%) or 
1 (76%). 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in Figure 14. 
Figure 14: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209017) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg 
135 
Docetaxel 
137 
113 
103 
86 
68 
69 
45 
52 
30 
31 
14 
15 
7 
7 
2 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab 3 mg/kg (events: 86/135), median and 95% CI: 9.23 (7.33, 13.27) 
- - -- - -  Docetaxel (events: 113/137), median and 95% CI: 6.01 (5.13, 7.33) 
The observed OS benefit was consistently demonstrated across subgroups of patients. Survival benefit 
was observed regardless of whether patients had tumours that were designated PD-L1 negative or 
PD-L1 positive (tumour membrane expression cut off of 1%, 5% or 10%). However, the role of this 
biomarker (tumour PD-L1 expression) has not been fully elucidated. With a minimum of 62.6 months 
follow-up, OS benefit remains consistently demonstrated across subgroups. 
Study CA209017 included a limited number of patients ≥ 75 years (11 in the nivolumab group and 
18 in the docetaxel group). Nivolumab showed numerically less effect on OS (HR 1.85; 95% CI: 0.76, 
4.51), PFS (HR = 1.76; 95%-CI: 0.77, 4.05) and ORR (9.1% vs. 16.7%). Because of the small sample 
size, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
Efficacy results are shown in Table 18. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18: 
Efficacy results (CA209017) 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
9.23 (7.33, 13.27) 
42.1 (33.7, 50.3) 
nivolumab 
(n = 135) 
Primary analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 10.6 months 
docetaxel 
(n = 137) 
86 (63.7%) 
113 (82.5%) 
0.59 
(0.43, 0.81) 
0.0002 
2.64 (1.27, 5.49) 
0.0083 
6.01 (5.13, 7.33) 
23.7 (16.9, 31.1) 
12 (8.8%) 
(4.6, 14.8) 
0 
12 (8.8%) 
47 (34.3%) 
27 (20.0%) 
(13.6, 27.7) 
1 (0.7%) 
26 (19.3%) 
39 (28.9%) 
Not reached (2.9-20.5+) 
8.4 (1.4+-15.2+) 
2.2 (1.6-11.8) 
2.1 (1.8-9.5) 
105 (77.8%) 
122 (89.1%) 
0.62 
(0.47, 0.81) 
< 0.0004 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
96.85% CI 
p-value 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) (months) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
3.48 (2.14, 4.86) 
20.8 (14.0, 28.4) 
2.83 (2.10, 3.52) 
6.4 (2.9, 11.8) 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 24.2 months 
Overall survivala 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
110 (81.4%) 
128 (93.4%) 
0.62 
(0.47, 0.80) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
22.9 (16.2, 30.3) 
8 (4.3, 13.3) 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
20.0% 
(13.6, 27.7) 
8.8% 
(4.6, 14.8) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
25.2 (2.9-30.4) 
8.4 (1.4+-18.0+) 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression-free survival 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
Overall survivala 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
nivolumab 
(n = 135) 
15.6 (9.7, 22.7) 
docetaxel 
(n = 137) 
All patients had either progressed, 
were censored, or lost to follow-up 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 62.6 months 
118 (87.4%) 
133 (97.1%) 
0.62 
(0.48, 0.79) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
12.3 (7.4, 18.5) 
3.6 (1.4, 7.8) 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
20.0% 
(13.6, 27.7) 
8.8% 
(4.6, 14.8) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
25.2 (2.9-70.6+) 
7.5 (0.0+-18.0+) 
9.4 (4.8, 15.8) 
All patients had either progressed, 
were censored, or lost to follow-up 
a 
“+” 
Six patients (4%) randomised to docetaxel crossed over at any time to receive nivolumab treatment. 
Denotes a censored observation. 
The rate of disease-related symptom improvement, as measured by LCSS, was similar between the 
nivolumab group (18.5%) and the docetaxel group (21.2%). The average EQ-VAS increased over time 
for both treatment groups, indicating better overall health status for patients remaining on treatment. 
Single-arm phase 2 study (CA209063) 
Study CA209063 was a single-arm, open-label study conducted in 117 patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic squamous NSCLC after two or more lines of therapy; otherwise similar inclusion criteria 
as study CA209017 were applied. Nivolumab 3 mg/kg showed an ORR of 14.5% (95% CI: 
8.7,22.2%), a median OS of 8.21 months (95% CI: 6.05,10.9), and a median PFS of 1.87 months 
(95% CI 1.77,3.15). The PFS was measured by RECIST, version 1.1. The estimated 1-year survival 
rate was 41%. 
Single-arm phase 2 study (CA209171) 
Study CA209171 was a single-arm, open label study of nivolumab monotherapy in patients with 
previously treated advanced or metastatic squamous NSCLC. Safety was the primary endpoint and 
efficacy was a secondary endpoint. Of the 811 treated patients, 103 (13%) had an ECOG performance 
score of 2, 686 (85%) were < 75 years old and 125 (15%) were ≥ 75 years old. No new safety signals 
were identified in all treated patients and the overall safety profile of nivolumab was similar across 
subgroups. Efficacy results based on investigator-assessed ORR are presented in Table 19 below. 
Table 19: 
ORR based on response evaluable patients – total and by subgroup (CA209171) 
Results 
N responders/ N evaluablea 
(%) 
Total 
66/671 
(9.8) 
ECOG PS 2 
1/64 
(6.1) 
< 75 years 
55/568 
(9.7) 
≥ 75 years 
11/103 
(10.7) 
95% CIb 
(7.7, 12.3) 
(0.0, 8.4) 
(7.4, 12.4) 
(5.5, 18.3) 
a 
b 
includes confirmed and unconfirmed responses, scans were mandatory only at week 8/9 and week 52. 
CR+PR, confidence interval based on the Clopper and Pearson method 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-squamous NSCLC 
Randomised phase 3 study vs. docetaxel (CA209057) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of advanced or 
metastatic non-squamous NSCLC were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study 
(CA209057). The study included patients (18 years or older) who have experienced disease 
progression during or after one prior platinum doublet-based chemotherapy regimen which may have 
included maintenance therapy and who had an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1. An 
additional line of TKI therapy was allowed for patients with known EGFR mutation or ALK 
translocation. Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with active 
autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial lung disease, or active brain metastases were excluded 
from the study. Patients with treated brain metastases were eligible if neurologically returned to 
baseline at least 2 weeks prior to enrolment, and either off corticosteroids, or on a stable or decreasing 
dose of < 10 mg daily prednisone equivalents. 
A total of 582 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 3 mg/kg administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks (n = 292) or docetaxel 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks 
(n = 290). Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no 
longer tolerated. Tumour assessments were conducted according to the RECIST version 1.1. The 
primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Key secondary efficacy outcome measures were 
investigator-assessed ORR and PFS. Additional prespecified subgroup analyses were conducted to 
evaluate the efficacy of tumour PD-L1 expression at predefined levels of 1%, 5% and 10%. 
Assessment according to discrete PD-L1 expression intervals were not included in the prespecified 
analyses due to the small sample sizes within the intervals. 
Pre-study tumour tissue specimens were systematically collected prior to randomisation in order to 
conduct pre-planned analyses of efficacy according to tumour PD-L1 expression. Tumour PD-L1 
expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
The median age was 62 years (range: 21 to 85) with 34% ≥ 65 years of age and 7% ≥ 75 years of age. 
The majority of patients were white (92%) and male (55%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 
0 (31%) or 1 (69%). Seventy-nine percent of patients were former/current smokers. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in Figure 15. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209057) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg 
292 
194 
232 
Docetaxel 
290 
244 
194 
169 
146 
123 
150 
111 
88 
62 
34 
32 
10 
9 
5 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab 3 mg/kg (events: 190/292), median and 95% CI: 12.19 (9.66, 14.98) 
- - -- - -  Docetaxel (events: 223/290), median and 95% CI: 9.36 (8.05, 10.68) 
The trial demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients randomised to 
nivolumab as compared with docetaxel at the prespecified interim analysis when 413 events were 
observed (93% of the planned number of events for final analysis). Efficacy results are shown in 
Table 20. 
Table 20: 
Efficacy results (CA209057) 
nivolumab 
(n = 292) 
docetaxel 
(n = 290) 
Prespecified interim analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 13.2 months 
190 (65.1%) 
223 (76.9%) 
0.73 
(0.59, 0.89) 
0.0015 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
(95.92% CI) 
p-valueb 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
12.19 (9.66, 14.98) 
50.5 (44.6, 56.1) 
9.36 (8.05, 10.68) 
39.0 (33.3, 44.6) 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
nivolumab 
(n = 292) 
56 (19.2%) 
(14.8, 24.2) 
4 (1.4%) 
52 (17.8%) 
74 (25.3%) 
docetaxel 
(n = 290) 
36 (12.4%) 
(8.8, 16.8) 
1.68 (1.07, 2.64) 
0.0246 
1 (0.3%) 
35 (12.1%) 
122 (42.1%) 
17.15 (1.8-22.6+) 
5.55 (1.2+-15.2+) 
2.10 (1.2-8.6) 
2.61 (1.4-6.3) 
234 (80.1%) 
245 (84.5%) 
0.92 
(0.77, 1.11) 
0.3932 
  Median (95% CI) (months) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
2.33 (2.17, 3.32) 
18.5 (14.1, 23.4) 
4.21 (3.45, 4.86) 
8.1 (5.1, 12.0) 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 24.2 months 
Overall survivalc 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
(95% CI) 
228 (78.1%) 
247 (85.1%) 
0.75 
(0.63, 0.91) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
28.7 (23.6, 34.0) 
15.8 (11.9, 20.3) 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
19.2% 
(14.8, 24.2) 
12.4% 
(8.8, 16.8) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
17.2 (1.8-33.7+) 
5.6 (1.2+-16.8) 
11.9 (8.3, 16.2) 
1.0 (0.2, 3.3) 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nivolumab 
(n = 292) 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 62.7 months 
docetaxel 
(n = 290) 
250 (85.6%) 
279 (96.2%) 
0.70 
(0.58, 0.83) 
Overall survivald 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
14.0 (10.2, 18.3) 
2.1 (0.9, 4.4) 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
19.5% 
(15.1, 24.5) 
12.4% 
(8.8, 16.8) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
17.2 (1.8-70.4+) 
5.6 (0.0+-33.4) 
7.5 (4.5, 11.4) 
All patients had either progressed, 
were censored, or lost to follow-up 
a 
b 
c 
d 
“+” 
Derived from a stratified proportional hazards model. 
P-value is derived from a log-rank test stratified by prior maintenance therapy and line of therapy; the corresponding 
O’Brien-Fleming efficacy boundary significance level is 0.0408. 
Sixteen patients (6%) randomised to docetaxel crossed over at any time to receive nivolumab treatment. 
Seventeen patients (6%) randomised to docetaxel crossed over at any time to receive nivolumab treatment. 
Denotes a censored observation. 
Quantifiable tumour PD-L1 expression was measured in 79% of patients in the nivolumab group and 
77% of patients in the docetaxel group. Tumour PD-L1 expression levels were balanced between the 
two treatment groups (nivolumab vs. docetaxel) at each of the predefined tumour PD-L1 expression 
levels of ≥ 1% (53% vs. 55%), ≥ 5% (41% vs. 38%), or ≥ 10% (37% vs. 35%). 
Patients with tumour PD-L1 expression by all predefined expression levels in the nivolumab group 
demonstrated greater likelihood of improved survival compared to docetaxel, whereas survival was 
similar to docetaxel in patients with low or no tumour PD-L1 expression. In terms of ORR, increasing 
PD-L1 expression was associated with larger ORR. Comparable to the overall population, median 
duration of response was increased with nivolumab vs. docetaxel for patients with no PD-L1 
expression (18.3 months vs. 5.6 months) and for patients with PD-L1 expression (16.0 months vs. 
5.6 months). 
Table 21 summarises results of ORR and OS by tumour PD-L1 expression. 
Table 21: 
PD-L1 expression 
ORR and OS by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA209057) 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
≥ 1% to < 10%a 
≥ 10% to < 50%a 
≥ 50%a 
nivolumab 
ORR by tumour PD-L1 expression 
Minimum follow-up: 13.2 months 
docetaxel 
10/108 (9.3%) 
95% CI: 4.5, 16.4 
38/123 (30.9%) 
95% CI: 22.9, 39.9 
6/37 (16.2%) 
95% CI: 6.2, 32.0 
5/20 (25.0%) 
95% CI: 8.7, 49.1 
27/66 (40.9%) 
95% CI: 29.0, 53.7 
15/101 (14.9%) 
95% CI: 8.6, 23.3 
15/123 (12.2%) 
95% CI: 7.0, 19.3 
5/44 (11.4%) 
95% CI: 3.8, 24.6 
7/33 (21.2%) 
95% CI: 9.0, 38.9 
3/46 (6.5%) 
95% CI: 1.4, 17.9 
73 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
0.59 (0.22, 1.48) 
3.22 (1.60, 6.71) 
1.51 (0.35, 6.85) 
1.24 (0.26, 5.48) 
9.92 (2.68, 54.09) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PD-L1 expression 
nivolumab 
docetaxel 
OS by tumour PD-L1 expression 
Minimum follow-up: 13.2 months 
Number of events (number of patients) 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
≥ 1% to < 10%a 
≥ 10% to < 50%a 
≥ 50%a 
77 (108) 
68 (123) 
27 (37) 
11 (20) 
30 (66) 
75 (101) 
93 (123) 
30 (44) 
26 (33) 
37 (46) 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 24.2 months 
91 (108) 
87 (123) 
86 (101) 
103 (123) 
Updated analysis 
Minimum follow-up: 62.7 months 
Unstratified hazard 
ratio (95% CI) 
0.90 (0.66, 1.24) 
0.59 (0.43, 0.82) 
1.33 (0.79, 2.24) 
0.61 (0.30, 1.23) 
0.32 (0.20, 0.53) 
0.91 (0.67, 1.22) 
0.62 (0.47, 0.83) 
< 1% 
≥1% 
a  Post-hoc analysis; results should be interpreted with caution as the subgroup samples sizes are small and, at the time of the 
0.87 (0.66, 1.16) 
0.55 (0.42, 0.73) 
96 (101) 
119 (123) 
100 (109) 
96 (122) 
analysis, the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay was not analytically validated at the 10% or 50% expression levels. 
A higher proportion of patients experienced death within the first 3 months in the nivolumab arm 
(59/292, 20.2%) as compared to the docetaxel arm (44/290, 15.2%). Results of a post-hoc, exploratory 
multivariate analysis indicated that nivolumab-treated patients with poorer prognostic features and/or 
aggressive disease when combined with lower (e.g., < 50%) or no tumour PD-L1 expression may be at 
higher risk of death within the first 3 months. 
In subgroup analyses, survival benefit compared to docetaxel was not shown for patients who were 
never-smokers or whose tumours harboured EGFR activating mutations; however, due to the small 
numbers of patients, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab vs. chemotherapy 
(CA209743) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209743). The study 
included patients (18 years or older) with histologically confirmed and previously untreated malignant 
pleural mesothelioma of epithelioid or non-epithelioid histology, ECOG performance status 0 or 1, 
and no palliative radiotherapy within 14 days of first study therapy. Patients were enrolled regardless 
of their tumour PD-L1 status. 
Patients with primitive peritoneal, pericardial, testis, or tunica vaginalis mesothelioma, interstitial lung 
disease, active autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, and 
brain metastasis (unless surgically resected or treated with stereotaxic radiotherapy and no evolution 
within 3 months prior to inclusion in the study) were excluded from the trial. Randomisation was 
stratified by histology (epithelioid vs. sarcomatoid or mixed histology subtypes) and gender (male vs. 
female). 
A total of 605 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
(n = 303) or chemotherapy (n = 302). Patients in the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab arm 
received nivolumab 3 mg/kg over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion every 2 weeks in combination 
with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion every 6 weeks for up to 2 years. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients in the chemotherapy arm received chemotherapy for up to 6 cycles (each cycle was 21 days). 
Chemotherapy consisted of cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 or carboplatin 5 AUC and 
pemetrexed 500 mg/m2. 
Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for up to 24 months. 
Treatment could continue beyond disease progression if the patient was clinically stable and was 
considered to be deriving clinical benefit by the investigator. Patients who discontinued combination 
therapy because of an adverse reaction attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab 
monotherapy. Tumour assessments were performed every 6 weeks after first dose of study treatment 
for the first 12 months, then every 12 weeks until disease progression or study treatment was 
discontinued. 
CA209743 baseline characteristics were generally balanced across all treatment groups. The median 
age was 69 years (range: 25-89) with 72% ≥ 65 years of age and 26% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority 
of patients were white (85%) and male (77%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (40%) or 
1 (60%), 80% of patients with PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 20% with PD-L1 < 1%, 75% had epithelioid and 25% 
had non-epithelioid histology. 
CA209743 primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Key secondary efficacy endpoints were PFS, 
ORR, and duration of response as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) utilising 
modified RECIST criteria for pleural mesothelioma. Descriptive analyses for these secondary 
endpoints are presented in Table 21. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients randomised to 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab as compared to chemotherapy at the prespecified interim 
analysis when 419 events were observed (89% of the planned number of events for final analysis). 
Minimum follow-up for OS was 22 months. 
Efficacy results are shown in Figure 16 and Table 22. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209743) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
273 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
303 
226 
Chemotherapy 
302 
233 
190 
268 
251 
200 
173 
143 
124 
101 
65 
30 
11 
162 
136 
113 
95 
62 
38 
20 
11 
2 
1 
0 
0 
- - -- - -  Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 200/303), median and 95% CI: 18.07 (16.82, 21.45) 
- - -- - -  Chemotherapy (events: 219/302), median and 95% CI: 14.09 (12.45, 16.23) 
Table 22: 
Efficacy results (CA209743) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(96.6% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valueb 
Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 24 monthsc 
Progression-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 303) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 302) 
200 (66%) 
219 (73%) 
0.74 
(0.60, 0.91) 
0.002 
18.1 
(16.8, 21.5) 
41% (35.1, 46.5) 
14.1 
(12.5, 16.2) 
27% (21.9, 32.4) 
218 (72%) 
209 (69%) 
1.0 
(0.82, 1.21) 
6.8 
(5.6, 7.4) 
7.2 
(6.9, 8.1) 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Duration of response 
  Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 303) 
40% 
(34.1, 45.4) 
1.7% 
38% 
chemotherapy 
(n = 302) 
43% 
(37.1, 48.5) 
0 
43% 
11.0 
(8.1, 16.5) 
6.7 
(5.3, 7.1) 
a 
b 
c 
Stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0345 for this interim analysis. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Subsequent systemic therapy was received by 44.2% and 40.7% of patients in the combination and 
chemotherapy arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, and 
anti-CTLA-4) was received by 3.3% and 20.2% of patients in the combination and chemotherapy 
arms, respectively. 
Table 23 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by histology in prespecified subgroup 
analyses. 
Table 23: 
Efficacy results by histology (CA209743) 
Epithelioid 
(n = 471) 
Non-epithelioid 
(n = 134) 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
(n = 236) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 235) 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
(n = 67) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 67) 
157 
164 
43 
55 
0.85 
(0.68, 1.06) 
0.46 
(0.31, 0.70) 
18.73 
(17.05, 21.72) 
41.2 
(34.7, 47.6) 
16.23 
(14.09, 19.15) 
31.8 
(25.7, 38.1) 
16.89 
(11.83, 25.20) 
39.5 
(27.5, 51.2) 
8.80 
(7.62, 11.76) 
9.7 
(3.8, 18.9) 
1.14 
(0.92, 1.41) 
0.58 
(0.38, 0.90) 
6.18 
(5.49, 7.03) 
7.66 
(7.03, 8.31) 
8.31 
(3.84, 11.01) 
5.59 
(5.13, 7.16) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 
24 months 
Progression-free survival 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI)b 
38.6% 
(32.3, 45.1) 
47.2% 
(40.7, 53.8) 
43.3% 
(31.2, 56.0) 
26.9% 
(16.8, 39.1) 
Duration of response 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)c 
8.44 
6.83 
24.02 
4.21 
(7.16, 14.59) 
(5.59, 7.13) 
(8.31, N.A.) 
(2.79, 7.03) 
a 
b 
c 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
Confidence interval based on the Clopper and Pearson method 
Median computed using Kaplan-Meier method 
Table 24 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by baseline tumour PD-L1 expression in 
prespecified subgroup analyses. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24: 
Efficacy results by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA209743) 
PD-L1 < 1% 
(n = 135) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% 
(n = 451) 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
(n = 57) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 78) 
nivolumab 
+ 
ipilimumab 
(n = 232) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 219) 
40 
58 
150 
157 
0.94 
(0.62, 1.40) 
0.69 
(0.55, 0.87) 
17.3 
(10.1, 24.3) 
38.7 
(25.9, 51.3) 
16.5 
(13.4, 20.5) 
24.6 
(15.5, 35.0) 
18.0 
(16.8, 21.5) 
40.8 
(34.3, 47.2) 
13.3 
(11.6, 15.4) 
28.3 
(22.1, 34.7) 
1.79 
(1.21, 2.64) 
0.81 
(0.64, 1.01) 
4.1 
(2.7, 5.6) 
8.3 
(7.0, 11.1) 
7.0 
(5.8, 8.5) 
7.1 
(6.2, 7.6) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)b 
Rate (95% CI) at 
24 months 
Progression-free survival 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)b 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI)c 
21.1% 
(11.4, 33.9) 
38.5% 
(27.7, 50.2) 
43.5% 
(37.1, 50.2) 
44.3% 
(37.6, 51.1) 
a 
b 
c 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
Median computed using Kaplan-Meier method. 
Confidence interval based on the Clopper and Pearson method. 
A total of 157 MPM patients aged ≥ 75 years were enrolled in study CA209743 (78 in the nivolumab 
in combination with ipilimumab arm and 79 in the chemotherapy arm). A 
HR of 1.02 (95% CI: 0.70, 1.48) in OS was observed for nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
vs. chemotherapy within this study subgroup. A higher rate of serious adverse reactions and 
discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions in patients 75 years of age or older relative to all patients 
who received nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab was shown (see section 4.8). However, due 
to the exploratory nature of this subgroup analysis, no definitive conclusions can be drawn. 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab as monotherapy vs. everolimus (CA209025) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of advanced RCC 
with a clear cell component was evaluated in a Phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209025). 
The study included patients (18 years or older) who have experienced disease progression during or 
after 1 or 2 prior anti-angiogenic therapy regimens and no more than 3 total prior systemic treatment 
regimens. Patients had to have a Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) ≥ 70%. This study included 
patients regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with any history of or concurrent brain 
metastases, prior treatment with an mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, active 
autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded 
from the study. 
A total of 821 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 3 mg/kg (n = 410) administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks or everolimus (n = 411) 10 mg daily, administered 
orally. Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no 
longer tolerated. The first tumour assessments were conducted 8 weeks after randomisation and 
continued every 8 weeks thereafter for the first year and then every 12 weeks until progression or 
treatment discontinuation, whichever occurred later. Tumour assessments were continued after 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment discontinuation in patients who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression. 
Treatment beyond initial investigator-assessed RECIST, version 1.1-defined progression was 
permitted if the patient had a clinical benefit and was tolerating study drug as determined by the 
investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Secondary efficacy assessments 
included investigator-assessed ORR and PFS. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
62 years (range: 18-88) with 40% ≥ 65 years of age and 9% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of patients 
were male (75%) and white (88%), all Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) risk groups 
were represented, and 34% and 66% of patients had a baseline KPS of 70 to 80% and 90 to 100%, 
respectively. The majority of patients (72%) were treated with one prior anti-angiogenic therapy. The 
median duration of time from initial diagnosis to randomisation was 2.6 years in both the nivolumab 
and everolimus groups. The median duration of treatment was 5.5 months (range: 0-29.6+ months) in 
nivolumab-treated patients and was 3.7 months (range: 6 days-25.7+ months) in everolimus-treated 
patients. 
Nivolumab was continued beyond progression in 44% of patients. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in Figure 17. 
Figure 17: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209025) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Overall survival (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
410 
389 
Everolimus 
366 
411 
359 
337 
305 
275 
213 
139 
73 
324 
287 
265 
241 
187 
115 
61 
29 
20 
3 
2 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab 3 mg/kg (events: 183/410), median and 95% CI: 25.00 (21.75, N.A.) 
- - -- - -  Everolimus 10 mg (events: 215/411), median and 95% CI: 19.55 (17.64, 23.06) 
The trial demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients randomised to 
nivolumab as compared with everolimus at the prespecified interim analysis when 398 events were 
observed (70% of the planned number of events for final analysis) (Table 25 and Figure 17). OS 
benefit was observed regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression level. 
Efficacy results are shown in Table 25. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25: 
Efficacy results (CA209025) 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
98.52% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
At 12 months 
Objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
p-value 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of response 
   Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
NE = non-estimable 
nivolumab 
(n = 410) 
183 (45%) 
everolimus 
(n = 411) 
215 (52%) 
0.73 
(0.57, 0.93) 
0.0018 
25.0 (21.7, NE) 
19.6 (17.6, 23.1) 
89.2 (85.7, 91.8) 
76.0 (71.5, 79.9) 
103 (25.1%) 
(21.0, 29.6) 
81.2 (77.0, 84.7) 
66.7 (61.8, 71.0) 
22 (5.4%) 
(3.4, 8.0) 
5.98 (3.68, 9.72) 
< 0.0001 
4 (1.0%) 
99 (24.1%) 
141 (34.4%) 
2 (0.5%) 
20 (4.9%) 
227 (55.2%) 
11.99 (0.0-27.6+) 
11.99 (0.0+-22.2+) 
3.5 (1.4-24.8) 
3.7 (1.5-11.2) 
318 (77.6%) 
322 (78.3%) 
0.88 
(0.75, 1.03) 
0.1135 
4.6 (3.71, 5.39) 
4.4 (3.71, 5.52) 
The median time to onset of objective response was 3.5 months (range: 1.4-24.8 months) after the start 
of nivolumab treatment. Forty-nine (47.6%) responders had ongoing responses with a duration ranging 
from 0.0-27.6+ months. 
Overall survival could be accompanied by an improvement over time in disease related symptoms and 
non-disease specific QoL as assessed using valid and reliable scales in the Functional Assessment of 
Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index-Disease Related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS) and the EuroQoL 
EQ-5D. Apparently meaningful symptom improvement (MID = 2 point change in FKSI-DRS score; 
p < 0.001) and time to improvement (HR = 1.66 (1.33, 2.08), p < 0.001) were significantly better for 
patients on the nivolumab arm. While both arms of the study received active therapy, the QoL data 
should be interpreted in the context of the open-label study design and therefore cautiously taken. 
Phase 3b/4 safety study (CA209374) 
Additional safety and descriptive efficacy data are available from study CA209374, an open-label 
Phase 3b/4 safety study of nivolumab monotherapy (treated with 240 mg every 2 weeks) for the 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic RCC (n = 142), including 44 patients with non-clear 
cell histology. 
In subjects with non-clear cell histology, at a minimum follow-up of approximately 16.7 months ORR 
and median duration of response were 13.6% and 10.2 months, respectively. Clinical activity was 
observed regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression status. 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab vs. sunitinib (CA209214) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg for the 
treatment of advanced/metastatic RCC was evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study 
(CA209214). The study included patients (18 years or older) with previously untreated, advanced or 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma with a clear-cell component. The primary efficacy population included 
those intermediate/poor risk patients with at least 1 or more of 6 prognostic risk factors as per the 
International Metastatic RCC Database Consortium (IMDC) criteria (less than one year from time of 
initial renal cell carcinoma diagnosis to randomisation, Karnofsky performance status <80%, 
haemoglobin less than the lower limit of normal, corrected calcium of greater than 10 mg/dL, platelet 
count greater than the upper limit of normal, and absolute neutrophil count greater than the upper limit 
of normal). This study included patients regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with 
Karnofsky performance status < 70% and patients with any history of or concurrent brain metastases, 
active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were 
excluded from the study. Patients were stratified by IMDC prognostic score and region. 
A total of 1096 patients were randomised in the trial, of which 847 patients had intermediate/poor-risk 
RCC and received either nivolumab 3 mg/kg (n = 425) administered intravenously over 60 minutes in 
combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks for 
4 doses followed by nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or sunitinib (n = 422) 50 mg 
daily, administered orally for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks off, every cycle. Treatment was continued 
as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer tolerated. The first tumour 
assessments were conducted 12 weeks after randomisation and continued every 6 weeks thereafter for 
the first year and then every 12 weeks until progression or treatment discontinuation, whichever 
occurred later. Treatment beyond initial investigator-assessed RECIST, version 1.1-defined 
progression was permitted if the patient had a clinical benefit and was tolerating study drug as 
determined by the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measures were OS, ORR and PFS as 
determined by a BICR in intermediate/poor risk patients. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
61 years (range: 21-85) with 38% ≥ 65 years of age and 8% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of patients 
were male (73%) and white (87%), and 31% and 69% of patients had a baseline KPS of 70 to 80% and 
90 to 100%, respectively. The median duration of time from initial diagnosis to randomisation was 
0.4 years in both the nivolumab 3 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg and sunitinib 
groups. The median duration of treatment was 7.9 months (range: 1 day-21.4+ months) in nivolumab 
with ipilimumab-treated patients and was 7.8 months (range: 1 days-20.2+ months) in sunitinib-treated 
patients. Nivolumab with ipilimumab was continued beyond progression in 29% of patients. 
Efficacy results for the intermediate/poor risk patients are shown in Table 26 (primary analysis with a 
minimum follow-up of 17.5 months and with a minimum follow-up of 60 months) and in Figure 18 
(minimum follow-up of 60 months). 
OS results at an additional descriptive analysis undertaken at a minimum follow-up of 60 months 
show outcomes consistent with the original primary analysis. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26: 
Efficacy results in intermediate/poor risk patients (CA209214) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 425) 
Primary analysis 
minimum follow-up: 17.5 months 
sunitinib 
(n = 422) 
140 (33%) 
188 (45%) 
0.63 
(0.44, 0.89) 
< 0.0001 
NE (28.2, NE) 
25.9 (22.1, NE) 
89.5 (86.1, 92.1) 
80.1 (75.9, 83.6) 
86.2 (82.4, 89.1) 
72.1 (67.4, 76.2) 
228 (53.6%) 
228 (54.0%) 
0.82 
(0.64, 1.05) 
0.0331 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
99.8% CI 
p-valueb, c 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
At 12 months 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
99.1% CI 
p-valueb,h 
  Median (95% CI) 
11.6 (8.71, 15.51) 
8.4 (7.03, 10.81) 
Confirmed objective response 
(BICR) 
(95% CI) 
Difference in ORR (95% CI)d 
p-valuee,f 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responseg 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 24 months 
At 36 months 
At 48 months 
At 60 months 
177 (41.6%) 
(36.9, 46.5) 
40 (9.4%) 
137 (32.2%) 
133 (31.3%) 
16.0 (9.8, 22.2) 
< 0.0001 
112 (26.5%) 
(22.4, 31.0) 
5 (1.2%) 
107 (25.4%) 
188 (44.5%) 
NE (1.4+-25.5+) 
18.17 (1.3+-23.6+) 
2.8 (0.9-11.3) 
3.0 (0.6-15.0) 
Updated analysis* 
minimum follow-up: 60 months 
242 (57%) 
282 (67%) 
0.68 
(0.58, 0.81) 
46.95 (35.35, 57.43) 
26.64 (22.08, 33.54) 
66.3 (61.5, 70.6) 
54.6 (49.7, 59.3) 
49.9 (44.9, 54.6) 
43.0 (38.1, 47.7) 
82 
52.4 (47.4, 57.1) 
43.7 (38.7, 48.5) 
35.8 (31.1, 40.5) 
31.3 (26.8, 35.9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
  Median (95% CI) 
Confirmed objective response 
(BICR) 
(95% CI) 
Difference in ORR (95% CI)d,e 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responseg 
  Months (range) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 425) 
sunitinib 
(n = 422) 
245 (57.6%) 
253 (60.0%) 
0.73 
(0.61, 0.87) 
11.6 (8.44, 16.63) 
179 (42.1%) 
8.3 (7.03, 10.41) 
113 (26.8%) 
(37.4, 47.0) 
(22.6, 31.3) 
16.2 (10.0, 22.5) 
48 (11.3%) 
131 (30.8%) 
131 (30.8%) 
9 (2.1%) 
104 (24.6%) 
187 (44.3%) 
NE (50.89-NE) 
19.38 (15.38-25.10) 
2.8 (0.9-35.0) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
NE = non-estimable 
* Descriptive analysis based on data cut-off: 26-Feb-2021. 
Based on a stratified proportional hazards model. 
Based on a stratified log-rank test. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.002 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
Strata adjusted difference. 
Based on the stratified DerSimonian-Laird test. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.001 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
Computed using Kaplan-Meier method. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.009 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
3.1 (0.6-23.6) 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 18: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in intermediate/poor risk patients (CA209214) - 
Minimum follow-up of 60 months 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
372 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
425 
306 
Sunitinib 
422 
291 
237 
332 
353 
270 
241 
220 
207 
196 
181 
163 
79 
206 
184 
169 
151 
137 
125 
112 
58 
2 
3 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 242/425), median and 95.0% CI: 46.95 (35.35, 57.43) 
- - -- - -  Sunitinib (events: 282/422), median and 95.0% CI: 26.64 (22.08, 33.54) 
An updated descriptive OS analysis was performed when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 
24 months. At the time of this analysis, the hazard ratio was 0.66 (99.8% CI 0.48-0.91) with 166/425 
events in the combination arm and 209/422 events in the sunitinib arm. In intermediate/poor-risk 
patients, OS benefit was observed in the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab arm vs. sunitinib 
regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression. Median OS for tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% was not 
reached for nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, and was 19.61 months in the sunitinib arm 
(HR = 0.52; 95% CI: 0.34, 0.78). For tumour PD-L1 expression < 1%, the median OS was 
34.7 months for the nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, and was 32.2 months in the sunitinib 
arm (HR = 0.70; 95% CI: 0.54, 0.92). 
CA209214 also randomised 249 favourable risk patients as per IMDC criteria to nivolumab plus 
ipilimumab (n = 125) or to sunitinib (n = 124). These patients were not evaluated as part of the 
primary efficacy population. At a minimum of 24 months follow-up, OS in favourable risk patients 
receiving nivolumab plus ipilimumab compared to sunitinib had a hazard ratio of 1.13 
(95% CI: 0.64, 1.99; p = 0.6710). With 60 months minimum follow-up, the HR for OS was 0.94 (95% 
CI: 0.65, 1.37). 
There are no data on the use of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in patients with only a non 
clear-cell histology in first-line RCC. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients ≥ 75 years of age represented 8% of all intermediate/poor risk patients in CA209214, and the 
combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab showed numerically less effect on OS (HR 0.97, 95% CI: 
0.48, 1.95) in this subgroup versus the overall population at a minimum follow-up of 17.5 months. 
Because of the small size of this subgroup, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib vs. sunitinib (CA2099ER) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 240 mg in combination with cabozantinib 40 mg for the 
first-line treatment of advanced/metastatic RCC was evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label 
study (CA2099ER). The study included patients (18 years or older) with advanced or metastatic RCC 
with a clear cell component, Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) ≥ 70%, and measurable disease as 
per RECIST v1.1 regardless of their PD-L1 status or IMDC risk group. The study excluded patients 
with autoimmune disease or other medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, patients 
who had prior treatment with an anti-PD-1, anti PD-L1, anti-PD-L2, anti-CD137, or anti-CTLA-4 
antibody, poorly controlled hypertension despite antihypertensive therapy, active brain metastases and 
uncontrolled adrenal insufficiency. Patients were stratified by IMDC prognostic score, PD-L1 tumour 
expression, and region. 
A total of 651 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 240 mg (n = 323) administered 
intravenously every 2 weeks in combination with cabozantinib 40 mg once daily orally or sunitinib 
(n = 328) 50 mg daily, administered orally for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks off. Treatment continued 
until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity with nivolumab administration for up to 24 months. 
Treatment beyond initial investigator-assessed RECIST version 1.1-defined progression was permitted 
if the patient had a clinical benefit and was tolerating study drug, as determined by the investigator. 
First tumour assessment post-baseline was performed at 12 weeks (± 7 days) following randomisation. 
Subsequent tumour assessments occurred at every 6 weeks (± 7 days) until Week 60, then every 
12 weeks (± 14 days) until radiographic progression, confirmed by the BICR. The primary efficacy 
outcome measure was PFS as determined by a BICR. Additional efficacy measures included OS and 
ORR as key secondary endpoints. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
61 years (range: 28-90) with 38.4% ≥ 65 years of age and 9.5% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of 
patients were male (73.9%) and white (81.9%). Eight percent of patients were Asian, 23.2% and 
76.5% of patients had a baseline KPS of 70 to 80% and 90 to 100%, respectively. Patient distribution 
by IMDC risk categories was 22.6% favourable, 57.6% intermediate, and 19.7% poor. For tumour 
PD-L1 expression, 72.5% of patients had PD-L1 expression < 1% or indeterminate and 24.9% of 
patients had PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 11.5% of patients had tumours with sarcomatoid features. The 
median duration of treatment was 14.26 months (range: 0.2-27.3 months) in nivolumab with 
cabozantinib-treated patients and was 9.23 months (range: 0.8-27.6 months) in sunitinib-treated 
patients. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant benefit in PFS, OS, and ORR for patients 
randomised to nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib as compared to sunitinib. Efficacy results 
from the primary analysis (minimum follow-up 10.6 months; median follow-up 18.1 months) are 
shown in Table 27. 
Table 27: 
Efficacy results (CA2099ER) 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
p-valueb, c 
nivolumab + cabozantinib 
(n = 323) 
sunitinib 
(n = 328) 
144 (44.6%) 
191 (58.2%) 
0.51 
(0.41, 0.64) 
< 0.0001 
  Median (95% CI)d 
16.59 (12.45, 24.94) 
8.31 (6.97, 9.69) 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
98.89% CI 
p-valueb,c,e 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
Confirmed objective response 
(BICR) 
(95% CI)f 
Difference in ORR (95% CI) g 
p-valueh 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responsed 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
a 
b 
nivolumab + cabozantinib 
(n = 323) 
sunitinib 
(n = 328) 
67 (20.7%) 
99 (30.2%) 
0.60 
(0.40, 0.89) 
0.0010 
N.E. 
N.E. (22.6, N.E.) 
93.1 (89.7, 95.4) 
180 (55.7%) 
86.2 (81.9, 89.5) 
89 (27.1%) 
(50.1, 61.2) 
(22.4, 32.3) 
28.6 (21.7, 35.6) 
< 0.0001 
26 (8.0%) 
154 (47.7%) 
104 (32.2%) 
15 (4.6%) 
74 (22.6%) 
138 (42.1%) 
20.17 (17.31, N.E.) 
11.47 (8.31, 18.43) 
2.83 (1.0-19.4) 
4.17 (1.7-12.3) 
Stratified Cox proportional hazards model. Hazard ratio is nivolumab and cabozantinib over sunitinib. 
Log-rank test stratified by IMDC prognostic risk score (0, 1-2, 3-6), PD-L1 tumour expression (≥ 1% versus < 1% or 
indeterminate) and region (US/Canada/W Europe/N Europe, ROW) as entered in the IRT. 
2-sided p-values from stratified regular log-rank test. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
Boundary for statistical significance p-value <0.0111. 
CI based on the Clopper and Pearson method. 
Strata adjusted difference in objective response rate (nivolumab + cabozantinib - sunitinib) based on DerSimonian 
and Laird. 
2-sided p-value from CMH test. 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
NE = non-estimable 
The primary analysis of PFS included censoring for new anti-cancer treatment (Table 26). Results for 
PFS with and without censoring for new anti-cancer treatment were consistent. 
PFS benefit was observed in the nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib arm vs. suntinib 
regardless of the IMDC risk category. Median PFS for the favourable risk group was not reached for 
nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, and was 12.81 months in the sunitinib arm (HR = 0.60; 
95% CI: 0.37, 0.98). Median PFS for the intermediate risk group was 17.71 months for nivolumab in 
combination with cabozantinib and was 8.38 months in the sunitinib arm (HR = 0.54; 95% CI: 0.41, 
0.73). Median PFS for the poor risk group was 12.29 months for nivolumab in combination with 
cabozantinib and was 4.21 months in the sunitinib arm (HR = 0.36; 95% CI: 0.23, 0.58). 
PFS benefit was observed in the nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib arm vs. sunitinib 
regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression. Median PFS for tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% was 
13.08 months for nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, and was 4.67 months in the sunitinib 
arm (HR = 0.45; 95% CI: 0.29, 0.68). For tumour PD-L1 expression < 1%, the median PFS was 
19.84 months for nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib, and 9.26 months in the sunitinib arm 
(HR = 0.50; 95% CI: 0.38, 0.65). 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated PFS and OS analysis were performed when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 
16.0 months and a median follow-up of 23.5 months (see Figures 19 and 20). The PFS hazard ratio 
was 0.52 (95% CI: 0.43, 0.64). The OS hazard ratio was 0.66 (95% CI: 0.50, 0.87). Updated efficacy 
data (PFS and OS) in subgroups for the IMDC risk categories and PD-L1 expression levels confirmed 
the original results. With the updated analysis, median PFS is reached for the favourable risk group. 
Figure 19: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of PFS (CA2099ER) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Progression-free Survival per BICR (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
280 
Nivolumab + cabozantinib 
323 
Sunitinib 
328 
230 
236 
160 
201 
122 
166 
145 
102 
87 
61 
37 
56 
17 
26 
7 
5 
2 
2 
1 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + cabozantinib (events: 175/323), median and 95.0% CI: 16.95 (12.58, 19.38) 
- - -- - - 
Sunitinib (events: 206/328), median and 95.0% CI: 8.31 (6.93, 9.69) 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA2099ER) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall Survival (Months) 
Nivolumab + cabozantinib 
323 
Sunitinib 
328 
272 
295 
308 
295 
283 
254 
269 
255 
220 
147 
236 
217 
189 
118 
84 
62 
40 
22 
10 
4 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + cabozantinib (events: 86/323), median and 95% CI: NE 
- - -- - - 
Sunitinib (events: 116/328), median and 95% CI: 29.47 (28.35, NE) 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of relapsed or 
refractory cHL following ASCT was evaluated in two multi-centre, open-label, single-arm studies 
(CA209205 and CA209039). 
CA209205 is a Phase 2, open-label, multi-cohort, single-arm study of nivolumab in cHL. It includes 
243 patients who had ASCT; Cohort A included 63 (26%) patients who were brentuximab vedotin 
naïve; Cohort B included 80 (33%) patients who had received brentuximab vedotin after ASCT 
failure; and Cohort C included 100 (41%) patients who had received brentuximab vedotin before 
and/or after ASCT out of which 33 (14%) patients received brentuximab vedotin only prior to ASCT. 
All patients received nivolumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks. 
The first tumour assessments were conducted 9 weeks after the start of treatment and continued 
thereafter until disease progression or treatment discontinuation. The primary efficacy outcome 
measure was ORR as determined by an IRRC. Additional efficacy measures included duration of 
response, PFS and OS. 
CA209039 is a Phase 1b open-label, multi-centre, dose-escalation, and multidose study of nivolumab 
in relapsed/refractory hematologic malignancies, including 23 patients with cHL treated with 
nivolumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy; amongst which, 15 patients received prior brentuximab vedotin 
treatment as a salvage therapy following ASCT, similar to Cohort B of study CA209205. The first 
tumour assessments were conducted 4 weeks after the start of treatment and continued thereafter until 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disease progression or treatment discontinuation. Efficacy assessments included investigator-assessed 
ORR, retrospectively evaluated by an IRRC, and duration of response. 
Data from the 80 patients from CA209205 Cohort B and from the 15 patients from CA209039 who 
received prior brentuximab vedotin treatment following ASCT were integrated. Additional data from 
100 patients from CA209205 Cohort C who received brentuximab before and/or after ASCT are also 
presented. Baseline characteristics were similar across the two studies and cohorts (see Table 28 
below). 
Table 28: 
Baseline patient characteristics in CA209205 Cohort B, Cohort C and CA209039 
CA209205 
Cohort B and 
CA209039 
(n = 95) 
37.0 (18–72) 
61 (64%) M 
34 (36%) F 
CA209205 
Cohort Ba 
CA209039 
(n = 80) 
37.0 (18–72) 
51 (64%) M 
29 (36%) F 
(n = 15) 
40.0 (24–54) 
10 (67%) M 
5 (33%) F 
CA209205 
Cohort Cb 
(n = 100) 
32.0 (19–69) 
56 (56%) M 
44 (44%) F 
49 (52%) 
46 (48%) 
49 (52%) 
42 (52.5%) 
38 (47.5%) 
39 (49%) 
7 (47%) 
8 (53%) 
10 (67%) 
50 (50%) 
50 (50%) 
30 (30%) 
72 (76%) 
59 (74%) 
13 (87%) 
69 (69%) 
87 (92%) 
8 (8%) 
3.5 (0.2–19.0) 
74 (92.5%) 
6 (7.5%) 
3.4 (0.2–19.0) 
13 (87%) 
2 (13%) 
5.6 (0.5–15.0) 
100 (100%) 
0 (0%) 
1.7 (0.2–17.0) 
Median age, years (range) 
Gender 
ECOG status 
  0 
  1 
≥ 5 prior lines of systemic 
therapy 
Prior radiation therapy 
Prior ASCT 
  1 
  ≥ 2 
Years from most recent 
transplant to first dose of study 
therapy, median (min-max) 
a 
b 
18/80 (22.5%) of the patients in CA209205 Cohort B presented B-Symptoms at baseline. 
25/100 (25%) of the patients in CA209205 Cohort C presented B-Symptoms at baseline. 
Efficacy from both studies was evaluated by the same IRRC. Results are shown in Table 28. 
Table 29: 
Efficacy results in patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
Number (n)/ minimum follow-up (months) 
Objective response, n (%); (95% CI) 
  Complete remission (CR), n (%); (95% CI) 
  Partial remission (PR), n (%); (95% CI) 
Stable disease, n (%) 
Duration of response (months)b 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Range 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Median duration of follow-up 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
CA209205 Cohort Ba 
and CA209039 
(n = 95/12.0) 
63 (66%); (56, 76) 
6 (6%); (2, 13) 
57 (60%); (49, 70) 
22 (23) 
CA209205 Cohort Ba 
CA209039 
(n = 80/12.0) 
54 (68%); (56, 78) 
6 (8%); (3, 16) 
48 (60%); (48, 71) 
17 (21) 
(n = 15/12.0) 
9 (60%); (32, 84) 
0 (0%); (0, 22) 
9 (60%); (32, 84) 
5 (33) 
13.1 (9.5, NE) 
0.0+-23.1+ 
13.1 (8.7, NE) 
0.0+-14.2+ 
12.0 (1.8, NE) 
1.8-23.1+ 
2.0 (0.7-11.1) 
2.1 (1.6-11.1) 
0.8 (0.7-4.1) 
15.8 (1.9-27.6) 
15.4 (1.9-18.5) 
21.9 (11.2-27.6) 
57 (45, 68) 
55 (41, 66) 
69 (37, 88) 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
a 
b 
NE = non-estimable 
Follow-up was ongoing at the time of data submission. 
Data unstable due to the limited duration of response for Cohort B resulting from censoring. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
Updated efficacy results from longer follow-up data of Cohort B (minimum 68.7 months) and 
Cohort C (minimum 61.9 months) from CA209205 are presented below in Table 30. 
Table 30:  
Updated efficacy results in patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin 
lymphoma from longer follow-up of study CA209205 
Number (n)/ minimum follow-up (months) 
Objective response, n (%); (95% CI) 
  Complete remission (CR), n (%); (95% CI) 
  Partial remission (PR), n (%); (95% CI) 
Stable disease, n (%) 
Duration of response in all responders (months)b 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Range 
Duration of response in CR (months) 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Range 
Duration of response in PR (months) 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Range 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Median duration of follow-up 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Median (95% CI) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
Overall survival 
  Median 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 60 months 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
a 
CA209205 Cohort B 
(n = 80/68.7) 
57 (71%); (60, 81) 
11 (14%); (7, 23) 
46 (58%); (46, 69) 
14 (18%) 
16.6 (9.3, 25.7) 
0.0+-71.0+ 
30.3 (2.4, NE) 
0.7+-50.0+ 
10.6 (7.5, 25.3) 
0.0+-67.9+ 
CA209205 Cohort C 
(n = 100/61.9)a 
75 (75%); (65, 83) 
21 (21%); (14, 30) 
54 (54%); (44, 64) 
12 (12%) 
18.2 (11.6, 30.9) 
0.0+-59.8+ 
26.4 (7.1, NE) 
0.0+-55.7+ 
14.7 (9.4, 30.4) 
0.0+-55.9+ 
2.2 (1.6-11.1) 
2.1 (0.8, 17.9) 
58.5 (1.9-74.3) 
53.5 (1.4-70.4) 
14.8 (11.0, 19.8) 
52 (39, 63) 
36 (24, 48) 
16 (6, 29) 
Not reached 
95 (87, 98) 
87 (77, 93) 
72 (60, 81) 
15.1 (11.1, 19.1) 
53 (42, 64) 
37 (25, 48) 
15 (6, 28) 
Not reached 
90 (82, 94) 
86 (77, 91) 
67 (56, 75) 
Patients in Cohort C (n = 33) who have received brentuximab vedotin only prior to ASCT had ORR of 73% (95% CI: 
55, 87), CR of 21% (95% CI: 9, 39), PR of 52% (95% CI: 34, 69). Median duration of response was 13.5 months 
(95% CI: 9.4, 30.9). 
Determined for subjects with CR or PR. 
b 
NE = non-estimable 
B-symptoms were present in 22% (53/243) of the patients in CA209205 at baseline. Nivolumab 
treatment resulted in rapid resolution of B-symptoms in 88.7% (47/53) of the patients, with a median 
time to resolution of 1.9 months. 
In a post-hoc analysis of the 80 patients in CA209205 Cohort B, 37 had no response to prior 
brentuximab vedotin treatment. Among these 37 patients, treatment with nivolumab resulted in an 
ORR of 62.2% (23/37). The median duration of response is 25.6 months (10.6, 56.5) for the 
23 responders to nivolumab who had failed to achieve response with prior brentuximab vedotin 
treatment. 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of metastatic or 
recurrent SCCHN were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209141). The study 
included patients (18 years or older), with histologically confirmed recurrent or metastatic SCCHN 
(oral cavity, pharynx, larynx), stage III/IV and not amenable to local therapy with curative intent 
(surgery or radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy) and who have experienced disease 
progression during or within 6 months of receiving platinum-based therapy regimen and had an ECOG 
performance status score of 0 or 1. Prior platinum-based therapy was administered in either the 
adjuvant, neo-adjuvant, primary, recurrent, or metastatic setting. Patients were enrolled regardless of 
their tumour PD-L1 or human papilloma virus (HPV) status. Patients with active autoimmune disease, 
medical conditions requiring immunosuppression, recurrent or metastatic carcinoma of the 
nasopharynx, squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary, salivary gland or non-squamous 
histologies (e.g., mucosal melanoma), or active brain or leptomeningeal metastases were excluded 
from the study. Patients with treated brain metastases were eligible if neurologically returned to 
baseline at least 2 weeks prior to enrolment, and either off corticosteroids, or on a stable or decreasing 
dose of < 10 mg daily prednisone equivalents. 
A total of 361 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 3 mg/kg (n = 240) administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks or investigator’s choice of either cetuximab (n = 15), 
400 mg/m2 loading dose followed by 250 mg/m2 weekly or methotrexate (n = 52) 40 to 60 mg/m2 
weekly, or docetaxel (n = 54) 30 to 40 mg/m2 weekly. Randomisation was stratified by prior 
cetuximab treatment. Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until 
treatment was no longer tolerated. Tumour assessments, according to RECIST version 1.1, were 
conducted 9 weeks after randomisation and continued every 6 weeks thereafter. Treatment beyond 
initial investigator-assessed RECIST version 1.1-defined progression was permitted in patients 
receiving nivolumab, if the patient had a clinical benefit and was tolerating study drug, as determined 
by the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Key secondary efficacy outcome 
measures were investigator-assessed PFS and ORR. Additional prespecified subgroup analyses were 
conducted to evaluate the efficacy by tumour PD-L1 expression at predefined levels of 1%, 5%, and 
10%. 
Pre-study tumour tissue specimens were systematically collected prior to randomisation in order to 
conduct pre-planned analyses of efficacy according to tumour PD-L1 expression. Tumour PD-L1 
expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age 
was 60 years (range: 28-83) with 31% ≥ 65 years of age and 5% ≥ 75 years of age, 83% were male, 
and 83% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status score was 0 (20%) or 1 (78%), 77% were 
former/current smokers, 90% had Stage IV disease, 66% had two or more lesions, 45%, 34% and 20% 
received 1, 2, or 3 or more prior lines of systemic therapy, respectively, and 25% were HPV-16 status 
positive. 
With a minimum follow-up of 11.4 months, the trial demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement in OS for patients randomised to nivolumab as compared with investigator’s choice. The 
Kaplan-Meier curves for OS are shown in Figure 21. Efficacy results are shown in Table 31. 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 21: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209141) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Overall survival (months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
240 
132 
169 
Investigator’s choice 
51 
88 
121 
98 
32 
76 
22 
45 
9 
27 
4 
12 
3 
3 
0 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab 3 mg/kg (events: 184/240), median and 95% CI: 7.72 (5.68, 8.77) 
Investigator’s choice (events: 105/121), median and 95% CI: 5.06 (4.04, 6.24) 
Table 31: 
Efficacy results (CA209141) 
Overall survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratioa 
(95% CI) 
p-valueb 
  Median (95% CI) (months) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 18 months 
Progression-free survival 
  Events 
Hazard ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Median (95% CI) (months) 
  Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
nivolumab 
(n = 240) 
investigator’s choice 
(n = 121) 
184 (76.7%) 
105 (86.8%) 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.90) 
0.0048 
7.72 (5.68, 8.77) 
56.5 (49.9, 62.5) 
34.0 (28.0, 40.1) 
21.5 (16.2, 27.4) 
5.06 (4.04, 6.24) 
43.0 (34.0, 51.7) 
19.7 (13.0, 27.3) 
8.3 (3.6, 15.7) 
204 (85.0%) 
104 (86.0%) 
0.87 
(0.69, 1.11) 
0.2597 
2.04 (1.91, 2.14) 
21.0 (15.9, 26.6) 
9.5 (6.0, 13.9) 
2.33 (1.97, 3.12) 
11.1 (5.9, 18.3) 
2.5 (0.5, 7.8) 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed objective responsec 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (95% CI) 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Median duration of response 
  Months (range) 
a 
b 
nivolumab 
(n = 240) 
32 (13.3%) 
(9.3, 18.3) 
6 (2.5%) 
26 (10.8%) 
55 (22.9%) 
investigator’s choice 
(n = 121) 
7 (5.8%) 
(2.4, 11.6) 
2.49 (1.07, 5.82) 
1 (0.8%) 
6 (5.0%) 
43 (35.5%) 
2.1 (1.8-7.4) 
2.0 (1.9-4.6) 
9.7 (2.8-20.3+) 
4.0 (1.5+-8.5+) 
Derived from a stratified proportional hazards model. 
P-value is derived from a log-rank test stratified by prior cetuximab; the corresponding O’Brien-Fleming efficacy 
boundary significance level is 0.0227. 
In the nivolumab group there were two patients with CRs and seven patients with PRs who had tumour PD-L1 
expression < 1%. 
c 
Quantifiable tumour PD-L1 expression was measured in 67% of patients in the nivolumab group and 
82% of patients in the investigator’s choice group. Tumour PD-L1 expression levels were balanced 
between the two treatment groups (nivolumab vs. investigator’s choice) at each of the predefined 
tumour PD-L1 expression levels of ≥ 1% (55% vs. 62%), ≥ 5% (34% vs. 43%), or ≥ 10% (27% vs. 
34%). 
Patients with tumour PD-L1 expression by all predefined expression levels in the nivolumab group 
demonstrated greater likelihood of improved survival compared to investigator’s choice. The 
magnitude of OS benefit was consistent for ≥ 1%, ≥ 5% or ≥ 10% tumour PD-L1 expression levels 
(see Table 32). 
Table 32: 
PD-L1 Expression 
OS by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA209141) 
nivolumab 
investigator’s choice 
OS by tumour PD-L1 expression 
Number of events (number of patients) 
56 (73) 
66 (88) 
39 (54) 
30 (43) 
32 (38) 
55 (61) 
40 (43) 
31 (34) 
Unstratified hazard 
ratio (95% CI) 
0.83 (0.54, 1.29) 
0.53 (0.37, 0.77) 
0.51 (0.32, 0.80) 
0.57 (0.34, 0.95) 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
≥ 5% 
≥ 10% 
In an exploratory post-hoc analysis using a non-validated assay, both tumour cell PD-L1 expression 
and tumour-associated immune cell (TAIC) PD-L1 expression were analysed in relation to the 
magnitude of treatment effect of nivolumab compared to investigator’s choice. This analysis showed 
that not only tumour cell PD-L1 expression but also TAIC PD-L1 expression appeared to be 
associated with benefit from nivolumab relative to investigator’s choice (see Table 33). Due to the 
small numbers of patients in the subgroups, and exploratory nature of the analysis, no definitive 
conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33: 
Efficacy by tumour cell and TAIC PD-L1 expression (CA209141) 
Median OSa (months) 
HRb (95% CI) 
Median PFSa (months) 
HRb (95% CI) 
ORR (%) 
(95% CI)c 
nivolumab 
9.10 
investigator’s 
choice 
4.60 
0.43 (0.28, 0.67) 
nivolumab 
investigator’s 
choice 
1.97 
0.48 (0.31, 0.75) 
3.19 
nivolumab 
19.7 
(10.6, 31.8) 
investigator’s 
choice 
0 
(0, 7.5) 
6.67 
4.93 
0.89 (0.44, 1.80) 
1.99 
2.04 
0.93 (0.46, 1.88) 
11.1 
(2.4, 29.2) 
7.1 
(0.2, 33.9) 
11.73 
6.51 
0.67 (0.38, 1.18) 
2.10 
2.73 
0.96 (0.55, 1.67) 
18.6  
(8.4, 33.4) 
12.0 
(2.5, 31.2) 
3.71 
4.85 
1.09 (0.50, 2.36) 
1.84 
2.12 
1.91 (0.84, 4.36) 
3.7 
(< 0.1, 19.0) 
10.0 
(0.3, 44.5) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1%, 
PD-L1+ TAIC 
abundantd 
(61 nivolumab, 
47 investigator’s 
choice) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1%, 
PD-L1+ TAIC 
rared 
(27 nivolumab, 
14 investigator’s 
choice) 
PD-L1 < 1%, 
PD-L1+ TAIC 
abundantd 
(43 nivolumab, 
25 investigator’s 
choice) 
PD-L1 < 1%, 
PD-L1+ TAIC 
rared 
(27 nivolumab, 
10 investigator’s 
choice) 
a 
b 
c 
d 
OS and PFS were estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. 
Hazard ratio in each subgroup derived from a Cox proportional hazards model with treatment as the only covariate. 
Confidence interval for ORR calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method. 
PD-L1+ TAIC in the tumour microenvironment were qualitatively assessed, and characterised as “numerous”, 
“intermediate”, and “rare” based on pathologist assessments. “Numerous” and “intermediate” groups were combined 
to define the “abundant” group. 
Patients with investigator-assessed primary site of oropharyngeal cancer were tested for HPV 
(determined by p16 immunohistochemistry [IHC]). OS benefit was observed regardless of HPV status 
(HPV-positive: HR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.38, 1.04, HPV-negative: HR = 0.64; 95% CI: 0.40, 1.03, and 
HPV-unknown: HR = 0.78; 95% CI: 0.55, 1.10). 
Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) were assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-H&N35, 
and 3-level EQ-5D. Over 15 weeks of follow-up, patients treated with nivolumab exhibited stable 
PROs, while those assigned to investigator’s choice therapy exhibited significant declines in 
functioning (e.g., physical, role, social) and health status as well as increased symptomatology (e.g., 
fatigue, dyspnoea, appetite loss, pain, sensory problems, social contact problems). The PRO data 
should be interpreted in the context of the open-label study design and therefore taken cautiously. 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma 
Open-label phase 2 study (CA209275) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg as a single agent for the treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma was evaluated in a phase 2, multicentre, 
open-label, single-arm study (CA209275). 
The study included patients (18 years or older) who had disease progression during or following 
platinum-containing chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic disease or had disease progression 
within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients had an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 and were enrolled regardless of their tumour 
PD-L1 status. Patients with active brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastases, active autoimmune 
disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the study. 
Patients that received more than 2 prior lines of chemotherapy with liver metastases were excluded. 
A total of 270 patients who received nivolumab 3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 60 minutes 
every 2 weeks with a minimum follow-up of 8.3 months were evaluable for efficacy. Treatment was 
continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer tolerated. The first 
tumour assessments were conducted 8 weeks after the start of treatment and continued every 8 weeks 
thereafter up to 48 weeks, then every 12 weeks until disease progression or treatment discontinuation, 
whichever occurred later. Tumour assessments were continued after treatment discontinuation in 
patients who discontinued treatment for reasons other than progression. Treatment beyond initial 
investigator-assessed RECIST, version 1.1-defined progression was permitted if the patient had a 
clinical benefit, did not have rapid disease progression, and was tolerating study drug as determined by 
the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measure was ORR as determined by BICR. Additional 
efficacy measures included duration of response, PFS and OS. 
The median age was 66 years (range: 38 to 90) with 55% ≥ 65 years of age and 14% ≥ 75 years of age. 
The majority of patients were white (86%) and male (78%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 
0 (54%) or 1 (46%). 
Table 34:  
Efficacy results (CA209275)a 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
  Complete response (CR) 
  Partial response (PR) 
  Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responseb 
  Months (range) 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Events (%) 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Overall survivalc 
  Events (%) 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
nivolumab 
(n = 270) 
54 (20.0%) 
(15.4, 25.3) 
8 (3.0%) 
46 (17.0%) 
60 (22.2%) 
10.4 (1.9+-12.0+) 
1.9 (1.6, 7.2) 
216 (80) 
2.0 (1.9, 2.6) 
26.1 (20.9, 31.5) 
154 (57) 
8.6 (6.05, 11.27) 
41.0 (34.8, 47.1) 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nivolumab 
(n = 270) 
Tumour PD-L1 expression level 
< 1% 
≥ 1% 
16% (10.3, 22.7) 
n = 146 
25% (17.7, 33.6) 
n = 124 
10.4 (3.7, 12.0+) 
Not Reached (1.9+, 12.0+) 
1.9 (1.8, 2.0) 
22.0 (15.6, 29.2) 
5.9 (4.37, 8.08) 
34.0 (26.1, 42.1) 
3.6 (1.9, 3.7) 
30.8 (22.7, 39.3) 
11.6 (9.10, NE) 
49.2 (39.6, 58.1) 
Confirmed objective response 
(95% CI) 
Median duration of response 
Months (range) 
Progression-free survival 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Overall survival 
  Median (95% CI) months 
  Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
a 
b 
c 
median follow-up 11.5 months. 
Data unstable due to the limited duration of response. 
included 4 drug-related deaths: 1 pneumonitis, 1 acute respiratory failure, 1 respiratory failure, and 1 cardiovascular 
failure. 
NE: non-estimable 
Results from post-hoc, exploratory analyses indicate that in patients with low (e.g. <1%) to no tumour 
PD-L1 expression, other patient characteristics (e.g. liver metastases, visceral metastases, baseline 
haemoglobin <10g/dL and ECOG performance status = 1) might contribute to the clinical outcome. 
Open-label phase 1/2 study (CA209032) 
CA209032 was a Phase 1/2 open-label multi-cohort study which included a cohort of 78 patients 
(including 18 subjects who received planned crossover treatment with nivolumab 3 mg/kg plus 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg combination) with similar inclusion criteria to study CA209275 treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg for urothelial carcinoma. At a minimum follow-up of 9 months, 
investigator-assessed confirmed ORR was 24.4% (95% CI: 15.3, 35.4). The median duration of 
response was not reached (range: 4.4-16.6+ months). The median OS was 9.7 months (95% CI: 7.26, 
16.16) and the estimated OS rates were 69.2% (CI: 57.7, 78.2) at 6 months and 45.6% (CI: 34.2, 56.3) 
at 12 months. 
Adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of adjuvant nivolumab vs. placebo (CA209274) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma 
was evaluated in a phase 3 multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study 
(CA209274). The study included patients (18 years or older) who have undergone radical resection of 
muscle invasive urothelial carcinoma (MIUC) originating in the bladder or upper urinary tract (renal 
pelvis or ureter) and are at high risk of recurrence. The MIUC pathologic staging criteria that defines 
high risk patients was ypT2-ypT4a or ypN+ for adult patients who received neoadjuvant cisplatin 
chemotherapy, and pT3-pT4a or pN+ for adult patients who did not receive neoadjuvant cisplatin 
chemotherapy and were not eligible or refused adjuvant cisplatin chemotherapy. The study included 
patients regardless of their PD-L1 status, who had an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 (an 
ECOG PS of 2 was allowed for patients ineligible for neoadjuvant cisplatin chemotherapy). Tumour 
cell PD-L1 expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. The study excluded 
patients with active, known or suspected autoimmune disease, patients who had treatment with any 
chemotherapy, radiation therapy, biologics for cancer, intravesical therapy, or investigational therapy 
within 28 days of first administration of study treatment. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 709 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab 240 mg (n = 353) every 2 weeks 
or placebo (n = 356) every 2 weeks until recurrence or unacceptable toxicity for a maximum treatment 
duration of 1 year. Of these, 282 patients had tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%; 140 in the 
nivolumab arm and 142 in the placebo arm. Randomisation was stratified by pathologic nodal status 
(N+ vs. N0/x with < 10 nodes removed vs. N0 with ≥ 10 nodes removed), tumour cell PD-L1 
expression (≥ 1% vs. < 1%/indeterminate), and use of cisplatin neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Tumour 
imaging assessments were to be performed every 12 weeks from the date of first dose to week 96, then 
every 16 weeks from week 96 to week 160, then every 24 weeks until non-urothelial tract recurrence 
or treatment was discontinued (whichever occurred later) for a maximum of 5 years. The primary 
efficacy outcome measures were disease-free survival (DFS) in all randomised patients and DFS in 
randomised patients with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. DFS was defined as the time between 
the date of randomisation and the date of the first documented recurrence assessed by investigator 
(local urothelial tract, local non-urothelial tract or distant), or death (from any cause), whichever 
occurred first. Secondary efficacy outcome measures included overall survival (OS). 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced across treatment groups. In patients with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, the median age was 66 years (range: 34 - 92 years), 76% were male and 76% 
were white. Eighty two percent had muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), 18% had upper tract 
urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) (renal pelvis and ureter), 42% of patients received prior cisplatin in the 
neoadjuvant setting, 45% of patients were N+ at radical resection, patients had ECOG performance 
status of 0 (61%), 1 (37%), or 2 (2%), and 7% of patients had a haemoglobin < 10 g/dL. 
At the primary pre-specified interim analysis in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
(minimum follow-up of 6.3 months and median follow-up of 22.1 months for the nivolumab arm), the 
study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in DFS for patients randomised to 
nivolumab as compared to placebo. Median DFS as determined by the investigator was not reached 
(95% CI: 21.19, N.R.) for nivolumab versus 8.41 months (95% CI: 5.59, 21.19) for placebo, HR 0.55 
(98.72% CI: 0.35, 0.85), p-value = 0.0005. The primary analysis of DFS included censoring for new 
anti-cancer treatment. Results for DFS with and without censoring for new anti-cancer treatment were 
consistent. 
In an updated descriptive DFS analysis in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
(minimum follow-up of 11.4 months and median follow-up of 25.5 months for the nivolumab arm), 
DFS improvement was confirmed. 
Efficacy results from this descriptive updated analysis are shown in Table 35 and Figure 22. 
Table 35: 
Efficacy results in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209274) 
Disease-Free Survival 
Events (%) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)a 
Median (95% CI) (months)b 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
NR: not reached, NE: non-estimable. 
a 
b 
Stratified Cox proportional hazard model. Hazard Ratio is nivolumab over placebo. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
nivolumab 
(n = 140) 
placebo 
(n = 142) 
Minimum follow-up 11.4 months 
56 (40.0) 
85 (59.9) 
0.53 (0.38, 0.75) 
NR (22.11, NE) 
8.41 (5.59, 20.04) 
74.5 (66.2, 81.1) 
67.6 (59.0, 74.9) 
58.6 (49.3, 66.9) 
55.7 (46.8, 63.6) 
46.3 (37.6, 54.5) 
37.4 (29.0, 45.8) 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 22: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of DFS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
(CA209274) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
-
e
s
a
e
s
i
D
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Disease-Free Survival (Months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Placebo 
142  90  74  62  57  53  49  44  36  29  23  21  18  14 
Nivolumab 
140  113  99  96  85  75  67  58  50  38  33  30  29  22  19 
9 
5 
8 
3 
3 
2 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
- - -- - - 
 
Placebo (events: 85/142), median and 95% CI: 8.41 (5.59, 20.04) 
Nivolumab (events: 56/140), median and 95% CI: N.A. (22.11, N.A.) 
Minimum follow-up of 11.4 months 
Exploratory pre-specified subgroup descriptive analyses were performed in patients based on prior 
cisplatin treatment in the neoadjuvant setting. 
In the subgroup of patients with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% who received prior cisplatin in 
the neoadjuvant setting (n = 118), the DFS HR was 0.37 (95% CI: 0.22, 0.64) with median DFS not 
reached and 8.41 months for the nivolumab and placebo arms, respectively. In the subgroup of patients 
with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% who did not receive prior cisplatin in the neoadjuvant setting 
(n = 164), the DFS HR was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.44, 1.08) with median DFS of 29.67 and 11.37 months for 
the nivolumab and placebo arms, respectively. 
dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 3 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg for the 
treatment of dMMR or MSI-H metastatic CRC was evaluated in a Phase 2, multi-centre, open-label, 
single-arm study (CA209142). 
The study included patients (18 years or older) with locally determined dMMR or MSI-H status, who 
had disease progression during, after, or were intolerant to, prior therapy with fluoropyrimidine and 
oxaliplatin or irinotecan. Patients who had their most recent prior treatment in the adjuvant setting 
should have progressed on or within 6 months of completion of adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients had 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 and were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 
status. Patients with active brain metastases, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions 
requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the study. 
A total of 119 patients were treated with nivolumab 3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 
60 minutes in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously over 90 minutes 
every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Treatment 
was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer tolerated. 
Tumour assessments according to RECIST version 1.1 were conducted every 6 weeks for the first 
24 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter. The primary outcome measure was investigator-assessed 
ORR. Secondary outcome measures were BICR-assessed ORR and disease control rate. Analysis of 
ORR included duration of and time to response. Exploratory outcome measures included PFS and OS. 
The median age was 58 years (range: 21-88) with 32% ≥ 65 years of age and 9% ≥ 75 years of age, 
59% were male and 92% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (45%) or 1 (55%), 
25% of patients had BRAF mutations, 37% had KRAS mutations, and 12% were unknown. Of the 
119 treated patients, 109 had received prior fluoropyrimidine based chemotherapy in the metastatic 
setting and 9 in the adjuvant setting. Before study enrolment, of the 119 treated patients, 118 (99%) 
had received fluorouracil, 111 (93%) had received oxaliplatin, 87 (73%) had received irinotecan as 
part of prior therapies; 82 (69%) had received prior treatment with fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and 
irinotecan. Twenty three percent, 36%, 24%, and 16% received 1, 2, 3, or 4 or more prior therapies 
respectively, and 29% of patients had received an EGFR inhibitor. 
Efficacy results (minimum follow-up 46.9 months; median follow-up 51.1 months) are shown in 
Table 36. 
Table 36: 
Efficacy results (CA209142)* 
Confirmed objective response, n (%) 
(95% CI) 
  Complete response (CR), n (%) 
  Partial response (PR), n (%) 
  Stable disease (SD), n (%) 
Duration of response 
  Median (range) months 
Median time to response 
  Months (range) 
* per investigator assessment 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
NR = not reached 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 119) 
77 (64.7) 
(55.4, 73.2) 
15 (12.6) 
62 (52.1) 
25 (21.0) 
NR (1.4, 58.0+) 
2.8 (1.1, 37.1) 
The BICR-assessed ORR was 61.3% (95% CI: 52.0, 70.1), including CR rate of 20.2% (95% CI: 13.4, 
28.5), PR rate of 41.2% (95% CI: 32.2, 50.6) and stable disease reported in 22.7%. BICR assessments 
were generally consistent with the investigator assessment. Confirmed responses were observed 
regardless of BRAF or KRAS mutation status, and tumour PD-L1 expression levels. 
Of 119 patients 11 (9.2%) patients were ≥ 75 years. The investigator assessed ORR in patients 
≥ 75 years was 45.5% (95% CI: 16.7, 76.6). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab monotherapy in previously treated patients (ONO-4538-24/ 
CA209473) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 240 mg monotherapy for the treatment of unresectable 
advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) was evaluated in a 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
phase 3 randomised active-controlled, open-label study (ONO-4538-24/CA209473). The study 
included adult patients (20 years or older) who were refractory or intolerant to at least one 
fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination regimen, and patients were enrolled regardless of 
tumour PD-L1 expression level. Patients who were refractory or intolerant to taxane therapy, had brain 
metastases that were symptomatic or required treatment, had active autoimmune disease, medical 
conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, and patients with apparent tumour invasion in 
organs located adjacent to the oesophagus (e.g. the aorta or respiratory tract), were excluded from the 
study. 
A total of 419 patients were randomised 1:1 to receive either nivolumab 240 mg administered 
intravenously over 30 minutes every 2 weeks (n = 210) or investigator’s choice of taxane 
chemotherapy: either docetaxel (n = 65) 75 mg/m2 intravenously every 3 weeks, or paclitaxel 
(n = 144) 100 mg/m2 intravenously once a week for 6 weeks followed by 1 week off. Randomisation 
was stratified by location (Japan vs. rest of world), number of organs with metastases (≤ 1 vs. ≥ 2) and 
tumour PD-L1 expression (≥ 1% vs. <1% or indeterminate). Treatment continued until disease 
progression, assessed by the investigator per RECIST version 1.1, or unacceptable toxicity. Tumour 
assessments were conducted every 6 weeks for 1 year, and every 12 weeks thereafter. Treatment 
beyond initial investigator-assessed progression was permitted in patients receiving nivolumab with no 
rapid progression, investigator-assessed benefit, tolerance to treatment, stable performance status, and 
for whom treatment beyond progression would not delay an imminent intervention to prevent serious 
complications associated with disease progression (e.g. brain metastasis). The primary efficacy 
outcome measure was OS. Key secondary efficacy outcome measures were investigator-assessed ORR 
and PFS. Additional prespecified subgroup analyses were conducted to evaluate the efficacy by 
tumour PD-L1 expression at a predefined level of 1%. Tumour PD-L1 expression was determined 
using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
65 years (range: 33-87), 53% were ≥ 65 years of age, 10% were aged ≥ 75 years, 87% were male, 96% 
were Asian and 4% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (50%) or 1 (50%). 
With a minimum follow-up of 17.6 months, the study demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement in OS for patients randomised to nivolumab as compared with investigator’s choice 
taxane chemotherapy. Efficacy results are shown in Table 37 and Figure 23. 
A higher proportion of patients experienced death within the first 2.5 months in the nivolumab arm 
(32/210, 15.2%) as compared to the chemotherapy arm (15/209, 7.2%). No specific factor(s) 
associated with early deaths could be identified. 
Table 37: 
Efficacy results (ONO-4538-24/CA209473) 
Overall Survivala 
Events 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months) 
nivolumab 
(n = 210) 
investigator’s choice 
(n = 209) 
160 (76%) 
173 (83%) 
0.77 (0.62, 0.96) 
0.0189 
10.9 (9.2, 13.3) 
8.4 (7.2, 9.9) 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective Response Rated,e 
(95% CI) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Stable disease 
Median duration of response (95% CI) (months) 
Progression-Free Survivala 
Events 
Median (95% CI) (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
nivolumab 
(n = 210) 
33 (19.3%) 
(13.7, 26.0) 
1 (0.6%) 
32 (18.7%) 
31 (18.1%) 
6.9 (5.4, 11.1) 
187 (89%) 
1.7 (1.5, 2.7) 
investigator’s choice 
(n = 209) 
34 (21.5%) 
(15.4, 28.8) 
2 (1.3%) 
32 (20.3%) 
65 (41.1%) 
3.9 (2.8, 4.2) 
176 (84%) 
3.4 (3.0, 4.2) 
1.1 (0.9, 1.3) 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
Based on ITT analysis. 
Based on a stratified proportional hazards model. 
Based on a stratified log-rank test. 
Based on Response Evaluable Set (RES) analysis, n=171 in nivolumab group and n=158 in investigator’s choice 
group. 
Not significant, p-value 0.6323. 
Figure 23: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (ONO-4538-24/CA209473) 
)
%
(
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Overall Survival (Months) 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab 
210  182  167  147  126  111  95 
Investigator’s choice 
209  196  169  126  105  84  68 
82 
70  60 
43 
25  17 
13 
7 
57 
49  40 
27 
17  12 
6 
2 
4 
1 
3 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab 
- - - - - - 
Investigator’s choice 
Of the 419 patients, 48% had tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. The remaining 52% of patients had 
tumour PD-L1 expression <1%. The hazard ratio (HR) for OS was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.51, 0.94) with 
median survivals of 10.9 and 8.1 months for the nivolumab and investigator’s choice taxane 
chemotherapy arms, respectively, in the tumour PD-L1 positive subgroup. In the tumour PD-L1 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
negative OSCC subgroup, the HR for OS was 0.84 (95% CI: 0.62, 1.14) with median survivals of 10.9 
and 9.3 months for the nivolumab and chemotherapy arms, respectively. 
Randomised phase 3 study of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab vs. chemotherapy and 
nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy as first-line treatment (CA209648) 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and nivolumab in combination 
with chemotherapy were evaluated in a randomised, active-controlled, open-label study (CA209648). 
The study included adult patients (18 years or older) with previously untreated, unresectable advanced, 
recurrent or metastatic OSCC. Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status, and 
tumour cell PD-L1 expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. Patients 
were required to have squamous cell carcinoma or adenosquamous cell carcinoma of oesophagus, not 
amenable to chemoradiation and/or surgery. Prior adjuvant, neoadjuvant, or definitive chemotherapy, 
radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy was permitted if given as part of curative intent regimen prior to 
trial enrollment. Patients who had a baseline performance score ≥ 2, had brain metastases that were 
symptomatic, had active autoimmune disease, used systemic corticosteroids or immunosuppressants, 
or patients at high risk of bleeding or fistula due to apparent invasion of tumour to organs adjacent to 
the oesophageal tumour were excluded from the study. Randomisation was stratified by tumour cell 
PD-L1 status (≥ 1% vs. < 1% or indeterminate), region (East Asia vs. rest of Asia vs. rest of world), 
ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1), and number of organs with metastases (≤ 1 vs. ≥ 2). 
A total of 970 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, 
(n = 325), nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy (n = 321), or chemotherapy (n = 324). Of 
these, 473 patients had tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%,158 in the nivolumab plus ipilimumab 
arm, 158 in the nivolumab plus chemotherapy arm, and 157 in the chemotherapy arm. Patients in the 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab arm received nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks in combination with 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks, and patients in the nivolumab plus chemotherapy arm received 
nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks on days 1 and 15, fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/day intravenously on 
days 1 through 5 (for 5 days), and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1 (of a 4-week cycle). 
Patients in the chemotherapy arm received fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/day intravenously on days 1 
through 5 (for 5 days), and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1 (of a 4-week cycle). Treatment 
continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months. Patients in the 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab arm who discontinued combination therapy because of an adverse reaction 
attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab as a single agent. Patients in the 
nivolumab plus chemotherapy arm in whom either fluorouracil and/or cisplatin were discontinued, 
other components of the treatment regimen were allowed to be continued. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced across treatment groups. In patients with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, the median age was 63 years (range: 26-85), 8.2% were ≥ 75 years of age, 
81.8% were male, 73.1% were Asian, and 23.3% were white. Patients had histological confirmation of 
squamous cell carcinoma (98.9%) or adenosquamous cell carcinoma (1.1%) in the oesophagus. 
Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (45.2%) or 1 (54.8%). 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab vs. chemotherapy 
The primary efficacy outcome measures were PFS (by BICR) and OS assessed in patients with tumour 
cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. Secondary endpoints per the pre-specified hierarchical testing included 
OS, PFS (by BICR), and ORR (by BICR) in all randomised patients. The tumour assessments per 
RECIST v1.1 were conducted every 6 weeks up to and including week 48, then every 12 weeks 
thereafter. 
At the primary pre-specified analysis, with a minimum follow-up of 13.1 months, the study 
demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 
expression ≥ 1%. Efficacy results are shown in Table 38. 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 38: 
Efficacy results in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 158) 
chemotherapya 
(n = 157) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio (98.6% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
Progression-free survivale 
Events 
Hazard ratio (98.5% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
Overall response rate, n (%)e 
(95% CI) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Duration of responsee 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Range 
106 (67.1%) 
121 (77.1%) 
0.64 (0.46, 0.90) 
0.0010 
13.70 (11.24, 17.02) 
57.1 (49.0, 64.4) 
9.07 (7.69, 9.95) 
37.1 (29.2, 44.9) 
123 (77.8%) 
100 (63.7%) 
1.02 (0.73, 1.43) 
0.8958 
4.04 (2.40, 4.93) 
26.4 (19.5, 33.9) 
56 (35.4) 
(28.0, 43.4) 
28 (17.7) 
28 (17.7) 
11.83 (7.10, 27.43) 
1.4+, 34.5+ 
4.44 (2.89, 5.82) 
10.5 (4.7, 18.8) 
31 (19.7) 
(13.8, 26.8) 
8 (5.1) 
23 (14.6) 
5.68 (4.40, 8.67) 
1.4+, 31.8+ 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
Fluorouracil and cisplatin. 
Based on stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
Based on stratified 2-sided log-rank test. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
Assessed by BICR. 
At an updated descriptive analysis with a minimum follow-up of 20 months, OS improvements were 
consistent with the primary analysis. Median OS was 13.70 months (95% CI: 11.24, 17.41) for 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab vs. 9.07 months (95% CI: 7.69, 10.02) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.63; 
95% CI: 0.49, 0.82). Median PFS was 4.04 months (95% CI: 2.40, 4.93) for nivolumab plus 
ipilimumab vs. 4.44 months (95% CI: 2.89, 5.82) for chemotherapy (HR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.77, 1.34). 
The ORR was 35.4% (95% CI: 28.0, 43.4) for nivolumab plus ipilimumab vs. 19.7% (95% CI: 
13.8, 26.8) for chemotherapy. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS with a minimum follow-up of 20 months are shown in Figure 24. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 24: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
158  136  116 
Chemotherapy 
157  137  107 
73 
98 
89 
53 
72 
63 
55 
43 
31 
20 
16 
10 
40 
30 
21 
15 
12 
8 
6 
3 
9 
2 
4 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0 
 
- - -  - - -  Chemotherapy (events: 130/157), median and 95% CI: 9.07 (7.69, 10.02) 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 119/158), median and 95% CI: 13.70 (11.24, 17.41) 
Based on data cut-off: 23-Aug-2021, minimum follow-up of 20 months 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy 
The primary efficacy outcome measures were PFS (by BICR) and OS in patients with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. Secondary endpoints per the pre-specified hierarchical testing included OS, 
PFS (by BICR), and ORR (by BICR) in all randomised patients. The tumour assessments per 
RECIST v1.1 were conducted every 6 weeks up to and including week 48, then every 12 weeks 
thereafter. 
At the primary pre-specified analysis, with a minimum follow-up of 12.9 months the study 
demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS and PFS in patients with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. Efficacy results are shown in Table 39. 
Table 39: 
Efficacy results in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
nivolumab + chemotherapy 
(n = 158) 
chemotherapya 
(n = 157) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio (99.5% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
98 (62.0%) 
121 (77.1%) 
0.54 (0.37, 0.80) 
<0.0001 
15.44 (11.93, 19.52) 
58.0 (49.8, 65.3) 
9.07 (7.69, 9.95) 
37.1 (29.2, 44.9) 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression-free survivale 
Events 
Hazard ratio (98.5% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
Overall response rate, n (%)e 
(95% CI) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Duration of responsee 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Range 
nivolumab + chemotherapy 
(n = 158) 
chemotherapya 
(n = 157) 
117 (74.1%) 
100 (63.7%) 
0.65 (0.46, 0.92) 
0.0023 
6.93 (5.68, 8.34)  
25.4 (18.2, 33.2) 
84 (53.2) 
(45.1, 61.1) 
26 (16.5) 
58 (36.7) 
8.38 (6.90, 12.35) 
1.4+, 34.6 
4.44 (2.89, 5.82) 
10.5 (4.7, 18.8) 
31 (19.7) 
(13.8, 26.8) 
8 (5.1) 
23 (14.6) 
5.68 (4.40, 8.67) 
1.4+, 31.8+ 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
Fluorouracil and cisplatin. 
Based on stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
Based on stratified 2-sided log-rank test. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
Assessed by BICR. 
At an updated descriptive analysis with a minimum follow-up of 20 months, OS improvements were 
consistent with the primary analysis. Median OS was 15.05 months (95% CI: 11.93, 18.63) for 
nivolumab plus chemotherapy vs. 9.07 months (95% CI: 7.69, 10.02) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.59; 
95% CI: 0.46, 0.76). Median PFS was 6.93 months (95% CI: 5.68, 8.35) for nivolumab plus 
chemotherapy vs. 4.44 months (95% CI: 2.89, 5.82) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.66; 95% CI: 0.50, 
0.87). The ORR was 53.2% (95% CI: 45.1, 61.1) for nivolumab plus chemotherapy vs. 19.7% 
(95% CI: 13.8, 26.8) for chemotherapy. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS and PFS with a minimum follow-up of 20 months are shown in 
Figures 25 and 26. 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 25: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
158  143  129  105 
Chemotherapy 
157  137  107 
73 
88 
53 
76 
66 
52 
38 
32 
19 
15 
40 
30 
21 
15 
12 
8 
6 
5 
3 
1 
2 
0 
1 
0 
0 
- - -- - -  Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 118/158), median and 95% CI: 15.05 (11.93, 18.63) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 130/157), median and 95% CI: 9.07 (7.69, 10.02) 
Based on data cut-off: 23-Aug-2021, minimum follow-up of 20 months 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 26: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of PFS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% 
(CA209648) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression-free survival (months) 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
30 
75 
158  107 
Chemotherapy 
36 
68 
157 
47 
17 
5 
22 
16 
10 
10 
1 
1 
1 
1 
7 
1 
6 
1 
4 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
- - -- - -  Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 123/158), median and 95% CI: 6.93 (5.65, 8.35) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 101/157), median and 95% CI: 4.44 (2.89, 5.82) 
Based on data cut-off: 23-Aug-2021, minimum follow-up of 20 months 
Adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab monotherapy for the adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or 
gastro-oesophageal junction cancer was evaluated in a phase 3 multicentre, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double-blinded study (CA209577). The study included adult patients who had 
received CRT, followed by complete surgical resection of carcinoma within 16 weeks prior to 
randomisation, and who had residual pathologic disease as confirmed by the investigator, with at least 
ypN1 or ypT1. Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, who did not receive concurrent CRT 
prior to surgery, with stage IV resectable disease, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions 
requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the study. Patients were enrolled 
regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression level. 
A total of 794 patients were randomised 2:1 to receive either nivolumab 240 mg (n = 532) or placebo 
(n = 262). Patients were administered nivolumab intravenously over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for 
16 weeks followed by 480 mg infused over 30 minutes every 4 weeks beginning at week 17. Patients 
were administered placebo over 30 minutes with the same dosing schedule as nivolumab. 
Randomisation was stratified by tumour PD-L1 status (≥1% vs. <1% or indeterminate or 
non-evaluable), pathologic lymph node status (positive ≥ ypN1 vs. negative ypN0), and histology 
(squamous vs. adenocarcinoma). Treatment continued until disease recurrence, unacceptable toxicity, 
or for up to 1 year in total duration. The primary efficacy outcome measure was disease-free survival 
(DFS), as assessed by the investigator, defined as the time between the date of randomisation and the 
date of first recurrence (local, regional, or distant from the primary resected site) or death from any 
cause, whichever occurred first. Patients on treatment underwent imaging for tumour recurrence every 
12 weeks for 2 years, and a minimum of one scan every 6 to 12 months for years 3 to 5. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
62 years (range: 26-86) with 36% ≥ 65 years of age and 5% ≥ 75 years of years. The majority of 
patients were white (82%) and male (85 %). Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (58%) or 
1 (42%). 
At the primary pre-specified interim analysis (minimum of 6.2 months and a median of 24.4 months 
follow-up), the study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in DFS for patients 
randomised to nivolumab compared with placebo. Median DFS as determined by the investigator was 
22.41 months (95% CI: 16.62, 34.00) for nivolumab versus 11.04 months (95% CI: 8.34, 14.32) for 
placebo, HR 0.69 (96.4% CI: 0.56, 0.86), p-value < 0.0003. The primary analysis of DFS included 
censoring for new anti-cancer treatment. Results for DFS with and without censoring for new 
anti-cancer treatment were consistent. In an updated descriptive DFS analysis with minimum of 
14 months and median of 32.2 months follow-up, DFS improvement was confirmed. Efficacy results 
from this descriptive secondary analysis are shown in Table 40 and Figure 27. 
Table 40: 
Efficacy results (CA209577) 
Disease-free Survivala with minimum follow-up 14 monthsc 
nivolumab 
(n = 532) 
placebo 
(n = 262) 
Events (%) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
Median (95% CI) (months) 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
Rate (95% CI) at 24 months 
a  Based on all randomised patients. 
b  Based on a stratified cox proportional hazards model. 
c  Descriptive analysis based on data cut-off: 18-Feb-2021. 
268 (50) 
171 (65) 
0.67 (0.55, 0.81) 
22.4 (17.0, 33.6) 
10.4 (8.3, 13.9) 
72.6 (68.5, 76.3) 
61.8 (57.4, 65.8) 
48.3 (43.7, 52.8) 
61.5 (55.3, 67.1) 
45.5 (39.3, 51.4) 
36.0 (29.9, 42.0) 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 27: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of DFS (CA209577) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
F
-
e
s
a
e
s
i
D
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Disease-free Survival (months) 
Nivolumab 
532  433  371  342  307  272  228  194  160  137  106  84 
Placebo 
262  211  158  134  114  107  88 
33 
73 
30 
62 
50 
57 
34 
19 
18 
11 
5 
4 
3 
4 
1 
0 
0 
 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab (events: 268/532), median and 95% CI: 22.41 (16.95, 33.64) 
Placebo (events: 171/262), median and 95% CI: 10.35 (8.31, 13.93) 
Based on data cut-off: 18-Feb-2021, minimum follow-up of 14 months 
DFS benefit was observed regardless of histology and PD-L1 expression. 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
The safety and efficacy of nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks or 360 mg every 3 weeks in combination 
with chemotherapy (dose and schedule of nivolumab selected depending on the chemotherapy regimen 
used, see below) was evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209649). The study 
included adult patients (18 years or older) with previously untreated advanced or metastatic gastric, 
gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma, no prior systemic treatment 
(including HER2 inhibitors), and ECOG performance status score 0 or 1. Patients were enrolled 
regardless of their tumour cell PD-L1 status, and tumour cell PD-L1 expression was determined using 
the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx assay. A retrospective re-scoring of a patient’s tumour PD-L1 status 
using CPS was conducted using the PD-L1-stained tumour specimens used for randomisation. Patients 
with known HER2-positive tumours, who had baseline ECOG performance score ≥ 2, untreated 
central nervous system metastases, or who had active, known, or suspected autoimmune disease, or 
medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the study. A total of 
643 patients with HER2-undetermined status (40.3% of the study population) were included in the 
study. Randomisation was stratified by tumour cell PD-L1 status (≥ 1% vs. < 1% or indeterminate), 
region (Asia vs. US vs. rest of world), ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1), and chemotherapy regimen. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chemotherapy consisted of FOLFOX (fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin) or CapeOX 
(capecitabine and oxaliplatin). 
A total of 1581 patients were randomised to receive either nivolumab in combination with 
chemotherapy or chemotherapy. Of these, 955 patients had PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5; 473 in the nivolumab plus 
chemotherapy arm and 482 in the chemotherapy arm. Patients in the nivolumab plus chemotherapy 
arm received either nivolumab 240 mg by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes in combination with 
FOLFOX (oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2, leucovorin 400 mg/m2 and fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 intravenously on 
day 1 and fluorouracil 1200 mg/m2 intravenously by continuous infusion over 24 hours daily or per 
local standard on days 1 and 2) every 2 weeks, or nivolumab 360 mg by intravenous infusion over 
30 minutes in combination with CapeOX (oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1 and 
capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 orally twice daily on days 1-14) every 3 weeks. Treatment continued until 
disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for up to 24 months for nivolumab only. In patients who 
received nivolumab plus chemotherapy and in whom chemotherapy was discontinued, nivolumab 
monotherapy was allowed to be given at 240 mg every 2 weeks, 360 mg every 3 weeks or 480 mg 
every 4 weeks up to 24 months after treatment initiation. Tumour assessments were performed every 
6 weeks up to and including week 48, then every 12 weeks thereafter. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced across treatment groups. In patients with PD-L1 
CPS ≥ 5, the median age was 62 years (range: 18-90), 11% were ≥ 75 years of age, 71% were male, 
25% were Asian and 69% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (42%) or 1 (58%). 
Tumour locations were distributed as gastric (70%), GEJ (18%) and oesophagus (12%). 
Primary efficacy outcome measures were PFS (by BICR) and OS assessed in patients with PD-L1 
CPS ≥ 5 based on the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDX. Secondary endpoints per the pre-specified 
hierarchical testing were OS in patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 1 and in all randomised patients; further 
endpoints included ORR (BICR) in PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5 and all randomised patients. At the primary pre-
specified analysis, with a minimum follow-up of 12.1 months, the study demonstrated a statistically 
significant improvement in OS and PFS in patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5. Median OS was 14.4 months 
(95% CI: 13.1, 16.2) for nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. 11.1 months (95% CI: 10.0, 
12.1) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.71; 98.4% CI: 0.59, 0.86; p-value <0.0001). Median PFS was 
7.69 months (95% CI: 7.03, 9.17) for nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. 6.05 months 
(95% CI: 5.55, 6.90) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.68; 98% CI: 0.56, 0.81; p-value <0.0001). The ORR 
was 60% (95% CI: 55, 65) for nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy vs. 45% 
(95% CI: 40, 50) for chemotherapy. 
At an updated descriptive analysis with a minimum follow-up of 19.4 months, OS improvements were 
consistent with the primary analysis. Efficacy results are shown in Table 41, and Figures 28, and 29. 
Table 41: 
Efficacy results in patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5 (CA209649) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
Median (95% CI) (months)c 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
Progression-free survivald 
Events 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b 
Median (95% CI) (months)c 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 months 
nivolumab + chemotherapy 
(n = 473) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 482) 
Minimum follow-up 19.4 monthsa 
344 (73%) 
397 (82%) 
0.69 (0.60, 0.81) 
14.4 (13.1, 16.3) 
57.3 (52.6, 61.6) 
11.1 (10.0, 12.1) 
46.4 (41.8, 50.8) 
342 (72.3%) 
366 (75.9%) 
0.68 (0.59, 0.79) 
8.31 (7.03, 9.26) 
36.3 (31.7, 41.0) 
6.05 (5.55, 6.90) 
21.9 (17.8, 26.1) 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective response rate, nd,e 
(95% CI) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Duration of responsed,e 
Median (95% CI) (months)c 
nivolumab + chemotherapy 
(n = 473) 
227/378 (60%) 
(54.9, 65.0) 
12.2% 
47.9% 
chemotherapy 
(n = 482) 
176/390 (45%) 
(40.1, 50.2) 
6.7% 
38.5% 
9.69 (8.25, 12.22) 
6.97 (5.62, 7.85) 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
Descriptive analysis based on data cut-off: 04-Jan-2021. 
Based on stratified long Cox proportional hazard model. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Confirmed by BICR. 
Based on patients with measurable disease at baseline. 
Figure 28: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5 (CA209649) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
473  439  378  314  263  223  187  155  118 
Chemotherapy 
482  421  350  272  213  152  122 
68 
92 
78 
56 
37 
23 
13 
44 
28 
16 
8 
2 
4 
0 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 344/473), median and 95% CI: 14.42 (13.14, 16.26) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 397/482), median and 95% CI: 11.10 (10.02, 12.09) 
Minimum follow-up of 19.4 months 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 29: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of PFS in patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5 (CA209649) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Progression free survival (months) 
386 
Nivolumab + chemotherapy 
473 
Chemotherapy 
482 
328 
202 
186 
259 
114 
143 
115 
88 
67 
47 
31 
20 
11 
81 
58 
46 
30 
20 
16 
12 
7 
4 
3 
1 
0 
0 
0 
  Nivolumab + chemotherapy (events: 342/473), median and 95% CI: 8.31 (7.03, 9.26) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 397/482), median and 95% CI: 6.05 (5.55, 6.90) 
Minimum follow-up of 19.4 months 
Paediatric population 
Open label phase 1/2 study (CA209070) 
Study CA209070 was an open-label, single-arm, dose-confirmation and dose-expansion, phase 1/2 
study of nivolumab as a single agent and in combination with ipilimumab in paediatric and young 
adult patients with recurrent or refractory solid or haematological tumours, including neuroblastoma, 
osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, advanced melanoma, cHL and non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma (NHL). Among the 126 treated patients, 97 were paediatric patients from 12 months 
to < 18 years of age. Of the 97 paediatric patients, 64 were treated with nivolumab monotherapy 
(3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks) and 33 were treated with 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (nivolumab 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously 
over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg as monotherapy 
every 2 weeks). Patients received either nivolumab as monotherapy for a median of 2 doses 
(range: 1, 89) or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab for a median of 2 doses (range: 1, 24). 
The main primary outcome measures were safety, tolerability and antitumour activity as evaluated by 
descriptive ORR and OS. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among the 64 paediatric patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, 60 were response-evaluable 
patients (melanoma n = 1, solid tumours n = 47 and haematological tumours n = 12). In the 
48 response-evaluable paediatric patients with melanoma or solid tumours, no objective responses 
were observed. In the 12 response-evaluable paediatric patients with haematological tumours, ORR 
was 25.0% (95% CI: 5.5, 57.2), including 1 complete response in cHL and 2 partial responses, one in 
cHL and another one in NHL. In the descriptive analyses for the 64 paediatric patients treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy, the median OS was 6.67 months (95% CI: 5.98, NA); 6.14 months 
(95% CI: 5.39, 24.67) for patients with melanoma or solid tumours, and not reached for patients with 
haematological tumours. 
Among the 30 response-evaluable paediatric patients treated with nivolumab in combination with 
ipilimumab (solid tumours other than melanoma only), no objective responses were observed. For the 
33 paediatric patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, the median OS was 
8.25 months (95% CI: 5.45, 16.95) in a descriptive analysis. 
Open label phase 1b/2 study (CA209908) 
Study CA209908 was an open-label, sequential-arm, phase 1b/2 clinical study of nivolumab 
monotherapy and nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in paediatric and young adult patients 
with high-grade primary CNS malignancies, including diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), 
high-grade glioma, medulloblastoma, ependymoma and other recurrent subtypes of high-grade CNS 
malignancy (e.g., pineoblastoma, atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumour, and embryonal CNS tumours). Of 
the 151 paediatric patients (from ≥ 6 months to < 18 years old) enrolled in the study, 77 were treated 
with nivolumab monotherapy (3 mg/kg every 2 weeks) and 74 were treated with nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (3 mg/kg nivolumab followed by 1 mg/kg ipilimumab, every 3 weeks 
for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks). The primary efficacy 
outcome measures were OS in the DIPG cohort and investigator-assessed PFS, based on RANO 
criteria, for all other tumour types. The median OS in the DIPG cohort was 10.97 months 
(80% CI: 9.92, 12.16) in patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy and 10.50 months 
(80% CI: 9.10, 12.32) in patients treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab. For all 
other studied CNS paediatric tumour types, the median PFS ranged from 1.23 to 2.35 months in 
patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy and from 1.45 to 3.09 months in patients treated with 
nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab. There were no objective responses observed in the study 
with the exception of one ependymoma patient treated with nivolumab monotherapy who had a partial 
response. Results for OS, PFS, and ORR observed in study CA209908 do not suggest clinically 
meaningful benefit over what may be expected in these patient populations. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
nivolumab in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of malignant neoplasms of 
lymphoid tissue (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Safety and efficacy in elderly patients 
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were reported between elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger 
patients (< 65 years). Data from SCCHN, adjuvant melanoma, and adjuvant OC or GEJC patients 
75 years of age or older are too limited to draw conclusions on this population. Data from cHL 
patients 65 years of age or older are too limited to draw conclusions on this population. Data from 
MPM patients showed a higher rate of serious adverse reactions and discontinuation rate due to 
adverse reactions in patients 75 years of age or older (68% and 35%, respectively) relative to all 
patients who received nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab (54% and 28%, respectively). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of nivolumab is linear in the dose range of 0.1 to 10 mg/kg. The geometric 
mean clearance (CL), terminal half-life, and average exposure at steady state at 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks 
of nivolumab were 7.9 mL/h, 25.0 days, and 86.6 μg/mL, respectively, based on a population PK 
analysis. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nivolumab CL in cHL patients was approximately 32% lower relative to NSCLC. Nivolumab baseline 
CL in adjuvant melanoma patients was approximately 40% lower and steady state CL approximately 
20% lower relative to advanced melanoma. With available safety data, these decreases in CL were not 
clinically meaningful. 
The metabolic pathway of nivolumab has not been characterised. Nivolumab is expected to be 
degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways in the same manner as 
endogenous IgG. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
When nivolumab 1 mg/kg was administered in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg, the CL of 
nivolumab was increased by 29% and the CL of ipilimumab was increased by 9%, which was not 
considered clinically relevant. When nivolumab 3 mg/kg was administered in combination with 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg, the CL of nivolumab was increased by 1% and the CL of ipilimumab was 
decreased by 1.5%, which were not considered clinically relevant. 
When administered in combination with ipilimumab, the CL of nivolumab increased by 20% in the 
presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies and the CL of ipilimumab increased by 5.7% in the presence of 
anti-ipilimumab antibodies. These changes were not considered clinically relevant. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy 
When nivolumab 360 mg every 3 weeks was administered in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg 
every 6 weeks and with 2 cycles of chemotherapy, the CL of nivolumab decreased approximately 10% 
and the CL of ipilimumab increased approximately 22%, which were not considered clinically 
relevant. 
Special populations 
A population PK analysis suggested no difference in CL of nivolumab based on age, gender, race, 
solid tumour type, tumour size, and hepatic impairment. Although ECOG status, baseline glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR), albumin, body weight, and mild hepatic impairment had an effect on nivolumab 
CL, the effect was not clinically meaningful. 
Paediatric population 
For nivolumab monotherapy, the exposures of nivolumab in adolescents 12 years of age and older who 
weigh at least 50 kg are expected to be comparable to those in adult patients at the recommended dose. 
Body weight-based dosing is recommended for adolescents 12 years of age and older who weigh less 
than 50 kg. 
For nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, the exposures of nivolumab and ipilimumab in 
adolescents 12 years of age and older are expected to be comparable to those in adult patients at the 
recommended dose. 
Renal impairment 
The effect of renal impairment on the CL of nivolumab was evaluated in patients with mild 
(GFR < 90 and ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2; n = 379), moderate (GFR < 60 and ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73 m2; 
n = 179), or severe (GFR < 30 and ≥ 15 mL/min/1.73 m2; n = 2) renal impairment compared to 
patients with normal renal function (GFR ≥ 90 mL/min/1.73 m2; n = 342) in population PK analyses. 
No clinically important differences in the CL of nivolumab were found between patients with mild or 
moderate renal impairment and patients with normal renal function. Data from patients with severe 
renal impairment are too limited to draw conclusions on this population (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment on the CL of nivolumab was evaluated in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment (total bilirubin 1.0 × to 1.5 × ULN or AST > ULN as defined using the National Cancer 
Institute criteria of hepatic dysfunction; n = 92) compared to patients with normal hepatic function 
(total bilirubin and AST ≤ ULN; n = 804) in the population PK analyses. No clinically important 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences in the CL of nivolumab were found between patients with mild hepatic impairment and 
normal hepatic function. Nivolumab has not been studied in patients with moderate (total 
bilirubin > 1.5 × to 3 × ULN and any AST) or severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 3 × ULN 
and any AST) (see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Blockade of PD-L1 signalling has been shown in murine models of pregnancy to disrupt tolerance 
to the foetus and to increase foetal loss. The effects of nivolumab on prenatal and postnatal 
development were evaluated in monkeys that received nivolumab twice weekly from the onset of 
organogenesis in the first trimester through delivery, at exposure levels either 8 or 35 times higher 
than those observed at the clinical dose of 3 mg/kg of nivolumab (based on AUC). There was a 
dose-dependent increase in foetal losses and increased neonatal mortality beginning in the third 
trimester. 
The remaining offspring of nivolumab-treated females survived to scheduled termination, with no 
treatment-related clinical signs, alterations to normal development, organ-weight effects, or gross and 
microscopic pathology changes. Results for growth indices, as well as teratogenic, neurobehavioral, 
immunological, and clinical pathology parameters throughout the 6-month postnatal period were 
comparable to the control group. However, based on its mechanism of action, foetal exposure to 
nivolumab may increase the risk of developing immune-related disorders or altering the normal 
immune response and immune-related disorders have been reported in PD-1 knockout mice. 
Fertility studies have not been performed with nivolumab. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate dihydrate 
Sodium chloride 
Mannitol (E421) 
Pentetic acid (diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid) 
Polysorbate 80 (E433) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. OPDIVO should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After preparation of infusion 
Chemical and physical in-use stability from the time of preparation has been demonstrated as follows 
(times are inclusive of the administration period): 
Infusion preparation 
Chemical and physical in-use stability 
Storage at 2ºC to 8ºC 
protected from light 
Storage at room temperature 
(≤ 25°C) and room light 
Undiluted or diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution 
for injection 
Diluted with 50 mg/mL (5%) 
glucose solution for injection 
30 days 
7 days 
24 hours 
(of total 30 days storage) 
8 hours 
(of total 7 days storage) 
From a microbiological point of view the prepared solution for infusion, regardless of the diluent, 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use 
are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 7 days at 2°C to 8°C or 
8 hours (of the total 7 days of storage) at room temperature (≤ 25°C). Aseptic handling should be 
ensured during the preparation of infusion (see section 6.6). 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
The unopened vial can be stored at controlled room temperature up to 25°C with room light for up to 
48 hours. 
For storage conditions after preparation of the infusion, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
4 mL of concentrate in a 10 mL vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a dark 
blue flip-off seal (aluminium). Pack size of 1 vial. 
10 mL of concentrate in a 10 mL vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a grey 
flip-off seal (aluminium). Pack size of 1 vial. 
12 mL of concentrate in a 25 mL vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a blue 
flip-off seal (aluminium). Pack size of 1 vial. 
24 mL of concentrate in a 25 mL vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a red 
matte flip-off seal (aluminium). Pack size of 1 vial. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation should be performed by trained personnel in accordance with good practices rules, 
especially with respect to asepsis. 
Preparation and administration 
Calculating the dose 
More than one vial of OPDIVO concentrate may be needed to give the total dose for the patient. 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
The prescribed dose for the adult patient is 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight 
depending on indication (see section 4.2). 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Melanoma (advanced or adjuvant treatment) in adolescents. The prescribed dose for 
adolescents 12 years of age and older weighing at least 50 kg is 240 mg or 480 mg. For 
adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 50 kg, the prescribed dose is given in 
mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the total dose to be given. 
 
 
The total nivolumab dose in mg = the patient’s weight in kg × the prescribed dose in mg/kg. 
The volume of OPDIVO concentrate to prepare the dose (mL) = the total nivolumab dose in mg, 
divided by 10 (the OPDIVO concentrate strength is 10 mg/mL). 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
The prescribed dose for the patient is given in mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the total 
dose to be given (please see above). 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in MPM 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in OSCC 
The prescribed dose for the patient can be based on body weight (3 mg/kg) or 360 mg given regardless 
of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in resectable NSCLC 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in OSCC 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in gastric, GEJ or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg or 240 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib 
The prescribed dose for the patient is nivolumab 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Preparing the infusion 
Take care to ensure aseptic handling when you prepare the infusion. 
OPDIVO can be used for intravenous administration either: 
 
 
without dilution, after transfer to an infusion container using an appropriate sterile syringe; or 
after diluting according to the following instructions: 
 
 
the final infusion concentration should range between 1 and 10 mg/mL 
the total volume of infusion must not exceed 160 mL. For patients weighing less than 
40 kg, the total volume of infusion must not exceed 4 mL per kilogram of patient weight. 
OPDIVO concentrate may be diluted with either: 
 
 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection; or 
50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. 
STEP 1 
 
Inspect the OPDIVO concentrate for particulate matter or discoloration. Do not shake the vial. 
OPDIVO concentrate is a clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid. Discard the vial 
if the solution is cloudy, is discoloured, or contains particulate matter other than a few 
translucent-to-white particles. 
  Withdraw the required volume of OPDIVO concentrate using an appropriate sterile syringe. 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 2 
 
Transfer the concentrate into a sterile, evacuated glass bottle or intravenous container (PVC or 
polyolefin). 
If applicable, dilute with the required volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. For ease of preparation, the 
concentrate can also be transferred directly into a pre-filled bag containing the appropriate 
volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose 
solution for injection. 
Gently mix the infusion by manual rotation. Do not shake. 
 
 
Administration 
OPDIVO infusion must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
Administer the OPDIVO infusion intravenously over a period of 30 or 60 minutes depending on the 
dose. 
OPDIVO infusion should not be infused at the same time in the same intravenous line with other 
agents. Use a separate infusion line for the infusion. 
Use an infusion set and an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding filter (pore size 
of 0.2 μm to 1.2 μm). 
OPDIVO infusion is compatible with PVC and polyolefin containers, glass bottles, PVC infusion sets 
and in-line filters with polyethersulfone membranes with pore sizes of 0.2 µm to 1.2 µm. 
After administration of the nivolumab dose, flush the line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. 
Disposal 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicinal product or 
waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1014/001 
EU/1/15/1014/002 
EU/1/15/1014/003 
EU/1/15/1014/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 June 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 23 April 2020 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
119 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
Lotte Biologics USA, LLC 
6000 Thompson Road 
East Syracuse, New York 13057 
USA 
Lonza Biologics, Inc. 
101 International Drive 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire 03801 
USA 
Samsung Biologics Co. Ltd. 
300, Songdo Bio Way (Daero) 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21987 
Korea 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company t/a Bristol-Myers Squibb Cruiserath Biologics 
Cruiserath Road, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15, D15 H6EF 
Ireland 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company t/a Bristol-Myers Squibb Cruiserath Biologics 
Cruiserath Road, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15, D15 H6EF 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where OPDIVO is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use OPDIVO have access to/are 
provided with the patient alert card. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The patient alert card shall contain the following key messages: 
That OPDIVO treatment may increase the risk of: 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Immune-related colitis 
Immune-related hepatitis 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
Other immune-related ARs 
Signs or symptoms of the safety concern and when to seek attention from a HCP 
Contact details of the OPDIVO prescriber 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
1. Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further elucidate 
the contribution of ipilimumab to the efficacy and toxicity of the 
combination regimen of nivolumab and ipilimumab, the MAH should 
conduct and submit the results of a randomised, clinical study comparing 
the efficacy and safety of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab to 
nivolumab monotherapy in previously untreated adult patients with 
intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma and with an 
appropriate spectrum of PD-L1 expression levels. This study should be 
conducted according to an agreed protocol. 
2. Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further characterise 
the efficacy of nivolumab as adjuvant treatment of adult patients with 
oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer, the MAH should 
submit the OS data from the second interim analysis and the final OS 
analysis of the Phase III study CA209577. 
3. Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further characterize 
the efficacy of nivolumab as neoadjuvant treatment of adults with non-
small cell lung cancer, the MAH should submit the OS data from the final 
OS analysis of the Phase 3 study CA209816. 
Due date 
31st October 2024 
By 30th September 
2024 
By 30th June 2025 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further characterize 
the efficacy of nivolumab as adjuvant treatment of adults with muscle 
invasive urothelial carcinoma, the MAH should submit the OS data from 
the 2nd IA and the final OS analysis of the Phase 3 CA209274 study in the 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% population. 
5. Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further characterise 
the efficacy of nivolumab as adjuvant treatment of adults and adolescents 
aged 12 years and older with stage IIB or stage IIC melanoma, the MAH 
should submit the OS data from the first interim OS analysis of the Phase 
III study CA20976K. 
By 31st December 
2027 
By 31st March 2029 
123 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OPDIVO 10 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
nivolumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of concentrate contains 10 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 4 mL contains 40 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 10 mL contains 100 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 12 mL contains 120 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 24 mL contains 240 mg of nivolumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium citrate dihydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, 
polysorbate 80 (E433), sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion. 
40 mg/4 mL 
100 mg/10 mL 
120 mg/12 mL 
240 mg/24 mL 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1014/001 40 mg vial 
EU/1/15/1014/002 100 mg vial 
EU/1/15/1014/003 240 mg vial 
EU/1/15/1014/004 120 mg vial 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
OPDIVO 10 mg/mL sterile concentrate 
nivolumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of concentrate contains 10 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 12 mL contains 120 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial of 24 mL contains 240 mg of nivolumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium citrate dihydrate, sodium chloride, mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, 
polysorbate 80 (E433), sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Sterile concentrate 
120 mg/12 mL 
240 mg/24 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
IV use 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1014/003 240 mg vial 
EU/1/15/1014/004 120 mg vial 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
OPDIVO 10 mg/mL sterile concentrate 
nivolumab 
IV use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/4 mL 
100 mg/10 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
OPDIVO 10 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
nivolumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
It is important that you keep the alert card with you during treatment. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What OPDIVO is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use OPDIVO 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use OPDIVO 
Possible side effects 
How to store OPDIVO 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What OPDIVO is and what it is used for 
OPDIVO is a medicine used to treat: 
 
 
advanced melanoma (a type of skin cancer) in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older 
melanoma after complete resection in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older 
(treatment after surgery is called adjuvant therapy) 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (a type of lung cancer) in adults 
non-small cell lung cancer (a type of lung cancer) prior to resection in adults (treatment prior to 
surgery is called neoadjuvant therapy) 
malignant pleural mesothelioma (a type of cancer that affects the lining of the lung) in adults 
advanced renal cell carcinoma (advanced kidney cancer) in adults 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back after or has not responded to previous 
therapies, including an autologous stem-cell transplant (a transplant of your own 
blood-producing cells) in adults 
advanced cancer of the head and neck in adults 
advanced urothelial carcinoma (bladder and urinary tract cancer) in adults 
urothelial carcinoma after complete resection in adults 
advanced colorectal cancer (colon or rectal cancer) in adults 
advanced oesophageal cancer (gullet cancer) in adults 
oesophageal (gullet) or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer with residual pathologic disease 
after chemoradiation followed by surgery in adults 
advanced gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma (stomach or 
gullet cancer) in adults. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It contains the active substance nivolumab, which is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein designed 
to recognise and attach to a specific target substance in the body. 
Nivolumab attaches to a target protein called programmed death-1 receptor (PD-1) that can switch off 
the activity of T cells (a type of white blood cell that forms part of the immune system, the body’s 
natural defences). By attaching to PD-1, nivolumab blocks its action and prevents it from switching 
off your T cells. This helps increase their activity against the melanoma, lung, kidney, lymphoid, head 
and neck, bladder, colon, rectal, stomach, oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer cells. 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPDIVO may be given in combination with other anti-cancer medicines. It is important that you also 
read the package leaflet for these other medicines. If you have any questions about these medicines, 
please ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you use OPDIVO 
You should not be given OPDIVO 
 
if you are allergic to nivolumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6 "Contents of the pack and other information"). Talk to your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using OPDIVO as it may cause: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Problems with your heart such as a change in the rhythm or rate of the heartbeat or an 
abnormal heart rhythm. 
Problems with your lungs such as breathing difficulties or cough. These may be signs of 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease). 
Diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools) or any symptoms of inflammation of the intestines 
(colitis), such as stomach pain and mucus or blood in stool. 
Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis). Signs and symptoms of hepatitis may include abnormal 
liver function tests, eye or skin yellowing (jaundice), pain on the right side of your stomach 
area, or tiredness. 
Inflammation or problems with your kidneys. Signs and symptoms may include abnormal 
kidney function tests, or decreased volume of urine. 
Problems with your hormone producing glands (including the pituitary, the thyroid, the 
parathyroid and adrenal glands) that may affect how these glands work. Signs and symptoms 
that these glands are not working properly may include fatigue (extreme tiredness), weight 
change or headache, decreased blood levels of calcium and visual disturbances. 
Diabetes including a serious, sometimes life-threatening problem due to acid in the blood 
produced from diabetes (diabetic ketoacidosis). Symptoms may include feeling more hungry or 
thirsty than usual, need to urinate more often, weight loss, feeling tired or having difficulty 
thinking clearly, breath that smells sweet or fruity, a sweet or metallic taste in your mouth, or a 
different odour to your urine or sweat, feeling sick or being sick, stomach pain, and deep or fast 
breathing. 
Inflammation of the skin that can lead to severe skin reaction (known as toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Signs and symptoms of severe skin reaction may 
include rash, itching, and peeling of the skin (possibly fatal). 
Inflammation of the muscles such as myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle), myositis 
(inflammation of the muscles) and rhabdomyolysis (stiffness in muscles and joints, muscle 
spasm). Signs and symptoms may include muscle pain, stiffness, weakness, chest pain, or 
severe fatigue. 
Solid organ transplant rejection. 
Graft-versus-host disease. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. A rare disease in which our immune system makes 
too many of otherwise normal infection fighting cells called histiocytes and lymphocytes. 
Symptoms may include enlarged liver and/or spleen, skin rash, lymph node enlargement, 
breathing problems, easy bruising, kidney abnormalities, and heart problems. 
give you other medicines in order to prevent complications and reduce your symptoms, 
withhold the next dose of OPDIVO, 
or stop your treatment with OPDIVO altogether. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these signs or symptoms or if they get worse. Do 
not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines on your own. Your doctor may 
 
 
 
Please note that these signs and symptoms are sometimes delayed, and may develop weeks or months 
after your last dose. Before treatment, your doctor will check your general health. You will also have 
blood tests during your treatment. 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
Check with your doctor or nurse before you are given OPDIVO if: 
 
 
 
you have an autoimmune disease (a condition where the body attacks its own cells); 
you have melanoma of the eye; 
you were previously given ipilimumab, another medicine for treating melanoma, and 
experienced serious side effects because of that medicine; 
you have been told that your cancer has spread to your brain; 
you have any history of inflammation of the lungs; 
you have been taken medicines to suppress your immune system. 
 
 
 
Complications of stem cell transplant that uses donor stem cells (allogeneic) after treatment with 
OPDIVO. These complications can be severe and can lead to death. Your healthcare provider will 
monitor you for signs of complications if you have an allogeneic stem cell transplant. 
Children and adolescents 
OPDIVO should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age except for adolescents 
12 years of age and older with melanoma. 
Other medicines and OPDIVO 
Before you are given OPDIVO, tell your doctor if you are taking any medicines that suppress your 
immune system, such as corticosteroids, since these medicines may interfere with the effect of 
OPDIVO. However, once you are treated with OPDIVO, your doctor may give you corticosteroids to 
reduce any possible side effects that you may have during your treatment and this will not impact the 
effect of the medicine. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. Do not take any other 
medicines during your treatment without talking to your doctor first. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or think you might be, if you are planning to become pregnant, 
or if you are breast-feeding. 
Do not use OPDIVO if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically tells you to. The effects of 
OPDIVO in pregnant women are not known, but it is possible that the active substance, nivolumab, 
could harm an unborn baby. 
 
You must use effective contraception while you are being treated with OPDIVO and for at 
least 5 months following the last dose of OPDIVO, if you are a woman who could become 
pregnant. 
If you become pregnant while using OPDIVO tell your doctor. 
 
It is not known whether OPDIVO gets into breast milk. A risk to the breast-fed infant cannot be 
excluded. Ask your doctor if you can breast-feed during or after treatment with OPDIVO. 
Driving and using machines 
OPDIVO or OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab may have a minor influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines; however, use caution when performing these activities until you are sure that 
OPDIVO does not adversely affect you. 
OPDIVO contains sodium 
Tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium (low-salt) diet before you are given OPDIVO. This 
medicine contains 2.5 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each mL of concentrate. 
OPDIVO contains 10 mg sodium per 4 mL vial, 25 mg sodium per 10 mL vial, 30 mg sodium per 
12 mL vial or 60 mg sodium per 24 mL vial, which is equivalent to 0.5%, 1.25%, 1.5% or 3% 
respectively, of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
You will also find key messages from this package leaflet in the patient alert card you have been given 
by your doctor. It is important that you keep this patient alert card and show it to your partner or 
caregivers. 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to use OPDIVO 
How much OPDIVO is given 
When OPDIVO is given on its own, the recommended dose is either 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 
480 mg given every 4 weeks depending on indication. 
When OPDIVO is given on its own, for the treatment of skin cancer in adolescents 12 years of age and 
older and weighing at least 50 kg, the recommended dose is either 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 
480 mg given every 4 weeks. For adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 50 kg, 
the recommended dose is either 3 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight given every 
2 weeks or 6 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight given every 4 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of skin cancer in adults and 
adolescents 12 years of age and older, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 1 mg of nivolumab per 
kilogram of your body weight for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter the recommended 
dose of OPDIVO (single-agent phase) is 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 480 mg given every 4 weeks 
in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 50 kg or 3 mg of nivolumab 
per kilogram of your body weight given every 2 weeks or 6 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your 
body weight given every 4 weeks for adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 
50 kg. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, 
the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 3 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight for the 
first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 240 mg given 
every 2 weeks or 480 mg given every 4 weeks (single-agent phase). 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of advanced colon or rectal 
cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 3 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight 
for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 240 mg 
given every 2 weeks (single-agent phase). 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of malignant pleural 
mesothelioma, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 360 mg every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of advanced oesophageal 
cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 3 mg of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight 
every 2 weeks or 360 mg every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the neoadjuvant treatment of non-
small cell lung cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 360 mg every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced 
oesophageal cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 240 mg every 2 weeks or 480 mg every 
4 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced gastric, 
gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma, the recommended dose of OPDIVO 
is 360 mg every 3 weeks or 240 mg every 2 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy for the treatment of 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 360 mg every 3 weeks. 
After completion of 2 cycles of chemotherapy, OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab, the 
recommended dose of OPDIVO is 360 mg every 3 weeks. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with cabozantinib for the treatment of advanced kidney 
cancer, the recommended dose of OPDIVO is 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 480 mg given every 
4 weeks. 
Depending on your dose, the appropriate amount of OPDIVO will be diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution for injection 
before use. More than one vial of OPDIVO may be necessary to obtain the required dose. 
How OPDIVO is given 
You will receive treatment with OPDIVO in a hospital or clinic, under the supervision of an 
experienced doctor. 
OPDIVO will be given to you as an infusion (a drip) into a vein (intravenously) over a period of 30 or 
60 minutes, every 2 weeks or 4 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving. Your doctor will 
continue giving you OPDIVO for as long as you keep benefitting from it or until you no longer 
tolerate the treatment. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of skin, advanced kidney or 
advanced colon or rectal cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, 
every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter it will be given as an infusion over 
a period of 30 or 60 minutes, every 2 weeks or 4 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving 
(single-agent phase). 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of malignant pleural 
mesothelioma, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of advanced oesophageal 
cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, every 2 or 3 weeks, depending on 
the dose you are receiving. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the neoadjuvant treatment of non-
small cell lung cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced 
oesophageal cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, every 2 or 4 weeks, 
depending on the dose you are receiving. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced gastric, 
gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma, you will be given an infusion over a 
period of 30 minutes every 3 weeks or every 2 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy for the treatment of 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, 
every 3 weeks. 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with cabozantinib, you will be given an infusion over a period 
of 30 minutes or 60 minutes, every 2 weeks or 4 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving. 
If you miss a dose of OPDIVO 
It is very important for you to keep all your appointments to receive OPDIVO. If you miss an 
appointment, ask your doctor when to schedule your next dose. 
If you stop using OPDIVO 
Stopping your treatment may stop the effect of the medicine. Do not stop treatment with OPDIVO 
unless you have discussed this with your doctor. 
If you have any further questions about your treatment or on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When OPDIVO is given in combination with other anti-cancer medicines, you will first be given 
OPDIVO followed by the other medicine. 
Please refer to the package leaflet of these other medicines in order to understand the use of these 
medicines. If you have questions about them, please ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Your 
doctor will discuss these with you and will explain the risks and benefits of your treatment. 
Be aware of important symptoms of inflammation. OPDIVO acts on your immune system and may 
cause inflammation in parts of your body. Inflammation may cause serious damage to your body and 
some inflammatory conditions may be life-threatening and need treatment or withdrawal of OPDIVO. 
The following side effects have been reported with OPDIVO alone: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
 
 
Infections of the upper respiratory tract 
A decreased number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen), white blood cells (which are 
important in fighting infection) or platelets (cells which help the blood to clot) 
Decreased appetite, high sugar levels in the blood (hyperglycaemia) 
Headache 
Shortness of breath (dyspnoea), cough 
Diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools), vomiting, nausea, stomach pain, constipation 
Skin rash sometimes with blisters, itching 
Pain in the muscles, bones (musculoskeletal pain) and joints (arthralgia) 
Feeling tired or weak, fever 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
 
 
Serious lung infection (pneumonia), bronchitis 
Reactions related to the infusion of the medicine, allergic reaction (including life-threatening 
allergic reaction) 
Underactive thyroid gland (which can cause tiredness or weight gain), overactive thyroid gland 
(which can cause rapid heart rate, sweating and weight loss), swelling of the thyroid gland 
Dehydration, decrease in body weight, low sugar levels in the blood (hypoglycaemia) 
Inflammation of the nerves (causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning pain of the arms 
and legs), dizziness 
Blurred vision, dry eyes 
Fast heart rate, abnormal heart rhythm 
High blood pressure (hypertension) 
Inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis, characterised by coughing and difficulty breathing), 
fluid around the lungs 
Inflammation of the intestines (colitis), mouth ulcers and cold sores (stomatitis), dry mouth 
Skin colour change in patches (vitiligo), dry skin, redness of the skin, unusual hair loss or 
thinning 
Inflammation of the joints (arthritis) 
Kidney failure (including abrupt loss of kidney function) 
Pain, chest pain, oedema (swelling) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
 
Increase in some white blood cells 
 
Chronic diseases associated with a build-up of inflammatory cells in various organs and tissues, 
most commonly the lungs (sarcoidosis) 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decreased secretion of hormones produced by adrenal glands (glands situated above the 
kidneys), underactive function (hypopituitarism) or inflammation (hypophysitis) of the pituitary 
gland situated at the base of the brain, diabetes 
Increased acid levels in the blood (metabolic acidosis) 
Damage to nerves causing numbness and weakness (polyneuropathy), inflammation of the 
nerves caused by the body attacking itself, causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning 
pain (autoimmune neuropathy) 
Inflammation of the eye (which causes pain and redness) 
Inflammation of the heart muscle, inflammation of the covering of the heart and accumulation 
of fluid around the heart (pericardial disorders), changes in the rhythm or rate of the heartbeat 
Fluid in the lungs 
Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) 
Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), blockage of bile ducts (cholestasis) 
Skin disease with thickened patches of red skin, often with silvery scales (psoriasis), skin 
condition of the face where the nose and cheeks are unusually red (rosacea), severe condition of 
the skin that causes red, often itchy spots, similar to the rash of measles, which starts on the 
limbs and sometimes on the face and the rest of the body (erythema multiforme), hives (itchy, 
bumpy rash) 
Inflammation of the muscles causing pain or stiffness (polymyalgia rheumatica) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A temporary and reversible non-infectious inflammation of the protective membranes 
surrounding the brain and spinal cord (aseptic meningitis) 
A disease causing the inflammation or enlargement of a lymph node (Kikuchi lymphadenitis) 
Acid in the blood produced from diabetes (diabetic ketoacidosis), decreased function of the 
parathyroid gland 
A temporary inflammation of the nerves that causes pain, weakness, and paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome), loss of the protective sheath around nerves 
(demyelination), a condition in which the muscles become weak and tire easily (myasthenic 
syndrome), inflammation of the brain 
Inflammatory disease of blood vessels 
Ulcer of the small intestines 
Severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome) 
Disease in which the immune system attacks the glands that make moisture for the body, such 
as tears and saliva (Sjogren’s syndrome), aching muscles, muscle tenderness or weakness, not 
caused by exercise (myopathy), inflammation of the muscles (myositis), stiffness in muscles 
and joints, muscle spasm (rhabdomyolysis) 
Inflammation of the kidney, inflammation of the bladder, signs and symptoms may include 
frequent and/or painful urination, urge to pass urine, blood in urine, pain or pressure in lower 
abdomen 
Other side effects that have been reported with frequency not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data): 
 
A condition where the immune system makes too many infection-fighting cells called 
histiocytes and lymphocytes that may cause various symptoms (called haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis) 
Solid organ transplant rejection 
A group of metabolic complications occurring after cancer treatment characterised by high 
blood levels of potassium and phosphate, and low blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis 
syndrome) 
An inflammatory disorder (most likely of autoimmune origin) affecting the eyes, skin and the 
membranes of the ears, brain and spinal cord (Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome) 
Changes in any area of the skin and/or genital area that are associated with drying out, thinning, 
itching and pain (lichen sclerosus or other lichen disorders) 
 
 
 
 
139 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported with OPDIVO in combination with other anti-cancer 
medicines (the frequency and severity of side effects may vary with the combination of anti-cancer 
medicines received): 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
 
 
Infections of the upper respiratory tract 
A decreased number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen), white blood cells (which are 
important in fighting infection) or platelets (cells which help the blood to clot) 
Underactive thyroid gland (which can cause tiredness or weight gain), overactive thyroid gland 
(which can cause rapid heart rate, sweating and weight loss) 
Decreased appetite, decrease in body weight, decreased levels of albumin in the blood, high 
(hyperglycaemia) or low (hypoglycaemia) sugar levels in the blood 
Inflammation of the nerves (causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning pain of the arms 
and legs), headache, dizziness, altered sense of taste 
High blood pressure (hypertension) 
Shortness of breath (dyspnoea), cough, abnormal speaking sound (dysphonia) 
Diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools), constipation, vomiting, nausea, stomach pain, mouth 
ulcers and cold sores (stomatitis), indigestion (dyspepsia) 
Skin rash sometimes with blisters, itching, pain of the hands or soles of the feet: rash or redness 
of the skin, tingling and tenderness developing to symmetrical redness, swelling and pain 
primarily on the palm of the hand and sole of the foot (palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthaesia 
syndrome) 
Pain in the joints (arthralgia), pain in the muscles and bones (musculoskeletal pain), muscle 
spasm 
Excess protein in urine 
Feeling tired or weak, fever, oedema (swelling) 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
 
 
 
 
Serious lung infection (pneumonia), bronchitis, inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis) 
Increase in some white blood cells, decrease in neutrophils with fever 
Allergic reaction, reactions related to the infusion of the medicine 
Decreased secretion of hormones produced by adrenal glands (glands situated above the 
kidneys), underactive function (hypopituitarism) or inflammation (hypophysitis) of the pituitary 
gland situated at the base of the brain, swelling of the thyroid gland, diabetes 
Dehydration, decreased levels of phosphate in the blood 
Sensations like numbness and tingling (paraesthesia) 
Hearing a persistent sound in your ear when no sound exists (tinnitus) 
Blurred vision, dry eye 
Fast heart rate, abnormal heart rhythm, inflammatory disease of blood vessels 
Formation of a blood clot within a blood vessel (thrombosis) 
Inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis, characterised by coughing and difficulty breathing), 
fluid around the lungs, blood clots, nose bleeding 
Inflammation of the intestines (colitis), inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), dry mouth, 
inflammation of the stomach (gastritis), oral pain, haemorrhoids (piles) 
Inflammation of the liver 
Skin colour change in patches (including vitiligo), redness of the skin, unusual hair loss or 
thinning, hair colour change, hives (itchy rash), discolouration or abnormal darkening of the 
skin (skin hyperpigmentation), dry skin 
Inflammation of the joints (arthritis), muscle weakness, aching muscles 
Kidney failure (including abrupt loss of kidney function) 
Pain, chest pain, chills 
Feeling generally unwell (malaise) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
 
 
Acid in the blood produced from diabetes (diabetic ketoacidosis) 
Increased acid levels in the blood 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A temporary inflammation of the nerves that causes pain, weakness and paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome); damage to nerves causing numbness and weakness 
(polyneuropathy); foot drop (peroneal nerve palsy); inflammation of the nerves caused by the 
body attacking itself, causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning pain (autoimmune 
neuropathy); muscle weakness and tiredness without atrophy (myasthenia gravis or syndrome) 
Inflammation of the brain 
Inflammation of the eye (which causes pain and redness) 
Changes in the rhythm or rate of the heartbeat, slow heart rate, inflammation of the heart muscle 
Intestinal perforation, inflammation of the duodenum, burning or painful sensation in the tongue 
(glossodynia) 
Severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (Stevens-Johnson syndrome), skin disease with 
thickened patches of red skin, often with silvery scales (psoriasis), severe condition of the skin 
that causes red, often itchy spots, similar to the rash of measles, which starts on the limbs and 
sometimes on the face and the rest of the body (erythema multiforme) 
Muscle tenderness or weakness, not caused by exercise (myopathy), inflammation of the 
muscles (myositis), stiffness in muscles and joints, inflammation of the muscles causing pain or 
stiffness (polymyalgia rheumatica), bone damage in the jaw, abnormal opening between two 
body parts, such as an organ or blood vessel and another structure (fistula) 
Inflammation of the kidney, inflammation of the bladder, signs and symptoms may include 
frequent and/or painful urination, urge to pass urine, blood in urine, pain or pressure in lower 
abdomen 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temporary and reversible non-infectious inflammation of the protective membranes 
surrounding the brain and spinal cord (aseptic meningitis) 
Chronic diseases associated with a build-up of inflammatory cells in various organs and tissues, 
most commonly the lungs (sarcoidosis) 
Decreased function of the parathyroid gland 
A group of metabolic complications occurring after cancer treatment characterised by high 
blood levels of potassium and phosphate, and low blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis 
syndrome) 
An inflammatory disorder (most likely of autoimmune origin) affecting the eyes, skin and the 
membranes of the ears, brain and spinal cord (Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome) 
Inflammation of the nerves 
Severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis), changes in any area of 
the skin and/or genital area that are associated with drying out, thinning, itching and pain (lichen 
sclerosus or other lichen disorders) 
Chronic disease of joints (spondyloarthropathy), disease in which the immune system attacks 
the glands that make moisture for the body, such as tears and saliva (Sjogren’s syndrome), 
muscle spasm (rhabdomyolysis) 
Other side effects that have been reported with frequency not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data): 
 
A condition where the immune system makes too many infection-fighting cells called 
histiocytes and lymphocytes that may cause various symptoms (called haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis) 
Solid organ transplant rejection 
Inflammation of the covering of the heart and accumulation of fluid around the heart 
(pericardial disorders) 
 
 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the side effects listed above. Do not try to treat your 
symptoms with other medicines on your own. 
141 
 
 
 
 
Changes in test results 
OPDIVO alone or in combination may cause changes in the results of tests carried out by your doctor. 
These include: 
 
Abnormal liver function tests (increased amounts of the liver enzymes aspartate 
aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, or alkaline 
phosphatase in your blood, higher blood levels of the waste product bilirubin) 
Abnormal kidney function tests (increased amounts of creatinine in your blood) 
An increased level of the enzyme that breaks down fats and of the enzyme that breaks down 
starch 
Increased or decreased amount of calcium or potassium 
Increased or decreased blood levels of magnesium or sodium 
Increased amount of thyroid stimulating hormone 
Increase in blood triglyceride levels in the blood 
Increase in cholesterol levels in the blood 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store OPDIVO 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the vial label after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
The unopened vial can be stored at controlled room temperature up to 25°C with room light for up to 
48 hours. 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
The active substance is nivolumab. 
What OPDIVO contains 
 
Each mL of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 10 mg of nivolumab. 
Each vial contains either 40 mg (in 4 mL), 100 mg (in 10 mL), 120 mg (in 12 mL) or 240 mg 
(in 24 mL) of nivolumab. 
 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate dihydrate, sodium chloride (see section 2 "OPDIVO 
contains sodium"), mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, polysorbate 80 (E433), sodium hydroxide, 
hydrochloric acid and water for injections. 
What OPDIVO looks like and contents of the pack 
OPDIVO concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) is a clear to opalescent, colourless 
to pale yellow liquid that may contain few light particles. 
It is available in packs containing either 1 vial of 4 mL, 1 vial of 10 mL, 1 vial of 12 mL or 1 vial 
of 24 mL. 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company t/a Bristol-Myers Squibb Cruiserath Biologics 
Cruiserath Road, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15, D15 H6EF 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Preparation and administration of OPDIVO 
Preparation should be performed by trained personnel in accordance with good practices rules, 
especially with respect to asepsis. 
Calculating the dose 
More than one vial of OPDIVO concentrate may be needed to give the total dose for the patient. 
Nivolumab monotherapy 
The prescribed dose for adults is 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight depending on 
indication. 
Melanoma (advanced or adjuvant treatment) in adolescents. The prescribed dose for 
adolescents 12 years of age and older weighing at least 50 kg is 240 mg or 480 mg. For 
adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 50 kg the prescribed dose is given in 
mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the total dose to be given. 
 
 
The total nivolumab dose in mg = the patient’s weight in kg × the prescribed dose in mg/kg. 
The volume of OPDIVO concentrate to prepare the dose (mL) = the total nivolumab dose in 
mg, divided by 10 (the OPDIVO concentrate strength is 10 mg/mL). 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab 
The prescribed dose for the patient is given in mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the 
total dose to be given (please see above). 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in malignant pleural mesothelioma 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in advanced oesophageal cancer 
The prescribed dose for the patient can be based on body weight (3 mg/kg) or is 360 mg given 
regardless of body weight. 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in resectable non-small cell lung cancer 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in advanced oesophageal cancer 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy in gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal 
adenocarcinoma 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg or 240 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab and chemotherapy 
The prescribed dose for the patient is 360 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib 
The prescribed dose for the patient is nivolumab 240 mg or 480 mg given regardless of body weight. 
Preparing the infusion 
Take care to ensure aseptic handling when you prepare the infusion. 
without dilution, after transfer to an infusion container using an appropriate sterile syringe; 
OPDIVO can be used for intravenous administration either: 
 
or 
 
after diluting according to the following instructions: 
 
 
the final infusion concentration should range between 1 and 10 mg/mL 
the total volume of infusion must not exceed 160 mL. For patients weighing less than 
40 kg, the total volume of infusion must not exceed 4 mL per kilogram of patient weight. 
 
OPDIVO concentrate may be diluted with either: 
 
 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection; or 
50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. 
STEP 1 
 
Inspect the OPDIVO concentrate for particulate matter or discoloration. Do not shake the vial. 
OPDIVO concentrate is a clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid. Discard the vial 
if the solution is cloudy, is discoloured, or contains particulate matter other than a few 
translucent-to-white particles. 
  Withdraw the required volume of OPDIVO concentrate using an appropriate sterile syringe. 
STEP 2 
 
Transfer the concentrate into a sterile, evacuated glass bottle or intravenous container (PVC or 
polyolefin). 
If applicable, dilute with the required volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. For ease of preparation, the 
concentrate can be transferred directly into a pre-filled bag containing the appropriate volume of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for 
injection. 
Gently mix the infusion by manual rotation. Do not shake. 
 
 
Administration 
OPDIVO infusion must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
Administer the OPDIVO infusion intravenously over a period of 30 or 60 minutes depending on 
the dose and the indication. 
OPDIVO infusion should not be infused at the same time in the same intravenous line with other 
agents. Use a separate infusion line for the infusion. 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use an infusion set and an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding filter (pore size 
of 0.2 μm to 1.2 μm). 
OPDIVO infusion is compatible with: 
 
 
 
 
 
PVC containers 
Polyolefin containers 
Glass bottles 
PVC infusion sets 
In-line filters with polyethersulfone membranes with pore sizes of 0.2 µm to 1.2 µm. 
After administration of the nivolumab dose, flush the line with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection or 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. 
Storage conditions and shelf life 
Unopened vial 
OPDIVO must be stored in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). The vials must be kept in the original 
package in order to protect from light. OPDIVO should not be frozen. 
The unopened vial can be stored at controlled room temperature up to 25°C with room light for up to 
48 hours. 
Do not use OPDIVO after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the vial label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
OPDIVO infusion 
Chemical and physical in-use stability from the time of preparation has been demonstrated as follows 
(times are inclusive of the administration period): 
Infusion preparation 
Chemical and physical in-use stability 
Storage at 2ºC to 8ºC 
protected from light 
Storage at room temperature 
(≤ 25°C) and room light 
Undiluted or diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution 
for injection 
Diluted with 50 mg/mL (5%) 
glucose solution for injection 
30 days 
7 days 
24 hours 
(of total 30 days storage) 
8 hours 
(of total 7 days storage) 
From a microbiological point of view the prepared solution for infusion, regardless of the diluent, 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use 
are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 7 days at 2°C to 8°C or 
8 hours (of the total 7 days of storage) at room temperature (≤ 25°C). Aseptic handling should be 
ensured during the preparation of infusion. 
Disposal 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
