25 July 2019 
EMA/449030/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): nivolumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010379/201901 
Period covered by the PSUR: 4 July 2018 to 3 January 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for nivolumab, the scientific conclusions of 
the CHMP are as follows:  
After mono- or combination therapy with nivolumab, CMV infection/reactivation was found in cases where 
corticosteroid treatment was performed due to immune related colitis. Treatment-resistant colitis following 
nivolumab exposure should suggest CMV infection, whether the immunodeficiency is due to the malignant 
tumour disease, exposure to checkpoint inhibitors, treatment with corticosteroids or a combination of these 
conditions. Infectious and other aetiologies of diarrhoea should be ruled out, therefore appropriate 
laboratory tests and additional examinations must be performed. If diagnosis of corticosteroid-refractory 
immune-related colitis is confirmed, addition of an alternative immunosuppressive agent to the 
corticosteroid therapy, or replacement of the corticosteroid therapy, should be considered. These differential 
diagnostic considerations are safety relevant and should be added to section 4.4 of the SmPC.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for nivolumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing nivolumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/449030/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
