EMA/341712/2023  
EMEA/H/C/003985 
Opdivo (nivolumab) 
An overview of Opdivo and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Opdivo and what is it used for? 
Opdivo is a cancer medicine used to treat the following: 
•  melanoma, a type of skin cancer; 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); 
advanced renal cell carcinoma, a kidney cancer; 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell); 
squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN); 
•  urothelial cancer, a cancer of the bladder and urinary tract; 
•  malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of the lungs); 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a kind of cancer of the colon or rectum (lower part of the gut) that is described as microsatellite 
instability high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR);  
squamous oesophageal cancer (cancer of the oesophagus, the passage from mouth to stomach); 
oesophageal cancer and gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (cancer at the junction between the 
stomach and the oesophagus) after chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery; 
gastric (stomach), gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma. 
The medicine is used in adults; for melanoma it is also used in adolescents from 12 years of age. 
Opdivo is mainly used when cancers are advanced, unresectable (cannot be removed by surgery) or 
metastatic (have spread to other parts of the body), or when other treatments do not work.  
For NSCLC that can be removed by surgery but is at high risk of coming back, Opdivo can also be 
given before surgery (neoadjuvant treatment). For melanoma, oesophageal cancer, gastro-
oesophageal junction cancer and urothelial cancer, Opdivo is also used to help prevent the cancer from 
coming back after patients have had surgery (adjuvant treatment).  
Opdivo works on cancer cells that produce a protein called PD-L1. For some cancers, Opdivo can only 
be used if tests confirm that the cancer cells produce enough PD-L1.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Opdivo can be used on its own and, for some cancers, it is also used together with other cancer 
medicines such as cabozantinib, ipilimumab or platinum-based chemotherapy.  
Opdivo contains the active substance nivolumab. 
How is Opdivo used? 
Treatment with Opdivo must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in treating cancer. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Opdivo is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. The dose and how often it is given depends on the 
condition it is being used for and whether it is used alone or in combination with other cancer 
medicines. The doctor may delay doses if certain side effects occur or stop treatment altogether for 
certain severe side effects.  
For more information about using Opdivo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Opdivo work? 
The active substance in Opdivo, nivolumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has been 
designed to attach to a receptor called PD-1 found on cells of the immune system called T cells. Cancer 
cells can produce proteins (PD-L1 and PD-L2) that attach to this receptor and switch off the activity of 
the T cells, preventing them from attacking the cancer. By attaching to the receptor, nivolumab 
prevents PD-L1 and PD-L2 from switching off the T cells, thereby increasing the ability of the immune 
system to kill cancer cells. 
What benefits of Opdivo have been shown in studies? 
Melanoma 
Opdivo used on its own was studied in two main studies in adults with advanced melanoma who had 
not undergone surgery. The first study, involving 418 previously untreated advanced melanoma 
patients, found that patients treated with Opdivo lived longer than patients who received the cancer 
medicine dacarbazine: 73% of patients treated with Opdivo were alive after 12 months compared with 
42% of patients given dacarbazine. In the second study, 405 patients with advanced melanoma whose 
disease had got worse despite previous treatment with a cancer medicine were followed up for at least 
6 months. Around 32% (38 out of 120) of patients given Opdivo responded to treatment and had a 
reduction in their tumours, compared with about 11% (5 out of 47) of patients given a treatment 
chosen by their doctor (dacarbazine or a combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel).  
A third study in 906 adults with stage IIIB, IIIC or IV melanoma who had surgery and who were at 
high risk of the cancer coming back compared Opdivo with ipilimumab. Patients treated with Opdivo 
lived on average 31 months before the cancer came back, or a new melanoma occurred or they died, 
compared with 24 months for patients treated with ipilimumab. A fourth study in 790 adults with stage 
IIB or IIC melanoma who had surgery compared Opdivo with placebo (a dummy treatment). After an 
average follow-up of 24 months, 19% of patients who took Opdivo had a recurrence of their cancer or 
a new melanoma or had died, compared with 32% of patients given placebo. 
A fifth study in 945 previously untreated adults with advanced melanoma investigated Opdivo in 
combination with ipilimumab, Opdivo used alone or ipilimumab used alone. Patients given Opdivo plus 
ipilimumab lived for 11.5 months without their disease getting worse compared with 6.9 months for 
patients given only Opdivo and 2.9 months for patients given only ipilimumab. More patients were 
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
alive after 2 years with Opdivo and ipilimumab treatment (64%) than with Opdivo alone (59%) or 
ipilimumab alone (45%). The study included patients whose cancer cells produced high levels of PD-L1 
as well as patients whose cancer cells produced low levels of PD-L1. Improvements in the time patients 
lived without their disease getting worse when treated with Opdivo plus ipilimumab relative to Opdivo 
used on its own were only seen for patients whose cancer cells produced low levels of PD-L1. 
As melanoma in adolescents is similar to the disease in adults, the data from adults apply to 
adolescents as well. 
Data from adults, adolescents and children also showed that in the treatment of advanced melanoma 
and as adjuvant treatment of melanoma in adolescents aged 12 years and older, Opdivo behaves in a 
similar way to that seen in adults.  
NSCLC 
For a type of NSCLC known as non-squamous cancer, one main study involved 582 adults whose 
disease had got worse despite previous treatments. The average time patients lived with Opdivo was 
12.2 months, compared with 9.4 months with docetaxel (another cancer medicine).  
For another type of NSCLC known as squamous cancer, a study involving 272 adults showed that 
patients given Opdivo lived for 9.2 months after starting treatment, compared with 6.0 months in 
patients given docetaxel. Supportive information from another study indicated that Opdivo led to a 
response in patients with squamous NSCLC whose disease had worsened despite several previous 
treatments.  
For metastatic NSCLC, a study involving 719 adults who had not previously been treated showed that 
patients given Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab and another cancer medicine lived on average 
for 14 months after starting treatment compared with 11 months in patients given other cancer 
medicines.  
Another study involved 358 adults with NSCLC that had not spread and could be removed by surgery. 
Of the patients whose cancer produced PD-L1 and was at risk of coming back after surgery, 32% (26 
out of 81) of patients who received Opdivo in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy before 
surgery had no detectable tumour in the lung tissue removed during surgery compared with 2% (2 out 
of 86) of those given platinum-based chemotherapy alone. In addition, patients who received 
chemotherapy alone lived an average of 21 months before the disease got worse or came back, or the 
patient died; for patients who received Opdivo with chemotherapy, this period could not be calculated 
because too few patients had experienced one of these events during an average follow up of 41 
months. 
Advanced renal cell carcinoma 
Opdivo was compared with everolimus (another cancer medicine) in one main study involving 821 
patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma whose disease had worsened despite previous treatment. 
Patients given Opdivo lived for 25.0 months, compared with 19.6 months for patients given 
everolimus. 
Another main study involving 1,096 adults with previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma 
compared treatment with Opdivo and ipilimumab versus treatment with another cancer medicine, 
sunitinib. After 24 months, 66.5% of patients at moderate or high risk of their cancer getting worse 
given the combination were alive compared with 52.9% in the sunitinib group. In addition, 41.6% of 
patients (177 out of 423) responded to the treatment with the combination compared with 26.5% (112 
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
out of 416) of those receiving sunitinib. The time patients lived before their disease got worse was 
11.6 months with the combination compared with 8.4 with sunitinib. 
A third main study compared treatment with Opdivo plus cabozantinib with sunitinib treatment alone in 
651 patients with previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma or renal cell carcinoma that had 
spread. In this study, patients treated with Opdivo plus cabozantinib lived on average for around 17 
months without their cancer getting worse while those treated with sunitinib lived for around 8 months 
without their cancer worsening.  
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma 
Opdivo was studied in one main study and a supportive study involving a total of 95 adults with 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma whose disease had not responded or had returned after autologous stem 
cell transplantation and treatment with the cancer medicine brentuximab vedotin. Opdivo was used on 
its own and not compared with any other medicine. After treatment, cancer cells were partially or 
completely cleared in around 66% of patients (63 out of 95). 
Advanced SCCHN 
Opdivo was investigated in one main study involving 361 adults with SCCHN whose cancer had 
worsened despite previous treatment with platinum medicines. Opdivo was used on its own and was 
compared with another cancer medicine (cetuximab, methotrexate or docetaxel) chosen by the 
treating doctor. Patients given Opdivo lived on average for 7.5 months, compared with 5.1 months in 
patients given other treatments.  
Urothelial cancer 
Opdivo was investigated in one main study involving 270 adults with urothelial cancer whose cancer 
got worse or returned despite previous treatment with platinum medicines. Opdivo was used on its 
own and not compared with any other medicine. In the study, 20% of patients (54 out of 270) 
responded to treatment with a reduction in the size of their tumour. 
Another main study involving 709 patients at high risk of their urothelial cancer coming back after their 
cancer had been removed completely by surgery showed that Opdivo was effective at preventing the 
disease from returning in patients whose cancer produced PD-L1 protein. Patients in this group who 
were given placebo lived on average 8.4 months before their disease came back; for those treated with 
Opdivo, the period could not be calculated because the disease had not come back in many patients 
during an average follow up of 22 months. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
A main study involving 605 patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma that could not be removed 
by surgery looked at how long patients lived when they received Opdivo with ipilimumab or when they 
received pemetrexed- and platinum-based chemotherapy. In this study, patients who received Opdivo 
lived on average for 18 months while patients who had chemotherapy lived for an average of 14 
months. 
Advanced colorectal cancer 
A main study involving 119 patients with MSI-H or dMMR colon or rectal cancer examined the effect of 
treatment with a combination of Opdivo and ipilimumab. Around 65% of patients responded to 
treatment and had a reduction in tumour size. 
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
Advanced squamous oesophageal cancer 
A main study involved 419 adults with advanced or metastatic squamous oesophageal cancer whose 
disease had worsened or returned after treatment with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based 
chemotherapy or patients for whom these medicines were not suitable. In this study, patients treated 
with Opdivo lived for an average of 11 months compared with patients treated with docetaxel or 
paclitaxel who lived on average for 8 months. 
Another main study involved 970 adults with previously untreated squamous oesophageal cancer that 
could not be removed by surgery, had come back or had spread. The study looked at either Opdivo 
plus ipilimumab or Opdivo plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone.  
Patients whose cancer produced PD-L1 protein and who were treated with Opdivo plus ipilimumab lived 
on average for 13.7 months compared with 9.1 months for those treated with chemotherapy. There 
was no difference between the two treatments in the time patients lived without their disease 
worsening.  
Patients whose cancer produced PD-L1 and who were treated with Opdivo plus chemotherapy lived on 
average for 15.4 months compared with 9.1 months for patients treated with chemotherapy alone. In 
addition, the time patients lived before their disease got worse was 6.9 months with Opdivo plus 
chemotherapy compared with 4.4 months for chemotherapy alone. 
Localised (early) oesophageal cancer and gastro-oesophageal junction cancer  
A main study of 794 patients looked at the effect of Opdivo in patients with localised oesophageal 
cancer and gastro-oesophageal junction cancer. All patients still had some cancer cells left in the body 
after chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery and were at high risk of the cancer coming back. 
In this study, patients who received Opdivo lived on average for 22 months without their cancer 
coming back compared to 11 months for patients given placebo. 
Advanced gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
In a main study that included 955 adults with previously untreated advanced or metastatic gastric, 
gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumours have high levels of PD-L1 
(defined as a combined positive score ≥5), Opdivo in combination with chemotherapy was compared 
with chemotherapy alone. Patients who received Opdivo and chemotherapy lived on average 8 months 
without their disease getting worse and 14 months overall. This compares with 6 months and 11 
months respectively for patients who received chemotherapy only. 
What are the risks associated with Opdivo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Opdivo, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with Opdivo on its own (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
include tiredness, pain in muscles and bones, diarrhoea, rash, cough, nausea (feeling sick), itching, 
decreased appetite, pain in the joints, constipation, difficulty breathing, pain in the abdomen, nose and 
throat infection, fever, headache, anaemia (low red blood cell counts) and vomiting. The safety profile 
in adolescents is comparable to that seen in adults. 
Opdivo is also commonly associated with side effects related to the activity of the immune system on 
body organs. Most will go away with appropriate treatment or on stopping Opdivo.  
Additional side effects may occur when Opdivo is used with other cancer medicines.  
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
Why is Opdivo authorised? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Opdivo has been shown to benefit patients with 
certain advanced cancers (melanoma, NSCLC, renal cell carcinoma, malignant pleural mesothelioma, 
cancer of the colon or rectum as well as certain types of gastric and oesophageal cancers). Opdivo is 
also effective in preventing the cancer from coming back after surgery in patients with melanoma, 
oesophageal cancer, cancers at the junction of the oesophagus and the stomach, and urothelial cancer.  
The medicine has also been shown to be effective in treating NSCLC before surgery, when the cancer 
produces PD-L1 and is at high risk of coming back. 
Melanoma in adolescents is similar to the disease in adults and Opdivo behaves in a similar way in 
adults and adolescents. Therefore, when used in adolescents to treat advanced melanoma or to 
prevent melanoma from coming back after surgery, Opdivo is expected to provide similar benefits to 
those seen in adults. 
Patients with urothelial cancer responded to treatment with Opdivo after other medical treatments had 
failed. For patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma, although studies involved only a small number of 
patients, high response rates were seen in these patients, in whom other treatments had failed and 
who had few other treatment options.  
Side effects with Opdivo are considered manageable with appropriate measures and are outweighed by 
the benefits. The Agency therefore decided that Opdivo’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Opdivo? 
The company will provide an alert card for patients with information on the risks of the medicine, as 
well as instructions on when to contact their doctor if they have symptoms of immune-related side 
effects. The company will also provide further data on the long-term benefits of Opdivo and carry out 
studies to identify which patients are most likely to benefit from treatment with the medicine. 
As it is not clear how much ipilimumab contributes to the benefits when given in combination with 
Opdivo in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, the company must conduct a study to 
determine contribution of ipilimumab and if the risks associated with ipilimumab can be further 
minimised.  
The company must also provide further data on the effectiveness of Opdivo from an ongoing study in 
patients with oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer, from an ongoing study in patients 
with urothelial cancer, and from an ongoing study in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and older 
with stage IIB or IIC melanoma. They must also provide further data on the effectiveness of Opdivo 
from an ongoing study in patients with NSCLC when the medicine is used before surgery.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Opdivo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Opdivo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Opdivo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Opdivo 
Opdivo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 June 2015. 
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
Further information on Opdivo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/opdivo.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2023.  
Opdivo (nivolumab)  
EMA/341712/2023  
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
