EMA/706008/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005481 
Opdualag (nivolumab / relatlimab) 
An overview of Opdualag and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Opdualag and what is it used for? 
Opdualag is a medicine used as a first-line treatment for melanoma (a type of skin cancer) that has 
spread or cannot be surgically removed. It is used for patients from 12 years of age whose cancer cells 
produce a low level (<1%) of a protein called PD-L1. 
Opdualag contains the active substances nivolumab and relatlimab.  
How is Opdualag used? 
Before starting treatment with Opdualag, the patient should have a test to show that their cancer cells 
produce low levels of PD-L1 (<1%).  
The medicine is given as an infusion into a vein over 30 minutes once every 4 weeks. Treatment 
should continue for as long as the patient benefits from it or does not have intolerable side effects. If 
certain side effects occur, the doctor may delay doses or stop treatment altogether. 
For more information about using Opdualag, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Opdualag work? 
The active substances in Opdualag, nivolumab and relatlimab, are monoclonal antibodies, proteins 
designed to attach to specific receptors (targets). 
Nivolumab attaches to a receptor called PD-1 on cells of the immune system called T cells. Cancer cells 
can produce proteins (PD-L1 and PD-L2) on their surface that attach to the PD-1 receptor and switch 
off the activity of the T cells, preventing them from attacking the cancer. By attaching to the receptor, 
nivolumab prevents PD-L1 and PD-L2 from switching off the T cells, thereby increasing the ability of 
the immune system to kill cancer cells. 
Relatlimab attaches to and blocks another receptor known as LAG-3. LAG-3 is involved in reducing the 
immune response By blocking LAG-3, relatlimab causes the activation of more T cells, thereby 
increasing the ability of the immune system to attack and kill the cancer cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Using nivolumab and relatlimab together is more effective at killing the cancer cells than using them 
alone. 
What benefits of Opdualag have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 714 patients with previously untreated advanced melanoma showed that 
Opdualag was effective at slowing the worsening of the disease in those patients whose cancer 
produced a low level amount of PD-L1.  
Patients with low levels of PD-L1 (<1%) who had Opdualag treatment lived for 6.7 months without 
their disease getting worse. This compares with 3 months for patients having treatment with 
nivolumab alone.  
What are the risks associated with Opdualag? 
The most common side effects with Opdualag (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
tiredness, pain in muscles and bones, rash, joint pain, diarrhoea, itching, headache, nausea, cough 
reduced appetite, hypothyroidism (an underactive thyroid gland), abdominal pain, vitiligo (white 
patches on the skin), fever, constipation, urinary tract infection (infection of the parts of the body that 
collect and pass out urine), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), and vomiting. 
The most common serious side effects are adrenal insufficiency (where the adrenal glands on top of 
the kidneys do not make enough of certain hormones), anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), back 
pain, colitis (inflammation in the large bowel), diarrhoea, myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle), 
pneumonia (infection of the lungs) and urinary tract infection. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Opdualag authorised in the EU? 
The main study showed that Opdualag was effective at slowing the worsening of the disease in those 
patients whose cancer produces a small amount of PD-L1 (<1%). Although there are more side effects 
with Opdualag than with nivolumab alone, the benefits in delaying worsening of the disease outweigh 
the risks in these patients. The European Medicines Agency therefore recommended authorising the 
medicine in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Opdualag? 
The company will provide a patient card with information on the risks of the medicine as well as 
instructions on when to contact their doctor if they have symptoms of immune-related side effects. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Opdualag have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Opdualag are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Opdualag are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Opdualag 
Opdualag received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2022. 
Opdualag (nivolumab / relatlimab)  
EMA/706008/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Opdualag can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/opdualag 
This overview was last updated in 09-2022. 
Opdualag (nivolumab / relatlimab)  
EMA/706008/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
