ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Opfolda 65 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains 65 mg of miglustat. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule 
Size 2 hard capsule (6.35x18.0 mm) with a grey opaque cap and white opaque body with “AT2221” 
printed in black on the body, containing white to off-white powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Opfolda (miglustat) is an enzyme stabiliser of cipaglucosidase alfa long-term enzyme replacement 
therapy in adults with late-onset Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase [GAA] deficiency). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients with Pompe 
disease or other inherited metabolic or neuromuscular diseases. 
Miglustat 65 mg hard capsules must be used in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa. The summary 
of product characteristics (SmPC) for cipaglucosidase alfa should be consulted before taking 
miglustat. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is to be taken orally every other week in adults aged 18 years and older and is 
based on body weight: 
•  For patients weighing ≥ 50 kg, the recommended dose is 260 mg (4 capsules of 65 mg). 
•  For patients weighing ≥ 40 kg to < 50 kg, the recommended dose is 195 mg (3 capsules of 65 mg). 
Miglustat 65 mg hard capsules should be taken approximately 1 hour but no more than 3 hours before 
the start of the cipaglucosidase alfa infusion.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Dose timeline 
* 
* Miglustat 65 mg hard capsules should be taken approximately 1 hour but no more than 3 hours before the start of the 
cipaglucosidase alfa infusion. 
Patient response to treatment should be routinely evaluated based on a comprehensive evaluation of all 
clinical manifestations of the disease. In case of an insufficient response or intolerable safety risks, 
discontinuation of miglustat 65 mg hard capsules in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa treatment 
should be considered. Both medicinal products should either be continued or discontinued. 
Missed dose 
If the miglustat dose is missed, treatment should occur as soon as possible. If it is not taken, do not 
start the cipaglucosidase alfa infusion. Cipaglucosidase alfa infusion can start 1 hour after miglustat is 
taken. 
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy have not been 
evaluated in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment. When administering every other week, 
increased plasma miglustat exposure as a result of moderate or severe renal or hepatic impairment is 
not expected to appreciably impact cipaglucosidase alfa exposures and is not anticipated to affect 
efficacy and safety of cipaglucosidase alfa in a clinically meaningful manner. No dose adjustment is 
required in patients with renal or hepatic impairment.  
Elderly 
There is limited experience with the use of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy 
in patients above the age of 65 years old. There is no dose adjustment required in elderly patients. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy in paediatric 
patients less than 18 years old have not yet been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Miglustat is for oral use. 
Miglustat hard capsule has a crimp to prevent opening the capsule shells, and should be swallowed 
whole and taken on an empty stomach. 
Patients should fast 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking miglustat 65 mg hard capsules (see 
section 5.2). During this 4-hour fasting period, water, fat-free (skimmed) cow’s milk, and tea or coffee 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with no cream, sugars, or sweeteners can be consumed. The patient can resume normal eating and 
drinking 2 hours after taking miglustat. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Contraindication to cipaglucosidase alfa. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Adverse drug reactions may occur upon the use of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa 
(see section 4.8). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed related to the use of miglustat. 
Food interaction 
Miglustat is known to have a direct effect on the enzymatic function of major disaccharidases of the 
intestinal epithelium. Specifically, miglustat inhibits disaccharidases with alpha-glycosidic linkages 
including sucrase, maltase, and isomaltase. The strength of potential interactions can immediately 
interfere with digestive activity of sucrose, maltose and isomaltose leading to maldigestion, osmotic 
influx of water, increased fermentation, and production of irritating metabolites. Patients should fast 
for 2 hours before and for 2 hours after taking miglustat. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Contraception in females 
Reliable contraceptive measures must be used by women of childbearing potential during treatment 
with miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa, and for 4 weeks after discontinuing treatment 
(see section 5.3). The medicinal product is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not 
using reliable contraception. 
Pregnancy 
There are no clinical data from the use of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa in 
pregnant women. Miglustat crosses the placenta. Animal studies with miglustat alone as well as in 
combination with cipaglucosidase alfa have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Miglustat in 
combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known if miglustat and cipaglucosidase alfa are secreted in human breast milk (see 
section 5.3). Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown 
secretion/excretion of miglustat and cipaglucosidase alfa in milk. A risk to new-borns/infants cannot 
be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain 
from miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.  
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on the effects of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy 
on fertility. Preclinical data in rats have shown that miglustat adversely affects sperm parameters 
(motility and morphology), thereby reducing fertility (see section 5.3). However, no effects on sperm 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration, motility, or morphology were seen in 7 healthy adult men who received miglustat 
100 mg, orally, twice daily for 6 weeks. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Miglustat has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive or to use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reaction only attributable to miglustat 65 mg was constipation 
(1.3%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The assessment of adverse reactions was informed by subjects treated with miglustat in combination 
with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy from the pooled safety analysis across the 3 clinical trials. The total 
mean duration of exposure was 17.2 months. 
Adverse reactions from the clinical trials are listed by MedDRA system organ class in Table 1.  
The corresponding frequency categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare 
(< 1/10 000), and not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Table 1: Summary of adverse reactions from clinical trials with miglustat-treated subjects 
System organ class (SOC) 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Very common  Headache 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorder 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction (preferred term) 
Hypersensitivity 
Tremor, dysgeusia 
Balance disorder, migraine4 
Tachycardia6 
Hypotension, pallor 
Dyspnoea 
Asthma 
Diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain1, flatulence, 
abdominal distension, vomiting, constipation† 
Abdominal discomfort†, oesophageal spasm, 
oral pain 
Urticaria3, rash2, pruritus, hyperhidrosis 
Skin discolouration 
Muscle spasms, myalgia, muscular weakness 
Arthralgia, flank pain, muscle fatigue, 
musculoskeletal stiffness 
Fatigue, pyrexia, chills 
Asthenia, facial pain, feeling jittery†, 
non-cardiac chest pain, peripheral swelling 
Blood pressure increased5 
Lymphocyte count decreased, platelet count 
decreased† 
† Reported with miglustat only 
1 Abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, and abdominal pain lower are grouped under abdominal pain. 
2 Rash and rash erythematous are grouped under rash. 
3 Urticaria, urticaria rash, and mechanical urticaria are grouped under urticaria. 
4 Migraine and migraine with aura are grouped under migraine. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Hypertension and blood pressure increased are grouped under blood pressure increased. 
6 Tachycardia and sinus tachycardia are grouped under tachycardia. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Leukopenia, granulocytopenia, neutropenia, dizziness, and paraesthesia have been observed in human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients receiving miglustat at a dosage of 800 mg/day or higher. 
Management 
In the event of an overdose, supportive medical care should be provided immediately. Full blood 
counts should be monitored for reduced white cells. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, various alimentary track 
and metabolism products. ATC Code: A16AX06 
Mechanism of action 
Miglustat is a pharmacokinetic enzyme stabiliser of cipaglucosidase alfa.  
Miglustat binds selectively with cipaglucosidase alfa in the blood during infusion; thereby stabilising 
the conformation of cipaglucosidase alfa and minimising the loss of enzyme activity while in 
circulation. This selective binding between cipaglucosidase alfa and miglustat is transient with 
disassociation occurring in the lysosome. Miglustat alone has no effect on glycogen reduction. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Opfolda in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of glycogen storage 
disease Type II (Pompe disease) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The rate of absorption (tmax) of miglustat was approximately 2 to 3 hours. At the clinical dose, 260 mg, 
plasma miglustat attained a Cmax of approximately 3000 ng/mL and an AUC0-∞ of approximately 
25,000 ng h/mL. 
Effect of food 
A significant food effect was observed and resulted in a decreased Cmax by 36% and delayed 
absorption by approximately 2 hours, see section 4.2. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
Miglustat is largely unmetabolised with < 5% of a radiolabeled dose recovered as glucuronides.  
Elimination 
The terminal elimination half-life was approximately 6 hours for miglustat. Oral clearance was 
approximately 10.5 L/h and terminal phase volume of distribution was approximately 90 L. 
Linearity 
Miglustat demonstrated dose proportional kinetics. 
Special populations 
Gender, elderly, and race/ethnicity 
Based on pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis, gender, age (18 to 74 years), and race/ethnicity 
did not have clinically meaningful effect on the exposure to miglustat in combination with 
cipaglucosidase alfa. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy have not been 
evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
The AUC0-24hr of miglustat increased by 21%, 32%, and 41% in patients with mild (creatinine 
clearance [CLcr] 60 to 89 mL/minute, estimated by Cockcroft-Gault), moderate (CLcr 30 to 59 
mL/minute), and severe (CLcr 15 to 29 mL/minute) renal impairment, respectively, compared to 
patients with normal renal function. The effect of end stage renal disease on the pharmacokinetics of 
miglustat is unknown.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, and mutagenicity.  
Carcinomas in the large intestine of mice occurred occasionally following oral treatment with 
miglustat at 210, 420 and 840/500 mg/kg/day for a period of 2 years. These doses correspond to 8, 16, 
and 33/19 times a human dose of 200 mg three times per day. The relevance of these findings to 
humans taking miglustat is unknown at the substantially lower studied doses at 195 to 260 mg every 
other week for Pompe disease.  
Infertility 
There was no effect of miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa therapy on spermatogenesis 
in animal studies; however, a decrease in sperm motility was observed in rats treated with miglustat in 
combination with cipaglucosidase alfa, which appeared to be associated with miglustat. 
In rats, miglustat administered orally at doses of 60 mg/kg/day and above resulted in seminiferous 
tubule and testicular atrophy/degeneration. Decreased spermatogenesis with altered sperm morphology 
and motility and decreased fertility were observed in rats orally dosed with miglustat 20 mg/kg/day 
oral gavage 14 days prior to mating with doses at exposures less than the human therapeutic systemic 
exposure based on body surface area comparisons (mg/m2). Decreased spermatogenesis was reversible 
in rats following 6 weeks of active substance withdrawal. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Animal toxicology and/or pharmacology 
In a segment I fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, pre-implantation loss was 
observed in the female fertility component of the study in both miglustat alone (60 mg/kg) and the 
combination treatment group (cipaglucosidase alfa 400 mg/kg with oral miglustat 60 mg/kg) and was 
considered miglustat-related. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Pregelatinised starch (maize) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460i) 
Sucralose (E955) 
Colloidal silicon dioxide 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Edible printing ink 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide (E525) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Shellac (E904) 
Strong ammonia solution (E527) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Bottles of 4 capsules: 2 years 
Bottles of 24 capsules: 3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
40 mL high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with 33 mm white child resistant polypropylene cap 
with label. Bottle opening is sealed with an induction sealed foil liner. 
Bottles of 4 and 24 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Block 1, Blanchardstown Corporate Park 
Ballycoolin Road 
Blanchardstown, Dublin  
D15 AKK1 
Ireland 
e-mail: info@amicusrx.co.uk 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1737/001 
EU/1/23/1737/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 June 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Manufacturing Packaging Farmaca 
Neptunus 12, Heerenveen, Netherlands, 8448CN 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
LABELLING 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Opfolda 65 mg hard capsules 
miglustat 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 65 mg of miglustat. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsule 
4 hard capsules 
24 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
ATTENTION: Only use Opfolda with cipaglucosidase alfa. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Block 1, Blanchardstown Corporate Park, 
Ballycoolin Road, Blanchardstown,  
Dublin D15 AKK1, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1737/001 4 hard capsules 
EU/1/23/1737/002 24 hard capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
opfolda 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Opfolda 65 mg hard capsules 
miglustat 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Oral use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Each hard capsule contains 65 mg of miglustat. 
4 hard capsules 
24 hard capsules 
6. 
OTHER 
ATTENTION: Only use Opfolda with cipaglucosidase alfa. 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Dublin D15 AKK1, Ireland 
EU/1/23/1737/001 4 hard capsules 
EU/1/23/1737/002 24 hard capsules 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Opfolda 65 mg hard capsules 
miglustat 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you take this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Opfolda is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Opfolda 
3.  How to take Opfolda 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Opfolda 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
1.  What Opfolda is and what it is used for 
What Opfolda is 
Opfolda is a medicine that is used in the treatment of late-onset Pompe disease in adults. This 
medicine contains the active substance ‘miglustat’. 
What it is used for 
Opfolda is always used with another medicine called ‘cipaglucosidase alfa’, a type of enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT). It is therefore very important that you also read the package leaflet of 
cipaglucosidase alfa.  
If you have any questions about your medicines, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
How Opfolda works 
People with Pompe disease have low levels of the enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA). This 
enzyme helps control levels of glycogen (a type of carbohydrate) in the body. 
In Pompe disease, high levels of glycogen build up in the muscles of the body. This keeps muscles, 
such as the muscles that help you walk, the muscles under the lungs that help you breathe, and the 
heart muscle, from working properly. 
Opfolda binds to cipaglucosidase alfa during treatment. This makes the shape of cipaglucosidase alfa 
more stable, so it can be more easily absorbed from the blood by the muscle cells that are affected by 
Pompe disease. When in the cells, cipaglucosidase alfa works like GAA to help break down glycogen 
and control its levels. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Opfolda 
Do not use Opfolda  
• 
• 
If you are allergic to miglustat or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you are allergic to cipaglucosidase alfa. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse before taking Opfolda. 
Look out for serious side effects 
Opfolda is used together with cipaglucosidase alfa, a type of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), so 
you should also read the package leaflet of cipaglucosidase alfa. These medicines can cause side 
effects that you need to tell your doctor about straight away. This includes allergic reactions. Signs of 
allergic reactions are listed in section 4 ‘Allergic reactions’. These can be severe and may happen 
when you are being given the medicine or during the hours after. 
Tell a doctor or nurse immediately if you are experiencing infusion-related or allergic reactions or 
think you may be experiencing them. Inform your doctor or nurse if you have ever had any such 
reaction with another ERT before you are given Opfolda.  
Children and adolescents 
This medicine should not be given to patients under the age of 18 years old. This is because the effects 
of Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa in this age group are not known. 
Other medicines and Opfolda 
Tell a doctor or nurse if you are using, have recently used, or will be using any other medicines. This 
includes medicines obtained without a prescription, including herbal medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, do 
not take this medicine but talk to your doctor or pharmacist immediately for advice.  
There is no experience with the use of Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa during 
pregnancy. Your doctor will discuss with you the risks and benefits of taking these medicines. 
•  Do not take Opfolda or receive cipaglucosidase alfa if you are pregnant. Be sure to tell your doctor 
immediately if you get pregnant, think that you may be pregnant, or if you are planning to become 
pregnant. There may be risks to the unborn baby. 
•  Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa should not be given to women who are 
breast-feeding. A decision will need to be made whether to stop treatment or to stop 
breast-feeding. 
Contraception and fertility 
It is advised that female patients must use reliable birth control methods prior to, while using these 
medicines, and for 4 weeks after stopping both medicines. 
Driving and using machines 
Opfolda has no or negligible influence on your ability to drive or use machines. You should also read 
the package leaflet of cipaglucosidase alfa, as that medicine may have an impact. 
3.  How to take Opfolda 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure how the medicine should be used. 
How much Opfolda to take 
•  Opfolda (miglustat) capsules must be used with cipaglucosidase alfa. See also the package leaflet 
of cipaglucosidase alfa. 
If you weigh 50 kg or more, the recommended dose is 4 capsules containing each 65 mg of 
miglustat. 
If you weigh between 40 kg and 50 kg, the recommended dose is 3 capsules. 
• 
• 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How often to take Opfolda 
•  You will receive Opfolda and cipaglucosidase alfa once every other week. Both are used on the 
same day. 
•  Take both medicines exactly as you have been told to by your doctor, see Figure 1. This is so your 
treatment can work as well as possible. 
Opfolda with food 
You must take Opfolda by mouth on an empty stomach. 
•  Fast for 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking this medicine. 
•  During this 4-hour fasting period, water, fat-free (skimmed) cow’s milk, and tea or coffee can be 
consumed. Do not use cream, whole/semi-skimmed cow’s milk, non-dairy milks, sugar, or 
sweeteners. You can have fat-free (skimmed) cow’s milk with your tea or coffee. 
•  Two hours after taking Opfolda, you can resume normal eating and drinking. 
Figure 1. Dose timeline 
* 
* Miglustat 65 mg hard capsules should be taken approximately 1 hour but no more than 3 hours before the start of the 
cipaglucosidase alfa infusion. 
Switching from another enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) 
If you are currently being treated with another ERT: 
•  Your doctor will tell you when to stop the other ERT before starting Opfolda. 
•  Tell your doctor when you completed your last dose. 
If you take more Opfolda than you should 
Tell your doctor immediately or go to the hospital if you accidentally take more capsules than you 
were prescribed. You may be at increased risk of experiencing side effects with this medicine (see 
section 4). Your doctor will provide appropriate supportive care. 
If you forget to take Opfolda 
If you miss a dose of Opfolda, please speak to your doctor or nurse. Contact your doctor or nurse 
immediately to reschedule miglustat in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa as soon as possible.  
If you stop taking Opfolda 
Speak to your doctor if you wish to stop Opfolda treatment. The symptoms of your disease may 
worsen if you stop treatment. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Opfolda is used with cipaglucosidase alfa, and side effects can occur with either of these medicines. 
The following side effects may occur: 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions may include symptoms such as rash anywhere on the body, puffy eyes, prolonged 
difficulty breathing, cough, swelling of the lip, tongue, or throat, itchy skin, and hives. 
Tell a doctor or nurse immediately if you are experiencing or think you may be experiencing allergic 
reactions. Inform your doctor or nurse if you have ever had any such reaction. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•  Headache 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
•  Shortness of breath (dyspnoea) 
•  Sudden reddening of the face, neck, or upper chest 
•  Rise in blood pressure 
•  Stomach pain  
•  Bloating 
•  Passing gas or wind 
•  Loose, runny stools 
•  Trouble passing stools 
•  Vomiting 
•  Fatigue 
•  Nausea 
•  Fever 
•  Very itchy hives (urticaria) 
• 
•  Chills 
•  Muscle cramps, muscle pain, muscle weakness  
• 
• 
•  Pain 
•  Altered sense of taste 
Involuntary shaking of one or more parts of the body 
Increased sweating 
Itchy rash, wanting to scratch (pruritis) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
•  Asthma 
•  Allergic reaction 
•  Uneasy stomach 
• 
Indigestion 
•  Sore or irritated throat 
•  Painful and abnormal contractions of the throat 
•  Feeling of uneasiness, overall feeling of being sluggish 
•  Feeling jittery 
•  Swelling in the hands, feet, ankles, legs 
•  Constant feeling of being tired 
•  Unusual paleness of the skin 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Low blood pressure 
•  Decrease in platelets or a type of white blood cell – shown in tests 
•  Pain in joints 
•  Pain in the area between the hip and rib 
•  Muscle fatigue 
• 
•  Feeling drowsy 
•  Pain in one or both sides of the head, throbbing pain, aura, eye pain, sensitivity to light (migraine) 
•  Skin discolouration 
•  Balance disorder  
Increased rigidity of muscles 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Opfolda 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and carton after the letters 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last date of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines that you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Opfolda contains 
•  The active substance is miglustat. Each hard capsule contains 65 mg of miglustat. 
•  The other ingredients are: 
Capsule contents 
Pregelatinised starch (maize) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460i) 
Sucralose (E955) 
Colloidal silicon dioxide 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Edible printing ink 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide (E525) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Strong ammonia solution (E527) 
Shellac (E904) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Opfolda looks like and contents of the pack 
Bottles of 4 and 24 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Size 2 hard capsule with a grey opaque cap and white opaque body with “AT2221” printed in black on 
the body, containing white to off-white powder. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Block 1, Blanchardstown Corporate Park 
Ballycoolin Road 
Blanchardstown, Dublin 
D15 AKK1 
Ireland 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 588 0836 
Fax: +353 (0) 1 588 6851 
e-mail: info@amicusrx.co.uk 
Manufacturer 
Manufacturing Packaging Farmaca (MPF) B.V. 
Neptunus 12, Heerenveen, 8448CN, Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tél/Tel: (+32) 0800 89172 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
България 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Teл.: (+359) 00800 111 3214 
имейл: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Česká republika 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel.: (+420) 800 142 207 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Danmark 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tlf.: (+45) 80 253 262 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Deutschland 
Amicus Therapeutics GmbH 
Tel: (+49) 0800 000 2038 
E-Mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Lietuva 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel: (+370) 8800 33167 
El. paštas: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tél/Tel: (+352) 800 27003 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Magyarország 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel.: (+36) 06 800 21202 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Malta 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel: (+356) 800 62674 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Nederland 
Amicus Therapeutics BV 
Tel: (+31) 0800 022 8399 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel: (+372) 800 0111 911 
e-post: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Ελλάδα 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Τηλ: (+30) 00800 126 169 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
España 
Amicus Therapeutics S.L.U. 
Tel: (+34) 900 941 616  
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
France 
Amicus Therapeutics SAS 
Tél: (+33) 0 800 906 788 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Hrvatska 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel: (+358) 0800 222 452 
e-pošta: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Ireland 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel: (+353) 1800 936 230 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Ísland 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Sími: (+354) 800 7634 
Netfang: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Italia 
Amicus Therapeutics S.r.l. 
Tel: (+39) 800 795 572 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Κύπρος 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Τηλ: (+357) 800 97595 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Latvija 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel: (+371) 800 05391 
e-pasts: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Norge 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tlf: (+47) 800 13837 
e-post: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Österreich 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel: (+43) 0800 909 639 
E-Mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Polska 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited  
Tel.: (+48) 0080 012 15475 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Portugal 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel: (+351) 800 812 531 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
România 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel.: (+40) 0808 034 288 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Slovenija 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel.: (+386) 0800 81794 
e-pošta: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Slovenská republika 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tel: (+421) 0800 002 437 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Puh/Tel: (+358) 0800 917 780 
sähköposti/e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
Sverige 
Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited 
Tfn: (+46) 020 795 493 
e-post: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Amicus Therapeutics, UK Limited  
Tel: (+44) 08 0823 46864 
e-mail: MedInfo@amicusrx.com 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
25 
 
 
