Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Opfolda (miglustat) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Opfolda. The RMP details important 
risks of Opfolda, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about miglustat’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Opfolda’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Opfolda should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Opfolda should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Opfolda‘s 
RMP. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
I. 
Opfolda is authorised for use in the treatment of late-onset Pompe disease in adults. Opfolda is 
always used with another medicine called “Pombiliti” (cipaglucosidase alfa), a type of enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT). Pombiliti is given as an intravenous infusion and Opfolda is given 
orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Opfolda’s benefits can be found in Opfolda’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/opfolda. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Opfolda, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Opfolda‘s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size -- the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status -- the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that 
 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Opfolda is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Opfolda are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Opfolda. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
•  None 
•  None 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnant and lactating women  
•  Long-term use (> 24 months) 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Missing information: Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.6 and 5.3; 
•  PL Section 2; 
•  Recommendations regarding use in pregnant women and use in breastfeeding women 
are provided in the SmPC (Section 4.6) and PL (Section 2); 
•  As stated in the SmPC (Section 4.6) and PL (Section 2), female patients of 
childbearing potential are advised to maintain reliable contraceptive methods prior, 
during, and for 4 weeks after stopping Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase 
alfa; 
•  As stated in the PL (Section 2), Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa 
should not be used during pregnancy, and patients are instructed to tell their doctor if 
they are pregnant, may be pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant; 
•  As stated in the PL (Section 2), Opfolda in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa 
should not be used in breastfeeding women, and patients are instructed to tell their 
doctor if they are breastfeeding. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
•  Prescription only. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Prospective observational registry. 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation development 
plan. 
Abbreviations: PL = package leaflet; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Missing information: Long-term use (> 24 months) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  None. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
•  Prescription only. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  ATB200-02; 
•  ATB200-07; 
•  Prospective observational registry. 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation development 
plan. 
II.C 
II.C.1 
Post-authorisation development plan 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable. 
 
II.C.2 
Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
Study name 
Purpose of the study 
ATB200-02 – A Phase 1/2 open-label, 
fixed-sequence, ascending-dose, first-
in-human study to assess the safety, 
tolerability, PK, pharmacodynamics, 
and efficacy of intravenous infusions 
of cipaglucosidase alfa co-administered 
with oral miglustat in adult subjects 
with Pompe disease 
ATB200-07 – A Phase 3, open-label 
extension study to assess the long-term 
safety and efficacy of intravenous 
cipaglucosidase alfa co-administered 
with oral miglustat in adult subjects 
with late-onset Pompe disease 
Prospective observational registry – A 
prospective observational registry of 
patients with Pompe disease 
Objectives from the open-label extension portions of the study (ie, 
Stage 3 and Stage 4) include evaluations of long-term efficacy, safety, 
and tolerability of cipaglucosidase alfa/miglustat in all subjects from 
Stage 3. This study will help to characterise the impact of the missing 
information of Long-term use (> 24 months) on the safety profile of 
miglustat. 
The primary objective is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability 
of cipaglucosidase alfa/miglustat. Secondary objectives include 
assessments of long-term efficacy (as measured by various 
parameters), long-term effect on biomarkers of muscle injury and 
disease substrate, and immunogenicity. This study will help to 
characterise the impact of the missing information of Long-term use 
(> 24 months) on the safety profile of miglustat 
The goal of the registry is to assess long-term safety and effectiveness 
of Pompe disease treatments in patients with late-onset Pompe disease 
(LOPD) and infantile-onset Pompe disease (IOPD). Eligible patients 
include those who are currently receiving a medical therapy for Pompe 
disease (regardless of dose/dosing frequency) and those who are not 
currently receiving any medical therapy for Pompe disease. The 
objectives are to evaluate long-term safety of Pompe disease treatments 
through collection of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events 
(SAEs) occurring in patients with Pompe disease, including infusion-
associated reactions (IARs), hypersensitivity reactions (including 
anaphylaxis), immune complex related reactions, and pregnancy 
exposures; to evaluate long-term real-world effectiveness of Pompe 
disease treatments through collection of functional outcomes 
assessments; to evaluate long-term real-world impact of Pompe disease 
treatments on quality of life (QOL) using patient reported outcome 
measures. This study will help to characterise the impact of the missing 
information of Use in pregnant and lactating women and Long-term 
use (> 24 months) on the safety profile of cipaglucosidase alfa and 
miglustat, and to help better characterise the important risks for 
cipaglucosidase alfa associated with IARs, hypersensitivity, 
anaphylaxis, immune complex related reactions, and medication errors 
in the home infusion setting. 
 
