European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/H/A-5.3/1172  
Ref. EMEA/CHMP/278838/2009 
OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE 
PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 5(3) OF REGULATION (EC) No 726/2004, ON  
Novel Influenza (H1N1) outbreak 
Tamiflu (oseltamivir) 
Relenza (zanamivir) 
Basis for opinion 
On  30  April  2009,  the  EMEA  requested  the  CHMP  to  give  an  opinion  under  Article  5(3)  of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on the use of Tamiflu and Relenza in specific populations, as a result of 
the outbreak of the novel influenza A (H1N1).  
Specifically, the Committee was requested to provide advice on the following four issues:   
1.  The  potential  usability  of  Tamiflu  (oseltamivir)  capsules  already  on  the  market  in  the  EU  for 
which the expiry date has already passed, taking into account  
- The outcome of the ongoing variation procedure to extend the shelf-life from 5 to 7 years, and 
- The  exceptional  potential  health  implications  that  may  result  from  a  shortage  of  Tamiflu 
available in the EU.  
Such recommendation should also elaborate on the conditions to be fulfilled, e.g. in terms of the 
storage conditions to be adhered to. The CHMP should also consider whether it is in a position to 
provide a recommendation regarding the usability of oseltamivir bulk over the extended period. 
2.  The appropriateness of administering Tamiflu (oseltamivir) to children younger than 1 year of age 
to treat or prevent the novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. If appropriate, the CHMP 
should make dosing recommendations. 
3.  The  use  of  Tamiflu  (oseltamivir)  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the  novel 
Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic, 
4.  The  use  of  Relenza  (zanamivir)  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the  novel 
Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. 
On  the  basis  of  the  request  made  by  the  EMEA,  the  CHMP  considered  that  there  were  sufficient 
grounds to start the procedure.  
The procedure started on 30 April 2009. 
Opinion 
The CHMP, having considered the matter as set out in the appended assessment report (Appendix 1), 
reviewed the available evidence and came to the conclusion that: 
Due  to  the  public  health  emergency  linked  to  the  current  risk  of  pandemic  influenza,  and  based  on 
data made available regarding the stability of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir) 30mg, 45mg and 75mg capsules 
for an additional period of 2 years, the CHMP recommends that boxes of Tamiflu capsules should not 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20)  74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be  discarded  where  the  expiry  date  has  already  passed.    For  these  batches  an  updated  expiry  date 
should be determined by adding a further period of 2 years to the stated expiry date.  
The conditions of storage play a role in the stability of medicinal products.  It is of great importance 
that these boxes have always been kept and remains stored below 25oC. 
It  is  acknowledged  that  limited  data  are  available  supporting  the  use  of  Tamiflu  in  children  below 
1 year of age. However considering the urgent need for recommendations to treat this population in 
case  of  a pandemic influenza is declared by the WHO in the context of the Novel influenza A 
(H1N1) outbreak, the CHMP recommends: 
1. To treat children below 1 year of age with Tamiflu. 
2. The appropriate dosage to treat children below 1 year of age is 2-3mg/kg twice daily during 5 days. 
3. The post-exposure prophylaxis of children below 1 year of age should be very carefully considered 
by prescribers. If it is decided to prescribe Tamiflu to prevent influenza for children below 1 year of 
age who have been exposed to the virus, the appropriate dose should be 2-3mg/kg once a day during 
10 days. 
4. The paediatric suspension or dilution of the capsules of Tamiflu can be used to prepare the dose in 
children below 1 year of age. 
5.  Children  below  1  year  of  age  should  be  treated  under  medical  supervision.  However  in  case  of 
pandemic influenza, this recommendation could potentially place huge burden on hospital resources 
and  therefore,  the  CHMP  strongly  recommends  that  at  least  children  below  3 months  of  age  are 
treated under medical supervision in hospital. 
This review seems to show that no new safety risks to foetus are connected to the use of Tamiflu in 
pregnant women. At the moment the statement in section 4.6. of the SPC “Oseltamivir should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  potential  benefit  to  the  mother  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the 
foetus.” remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
However,  the  overall  data  suggest  that  the  benefit  of  using  Tamiflu  in  pregnant  or  breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
At  the  moment  the  statement  in  section  4.6.  of  the  SPC  “Relenza  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy 
unless  the  expected  benefit  to  the  mother  is  thought  to  outweigh  any  possible  risk  to  the  foetus.” 
remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
Zanamivir has in animal studies been shown to cross the placenta and to be secreted in breast milk. 
The non-clinical data are not indicative of any relevant cause for concerns regarding the safe use of 
Relenza at recommended doses. 
Taken together the overall data suggest that the benefit of using Relenza in pregnant or breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
The Icelandic and the Norwegian CHMP members agree with the above-mentioned recommendation 
of the CHMP.  
This  opinion  is  forwarded  all  Member  States,  Iceland,  Norway  and  to  the  European  Commission 
together with its appendix.  
The opinion will be published on the EMEA website with its appendix. 
London, 7 May 2009 
On behalf of the CHMP 
Dr Eric Abadie, Chairman
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
CHMP Assessment Report on Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for Tamiflu 
(oseltamivir) and Relenza (zanamivir )in the context of the Novel Influenza (H1N1) outbreak, 
dated 7 May 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
