17 August 2017 
EMA/792503/2017 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Opsumit  
macitentan 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002697/P46/006 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 17 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 31st May, the MAH submitted the final clinical study report for AC-055-305 study (MAESTRO), in 
accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that  MAESTRO (AC-055-305) is a stand alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
No  paediatric  formulation  was  used  and  all  subjects  in  this  study  received  the  commercially  available 
adult formulation 10 mg film-coated tablets. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Macitentan is an orally active endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA), active on both endothelin (ET) ETA 
and ETB receptors.  
It  was  approved  under  the  brand  name  Opsumit®  in  December  2013,  based  on  data  generated  in  a 
long-term Phase 3 study (AC-055-302, SERAPHIN) with a morbidity/mortality primary endpoint in the  
following indication: 
Opsumit, as monotherapy or in combination, is indicated for the long-term treatment of PAH in adult 
patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III. 
Efficacy  has  been  shown  in  a  PAH  population  including  idiopathic  and  heritable  PAH,  PAH  associated 
with  connective  tissue  disorders,  and  PAH  associated  with  corrected  simple  congenital  heart  disease 
(see section 5.1). 
Eisenmenger  syndrome  (ES)  is  part  of  Group  1  pulmonary  hypertension  (PH)  and  is  a  progressive, 
multi-organ  disorder  with  high  morbidity  and  mortality  that  represents  the  most  advanced  form  and 
end-stage of congenital heart disease (CHD)-associated PAH.  
In general, ES is characterized by the complete or partial reversal of an initial long-standing systemic-
to-pulmonary cardiac shunt that induces an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and eventually 
progresses into a cyanotic pulmonary-to-systemic shunt. 
As such, although the cardiac defect is present at birth, ES usually presents later in life, either before 
puberty or in early adulthood, as the existing alterations of the normal physiology of the heart lead to 
maladaptive responses that develop over time. The risk for developing ES appears to be determined by 
the size of the initial systemic-to-pulmonary shunt and the volume of pulmonary blood flow, as well as 
the  type  of  cardiac  defect.  ES  is  a  heterogeneous  disease,  resulting  from  a  range  of  congenital  heart 
defects characterized by elevated pulmonary arterial pressure and right to-left shunting with cyanosis. 
Subjects with ES were excluded from the SERAPHIN study in PAH which only allowed simple congenital 
systemic-to-pulmonary  shunts  at  least  1  year  post-surgical  repair.    In  order  to  demonstrate  that 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
macitentan  improves  exercise  capacity  in  an  ES  population,  a  dedicated  Phase  3  study,  AC-055-
305/MAESTRO,  was  conducted  in  subjects  with  ES.  As  the  underlying  congenital  heart  lesion(s)  drive 
the progression of ES, the study was open to subjects aged 12 years of age and older to allow for the 
inclusion of these subjects when ES physiology first manifests, or early in the course of their disease. 
Patients  with  Down’s  Syndrome  (DS)  represent  an  important  subset  in  the  ES  population.  These 
subjects  tend  to  have  a  higher  incidence  of  complex  cardiac  defects  that  are  most  commonly 
associated with PAH, and in particular, ES.   
Given  15  adolescents  were  randomized  into  the  MAESTRO  study,  the  study  data  are  therefore  being 
submitted  for  review  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA),  in  accordance  with  Article  46  of 
Regulation  (EC)  No.  1901/2006.  The  MAESTRO  study  was  not  part  of  the  macitentan  Paediatric 
Investigation Plan agreed upon for the PAH indication. 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
AC-055-305, MAESTRO (MAcitentan in Eisenmenger Syndrome To RestOre exercise capacity).  
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
AC-055-305, MAESTRO (MAcitentan in Eisenmenger Syndrome To RestOre 
exercise capacity) 
Description 
A multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, Phase 3 study to evaluate 
the effects of macitentan on exercise capacity in subjects with Eisenmenger Syndrome. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective was to demonstrate that macitentan improves exercise capacity in comparison 
to placebo in subjects with ES. 
The secondary objectives were to evaluate the effects of macitentan in comparison to placebo on: 
• WHO FC, 
• Dyspnea (assessed by the Borg dyspnea index), 
• Quality of Life (QoL; assessed by the Short-Form 36 [SF-36] questionnaire). 
The exploratory objectives were: 
• To evaluate the effects of macitentan in comparison to placebo on: 
− Systemic oxygen saturation, 
− N-terminal pro-B type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) and potential additional biomarkers, 
− Hemodynamic parameters (in a subset of subjects). 
• To evaluate the safety and tolerability of macitentan in this subject population. 
Study design 
This was a prospective, multi-center, double-blind (DB), randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group 
Phase 3 study that evaluated the efficacy, safety and tolerability of macitentan 10 mg versus placebo 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
administered for 16 weeks in subjects with ES. At selected specialized sites, eligible subjects could opt 
to  participate  in  a  hemodynamic  sub-study  that  assessed  hemodynamic  exploratory  endpoints  by 
cardiac catheterization. 
Subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either macitentan 10 mg or placebo. Subjects were 
initially  stratified  by  location  of  cardiac  defect  (isolated  atrial  septal  defect  [ASD]  or  combined 
ASD/VSD [ventricular septal defect], with VSD ≤ 1 cm in diameter and ASD > 2 cm in diameter, versus 
isolated  VSD  or  combined  ASD/VSD,  with  VSD  >  1  cm  in  diameter  regardless  of  the  size  of  the  ASD 
defect)  and  participation  in  the  hemodynamic  sub-study  (yes/no).  Following  Protocol  Amendment  2, 
subject  allocation  to  treatment  groups  was  stratified  by  WHO  functional  class  (FC;  I  versus  III/IV), 
presence of Down Syndrome (DS) (yes/no), and participation in the hemodynamic sub-study (yes/no). 
The study included the following periods: 
Screening period: The Screening period lasted a maximum of 30 days from Visit 1 up to Randomization 
(Visit 2). 
Treatment  period:  At  Visit  2  (Day  1),  eligible  subjects  were  randomized  to  receive  the  first  dose  of 
study  treatment.  The  treatment  period  lasted  up  to  Week  16  (End-of-Treatment  [EOT],  Visit  6),  or 
finished  earlier  in  case  of  premature  discontinuation  of  study  treatment  (premature  EOT).  Regular 
scheduled assessments were performed every 4 weeks during the 16-week treatment period.  
After premature study treatment discontinuation period: Subjects who prematurely discontinued study 
treatment (i.e., prior to Week 16) were required to perform a premature EOT visit (Visit 6) as soon as 
possible  and,  whenever  possible,  no  later  than  7  days  after  the  last  dose  of  study  treatment,  and 
thereafter a Week 16 visit (Visit 6a). Subjects who completed the 16-week DB treatment were eligible 
to enter an open-label (OL), non-comparative extension study (AC-055-308) comprised of a single 10 
mg  macitentan  arm.  Subjects  who  prematurely  discontinued  DB  treatment  and  had  performed  the 
Week  16  visit  (Visit  6a)  were  also  eligible  to  enter  the  OL  extension  study,  unless  they  had 
discontinued  study  treatment  due  to  elevated  liver  tests  (LTs)  or  an  adverse  event  (AE)  that  was 
considered related to study treatment. 
Safety  follow-up  period:  A  30-day  Safety  follow-up  was  performed  for  all  subjects  who  did  not  enter 
the OL extension study (irrespective of whether or not study treatment was prematurely discontinued), 
as  well  as  for  subjects  who  entered  the  OL  extension  study  after  prematurely  discontinuing  study 
treatment,  if  the  30-day  follow-up  period  concluded  prior  to  initiation  of  OL  study  treatment.  Safety 
data collected included AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), serum pregnancy  test, LT evaluation and 
changes in concomitant medications. 
For subjects who entered the OL extension study, new AEs/SAEs after initiation of OL study treatment 
were reported and followed up in the OL extension study. 
End-of-Study (EOS): The EOS for an individual subject corresponded to the last visit performed in the 
DB study.  
A Study Steering Committee was involved in the design of the study, provided guidance on the study 
conduct  as  needed,  and  reviewed  relevant  screening  data  in  order  to  corroborate  the  anatomic 
diagnosis of ES and confirm subject eligibility (both for the main study and sub-study) before a subject 
was randomized. 
An independent Data Monitoring Committee reviewed blinded and/or unblinded data on a regular basis 
during the study to ensure subject safety. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
Study population /Sample size 
It was planned to randomize a total of 220 subjects in the overall study. A total of 226 subjects were 
actually  randomized  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  macitentan  10  mg  (n=114)  and  placebo  (n=112),  of  which  39 
subjects (20 macitentan and 19 placebo) participated in the hemodynamic sub-study. 
Key inclusion and exclusion criteria included: 
•  Males and females ≥ 12 years of age with ES, including subjects with DS were enrolled. Enrollment 
into  the  exploratory  hemodynamic  sub-study  was  restricted  to  males  and  females  ≥  18  years  of 
age, and subjects with DS were excluded from that sub-study. 
•  All subjects were required to have a confirmed diagnosis of ES (according to the European Society 
of Cardiology and European Respiratory Society Guidelines): 
(a) Established by echocardiography as: 
−  Large  congenital  shunting  defect  at  atrial,  ventricular  or  arterial  level  (ASD,  VSD,  partial  or 
complete  atrioventricular  septal  defect  [AVSD],  patent  ductus  arteriosus  [PDA],  aortopulmonary 
[AP]  window,  total  anomalous  pulmonary  venous  return  [TAPVR],  and  partial  anomalous 
pulmonary venous return [PAPVR]; in isolation or combination); and 
− Right-to-left shunt or bi-directional shunt with prevalent right-to-left direction. 
The  defects  could  be  either  unoperated  or  previously  palliated  surgically  (provided  significant 
residual defect remained). 
(b)  Additionally,  resting  peripheral  oxygen  saturation  (SpO2)  was  to  be ≤  90%  and  >70%  during 
Screening. 
•  Subjects  were  required  to  have  met  the  following  catheterization  criteria,  with  the  cardiac 
catheterization performed within 5 years prior to Randomization or during the Screening period in 
the main study, and within 30 days prior to Randomization in the hemodynamic sub-study: 
− Mean resting pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) > 25 mmHg 
−  Pulmonary  capillary  wedge  pressure  (PCWP),  or  mean  left  atrial  pressure  (mLAP),  or  left 
ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) ≤ 15 mmHg 
− Pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) ≥ 800 dyn∙s/cm5 or ≥ 10 Wood units 
•  Specific dispositions for confirming ES during Screening by alternative procedures (limited central 
venous catheterization and advanced cardiac imaging), if needed, were made for subjects with DS 
(except  those  with  arterial  defects  as  the  sole  shunt  lesions  [PDA,  AP  window]  and/or  TAPVR, 
PAPVR). 
•  Subjects with WHO FC ≥ II were included. 
•  Subjects  were  required  to  reliably  perform  the  6-minute  walk  test  (6MWT:  minimum  50  m  and 
maximum 450 m). 
•  Subjects were excluded if they had: 
− Known moderate-to-severe restrictive (i.e., total lung capacity [TLC] < 60% of predicted value) 
or obstructive (i.e., forced expiratory volume in one second [FEV1] < 80% of predicted value, and 
FEV1 / forced vital capacity [FVC] < 70%) lung disease 
− Significant left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction < 45%) 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
 
− Iron deficiency, defined as serum ferritin < 10 μg/L 
−  Treatment  with  endothelin  receptor  antagonists  (ERAs)  or  prostanoids  within  1  month  prior  to 
Randomization 
− Initiated a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor within 1 month prior to Randomization, or if the 
PDE-5 inhibitor dose had not been stable within 1 month prior to Randomization 
−  Initiated  diuretics  within  1  week  prior  to  Randomization  or  if  their  diuretic  treatment  had  not 
been stable within 1 week prior to Randomization 
−  Planned  to  have  treatment,  or  had  treatment  with  another  investigational  drug  within  1  month 
prior to Randomization 
Treatments 
The investigational treatment was macitentan 10 mg film-coated tablets, administered orally once daily 
in the morning . 
Placebo  was  provided  as  film-coated  tablets  that  were  indistinguishable  in  appearance  to  the 
macitentan tablets. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
Change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  exercise  capacity,  as  measured  by  the  6-minute  walk  distance 
(6MWD) 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Change from baseline to Week 16 in: 
– WHO FC 
– Dyspnea (assessed by the Borg dyspnea index) 
– QoL (assessed by the SF-36 questionnaire) 
Exploratory efficacy endpoints 
Main study 
• Percent of baseline NT-pro-BNP at EOT 
•  Change  from  baseline  to  Week  8  and  Week  16  in  systemic  oxygen  saturation,  assessed  by  pulse 
oximetry: SpO2 at rest before the 6MWT and 0, 1 and 2 min after the end of the 6MWT 
• Change from baseline to Week 8 and Week 16 in heart rate (HR) recovery (HRR) at 1 and 2 min post 
6MWT (HRR 1= HR0 min post6MWT − HR 1 min post 6MWT; HRR 2= HR0 min post 6MWT − HR 2 min 
post 6MWT) 
Sub-study 
• Percent of baseline indexed pulmonary vascular resistance (PVRi) at Week 16 
• Change from baseline to Week 16 in other cardiac hemodynamic parameters: 
− mPAP 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
− mean right atrial pressure (mRAP) 
− Indexed pulmonary blood flow / indexed systemic blood flow (Qpi/Qsi) 
− Systemic vascular resistance index (SVRi) 
− PVRi/SVRi 
Safety 
•  Decrease  in  SpO2>10%  at  rest  at  any  time  from  baseline  up  to  30  days  after  study  treatment 
discontinuation 
• Treatment-emergent AEs up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation 
• AEs leading to premature discontinuation of study treatment 
• Deaths up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation 
• Treatment-emergent SAEs up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation 
• Treatment-emergent AEs of special interest up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation 
•  Treatment-emergent  marked  laboratory  abnormalities  (MLA)  up  to  30  days  after  study  treatment 
discontinuation 
• Change from baseline up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation in laboratory parameters 
• Treatment-emergent ALT and/or AST abnormality (> 3 and ≤ 5 × ULN; > 5 and ≤ 8 × ULN; > 8 × 
ULN)  associated  or  not  with  total  bilirubin  >  2  ×   ULN,  up  to  30  days  after  study  treatment 
discontinuation 
•  Additional  treatment-emergent  hemoglobin  laboratory  abnormalities  up  to  30  days  after  study 
treatment discontinuation 
•  Change  from  baseline  up  to  30  days  after  study  treatment  discontinuation  in  vital  signs  (arterial 
blood pressure, HR) and body weight 
• Change from baseline up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation in ECG variables 
• Treatment-emergent ECG abnormalities up to 30 days after study treatment discontinuation 
This study was conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines. The main features are 
summarized in  
Table 1. 
Table 1 
MAESTRO study main characteristics 
AC-055-305 
(MAESTRO) 
Study objectives 
Primary objective: 
To demonstrate that 
macitentan improves exercise 
capacity (6MWD) in 
comparison to placebo in 
subjects with ES. 
Secondary objectives: 
to evaluate the effects of 
macitentan in comparison to 
placebo on: 
•  WHO FC,  
Patients screened/ 
Evaluable 
Screened: 
319 subjects  
Randomized: 
226 subjects 
Treated: 
226 subjects 
Evaluable efficacy: 
226 subjects 
Demographic 
characteristics 
Sex: 
76 male, 150 female 
Race: 
109 White, 
0 Black, 
94 Asian 23 Other.  
Age range: 
12-82 years 
Treatment/ 
dose 
Macitentan 10 
mg or . 
Placebo / o.d. 
Design/type of 
control/ blinding 
Double-blind 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study objectives 
Patients screened/ 
Evaluable 
Demographic 
characteristics 
Treatment/ 
dose 
Design/type of 
control/ blinding 
•  Dyspnoea (assessed by 
Borg dyspnoea index) 
•  Quality of Life (assessed 
Evaluable PK: 
n/a 
by the SF 36 
questionnaire) 
Evaluable safety: 
226 subjects 
6MWD = 6-minute walk distance; SF 36 = Short Form (36) Health Survey; WHO FC = World Health Organization functional 
class. 
Statistical Methods 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
The  null  hypothesis  was  that  there  was  no  difference  between  macitentan  and  placebo  for  the  mean 
change from baseline to Week 16 in 6MWD. 
The  main  analysis  was  performed  on  the  Full  analysis  set  (FAS),  i.e.,  all  randomized  subjects  in  the 
treatment group to which they were randomized and by imputing missing values at Week 16 according 
to pre-defined rules. The null hypothesis was tested by means of an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) 
and  rejected  upon  achieving  a  statistically  significant  difference  at  a  predefined  nominal  significance 
level  of  α  =  0.05  2-sided.  The  model  for  the  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  6MWD  included 
treatment, presence of DS (yes/no), WHO FC (II vs III/IV) as categorical factors, and baseline 6MWD 
value as covariate. 
The initial sample size estimation was based on the following assumptions: 
• Normal distribution of the primary endpoint, with a pooled standard deviation (SD) = 75 m 
•  Minimum  clinically  relevant  mean  treatment  difference  to  be  detected  =  35  m  (macitentan  vs 
placebo) 
• Two-sided type-I error of 5% and type-II error of 10% (i.e., power of 90%). 
A sample size of 98 subjects per treatment group has 90% power to detect a true treatment difference 
between macitentan and placebo of 35 m with a true SD for the primary endpoint of 75 m, based on a 
2-sided significance level of 5% using the Student t-test. 
It  was  planned  to  randomize  ca.  220  subjects  (110  per  treatment  arm),  allowing  for  approximately 
10% early drop-out. 
Given  the  uncertainty  of  the  variability  for  the  primary  endpoint  in  this  subject  population,  a  blinded 
sample size review was planned and performed to check the validity of the initial assumptions. Based 
on the results, it was recommended not to increase the sample size. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
To  control  for  multiplicity  across  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints,  it  was  planned  to 
analyze  secondary  endpoints  hierarchically  according  to  the  sequence  pre-specified  in  the  protocol, 
each at the same significance level that was used for the primary endpoint, i.e., 0.05 two-sided level, if 
the following conditions were met: 
•  The  predefined  nominal  significance  level  (p<α  two-sided)  was  reached  for  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint 
• The predefined nominal significance level (p<α two-sided) was reached for all the previous endpoints 
in the sequence. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The improvement from baseline to Week 16 in WHO FC was analyzed by means of a logistic regression 
model including treatment and location of cardiac defect as categorical factors. 
The  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  Borg  dyspnea  index  and  SF-36  scores  were  analyzed  by 
means of an  ANCOVA model including treatment and location of cardiac defect as categorical factors, 
and baseline index/score as covariate. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
In  the  MAESTRO  study,  a  total  of  319  subjects  were  screened,  of  whom  226  were  randomized  to 
macitentan 10 mg (n = 114) and placebo (n = 112). 
The  study  randomized  15  pediatric  subjects  aged  12  to  17  years,  13  of  whom  were  treated  with 
macitentan  10  mg  and  2  of  whom  were  treated  with  placebo.  Additionally,  all  pediatric  subjects 
completed  the  MAESTRO  study  and  enrolled  in  the  MAESTRO  OL  study.  The  baseline  disease 
characteristics for pediatric subjects are summarized in Table 5. There was only 1 pediatric patient with 
DS (included in the macitentan arm). 
Baseline data 
Demographics characteristics for subjects aged 12-17 years are summarized below: 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline disease characteristics are presented in the following table: 
Efficacy results 
The  primary  endpoint  of  MAESTRO  was  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  exercise  capacity,  as 
measured by 6-minute walk distance (6MWD). 
The  main  analysis  was  based  on  an  analysis  of  covariance  model  adjusted  for  randomized  treatment 
group, DS status, WHO FC at baseline, and baseline 6MWD as covariates. 
The  mean  (standard  deviation  [SD])  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  6MWD  in  the  overall 
population was an increase of 18.3 (84.4) m and 19.7 (53.0) m in the macitentan and placebo group, 
respectively.  The  least-square  (LS)  mean  difference  (95%  confidence  limits  [CL])  in  the  overall 
population between macitentan and placebo for the change  from baseline to  Week 16 was –4.7 m (-
22.8, 13.5); p = 0.612. The primary endpoint was therefore not met. 
To assess the robustness of the results when classifying subjects according to important demographic 
characteristics, the following post-hoc analyses of 6MWD by age categories were performed: 
−  Change from baseline to Week 16 by age categories 
−  Between-Treatment analysis of change from baseline to Week 16 by treatment within subgroups – 
Exploratory analysis: summary of treatment-by-subgroup interaction tests by age categories 
Forest plot of change from baseline to Week 16 – Exploratory subgroup analysis by age categories 
− 
The mean (SD) change from baseline to Week 16 in 6MWD in pediatric subjects was an increase of 
20.9 (34.9) m and 46.0 (35.4) m in the macitentan and placebo group, respectively [Table 2]. The LS 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mean difference (95% CL) between macitentan and placebo for the change from baseline to Week 16 
was –15.7 m (–110.3, 78.9); p = 0.744 [Table 3]. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No further efficacy analyses for the pediatric sub-set were performed. 
Safety results 
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  to  study  treatment  in  the  overall  population  (including/excluding 
interruptions) was approximately 16 weeks in the macitentan and placebo groups. 
The mean duration of exposure (including interruptions) to study treatment for pediatric subjects was 
approximately  16  weeks  (similar  to  the  overall  population)  and  was  similar  in  the  macitentan  and 
placebo groups [Table 8]. 
All 15 pediatric subjects completed 16 weeks of double-blind therapy and were subsequently enrolled 
in the open-label extension study (MAESTRO/AC-055-308), which is still ongoing. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of subjects aged 12–17 years with at least 1 treatment-emergent AE was 76.9% (n = 
10) in the macitentan group and 50% (n = 1) in the placebo group [Table 9]. 
These  rates  are  comparable  to  those  in  the  overall  MAESTRO  population  (66.7%  in  the  macitentan 
group and 62.5% in the placebo group [D-16.551, table 12-2]).  
All AEs in pediatric subjects were of mild or moderate intensity, whereas AEs of severe intensity were 
reported  for  3.5%  (n  =  4)  in  the  macitentan  group  and  2.7%  (n  =  3)  in  the  placebo  group  in  the 
overall  MAESTRO  population  .  AEs  that  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  drug-related  were 
reported for 38.5% (n = 5) pediatric subjects in the macitentan group and none in the placebo group. 
Allergic  rhinitis  and  sinus  arrhythmia  were  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs,  with  a  frequency  of 
15.4%  (n  =  2)  in  the  macitentan  group  [Table  10].  Dyspnea/exertional  dyspnea  was  reported  in  1 
pediatric  subject  in  each  of  the  macitentan  and  placebo  groups.  All  other  AEs  were  reported  in 
individual subjects in the macitentan group 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths 
There  were  no  deaths  in  pediatric  subjects,  whereas  1  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse  event 
(SAE) with fatal outcome was reported in an adult subject who received macitentan. 
Serious adverse events 
There were no SAEs in pediatric subjects during the 16 weeks of DB treatment in MAESTRO, whereas a 
total  of  9  adult  subjects,  7  (6.1%)  in  the  macitentan  group  and  2  (1.8%)  in  the  placebo  group, 
experienced at least 1 treatment-emergent SAE in the overall MAESTRO population . 
Adverse events leading to discontinuation of study treatment 
There were no AEs leading to premature study treatment discontinuation in pediatric subjects, whereas 
a  total  of  4  adult  subjects  (2  macitentan,  2  placebo)  had  at  least  1  AE  that  led  to  discontinuation  of 
study treatment in the overall MAESTRO population  . 
Safety topics of special interest 
Anemia 
In the pediatric population, 1 subject on macitentan 10 mg had an AESI related to anemia), whereas 7 
subjects in the overall population (6 macitentan, 1 placebo) had 1 treatment-emergent AESI related to 
anemia,  reported  as  decreased  hemoglobin  (3  macitentan,  0  placebo),  anemia  (2  macitentan,  1 
placebo),  and  iron  deficiency  anemia  (1  macitentan,  0  placebo).  None  of  these  AEs  were  reported  as 
serious or led to the discontinuation of study treatment. The AESI in the pediatric population involved a 
14-year-old  Chinese  female  subject  and  was  reported  as  decreased  hemoglobin,  which  was  of  mild 
intensity  On  Day  56,  her  hemoglobin  concentration was  140  g/L  compared to  171  g/L  (normal  range 
114–151 g/L) at screening (Day −6). Study treatment was continued at the same dose and the event 
resolved without sequelae on Day 60 when a hemoglobin concentration of 166 g/L was reported. The 
subject completed the study on Day 115 and was enrolled into the extension study AC-055-308 on that 
day. A detailed subject narrative is provided in the MAESTRO CSR. 
There were no further AESIs related to anemia reported in pediatric subjects. 
•  Marked laboratory abnormalities relevant to anemia 
In the overall population, hemoglobin decreases from baseline of between ≥ 20 g/L and < 50 g/L were 
reported for 50 (22.1%) subjects, 40 (35.1%) in the macitentan group and 10 (8.9%) in the placebo 
group. Similarly, 3 pediatric subjects (23.1%) in the macitentan group had hemoglobin decreases from 
baseline of between ≥ 20 g/L and < 50 g/L vs none in the placebo group [Table 11]. 
Hypotension 
6 adult subjects (3 macitentan, 3 placebo) each had a treatment-emergent AE of hypotension. None of 
the AEs were reported as serious or led to the discontinuation of study treatment. No pediatric subject 
had an AE related to hypotension. 
Edema and fluid overload 
A total of 14 adult subjects (8 macitentan, 6 placebo) had at least 1 treatment-emergent AE of special 
interest  related  to  edema  and  fluid  overload,  with  peripheral  edema  the  most  frequently  reported  (5 
macitentan, 4 placebo). None of the AEs was reported as serious or led to the discontinuation of study 
treatment. No pediatric subject had an AE related to edema and fluid retention. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver tests 
In  the  overall  population  a  marked  increase  in  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  and/or  aspartate 
aminotransferase  (AST)  to  (>  3  ×  upper  limit  of  normal  range  [ULN])  was  observed  in  1  subject  in 
each  treatment  group.  A  marked  increase  in  ALT  and  AST  to  >  3  ×  ULN  was  observed  for  1  adult 
subject  in  the  placebo  group,  which  led  to  the  discontinuation  of  study  treatment.  In  the  pediatric 
population,  a  marked  increase  in  ALT  to  >  3  ×  ULN  was  reported  for  1  subject.  This  16-year-old, 
white, female subject on macitentan 10 mg had an ALT increase of 4.2 × ULN (83 IU/L, normal range 
=  5−20  IU/L)  at  the  End  of  Treatment  on  Day  114.  All  previous  ALT  and  AST  values  reported  by  the 
central laboratory during the study for that subject, except for a mild elevation of ALT on Day 29 (24 
IU/L),  were  within  the  normal  range.  The  subject  had  no  medical  history  related  to  liver  test 
abnormalities,  nor  associated  symptoms  such  as  jaundice,  hepatic  enlargement  or  any  other  clinical 
signs of liver abnormality. Alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin remained within normal range throughout 
the  study.  The  study  treatment  was  continued  at  the  same  dose  throughout  the  study.  On  Day  114, 
she was enrolled into the OL extension study (AC-055-308) as per protocol, based on local laboratory 
results, which were within normal range for liver parameters. 
Additional information from the ongoing AC-055 308 OL extension study 
Increased  ALT  was  reported  as  a  non-serious  AE  of  mild  intensity  in  the  AC-055-308  OL  extension 
study,  starting  on  MAESTRO  Day  114  (OL  Day  1).  The  study  drug  was  interrupted  on  OL  Day  5 
awaiting ALT re-test. The central laboratory re-tests performed on OL Day 7 were within normal range 
for  liver  parameters  as  well  as  local  laboratory  re-tests].  Therefore,  based  on  multiple  repeat  central 
and  local  laboratory  tests,  it  was  concluded  that  the  isolated  central  laboratory  ALT  elevation  on  Day 
114  was  a  false  positive  signal;  concomitant  local  laboratory  analyses  were  within  normal  range,  as 
well as the central laboratory retest performed within 7 days of first sample analysis. Macitentan was 
therefore reintroduced on OL Day 14 as per protocol. The subject continued and is still ongoing in the 
extension  study,  having  recently  completed  Month  12  visit  with  no  further  out-of-range  liver 
elevations. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The  primary  endpoint  for  MAESTRO  was  the  change  from  baseline  to  Week  16  in  6MWD.  The  short 
term  improvement  in  the  6MWT  has  been  the  most  frequently  used  primary  endpoint  in  the  pivotal 
studies  for  the  registration  of  PAH  drugs,  making  it  an  important  reference  tool.  Nevertheless,  this 
approach has its limitations considering the lack of clear correlation between improvement in exercise 
capacity and overall survival (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/356954/2008). 
The mean (SD) change from baseline to Week 16 in 6MWD in the FAS was an increase of 18.3 (84.4) 
m  and  19.7  (53.0)  m  in  the  macitentan  and  placebo  group,  respectively,  with  a    LS  mean  difference 
(95%  CL)  between  macitentan  and  placebo  of  –4.7  m  (−22.8,  13.5)    (p  =  0.612).    The  primary 
endpoint was therefore not met.   
In pediatric subjects, there was a mean increase of 20.9 m and 46.0 m  from baseline to Week 16 in 
the  macitentan  and  placebo  group,  respectively.  The  LS  mean  difference  (95%  CL)  between 
macitentan and placebo was –15.7 m (–110.3, 78.9) favouring placebo; p = 0.744. Although that the 
treatment effect appears to be similar to the one observed in the overall population, due to the small 
number of pediatric subjects and the imbalance between the treatment groups (n=13 on macitentan, 
n=2 on placebo), these results should be interpreted with caution. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  the  safety  data  were  similar  to  those  seen  in  the  overall  population  both  in  frequency  and 
distribution/type  of  AE.  No  deaths,  SAEs  or  AEs  leading  to  premature  discontinuation  of  study 
treatment were reported in pediatric subjects. Although only 15 pediatric subjects were randomized in 
this study, the safety profile of macitentan in pediatric subjects, at the same dose as in adults (10 mg 
o.d.),  appears  to  be  similar  to  that  in  adults  and  aligned  with  the  approved  labeling  information  of 
Opsumit.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The  limited  data  from  the  MAESTRO  study  do  not  allow  any  meaningful  clinical  assessment  of  the 
efficacy  of  macitentan  in  the  pediatric  Eisenmenger  Syndrome  population.  Overall,  the  safety  data 
were similar to those seen in the overall population. 
In the absence of any significant new data on effectiveness or new safety concerns, there is no need 
for an update of the product information. 
In accordance with Article 16(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the data submitted do not influence 
the  benefit-risk  balance  and  therefore  do  not  require  further  regulatory  action  on  the  marketing 
authorisation for the above mentioned product. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
EMA/792503/2017 
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
