EMA/515488/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002697 
Opsumit (macitentan) 
An overview of Opsumit and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Opsumit and what is it used for? 
Opsumit is a medicine used for the long-term treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).  
PAH is a condition in which there is abnormally high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs, causing 
symptoms such as breathlessness and fatigue.  
Opsumit is used for adults whose PAH is classified as WHO functional class II to class III. The class 
reflects the seriousness of the disease: patients with class II PAH have slight limitation of physical 
activity and those with class III disease have marked limitation of physical activity. Opsumit can be 
used alone or in combination with other PAH medicines; for further information, see the package 
leaflet. 
PAH is ‘rare’, and Opsumit was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) for 
PAH on 27 September 2011. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on the 
European Medicines Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation.  
Opsumit contains the active substance macitentan. 
How is Opsumit used? 
Opsumit can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in treating PAH. The medicine is available as 10 mg tablets and taken at a dose of 
one tablet every day.  
For more information about using Opsumit, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
How does Opsumit work? 
In PAH there is severe narrowing of the arteries of the lungs. Because more pressure is needed to 
force blood through the narrowed artery, this leads to high blood pressure in the lungs. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Opsumit, macitentan, works by blocking endothelin receptors. These are part 
of a natural mechanism in the body that can cause arteries to narrow. In patients with PAH, this 
mechanism is overactive and, by blocking these receptors, macitentan helps widen the arteries in the 
lungs and thereby bring down the blood pressure. 
What benefits of Opsumit have been shown in studies? 
In a main study involving 742 patients, Opsumit has been shown to reduce the risk of PAH-related 
illness, particularly the worsening of PAH symptoms. Patients in the study received either Opsumit or 
placebo (a dummy treatment) in addition to other PAH treatments for an average of 2 years. Around 
37% of patients taking placebo had a worsening of their PAH symptoms compared with 24% of those 
who took Opsumit 10 mg. 
What are the risks associated with Opsumit? 
The most common side effects with Opsumit (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), anaemia (low red blood cell counts) and 
headache. Most side effects are mild to moderate in severity. For the full list of side effects reported 
with Opsumit, see the package leaflet. 
In animal studies, Opsumit was shown to have an adverse effect on the development of embryos. 
Opsumit must therefore not be used in pregnant or breastfeeding women or in women who could 
become pregnant and who are not using reliable contraception. Women should also not become 
pregnant for one month after stopping treatment. 
It must also not be used in patients with severe reduction in liver function or high levels of liver 
enzymes in the blood. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Opsumit authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Opsumit’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Opsumit has been shown to be effective in reducing illness or deaths due 
to PAH and the side effects reported are similar to those reported with other medicines of its class and 
are considered to be manageable. However, as animal studies showed an adverse effect on the 
development of embryos, Opsumit must never be used in pregnant women or women who could 
become pregnant and are not using reliable contraception. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Opsumit? 
The company that markets Opsumit will send educational material to patients and healthcare 
professionals with information on the precautions to be taken when using Opsumit. Patients’ reminder 
cards will include a warning that the medicine must never be used in pregnant women and that women 
who could become pregnant must be using reliable contraception and should undergo monthly 
pregnancy tests.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Opsumit have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Opsumit (macitentan)  
EMA/515488/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Opsumit are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Opsumit are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Opsumit 
Opsumit received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 December 2013.  
Further information on Opsumit can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018.  
Opsumit (macitentan)  
EMA/515488/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
