European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 8 October 2009   
Doc. Ref No.: EMEA/712803/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
OPTISON 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
perflutren 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/166/Z/0032 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
Optison Dispersion for Injection, (formerly known as Optison Suspension for Injection) is an 
intravenous diagnostic agent for ultrasound imaging. Optison (Perflutren) is a transpulmonary 
echocardiographic contrast agent for use in patients with suspected or established cardiovascular 
disease to provide opacification of cardiac chambers, enhance left ventricular endocardial border 
delineation with resulting improvement in wall motion visualisation. Optison should only be used in 
patients where the study without contrast enhancement is inconclusive. Optison is a sterile, non-
pyrogenic preparation comprising perflutren-containing microspheres suspended in a Human Albumin 
Solution (1%, w/v) (HSA). The microspheres are composed of an albumin shell encapsulating a 
perflutren (octafluoropropane, C3F8) gas core. In its non-resuspended form, Optison appears as a clear 
solution with a white microsphere top layer. After re-suspension, Optison appears as a homogenous 
white dispersion. The gas filled microspheres provide an interface that interacts with and reflects 
ultrasound signals in a manner to provide diagnostic images. 
On 17th November 2005, the MAH for OPTISON (EU/1/98/) notified the EMEA that it was 
undertaking a global recall of all batches of OPTISON on the EU/EEA market that were within expiry 
date.  The reason for the recall was a lack of sterility assurance of the product. 
The US-FDA performed a general GMP inspection of the Mallinckrodt plant 31st October through 11th 
November 2005 and the inspection findings raised concerns about the manufacturer’s compliance with 
GMP pertaining to OPTISON manufacture for USA and EU markets. 
According to the MAH, no quality defects related to these observations have been found during testing 
and use of the product. Nevertheless, Amersham Health AS investigated the issues raised by FDA and 
decided  on  a  voluntarily  recall.    The  MAH  concluded  that  based  on  the  review  of  the  global  safety 
database for OPTISON for the last 12 months (6 reports, 4 non-serious, 2 serious (1 in USA and 1 in 
UK)), there was no evidence and no suspicion that there was any risk to public health. 
The  Norwegian  Medicines  Agency  immediately  suspended  the  manufacturing  authorisation  of  the 
importer,  Amersham  Health  AS,  Oslo,  Norway  prohibiting  further  import  of  OPTISON  into  the 
EU/EEA. 
In December 2007, the MAH of Optison submitted the 2nd Renewal of the Marketing Authorisation 
(MA) and the procedure started the same month. In the context of the re-assessment of the benefit-risk 
balance for Optison during the second renewal procedure of the product’s marketing authorisation, the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommended that the marketing 
authorisation for Optison be suspended. On 12 June 2008, the European Commission issued a 
Decision to suspend the marketing authorisation for Optison. 
On 12 June 2008, the EC issued a Decision to renew the MA for Optison and, at the same time, to 
suspend the MA. Annex IV of the CD outlined the conditions of the lifting of the suspension of the 
MA of Optison which are: 
(cid:131)  A  re-inspection  by  the  Supervisory  Authority  (NOMA)  of  the  manufacturing  facilities  at 
Mallinckrodt  Inc.,  US,  has  taken  place,  confirming  compliance  with  GMP  principles  and 
guidelines.  
(cid:131)  The suspension of the section of the manufacturing authorisation of the EU/EEA site of batch 
release,  GE  Healthcare  AS,  which  concerns  import  of  Optison  to  the  EU/EEA  market,  has 
been lifted. 
On 30 April 2008, the MAH informed the EMEA that the improvement actions to the manufacturing 
process were completed and a re-inspection of Mallinckrodt Inc., USA, was carried out by NOMA in 
the  week  from  8  to  13  June  2008.  The  corrective  measures  to  the  manufacturing  site,  Mallinckrodt, 
USA,  included  the  installation  of  a  new  filling  line  and  changes  to  the  manufacturing/production 
process.  These  changes  have  to  be  implemented  in  the  MA  before  batches  of  the  product  for  the 
EU/EEA market can be produced and the medicinal product can be replaced on the market. 
2 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This dossier is in support of an application to lift the suspension of the Marketing Authorisation (MA) 
in EU. Changes to the quality documentation related to the improvements works at Mallinckrodt Inc. 
which will be implemented at re-launch of Optison in EU are also included. 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Lifting of the suspension of the marketing authorisation of Optison 
As already mentioned the lifting of the suspension of the marketing authorisation of Optison may be 
recommended provided that the MAH provides evidence that the following conditions are met: 
•  A re-inspection by the Supervisory Authority (NOMA) of the manufacturing facilities at 
Mallinckrodt Inc., US, has taken place, confirming compliance with GMP principles and 
guidelines.  
•  The suspension of the section of the manufacturing authorisation of the EU/EEA site of batch 
release, GE Healthcare AS, which concerns import of Optison to the EU/EEA market, has 
been lifted. 
In this context, the Applicant submitted the relevant documentation in support of an application to lift 
the suspension of the Marketing Authorisation (MA) in EU. It was noted that changes to the quality 
documentation related to the improvements works at Mallinckrodt Inc., which will be implemented at 
re-launch of Optison in EU have been also included. 
A re-inspection by the Supervisory Authority (NOMA) of the manufacturing facilities at Mallinckrodt 
Inc., US, has been taken place. A GMP certificate dated 27 March 2009 issued by Norwegian 
authority has been submitted. The compliance with GMP principles and guideline has been certified 
by Norwegian authority. 
The suspension of the section of the manufacturing authorisation of the EU/EEA site of batch release, 
GE Healthcare AS, which concerns import of Optison to the EU/EEA market, has been lifted. 
A manufacturing licence date 27 March 2009 issued by Norwegian authority has also been submitted 
for the GE Healthcare AS site in Oslo (Norway). The authorisation includes also importation of 
medicinal products from countries outside the EEA, according to part 2. 
The authorisation includes also importation of medicinal products from countries outside the EEA, 
according to part 2. 
Conclusion and Benefit-Risk Assessment 
The lifting of the suspension of the marketing authorisation of Optison is recommended. In addition, 
the quality changes related to improvements at the manufacturing site are also approvable and the 
changes do not affect the benefit-risk balance of this product. 
2.2  
Conclusions and Recommendation on lifting the suspension and Quality changes 
In conclusion, the CHMP having assessed the documentation submitted by the MAH regarding the 2 
conditions  to  lift  the  suspension  (A  re-inspection  by  the  Supervisory  Authority  (NOMA)  of  the 
manufacturing  facilities  at  Mallinckrodt  Inc.,  US  to  confirm  compliance  with  GMP  principles  and 
guidelines and to lift the suspension of the section of the manufacturing authorisation of the EU/EEA 
site  of  batch release,  GE  Healthcare  AS,  which concerns  import  of  Optison  to  the  EU/EEA  market) 
considers  that  the  MAH’s  proposals  are  now  sufficient  to  guarantee  the  satisfactory  quality  of 
OPTISON active substance and finished products. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the CHMP recommends the lifting of the suspension of the Marketing Authorisation of the 
medicinal product Optison on the basis of the MAH’s having resolved the concerns raised that led to 
the suspension.  
3. 
OVERALL DISCUSSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
The CHMP, having reviewed the data submitted by the Marketing Authorisation Holder in the context 
of the suspension and having re-assessed the data submitted, recommended to lift the suspension of the 
medicinal product Optison. 
4. 
CONCLUSION 
The  CHMP  consequently,  on  25  June  2009  recommended  the  lifting  of  the  suspension  of  the 
Community Marketing Authorisation for the medicinal product Optison.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
