SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Optisulin.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 September 2003. For information on changes after this date please 
refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Insulin glargine, the active ingredient in Optisulin, is an insulin analogue with a prolonged duration of 
action after subcutaneous injection, produced by recombinant DNA technology using Escherichia coli 
(K12  strains).  Structural  modifications  (C-terminal  elongation  of  the  B  chain  by  two  arginines  and 
replacement of the C-terminal amino acid of the A chain by glycine) shift the isoelectric point towards 
neutral  pH.  This  results  in  a  delay  in  dissociation  of  the  hexamer  complexes  into  monomers  after 
subcutaneous injection, and a prolonged absorption from the injection site. 
An optimal glucose regulation in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients reduces the risk for complications 
resulting  from  diabetes  such  as  retinopathy,  nephropathy  and  neuropathy.  Insulin  preparations 
differing  both  in  their  time  of  onset  and  duration  of  action  are  available  for  insulin  substitution 
therapy. Current regimens try to mimic physiological insulin secretion by injection of delayed action 
(basal)  insulin  for  basal  insulin  supply  and  rapid-acting  insulins  for  prandial  control.  The  currently 
available  intermediate  or  long-acting  insulins  do  not  provide  a  constant  and  reliable  basal  insulin 
supply.  The  duration  of  action  is  limited  and  a  twice-daily  regimen  is  often  required.  In  addition  a 
distinct insulin peak occurs a few hours after subcutaneous injection. This results in an increased risk 
of  nocturnal  hypoglycaemia  and  fasting  hypoglycaemia.  Insulin  glargine  is  a  long  acting  insulin 
analogue, which does not display a distinct insulin peak.  
Insulin glargine is indicated for use in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, where treatment 
with  insulin  is  required.  Insulin  glargine  has  a  prolonged  duration  of  action  and  should  be 
administered once daily (in the evening). The dosage should be adjusted individually. In patients with 
type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  insulin  glargine  can  also  be  given  together  with  orally  active  antidiabetic 
drugs. 
Specific terminology: 
Depot activity: sustained release 
NPH insulin: neutral protamine Hagedorn (human insulin as isophane insulin suspension) 
HbA1C: glycosylated haemoglobin; the level of HbA1c allows evaluation of antecedent (2-3 month) 
glycaemic control (control of blood sugar levels). 
AUC: area under the concentration-time curve 
Cmax: maximum concentration in plasma 
FPG: fasting plasma glucose 
FBG: fasting blood glucose 
IGF-1: insulin-like growth factor 1 
OAD: oral antidiabetic drug 
tmax: Time of Cmax 
ITT: intention to treat 
Symptomatic hypoglycaemia: event with clinical symptoms related to hypoglycaemia 
Asymptomatic hypoglycaemia: blood glucose level below 2.8 mmol/l (50 mg/dl) without clinical 
symptoms.  
Severe hypoglycaemia: event with symptoms for which the subject required the assistance of another 
person and which was associated with a blood glucose level below 2.8 mmol/l (50 mg/dl) or prompt 
recovery after oral carbohydrate, intravenous glucose or glucagon administration. 
1/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nocturnal hypoglycaemia: hypoglycaemia occurring while the subject was asleep, between bedtime 
after the evening injection and before getting up in the morning, i.e. before the morning determination 
of FBG and before the morning insulin injection. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The finished product is a clear, sterile, unbuffered solution for injection with a slightly acidic pH of 4.0 
presented  in  5  ml  colourless  injection  vials  or  3  ml  cartridges  for  use  in  pen  devices.  After  the  initial 
Marketing Authorisation the MAH submitted applications to add a new volume vial of 10 ml. Based on 
the submitted information the CHMP recommended their granting. 
The  strength  of  100  IU  of  insulin  glargine  per  ml  is  equimolar  to  100  IU  human  insulin  per  ml.  The 
finished product contains the following excipients: zinc chloride, m-cresol, glycerol, hydrochloric acid, 
sodium  hydroxide,  and  water  for  injections.  The  product  does  not  contain  ingredients  of  animal  or 
human origin. 
Active substance 
Insulin  glargine  is  a  long  acting  analogue  of  the  human  insulin  protein  in  which  there  has  been  an 
elongation  of  the  carboxyterminus  of  the  B  chain  by  two  arginines  and  a  replacement  of  the  C-
terminal asparagine of the A chain by glycine. These modifications result in a shift of the isoelectric 
point  of  human  insulin  from  pH  5.4  towards  a  neutral  pH,  making  the  molecule  more  soluble  at  a 
slightly acidic pH and less soluble at physiological pH. 
Development genetics 
The production process of insulin glargine uses a transformed E.coli K12 host strain, which has been 
comprehensively described in the application. This strain contains an expression plasmid encoding the 
modified human A and B chains of insulin, the monkey insulin C-chain, which differs from the human 
insulin  C-chain  in  one  position,  and  an  artificial  presequence  to  protect  the  resulting  fusion  protein 
against  proteolytic  destruction.  This  fusion  protein  is  isolated,  folded  and  enzymatically  modified 
during downstream processing. 
Cell bank system 
A two-tiered cell bank system has been established. The master cell bank (MCB) was used to prepare 
the first and second working cell banks (WCB) under the same culture conditions as for the MCB. All 
pre-clinical  and  clinical  work  described  in  the  dossier  was  performed  with  pharmaceutical  product 
originating  from  the  first  WCB.  The  MCB  and  WCB  were  adequately  tested  and  stability  during 
storage was satisfactory. The protocol for the preparation of new WBCs as well as control tests and 
specifications will assure consistency of future WCBs with the cell bank used for development. The 
genetic stability, evaluated at the end of fermentation runs using a battery of tests (restriction enzyme 
analysis,  plasmid  retention,  plasmid  copy  number,  product  formation),  will  ensure  consistent 
production of insulin glargine. 
Fermentation 
The fermentation process has been adequately described in the application. In-process controls assure 
appropriate  cell  growth  and  the  absence  of  microbial  contamination.  In  addition,  the  correct  overall 
performance of fermentation is verified by monitoring the production yield for which adequate limits 
have been set. Specifications for raw materials and a description of cell culture media (composition, 
preparation,  sterilisation,  and  storage)  and  equipment  have  been  provided.  For  the  production  of 
insulin  glargine  no  material  of  human  or  animal  origin  are  used.  The  full-scale  process  has  been 
validated  through  compilation  of  operating  parameters  and  in-process  test  data  of  10  batches.  These 
data  indicate  that  the  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  active  ingredient  is  within 
acceptable limits and that the in-process specifications and control ranges are met. 
2/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Downstream modification and purification 
Usually, the harvest from one fermentation run is processed downstream to give one batch of insulin 
glargine.  The  downstream  processing  has  been  comprehensively  described  and  several 
chromatographic steps and precipitation perform purification, which have been reasonably described. 
The removal of relevant impurities was examined during the development phase and was confirmed 
by  production  data.  It  has  been  shown  that  impurities  arising  from  the  expression  system,  including 
residual  host  cell  DNA,  E.  coli  proteins  and  potential  impurities  arising  during  production  are 
sufficiently removed. 
After precipitation, the product is isolated by centrifugation and the resulting bulk of active ingredient 
is stored at low temperature for a period up to 24 months before further processing.  
Appropriate in-process controls, mostly consisting of HPLC analysis, have been instituted to monitor 
downstream  modification  and  purification  and  give  assurance  over  the  purification  process  and  the 
quality  of  intermediates.  Description  and  validation  of  the  methods  for  identification  of  the  active 
ingredient, purity, insulin glargine content, zinc content, and other routinely applied analytical methods 
have  been  provided.  These  methods  are  adequately  validated.  Insulin  glargine  has  been  well 
characterised  using  state-of-the-art  methods  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  characteristics  and 
comparative investigations were performed with human insulin. Tests have demonstrated the similarity 
of  the  biological  properties  of  insulin  glargine  and  human  insulin,  which  is  also  supported  by  results 
obtained  from  animal  studies.  Bioidentity  tests  are  carried  out  routinely  as  release  tests.  The  primary 
reference standard was prepared by further purification of a batch of insulin glargine. 
Analytical test results of twenty-four batches produced on production scale indicate a consistent quality 
of the bulk active substance. Limits have been set for insulin glargine, relevant impurities and yield. A 
study  conducted  on  three  batches  showed  that  most  impurities  are  present  in  levels  below  0.05%  In 
this  study  no  impurities  larger  than  0.1%  were  found.  The  impurities  found  in  this  study  show 
structural similarity with insulin glargine. The impurity profile for each batch is monitored routinely. 
The  acceptance  criterion  for  the  sum  percentage  of  related  proteins,  currently  0.1-0.4%,  will  be 
reconsidered upon the availability of the stability study data for 24 months of storage under long term 
conditions. Quality of the chemicals and resins used in the purification process are adequate. 
Active substance specifications 
Insulin  glargine  is  a  well  characterised  human  insulin  analogue.  Therefore,  the  active  ingredient 
specifications have been chosen in accordance with the monograph for human insulin of the European 
Pharmacopoeia  (3rd.  ed.,  monograph  838),  with  the  exception  of  the  test  for  pro-insulin-like 
immunoreactivity, for which a non-radioactive test was established, loss on drying and sulphated ash. 
In addition, the product is tested for microbial contamination, bioidentity (to fulfil USP requirements) 
and moisture content.  
Potential impurities arising from the expression system include DNA, E .coli proteins and endotoxins. 
All final batches produced are tested for the occurrence of E. coli proteins. Bacterial endotoxins are 
routinely measured in the active ingredient. The removal of E coli DNA and plasmid DNA has been 
addressed by providing adequate validation data. 
In general, the active ingredient specifications are considered adequate to control the identity, purity 
and  content  of  the  active  ingredient  and  to  monitor  batch-to-batch  consistency.  Specifications  are 
sufficiently supported by the analysis of twenty-four batches of active ingredient and by the European 
Pharmacopoeia (Specifications of the active substance are attached). 
Stability  of  the  active  ingredient  at  low  temperature  has  been  investigated  by  performing  real  time 
stability  studies  under  normal  storage  conditions  on  three  full-scale  production  batches  for  up  to 
twelve  months  as  well  as  studies  under  accelerated  conditions.  Results  of  these  studies  met  the 
acceptance  criteria.  The  active  substance  will  be  re-tested  after  18  months  and  24  months  and  the 
corresponding results have been submitted. 
Other ingredients 
M-cresol is added as a preservative, glycerol as tonicity agent and hydrochloric acid is used to dissolve 
insulin glargin and to adjust the pH during dissolution. A solution of sodium hydroxide may be used 
for  final  pH  adjustment.  The  pH  of  the  formulation  is  4.0.  Zinc  chloride  acts  as  stabilising  agent 
3/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
promoting hexamer formation of insulin glargine. No overages are used. Excipients comply with the 
specifications  as  described  in  European  (Ph.Eur.)  or  USA  (USP)  pharmacopoeia.  Adequate 
descriptions,  specifications  and  batch  analysis  for  all  packaging  materials  used  for  the  bulk  drug 
substance or the finished product were provided in the application. 
Product development and finished product 
The  manufacturing  process,  which  complies  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practice  (GMP),  has  been 
described  in  sufficient  detail.  Briefly,  insulin  glargine  and  zinc  chloride  are  dissolved  in  water  for 
injection.  The  solution  is  sterilised  by  double  filtration  under  aseptic  conditions  into  sterilised 
containers. A summary of the microbiological aspects of the formulation and filling process has been 
provided  and  is  adequate.  In-process  controls  to  control  the  manufacturing  process  are  appropriate. 
Critical parameters have been validated by manufacture of three batches of each presentation.  Control 
tests on the finished product will sufficiently guarantee the consistency of the manufacturing process 
of the finished product. 
Stability 
Based on the 18-month results from an ongoing stability study and data for 24 months of storage under 
the recommended storage conditions, a shelf-life of 24 months at +2 to +8 oC, protected from light, for 
the  finished  product  is  acceptable.  The  end-of-shelf  life  acceptance  limits  will  be  reconsidered  upon 
availability of results from the ongoing stability study which will be carried out for up to 36 months.  
The  in-use  stability  profile  was  assessed  in  order  to  determine  the  maximum  period  of  use  after  first 
opening as well as to determine the stability of the products during temperature fluctuations in case of 
adverse shipping conditions.  Over a period of 28 days, the maximum intended period of use, under in-
use conditions the formulation is stable at room temperature (25 °C). 
Viral safety 
No starting material from human or animal origin is used. Due to the usage of prokaryotic cells no viral 
contamination is expected. Trypsin is used in the production of the active ingredient. Trypsin is isolated 
from  a  homogenate  of  porcine  pancreas.  The  process  comprises  treatment  with  organic  solvents  and 
nanofiltration or acidification of the extract. The trypsin manufacturing process ensures that no viruses 
are introduced into the production process by trypsin. Glycerol used as ingredient or for the preparation 
of the second WCB is of plant or synthetic origin. Glycerol used for the preparation of the MCB and the 
first WCB is of bovine origin and the processing conditions for this glycerol are in accordance with the 
“Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via 
medicinal products” (CPMP/BWP/1230/98). After further investigation it was confirmed through a type 
II variation application that glycerol used as ingredient for the preparation of the MCB of synthetic. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  information  provided  in  the  application  demonstrated  consistent 
production  of  insulin  glargine  achieving  a  well-defined  quality  for  the  active  substance  and  the 
finished product. The fermentation, down-stream processes and purification of the active substance are 
adequately controlled. Insulin glargine has been well characterised using state-of the-art methods with 
regard  to  its  physicochemical  characteristics.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product, 
which complies with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described in sufficient detail and 
product  specifications  are  adequate.  In  general,  methods  to  control  the  quality  of  the  product  are 
adequate. The submitted documentation assured viral safety of insulin glargine. Stability data support 
a shelf-life of 24 months for the finished product.  
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments,  the  quality of  Optisulin  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with 
the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch-to-batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications (specifications are attached). 
4/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Insulin  glargine  is  a  human  insulin  analogue  designed  to  have  a  low  solubility  at  neutral  pH.  It  is 
completely soluble at the acidic pH of the insulin glargine injection solution (pH 4). It is proposed that 
subcutaneous injection of the slightly acidic solution of insulin glargine will result in precipitation of the 
substance in the subcutaneous tissues. Small amounts of insulin glargine are continuously released from 
the precipitate giving a longer duration of absorption, which in turn  results in a prolonged duration of 
action and supports the dose regimen of one daily administration. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Insulin receptor binding studies have shown that insulin glargine has an about two-fold lower affinity 
for  the  insulin  receptor  with  a  similar  association  rate  and  a  two-fold  faster  dissociation  rate  than 
human insulin. Further, nearly all in vitro metabolic studies have shown a relative in vitro potency for 
insulin glargine of about 50% and similar maximal responsiveness as compared to human insulin. The 
latter indicates that insulin glargine acts as a full agonist of human insulin. In comparison with human 
insulin, insulin glargine had a 1.4 (assay with mycocytes) to 12-fold (assay with osteosarcoma cells) 
higher affinity to the IGF-1 receptor when tested in vitro.  The results from IGF-1 mitogenicity assays 
on osteosarcoma cells suggested that insulin glargine might have a mitogen potential through binding 
to the IGF-1 receptor. This was a particular point of concern and was addressed in an oral explanation 
at CPMP and is discussed below. 
After intravenous injection of insulin glargine in dogs and rats, the glucose lowering activity of insulin 
glargine did not  markedly differ from  human insulin. There is evidence that  higher plasma levels  in 
vivo compensate for the 50% in vitro potency found for insulin glargine as compared to human insulin. 
Studies performed in different animal species have shown that the depot activity as well as the effect 
of zinc concentration  on the depot activity strongly  depended upon the animal  species  tested.  Given 
the  homology  between  the  insulin  receptor  in  dog  and  human,  results  obtained  in  dogs  were  most 
informative. After subcutaneous injection in dogs, a higher depot activity (i.e. sustained release) than 
for  NPH  (neutral  protamine  Hagedorn)  insulin  was  demonstrated  for  insulin  glargine.  In  contrast  to 
NPH insulin, insulin glargine displayed a depot activity, which was dependent upon its concentration 
and the concentration of zinc. Trials in dogs allowed selection of the insulin glargine formulation to be 
used in clinical studies. 
Pre-clinical studies showed that the general pharmacodynamic profile of insulin glargine is related to 
its glucose lowering activity and at  high dose to its  catecholamine releasing properties and does not 
differ from the profile displayed by other insulins. From insulin glargine’s general pharmacodynamic 
profile there is no concern about its safety. 
Studies have demonstrated that the effects of insulin glargine and human insulin are additive. Firstly, 
in an adipocyte cell assay using equipotent mixtures of insulin glargine and human insulin, the effects 
of  these  products  on  lipogenesis  and  glucose  transport  were  additive.  Secondly,  after  intravenous 
treatment in dogs, a 1:1 mixture of insulin glargine and human insulin exhibited additive activity for 
both insulins. There is no pre-clinical evidence for interference of insulin glargine with the effects of 
human insulin. 
In summary, the pre-clinical in vivo studies, especially those in dogs, provided sufficient evidence for 
clinical efficacy of insulin glargine in the treatment of diabetes. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
Autoradiographic data in rats and toxicokinetic data showed that the release of the active compound 
from the site of injection in laboratory animals was relatively slow as compared to human insulin. In a 
metabolism  study  in  rats,  24  hours  after  injection,  parent  compound  could  still  be  detected  at  the 
subcutaneous  injection  site.  The  toxicokinetic  studies  in  rats,  mice  and  dogs  showed  that  the  period 
during which the compound was released from the injection site increased with increasing dose. 
5/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma protein binding 
Human insulin is not expected to be bound to plasma proteins. Insulin glargine and human insulin are 
structurally similar, and so are their respective active biodegradation products. Therefore the binding 
of  insulin  glargine  to  plasma  proteins  is  likely  to  be  similar  to  human  insulin.  The  same  applies  to 
insulin glargine’s metabolites. 
Distribution 
Studies using auto-radiography have shown that the distribution of radio-labelled insulin glargine and 
human insulin after single subcutaneous or intravenous administration to male rats were very similar, 
the  only  difference  being  that  after  subcutaneous  administration,  distribution  and  elimination  of  the 
label  were  slower  than  after  intravenous  administration.  High  radioactivity  was  found  in  kidney, 
urinary bladder, liver, thyroid gland and stomach content. Little to no radioactivity was found in the 
central nervous system. Given the intrinsic instability of the radio-labelled compounds used in these 
studies, the distribution of the label in the body at different time points after administration were not 
considered  to  give  a  representative  picture  of  the  distribution  of  the  active  compound  and  its 
metabolites. However, based on the similarity of insulin glargine to human insulin, it is unlikely that 
the  distribution  of  insulin  glargine  will  differ  significantly  from  that  of  human  insulin.  The  same 
applies to their respective metabolites, which share a high degree of similarity. 
Metabolic pathway and metabolites 
The biodegradation of insulin glargine has been studied in vitro in human and rat tissues and in vivo in 
the rat, the dog as well as in man. These studies indicated that the main metabolic pathway consists in 
successive removal of three amino acids at the carboxy-end of the B-chain of insulin glargine. Given 
the  structural  similarity  of  insulin  glargine  with  human  insulin,  it  can  be  assumed  that  the  resulting 
molecule  is  further  degraded  following  the  metabolic  pathway  for  human  insulin.  Following 
subcutaneous  injection  in  man,  insulin  glargine  is  already  partially  degraded  at  the  injection  site  so 
that not only insulin glargine but also its metabolites are released in the circulation. 
Excretion 
The compound is assumed to be recycled as amino acids. No metabolites were detected in rat urine. In 
dog  urine,  less  than  1%  from  a  given  dose  could  be  recovered  in  the  form  of  insulin  glargine 
metabolites. 
Results from single-dose kinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  following  single-dose  intravenous  and  subcutaneous  administration  of  insulin 
glargine was evaluated in male rats and dogs. Following intravenous administration, insulin glargine is 
eliminated  from  the  circulation  with  terminal  half-lives  of  1.2  and  1.8  hours  in  rats  and  dogs, 
respectively.  Following  subcutaneous  administration,  maximum  concentrations  are  reached  2  or  4 
hours post dosing, and elimination from plasma takes place with half-lives of 4.3 or 5.4 hours in rats 
and dogs, respectively. In man, insulin glargine had a  slightly shorter terminal half-life of 0.8 h, the 
same  half-life  as  for  insulin,  but  the  effective  half-life  from  depots  of  13  hours  was  considerably 
slower than in the rat or the dog. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
High doses of insulin glargine resulted in death due to excessive hypoglycaemia. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated dose toxicity studies were performed by subcutaneous administration of insulin glargine in 
mice rats and dogs. The animals suffered from dose dependent hypoglycaemia, hypoglycaemic shock 
and  coma.  These  effects  are  due  to  the  excessive  pharmacodynamic  action  of  the  product. 
Haemorrhage,  inflammation  and  fibrosis  were  observed  at  the  injection  site.  Pancreatic  beta-cell 
degranulation  was  observed  in  both  dogs  and  rats.  This  reversible  beta-cell  degranulation  was 
probably  due  to  the  down  regulation  of  insulin  synthesis  due  to  a  compound  over-stimulation,  and 
would therefore also occur during long-term treatment with human NPH insulin as well. 
6/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction studies 
Effects on reproduction occurred at high doses inducing hypoglycaemia and maternal toxicity. At low 
doses reproduction was not affected. 
Mutagenic potential 
The mutagenic potential of insulin glargine was investigated using three bacterial assays, one in vitro 
point mutation assay in mammalian cells, one in vitro V79 Chinese hamster chromosome aberration 
assay,  all  with  and  without  metabolic  activation.  In  addition,  an  in  vivo  bone  marrow  chromosome 
aberration  assay  in  Chinese  hamsters  following  single  subcutaneous  doses  of  0  and  750  IU  insulin 
glargine/kg was performed. These studies demonstrated that insulin glargine is not mutagenic. 
Oncogenic and carcinogenic potential 
The  carcinogenic  potential  was  studied  in  mice  and  rats.  Malignant  Fibrous  Histiocytomas  at  the 
injection site were the predominant findings in both mice and rats. This effect was not related to the 
dose but correlated to the low pH of the insulin glargine solution. Malignant Fibrous Histiocytomas is 
a type of tumour commonly found in subcutaneous tissues of laboratory rats and mice when solutions 
with  non-neutral  pH  are  used.  In  both  mice  and  rats,  there  was  no  evidence  for  treatment  related 
neoplastic  findings  other  than  Malignant  Fibrous  Histiocytomas.  However,  the  affinity  of  insulin 
glargine for the IGF-1 receptor was a particular concern, especially because of the fact that published 
results  for  the  B10-Asp  insulin  analogue,  a  fast-acting  bolus  insulin,  have  raised  concern  about  the 
mitogenicity of insulins. This point is discussed below. 
Insulin glargine Non-neoplastic changes including subcutaneous fibrosis, sclerosis and inflammation, 
squamous cell hyperplasia, epidermitis and haemorrhage were observed at the injection site. 
Local tolerance 
Local  tolerance  in  a  number  of  rabbit  studies  was  good  for  single  intravenous,  paravenous  and 
subcutaneous injections of doses similar to those intended to be used in humans and moderate to good 
for single intramuscular injection. The formulations used in the repeated dose toxicity studies in mice 
and rats elicited tissue damage caused by the low pH of these formulations (see above).  
Antigenic potential 
The antigenicity of insulin glargine was evaluated in rats and dogs. Antibody formation was observed 
in rats. However, due to the differences in structure between rat and human insulin, this finding is not 
relevant  for  humans.  In  dogs,  antibody  formation  against  insulin  glargine  was  not  observed.  Since 
human  and  dog  insulin  share  high  structural  homology  it  is  likely  that  insulin  glargine  has  low 
antigenic potential in humans. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
Ecotoxicity and environmental risk are not to be expected with this compound. 
Compliance to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) 
All pivotal studies were in compliance with GLP. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
insulin glargine in the treatment of diabetes and demonstrated the slow release of the active ingredient 
from the injection site, which is the rationale for its depot activity. 
The major safety concern related to the risk associated with the long and constant exposure to insulin 
glargine when compared to slow release formulations of native human insulin already in clinical use. 
The published findings with the B10-Asp insulin analogue have raised concern, especially with regard 
to the mitogenicity of insulins. This was all the more a concern since an IGF-1 mitogenicity assay on 
osteosarcoma cells suggested that insulin glargine might have a mitogenic potential through binding to 
the  IGF-1  receptor.  This  point  of  concern  was  addressed  in  an  oral  explanation  at  CPMP  where  the 
company highlighted that insulin glargine has a lower mitogenic activity than the comparator B10-Asp 
insulin  or  IGF-1  in  3  out  of  4  cell  assays.  The  company  discussed  the  clinical  safety  implications 
7/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
raised  by  binding  to  the  IGF-1  receptor  in  light  of  carcinogenicity  studies  in  rats  and  mitogenicity 
estimates  provided  in  the  application  dossier.  The  company  emphasised  that  the  long  term  rodent 
studies  did  not  show  any  increase  in  mammary  tumours  as  would  be  expected  had  the  compound  a 
mitogenic potential. The clarification provided by the company was acceptable and it was concluded 
that the carcinogenic potential of insulin glargine was small. 
Overall,  results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did not  raise  particular  concerns  for  the  safe  use  of 
insulin glargine. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  activity  of  insulin,  including  insulin  glargine,  is  regulation  of  glucose  metabolism  by 
binding to a specific cell receptor. Insulin and its analogues lower blood glucose levels by stimulating 
peripheral  glucose  uptake,  especially  by  skeletal  muscle  and  fat,  and  by  inhibiting  hepatic  glucose 
production.  Insulins  inhibit  lipolysis  in  the  adipocyte,  inhibits  proteolysis  and  enhances  protein 
synthesis. 
Insulin  glargine  is  classified  in  the  pharmacotherapeutic  group  “Antidiabetic  agent”  (ATC Code: 
A10AE04 Insulin and analogues, long-acting). 
To  evaluate  the  pharmacodynamic  behaviour  of  insulin  glargine,  a  total  of  15  studies  including  10 
euglycaemic clamp studies and 1 hypoglycaemic clamp study in healthy volunteers or in patients with 
type 1 diabetes were performed. Intravenous administration in healthy volunteers of equimolar doses 
of insulin glargine and human insulin yielded comparable time-action profiles and showed that insulin 
glargine  had  similar  effects  on  hepatic  glucose  production  and  glucose  turnover.  This  indicated  that 
insulin  glargine  and  human  insulin  have  equal  efficacy  on  target  tissues  when  given  in  equimolar 
doses. After subcutaneous injection in healthy volunteers, the onset of action of insulin glargine was 
slower than with human NPH insulin and insulin glargine had a longer duration of action (Figure 1). 
After  repeated  subcutaneous  injection  in  healthy  subjects,  the  median  time-action  profile  of  insulin 
glargine had a lower intra-subject variability than Ultralong (human ultralente insulin), a long acting 
insulin.  The  median  time-action  profile  after  subcutaneous  injection  of  insulin  glargine  in  subjects 
with type 1 diabetes mellitus also indicated that insulin glargine displays a moderate sustained glucose 
lowering activity over 24 hours, compared to a distinct peak in activity with NPH insulin. 
Figure 1. Activity Profile in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes
n
o
i
t
a
z
i
l
i
t
U
e
s
o
c
u
l
G
)
n
i
m
/
g
k
/
g
m
(
*
e
t
a
R
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Insulin glargine
NPH insulin
0
10
20
30
Time (h) after s.c. injection
End of observation  
period
*determined as amount of glucose infused to maintain constant plasma glucose levels (hourly mean 
values) 
8/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
s.c.: subcutaneous 
During intentionally induced profound hypoglycaemia by intravenous infusion to healthy subjects and 
subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus,  insulin  glargine  or  human  insulin  had  similar  neurogenic, 
neuroglycopenic and counter-regulatory hormone responses. This result indicated that insulin glargine 
and human insulin provoke similar physiological and biochemical responses to hypoglycaemia. 
Conclusion 
In clinical pharmacology studies, intravenous insulin glargine and human insulin have been shown to 
be  equipotent  when  given  at  the  same  doses.  In  patients  with  type 1  diabetes,  the  onset  of  action  of 
subcutaneous insulin glargine was slower than with human NPH insulin, its effect profile was smooth 
and  peakless,  and  the  duration  of  its  effect  was  prolonged.  The  longer  duration  of  action  of  insulin 
glargine is directly related to its slower rate of absorption and supports once daily administration. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A limited amount of pharmacokinetic data  on insulin glargine was presented in the application. The 
human pharmacokinetics of insulin glargine was investigated in 11 different studies (listed in the table 
below). 
Pharmacokinetic studies 
Study 
1001, 1002 
1003 
1004 
1006 
1007 
N* 
9 
14 
14 
12 
Subjects 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
Healthy 
volunteers 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
1008 
20 
Healthy subjects 
1010 
12 
1015 
1016 
1017 
20 
5 
14 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
type 2 diabetic 
subjects 
Healthy male 
volunteers 
type 2 diabetic 
subjects 
Scope 
of 
pharmacodynamics 
pharmacodynamics 
and 
injection  at  different 
comparison 
pharmacokinetics  following 
injection sites 
of 
comparison 
pharmacokinetics in euglycaemic clamp 
investigation  of  absorption  rate  with  formulations  not 
intended to be marketed 
investigation  of  the  effect  of  zinc  content  on  the 
pharmacodynamics 
in 
euglycaemic clamp 
comparison  between  insulin  glargine,  HOE  36H  and 
Ultratard HM 
pharmacokinetics 
and 
and 
determination  of  the  equimolar  potency  of  insulin 
glargine  compared  with  regular  insulin  following 
intravenous  infusion  on  glucose  lowering  effect  and 
pharmacokinetics in euglycaemic clamp 
study  in  which  the  absorption  from  different  injection 
sites  was  compared  with  the  formulation  to  be 
marketed 
characterisation  of  time-action  profiles  of  insulin 
glargine in comparison with NPH insulin after a single 
dose 
determination of metabolic degradation products 
comparison  of  the  subcutaneous  absorption  of  insulin 
glargine and NPH insulin 
*N is the number of subjects involved in the study 
In  healthy  subjects  and  diabetic  patients,  insulin  serum  concentrations  indicated  a  slower  and  much 
more  prolonged  absorption  and  showed  a  lack  of  a  peak  after  subcutaneous  injection  of  insulin 
glargine  in  comparison  to  human  NPH  insulin.  Concentrations  were  thus  consistent  with  the  time 
profile of the pharmacodynamic activity of insulin glargine (Figure 1). 
There were no clinically relevant differences in serum insulin levels after abdominal, deltoid or thigh 
administration  of  insulin  glargine.  Insulin  absorption  was  similar  in  type  2  diabetic  subjects  as 
compared to healthy volunteers.  
9/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insulin  glargine  is  partly  degraded  at  the  site  of  injection,  i.e.  in  the  subcutaneous  tissue.  The  first 
metabolite is formed by loss of both arginines at the carboxyl-terminus of the B chain. Additional loss 
of the next amino acid, threonine, generates the second metabolite. The same metabolites were found 
in  animal  studies.  The  biological  activity  of  these  metabolites  was  investigated  in  vitro  in  rat 
adipocytes and in vivo in rats. Both metabolites were found to exhibit similar hypoglycaemic activity 
to insulin glargine. Since the two metabolites found in humans are identical to the metabolites found in 
animal  studies,  it  is  expected  that  they  also  have  similar  biological  activity  to  insulin  glargine  in 
humans.  Unchanged  insulin  glargine  and  degradation  products  are  present  in  the  plasma  in  similar 
quantities.  Further  degradation  is  assumed  to  be  similar  to  endogenous  insulin.  Data  indicated  that 
degradation  of  the  two  major  metabolites  occurred  only  minimally  during  sample  collection  and 
storage. 
After  an  intravenous  infusion  the  elimination  half-lives  were  comparable  for  insulin  glargine  and 
regular insulin. 
Absorption studies performed following subcutaneous injection of insulin glargine indicated that after 
24 h approximately 50 % of the dose still remained at the site of injection. After 48 h the amount of 
insulin glargine at the injection site was still about 20 %. Given the method used for the quantification 
of insulin glargine, these amounts do  not reflect  the  exact amount  of active substance present at  the 
injection site. This is supported by findings that injected insulin may be metabolised locally, resulting 
in a disproportional relationship between the measured amount and the actual amount remaining at the 
site  of  injection.  No  pharmacokinetic  study  involving  repeated  dosing  of  insulin  glargine  was 
performed to address the question of possible accumulation of active substance and its metabolites at 
the injection site.  
The lack of pharmacokinetic data on repeated dosing was a point of concern. In response the company 
explained  that  experience  with  subcutaneous  administration  of  NPH  insulin  indicated  that  extensive 
accumulation  upon  multiple  dosing  of  insulin  glargine  is  not  expected.  The  company  performed 
supportive  simulation  calculations.  Simulated  mean  multiple-dose  concentration-time  profiles  of 
exogenous  insulin  based  on  individual  subject  data  obtained  after  single  subcutaneous  injections  of 
insulin  glargine  indicated  that  steady-state  may  be  reached  after  2  to  4  days  of  treatment,  and  Cmax 
values  may  be  1.8-fold  higher  than  after  the  first  dose  of  insulin  glargine.  This  was  supported  by 
interim  results  from  an  ongoing  pharmacokinetic  study  presented  at  the  oral  explanation  at  CPMP. 
Results from this study also suggest that accumulation is not expected. The current SPC indicates that 
insulin glargine injected once daily will reach steady state levels in 2-4 days after the first dose. This 
will have to be confirmed upon completion of the ongoing pharmacokinetic study as part of a follow-
up commitment. 
The pharmacokinetics of insulin glargine were not evaluated in special populations (e.g. patients with 
impaired renal or  liver function),  nor  was  the  influence  of  gender,  age or race. In  long-term  clinical 
studies  in  patients,  subgroup  analyses  based  on  age  and  gender  did  not  indicate  any  difference  in 
safety and efficacy between patients treated with insulin glargine and the entire study population. It is 
also  expected  that  modifications  to  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  occurring  with  insulin 
glargine in subjects with impaired renal and hepatic function will be similar to modifications observed 
with human insulin. A warning for diminished insulin requirements in renal impairment, and a steady 
decrease  in  insulin  requirements  in  the  elderly  has  been  included  in  the  SPC.  In  the  light  of  these 
warnings and since the dose must be individually adjusted to each patient, the lack of pharmacokinetic 
data in sub-populations was considered acceptable. 
Clinical efficacy 
Insulin glargine is indicated for use in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, where treatment 
with insulin is required. To support efficacy and safety of insulin glargine in the treatment of type 1 
and type 2 diabetes, a total of 10 clinical trials were performed. Five studies were of a short duration 
(4 weeks) and 5 studies were of a longer duration of 16-52 weeks. 
10/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below provides an overview of all clinical studies. 
Study 
Duration 
Number of   Number of subjects randomised and treated 
subjects 
screened 
insulin 
glargine 
NPH insulin 
Total 
Short Duration 
Type 1 diabetes 
Study # 2002 
Study # 2003 
4 weeks 
4 weeks 
Subtotal, type 1 
Type 2 diabetes 
Study # 2004 
Study # 2005 
Study # 2006 
4 weeks 
4 weeks 
4 weeks 
Subtotal, type 2 
Subtotal Short Duration 
Long Duration 
Type 1 diabetes 
Study # 3001 
Study # 3004 
Study # 3005 
28 weeks 
28 weeks 
16 weeks 
Subtotal, type 1 
Type 2 diabetes 
Study # 3002 
Study # 3006 
52 weeks 
28 weeks 
Subtotal, type 2 
Subtotal Long Duration 
TOTAL 
315 
372 
687 
256 
188 
131 
575 
1262 
655 
677 
689 
2021 
687 
846 
1533 
3554 
4816 
168 
223 
391 
136 
108 
57 
301 
692 
292 
264 
310 
866 
289 
259 
548 
1414 
2106 
88 
110 
198 
68 
49 
57 
174 
372 
293 
270 
309 
872 
281 
259 
540 
1412 
256 
333 
589 
204 
157 
114 
475 
1064 
585 
534 
619 
1738 
570 
518 
1088 
2826 
1784 
3890 
All studies were multicentre, randomised, open studies comparing insulin glargine with human NPH 
insulin  (except  study  2006),  the  standard  insulin  used  to  provide  basal  insulin  supply.  Centralised, 
computerised,  telephone  randomisation  was  used  in  all  studies  to  avoid  imbalances  in  the  treatment 
groups potentially caused by investigator bias due to the open study design. The basal insulin dosing 
regimen  for  subjects  receiving  insulin  glargine  was  once  daily  (at  bedtime)  regardless  of  their  prior 
regimen. The regimen for subjects receiving NPH insulin was either once daily (at bedtime) or twice 
daily  (in  the  morning  and  at  bedtime),  based  on  their  regimen  prior  to  the  treatment  phase.  In  the 
studies  in  type  1  diabetes  mellitus,  the  daily  insulin  dose  was  adjusted  to  maintain  fasting  blood 
glucose (FBG) between 80 and 120 mg/dl (4.4 and 6.7 mmol/l). In the studies in type 2 diabetes, target 
fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG)  levels  were  between  80  and  140  mg/dl  [4.4  –  7.8  mmol/l]  with  an 
optimum  FPG  <  126  mg/dl  [7.0  mmol/l])  while  avoiding  hypoglycaemia.  Human  regular  insulin 
(except  study  3005  where  insulin  lispro  was  used)  was  injected  before  meals  according  to  common 
practice in all studies in type 1 diabetes and studies 2005, 2006 and 3006 in type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
In study 3006 additional antidiabetic treatment was provided by oral antidiabetic drugs. 
Short duration studies (4 weeks) 
Short  duration  studies  were  used  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  insulin  glargine  with  that  of 
human NPH insulin as well as to select the insulin glargine formulation to be investigated in the longer 
duration  studies.  Primary  efficacy  parameters  were  FPG  at  endpoint  (adjusted  for  baseline)  in  the 
intention to treat (ITT) population. Secondary efficacy variables in most studies were hypoglycaemic 
episodes, FBG, blood glucose profile, nocturnal blood glucose, stability of FPG and FBG, treatment 
response,  serial  overnight  plasma  glucose,  fasting  serum  insulin,  insulin  doses,  HbA1c  and 
fructosamine. 
11/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long duration studies (16-52 weeks) 
Long  duration  studies  were  used  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  insulin  glargine  and  human 
NPH insulin. The primary efficacy parameter was the change in HbA1c from baseline to endpoint in 
the ITT population.  Hypoglycaemia was  analysed as a secondary  efficacy variable.  Other secondary 
efficacy  parameters  were  FPG,  FBG,  variability  of  FBG,  nocturnal  blood  glucose,  24-hour  average 
blood  glucose,  24-hour  average  plasma  glucose,  fasting  serum  C-peptide,  fasting  serum  insulin. 
Quality of life (QoL) was investigated in studies 3001, 3002, 3004, 3006 using the Diabetes Treatment 
Satisfaction Questionnaire and the Well-Being Questionnaire. Studies were planned to provide a 90% 
power to detect an average difference of 0.5% HbA1c between treatment groups. 
Efficacy in type I diabetes 
With  respect  to  GHb,  insulin  glargine  appeared  to  be  equally  effective  as  NPH  insulin.  No  changes 
were found in GHb at endpoint as compared to baseline. Patients had already a rather well controlled 
blood  sugar  level  at  baseline.  The  blood  glucose  lowering  potential  of  insulin  glargine  was 
demonstrated  in  all  three  studies  (3001,  3004,  3005).  Comparable  decreases  of  FBG  and  FPG  were 
found  for  insulin  glargine  and  for  NPH  insulin  administered  once  daily  (study  3001),  where  similar 
basal insulin doses were given. FBG and FPG decreased more in the insulin glargine than in the group 
receiving NPH insulin twice a day (studies 3004 and 3005), where the insulin glargine bedtime dose 
was 70% higher than the NPH bedtime dose. 
A responder analysis, according to a target FBG of 120 mg/dl (6.66 mmol/l) revealed variable results 
when insulin glargine was compared to NPH insulin administered once daily. When compared to NPH 
insulin  administered  twice  a  day,  insulin  glargine  scored  slightly  better.  However,  the  majority  of 
patients in both treatment groups still had FBG values above the target. 
Special attention was paid to nocturnal hypoglycaemia. When comparing insulin glargine and subjects 
receiving  NPH  insulin  once  daily,  significantly  fewer  subjects  receiving  insulin  glargine  reported 
severe or nocturnal hypoglycaemia, while the decreases in FBG and FPG for the two treatment groups 
were comparable (3001/3004 combined). When comparing the insulin glargine to the group receiving 
NPH  insulin  twice  a  day,  where  the  NPH  dose  given  at  bedtime  was  lower  than  that  of  insulin 
glargine,  FBG  decreased  significantly  more  in  the  insulin  glargine  than  the  NPH  group,  while  the 
percentage of subjects reporting nocturnal hypoglycaemia was similar. Asymptomatic hypoglycaemia 
based on fasting self-monitored blood glucose determinations and visit fasting glucoses, with BG < 50 
mg/dl or 36 mg/dl was seen more frequently in patients receiving insulin glargine in studies 3004 and 
3005,  especially  from  month  2  till  the  end  of  the  study,  in  subjects  that  had  a  prior  more  than  once 
daily basal insulin regimen; the frequency of asymptomatic hypoglycaemia in subjects that had a prior 
once  daily  basal  insulin  regimen  was  similar  with  insulin  glargine  and  NPH.  A  similar  number  of 
insulin  glargine  and  NPH  patients  had  asymptomatic  hypoglycaemia  in  study  3001.  The  issue  of 
hypoglycaemia is discussed in the section devoted to Clinical Safety. 
From the clinical studies performed to demonstrate efficacy it can be inferred that patients receiving a 
treatment with a single dose of NPH insulin per day could be directly transferred to the same dose of 
insulin glargine. A reduction of the total starting dose of basal insulin dose by 20% or more (efficacy 
and  safety  issue,  which  are  discussed  further  in  the  safety  section)  could  be  recommended  when  a 
twice daily NPH regimen is changed to a once daily insulin glargine regimen. 
Efficacy in type 2 diabetes 
Results from clinical studies were unclear as to the efficacy of insulin glargine in patients with Type 2 
diabetes.  Glycaemic  control  as  measured  by  HbA1c  was  better  with  NPH  insulin  than  with  insulin 
glargine in study 3006. Study 3002, however, demonstrated similar efficacy for insulin glargine and 
NPH  insulin.  Upon  request  for  further  clarification  the  company  presented  the  results  of  a  meta-
analysis  of  studies  3002  and  3006  at  the  oral  explanation  at  the  CPMP.  Results  from  this  analysis 
provided  evidence  that  both  NPH  insulin  and  insulin  glargine  have  a  substantial  lowering  effect  on 
GHb in subjects with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Insulin glargine treated subjects reported less nocturnal hypoglycaemia. However, 24-hour registration 
of hypoglycaemias showed that there were more hypoglycaemias in the period between 6:00 and 8:00 
a.m in patients treated with insulin glargine than in patients treated with NPH insulin (safety concerns 
related to hypoglycaemia are discussed in the section devoted to Clinical Safety). 
12/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
In  type  1  diabetic  patients,  insulin  glargine  appeared  to  be  equally  effective  as  NPH  insulin  with 
respect  to  glycaemic  control.  The  blood  glucose  lowering  potential  of  insulin  glargine  was 
demonstrated in all studies.  
In type 2 diabetic patients glycaemic control was similarly good with insulin glargine and NPH, both 
in combination with oral antidiabetic drugs and insulin. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  insulin  glargine  was  evaluated  on  the  basis  of  10  clinical  trials  designed  for  the 
evaluation  of  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  by  comparing  insulin  glargine  to  NPH  insulin  (see  section 
Clinical  efficacy  for  the  description  of  the  trials).  While  five  of  these  trials  where  only  of  short 
duration  (4  weeks),  five  trials  had  a  longer  duration  of  16  to  52  weeks.  Overall,  1104  patients  have 
been exposed to the product for at least 6 months and 289 patients have been exposed to the product 
over  a  period  of  one  year.  Overall,  the  studies  showed  that  the  safety  profile  of  insulin  glargine  is 
similar to that of NPH insulin. However a number of major safety issues have been identified. These 
are  hypoglycaemia,  local  reactions/toxicity,  immunological  reactions/antibody  formation  and  ocular 
safety. 
Hypoglycaemia 
Less nocturnal hypoglycaemia occurred when patients were transferred from once daily NPH insulin 
to an equivalent dose of once daily insulin glargine. However, an initial increase in the incidence of 
nocturnal  hypoglycaemia  was  observed  with  insulin  glargine  when  patients  were  transferred  from 
more  than  once  daily  NPH  insulin  to  once  daily  insulin  glargine.  More  nocturnal  hypoglycaemia 
occurred even with a 20-25% reduction of the total insulin glargine dose during the initial treatment 
phase. 
It should be noted that during clinical trials dose-titration of insulin glargine was done at the discretion 
of  the  treating  physician.  This  explains  inconsistency  of  observations  made  in  relation  to  the 
occurrence  of  hypoglycaemia.  Nevertheless,  it  can  be  concluded  that  insulin  glargine  may  give  less 
nocturnal  hypoglycaemia  if  careful  initial  dose  titration  is  performed  and  that  the  recommended 
starting  dose  of  insulin  glargine  should  be  reduced  by  more  than  20-25%  for  patients  who  were 
previously treated with twice daily NPH insulin. 
Studies  indicated  that  after  the  initial  titration  phase,  the  frequency  of  symptomatic  hypoglycaemia 
induced  by  insulin  glargine  and  NPH  were  comparable.  The  incidence  of  serious  and  severe 
hypoglycaemia  was  also  comparable.  A  higher  incidence  of  asymptomatic  hypoglycaemia  was 
observed  in  patients  treated  with  insulin  glargine.  However  the  studies  suggest  that  there  is  no 
increased  risk  for  the  development  of  severe  hypoglycaemia  with  insulin  glargine  in  patients  with 
asymptomatic hypoglycaemia. The incidence of nocturnal hypoglycaemia was lower during the later 
study  period  in  study  3002  and  3006  (3002:  months  2-5  and  months  6-12;  3006:  months  2-6)  for 
insulin glargine than for NPH insulin. This result was confirmed by the meta-analysis of studies 3002 
and 3006. 
Overall,  studies  suggest  that  following  the  initial  titration  phase,  insulin  glargine  is  as  safe  as  NPH 
insulin with respect to hypoglycaemia. 
Local reactions 
Insulin glargine provoked pain at the injection site at a higher frequency than NPH insulin. The pain 
was  generally  tolerated,  since  patients  were  not  withdrawn  from  studies.  One  serious  local  reaction 
that required hospital care was reported. 
Pharmacology studies indicated that absorption of insulin glargine from the injection site is very slow 
and that some product (insulin glargine and/or its metabolites) is still present at the injection site after 
24  hours.  Since  insulin  glargine  is  intended  for  continued  treatment  over  a  long  period  of  time  and 
even  if  injection  sites  are  frequently  changed,  the  prolonged  exposure  of  relatively  small  areas  of 
subcutaneous tissue to the product may result in local toxicity. 
13/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
From  safety  data  collected  there  is  no  evidence  that  insulin  glargine  may  have  caused  any  of  the 
observed  injection  site  reactions  (including  injection  site  mass  and  inflammation)  that  cannot  be 
considered  a  common  side  effect  of  insulin  injections.  There  is  no  evidence  for  local  cancers  in 
humans. However, on the basis of the collected safety data, which cover a period of a maximum of 52 
weeks,  the  effect  of  long-term  exposure  to  insulin  glargine  cannot  be  fully  evaluated.  Therefore 
careful  post-  marketing  surveillance  will  be  required  in  order  to  monitor  the  appearance  of  more 
serious local reactions. 
Immunological reactions and antibody formation 
There  was  no  significant  difference  in  the  incidence  of  local  or  systemic  hypersensitivity  reactions 
reported in the clinical studies between patients receiving insulin glargine and patients receiving NPH 
insulin.  Systemic  hypersensitivity  reactions  were  rare  and  they  were  rarely  accompanied  by  an 
increase in antibody formation. Increase in insulin glargine antibody formation was accompanied by 
an increase in human insulin antibody formation due to a considerable cross-reactivity between these 
antibodies. For patients experiencing an increase in antibody formation, defined as clinically important 
in the study design, there was generally no loss of glycaemic control. In some patients, the total insulin 
dose  was  increased  by  2-35  IU,  but  the  increase  was  also  often  accompanied  by  a  better  glycaemic 
control.  In  few  patients  a  worsening  of  glycaemic  control  occurred,  even  if  the  insulin  dose  was 
increased.  Given  the  specificity  and  sensitivity  of  the  method  used  for  antibody  determination,  it  is 
unlikely  that  this  deterioration  in  glycaemic  control  was  due  to  clinically  meaningful  antibody 
formation that remained undetected. This deterioration was more likely due to inadequate insulin dose 
adjustment necessary to maintain optimal glycaemic control. 
In  view  of  the  safety  data  collected  in  clinical  trials,  the  issue  of  antibody  formation  and 
immunological reactions and loss of glycaemic control is not a major concern. 
Ocular safety 
Retinal adverse events were reported with a similar incidence in patients treated with insulin glargine 
or  with  NPH  insulin.  To  evaluate  retinopathy,  fundus  photographs  were  taken  at  study  start  and  at 
study  end  in  studies  3001,  3002,  3004  and  3006.  For  some  patients  a  third  examination  was 
performed. In one study (3006) a statistically significant increase in the incidence of retinopathy (≥3 
step progression) was observed in patients treated with insulin glargine. The increase does not appear 
to be related to the glycaemic control (i.e. HbA1c and FPG) or to the insulin dose. A similar negative 
trend was observed in study 3001.  
Results  of  a  meta-analysis  performed  for  studies  3001,  3002,  3004  and  3006  did  not  demonstrate  a 
meaningful difference in the number of subjects who had a ≥3-step progression in retinopathy between 
insulin  glargine  and  NPH.  Subjects  with  a  ≥3-step  progression  generally  demonstrated  greater 
improvement of glycaemic control than subjects without such a progression. There were no clinically 
relevant differences for insulin dose and insulin antibodies between insulin glargine and NPH subjects 
either with or without ≥3-step progression. 
Even if insulin glargine displays a higher affinity to the IGF-1 receptor than human insulin, its affinity 
is  still  very  low  as  compared  to  IGF-1.  Therefore  it  is  unlikely  that  IGF-1  is  involved  in  the 
progression of retinopathy in patients treated with insulin glargine. This is also supported by the fact 
that  optic  disc  swelling,  the  most  commonly  associated  retinopathy  symptom  resulting  from  IGF-1 
treatment, was not observed in any of the clinical trials. 
In  light  of  the  safety  data  collected  during  clinical  trials  the  influence  of  insulin  glargine  on  ocular 
safety  is  unclear.  Results  from  different  studies  are  not  consistent.  Since  the  observed  increase  of 
retinopathies  could  be  indicative  of  a  less  well-controlled  blood  sugar  level  in  patients  treated  with 
insulin  glargine  compared  to  patients  treated  with  NPH  insulin  the  company  was  asked  to  provide 
further clarification. In response to this concern the company consulted several experts in the field of 
ophthalmology.  Their  conclusion  was  that  there  is  no  reason  to  suspect  that  there  is  an  increased 
incidence in adverse ocular reactions associated with insulin glargine treatment. 
14/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments,  the  quality of  Optisulin  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with 
the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications (specifications are attached). 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
insulin glargine in the treatment of diabetes and demonstrated the slow release of the active ingredient 
from the injection site, which is the rationale for its depot activity. The major safety concern relates to 
the  risk  associated  with  the  long  and  constant  exposure  to  insulin  glargine  when  compared  to  slow 
release formulations of native human insulin already in clinical use.  
The  major  point  for  concern  revealed  by  toxicology  studies  was  the  affinity  for  the  IGF-1  receptor. 
However, after careful evaluation of the clinical relevance of these findings, it was concluded that the 
occurrence of Malignant Fibrous Histiocytomas in rats was not of particular concern as to the clinical 
safety  of  insulin  glargine.  Overall,  results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  particular 
concerns for the safe use of insulin glargine. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  insulin  glargine  in  diabetes  mellitus,  where 
treatment with insulin is required.  
Efficacy has been demonstrated for type 1 and type 2 diabetes.  
Although  it  was  not  evaluated  in  special  risk  patients,  it  is  expected  that  modifications  to 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  occurring  with  insulin  glargine  in  subjects  with  impaired 
renal and hepatic function will be similar to modifications observed with human insulin. A warning on 
dose adjustment in renal impairment and in the elderly has been included in the SPC. 
Clinical safety 
The major safety issues are hypoglycaemia, local reactions/toxicity, immunological reactions/antibody 
formation and ocular safety. Clinical experience indicated that following the initial titration phase, i.e. 
upon  correct  dose  adjustment,  insulin  glargine  is  as  safe  as  NPH  insulin  with  respect  to 
hypoglycaemia. Clinical experience also indicated that the issue of antibody formation is not a major 
concern  and  that  the  incidence  in  adverse  ocular  reactions  is  not  increased  with  insulin  glargine  as 
compared to NPH insulin. 
The  occurrence  of  injection  site  reactions  is  a  common  side  effect  of  treatment  by  insulin  injection. 
However on the basis of the collected safety data the effect of long-term exposure to insulin glargine 
could not be fully assessed. Therefore careful post-marketing surveillance will be required in order to 
monitor the appearance of more serious local reactions. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments,  the  quality of  Optisulin  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with 
the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch-to-batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. 
15/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  insulin  glargine  in  diabetes  mellitus,  where 
treatment with insulin is required. The efficacy for insulin glargine is comparable to other long acting 
insulins and has been demonstrated for type 1 and type 2 diabetes. 
The main benefit expected from insulin glargine as compared to other existing long acting insulins is a 
prolonged duration of action, which supports administration only once a day. The prolonged action is 
due to the low solubility of insulin glargine at neutral pH. After injection, insulin glargine precipitates 
in the subcutaneous tissue and small amounts of active substance are continuously released from the 
precipitate,  providing  a  smooth,  peakless,  predictable  concentration/time  profile  with  a  prolonged 
duration of action. 
Risk 
safety 
issues  were  hypoglycaemia, 
The  major 
immunological 
reactions/antibody formation and ocular safety. Clinical experience indicated that following the initial 
titration  phase,  i.e.  upon  correct  dose  adjustment,  insulin  glargine  is  as  safe  as  NPH  insulin  with 
respect to hypoglycaemia. Clinical experience also indicated that the issue of antibody formation is not 
a  major  concern  and  that  the  incidence  in  adverse  ocular  reactions  is  not  increased  with  insulin 
glargine as compared to NPH insulin.  
reactions/toxicity, 
local 
The  occurrence  of  injection  site  reactions  is  a  common  side  effect  of  treatment  by  insulin  injection. 
However  the  occurrence  of  Malignant  Fibrous  Histiocytomas  in  rats  in  pre-clinical  studies  raised 
concerns  as  to  the  carcinogenic  potential  of  insulin  glargine.  Following  careful  evaluation  of  the 
clinical relevance of these findings, it was concluded that at present the carcinogenic potential is not a 
point for particular concern. However, in view of the lack of clinical experience following long-term 
exposure to insulin glargine careful post-marketing surveillance will be required in order to  monitor 
the appearance of more serious local reactions. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Optisulin  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus,  where 
treatment with insulin is required. 
The  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  recommends  the  granting  of  a  marketing 
authorisation for Optisulin, subject to the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological as well as clinical 
follow-up measures undertaken by the company. 
16/16 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
