Incyte 
Ruxolitinib cream 
Page 1 of 5 
1.8.2 Risk Management Plan 
PART VI  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR RUXOLITINIB 
CREAM 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ruxolitinib cream.  The RMP details 
important risks of ruxolitinib cream, and how more information will be obtained about 
ruxolitinib cream's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ruxolitinib cream's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ruxolitinib cream should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for ruxolitinib cream should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of ruxolitinib 
cream's RMP. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
I 
Ruxolitinib cream is authorised for the treatment of non-segmental vitiligo with facial involvement in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains 
ruxolitinib phosphate as the active substance and it is applied topically.  
Further information about the evaluation of ruxolitinib cream's benefits can be found in 
ruxolitinib cream's EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine's webpage. 
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of ruxolitinib cream, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about ruxolitinib cream's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine's packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine's legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Incyte 
Ruxolitinib cream 
Page 2 of 5 
1.8.2 Risk Management Plan 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of ruxolitinib cream is not yet available, it is 
listed under 'missing information' below. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
II.A 
Important risks of ruxolitinib cream are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely applied.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ruxolitinib cream.  Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table II.1:  Lists of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
None  
Important potential risks 
Non-melanoma skin cancer at long-term use 
Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Missing information 
Impaired bone growth and development in paediatric patients < 18 
years of age 
Summary of Important Risks 
II.B 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important potential risk: Non-melanoma skin cancer at long-term use 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) is considered a class effect of 
oral JAK inhibitors. A causal relationship between NMSC and oral 
ruxolitinib has not been established.  
Non-melanoma skin cancers, predominantly basal cell carcinomas 
have been reported in patients treated with topical ruxolitinib. Most 
of these patients had risk factors, such as prior phototherapy or prior 
NMSC. A causal relationship to topical ruxolitinib has not been 
established based on available safety data. A 52-week follow-up is 
not considered sufficient to determine if ruxolitinib cream could 
contribute to the induction of NMSC.  
 
 
Incyte 
Ruxolitinib cream 
Page 3 of 5 
1.8.2 Risk Management Plan 
Important potential risk: Non-melanoma skin cancer at long-term use 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Based on the limited long-term follow-up and because NMSC is 
considered a potential class effect of oral JAK inhibitors, NMSC at 
long-term use of topical ruxolitinib will continue to be monitored as 
an important potential risk. 
While the role of ultraviolet radiation in the pathogenesis of 
squamous cell carcinoma is undisputable, it has also been cited as 
the most important risk factor in the development of basal cell 
carcinoma (Bhari et al 2016, Situm et al 2008).  Basal cell 
carcinoma, has been reported in patients with vitiligo treated with 
phototherapy.  This may be explained by the mechanism of thymine 
dimer formation and cumulative DNA damage by ultraviolet light, 
which results in numerous mutations and local immune system 
depression leading to decreased immune surveillance for new tumor 
cells (Situm et al 2008).  In the Phase 2/3 Vitiligo Population, 
29.6% of participants had received phototherapy prior to enrolling 
in the studies. 
Other risk factors include patients with a personal or family history 
of NMSC or pre-malignant skin lesions, sun beds, skin type 1 or 2, 
immunosuppression, occupational exposure to chemicals (coal tar, 
creosote, arsenic, radium or pitch) and previous radiotherapy 
(Situm et al 2008, Perera 2014).  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.4   
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
     No additional risk minimisation measures  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study INCB88888-037 (PASS) 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Important potential risk: Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
There are limited data from the use of ruxolitinib in pregnant 
women. Data on systemic absorption of topical ruxolitinib during 
pregnancy are lacking. There could be individual factors (e.g. 
damaged skin barrier, excessive use) that contribute to an increased 
systemic exposure.  
Embryo-foetal toxicity was observed following oral administration 
of ruxolitinib to rats and rabbits during gestation; similar findings 
have been identified in nonclinical studies with other JAK 
inhibitors. The conclusions from the non-clinical data point to a 
potential relevant risk in humans. Additionally, human PK data 
 
 
 
 
Incyte 
Ruxolitinib cream 
Page 4 of 5 
1.8.2 Risk Management Plan 
Important potential risk: Embryo-foetal toxicity 
show that there is a non-negligible systemic exposure after 
ruxolitinib cream application, so negative effects from dermal use 
of ruxolitinib during pregnancy on developing foetus cannot be 
entirely excluded.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Women of child bearing potential not using effective contraception.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.3 
•  SmPC Section 4.6 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No additional risk minimisation measures  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
Missing information: Impaired bone growth and development in paediatric patients < 18 years of age 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 5.3 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
ruxolitinib cream. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study INCB88888-037: Evaluation of the Incidence of Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer after 
Long-term exposure to Ruxolitinib Cream 
Purpose of the Study:  Recent data have been published that draw a relationship between JAK 
inhibitors and NMSC, including basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas (Lin et al 2022, 
Greif et al 2021). Such literature findings have suggested that in chronic inflammatory 
conditions, patients with such underlying disease may also be at risk for outcomes of NMSC.  
Upon review of the marketing application for ruxolitinib cream, and in alignment with 
previously published safety risks concerning oral JAK inhibitors, the European Medicines 
Agency requested consideration of a non-interventional clinical study to evaluate the relationship 
 
 
 
 
 
Incyte 
Ruxolitinib cream 
Page 5 of 5 
1.8.2 Risk Management Plan 
between the long-term use of ruxolitinib cream for vitiligo, and the development of non-
melanoma skin cancers.  
Study INCB 18424-308: A Double-Blind, Vehicle-Controlled, Randomized Withdrawal, 
and Treatment Extension Study to Assess the Long-Term Efficacy and Safety of 
Ruxolitinib Cream in Participants with Vitiligo (TRuE-V LTE) 
Purpose of the Study:   
This study is designed to evaluate the duration of response following withdrawal of ruxolitinib 
cream (Cohort A vehicle group) and maintenance of response with continued use of ruxolitinib 
cream in individuals with vitiligo who have experienced repigmentation with ruxolitinib cream 
treatment.  This study is also designed to characterize the long-term efficacy and safety profile of 
ruxolitinib cream in individuals with vitiligo treated for up to a total of 104 weeks. 
Study INCB 18424-309: Double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate 
efficacy and safety of ruxolitinib cream in children from 6 years to less than 12 years of age 
with non-segmental vitiligo 
Purpose of the Study:   
To evaluate efficacy and safety of ruxolitinib cream in children from 6 years to less than 12 years 
of age with non-segmental vitiligo. 
 
