SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
Introduction 
The biological antirheumatic agents, TNF-α blockers infliximab, etanercept and adalimumab as well 
as  the  IL-1-blocker  anakinra  belong  to  the  first  generation  biological  antirheumatics  that  have 
significantly  improved  the  therapy  of  rheumatoid  arthritis.  In  contrast  to  most  previous  Disease-
Modifying Antirheumatic  Drugs (DMARDs), the biologicals have been shown to rapidly relieve the 
symptoms  and  signs  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  as  well  to  retard  the  progression  of  joint  damage. 
Unfortunately,  the  biological  antirheumatic  medicinal  products  may  have  serious  although  rare 
adverse  effects,  such  as  infections,  autoimmunity  and  hypersensitivity.  Furthermore,  a  significant 
proportion of RA patients are refractory to the current biological antirheumatics. 
Abatacept  (ORENCIA)  is  an  anti-rheumatic  medicinal  product.  Its  mode  of  action  is  to  prevent  T 
lymphocyte activation. 
The initially proposed therapeutic indication is as follows: “ORENCIA is indicated for reducing signs 
and symptoms, improving physical function and reducing the rate of progression of structural damage 
in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), such as methotrexate or tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) blocking agents. 
ORENCIA may be used in combination with DMARD therapy. In patients who tolerate methotrexate, 
but who are having an inadequate response to therapy, ORENCIA is usually given in combination 
with methotrexate. Abatacept is not recommended for use in combination with TNF blocking agents” 
Abatacept is to be administered as a 30-minute intravenous infusion at a dose specified by body 
weight (≥ 60 kg to ≤ 100 kg = 750 mg) and to be readministered 2 and 4 weeks after the first infusion, 
then every 4 weeks thereafter.   
After review  of the dossier, the indication has been revised and approved by the CHMP as follows: 
“ORENCIA  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have had an insufficient response or intolerance to 
other  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  including  at  least  one  tumour  necrosis  factor  (TNF) 
inhibitor. A reduction in the progression of joint damage and improvement of physical function have 
been demonstrated during combination treatment with abatacept and methotrexate”. 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
ORENCIA  is  a  biological  product  developed  for  immunosuppression  by  blocking  T  cell  activation 
through inhibition of co-stimulatory signals and is indicated for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. It is 
assumed  that  T  cells  are  driving  the  autoimmune  response  that  leads  to  synovitis  and  to  other 
inflammatory features of rheumatoid arthritis. T cells require at least 2 signals for full activation, an 
antigen-specific signal (signal 1) and a co-stimulatory signal (signal 2). The drug substance, abatacept, 
was  designed  to  bind  to  CD80  and  CD86  receptors  (B7  molecules)  on  antigen-presenting  cells, 
thereby inhibiting the CD28-mediated co-stimulation of T cells (see the figure below). 
©EMEA 2007 
1/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. 
Mode of action 
ORENCIA is a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion provided in Type 1 glass vials with a 
stopper  (halobutyl  rubber)  and  flip  off  seal  (aluminium)  with  a  silicone  free  syringe  (polyethylene). 
Each vial contains 250 mg abatacept as well as the following excipients: maltose, sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate monohydrate, sodium chloride. 
Drug Substance  
Abatacept is the drug substance in ORENCIA. Abatacept is a soluble homodimeric fusion protein of 
two identical subunits covalently linked by one disulphide bond. Each subunit consists of the modified 
amino-acid sequences of: 
• 
the  extracellular  domain  of  human  cytotoxic  lymphocyte  associated  antigen  4  (CTLA-4). 
CTLA-4 is a trans-membrane regulatory protein that is not expressed on the surface of resting 
T  cells  but  is  expressed  following  activation  and  down  regulates  activation  of  T-cells.  Both 
CD28  and  CTLA4  can  bind  to  CD  80  (B7-1)  and  CD  86  (B7-2)  molecules  on  the  APC 
surface. CTLA4 binds to CD 80/86 with higher avidity than does CD28. 
•  human immunoglobulin IgG1 hinge, CH2 and CH3 regions (Fc). 
Modifications  to  the  original  sequences  were  introduced  to  avoid  unintended  disulphide  bridge 
formation and to reduce the ability of complement activation. 
Manufacture 
The  drug  substance  is  manufactured  in  accordance  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practice  (GMP)  at 
Bristol-Myers  Squibb  facilities  in  East  Syracuse  New  York,  USA  (“process  E”)  and  by  Lonza 
Biologics, New Hampshire, USA (“process F”). 
Abatacept is produced by fermentation in a transfected genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary 
(CHO)  cell  line.  For  secretion  into  the  medium,  abatacept  is  expressed  with  an  upstream  signal 
sequence  that  is  cleaved  as  the  protein  is  secreted.  The  fusion  protein  gene  contains  the  coding 
sequence  for  the  CTLA-4  prepared  from  the  H38  cell  line  and  the  Fc-region  gene  derived  from  a 
murine  myeloma  cell  line  producing  mouse-human  chimeric  L6  antibody.  The  gene  sequences  were 
modified to substitute some amino acids as described above.  
©EMEA 2007 
2/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expression plasmid was stably transfected by electroporation into a CHO-cell line, and an optimal 
cell clone was developed under methotrexate selection pressure. 
The cell line was adapted to grow in a chemically defined medium, and animal-or human-derived raw 
materials are not used in the commercial manufacturing process, except for one material derived from 
bovine  milk,  which  is  considered  safe.  Serum  is  not  used  in  the  composition  of  the  cell  culture 
medium, including Working Cell Bank (WCB) cultivation and cell culture process media. A two-tier 
banking  system  was  established  to  ensure  continuous  and  consistent  production.  The  establishment, 
characterisation and control of the Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Banks were described 
and  are  adequate.  The  genetic  stability  was  appropriately  demonstrated  by  analysis  of  end  of 
production cells and genetic stability studies. 
Following fermentation and removal of production cells, the secreted substance is purified by a series 
of chromatographic and filtration steps to reduce the level of impurities (mostly high molecular weight 
proteins),  to  control  the  sialic  acid  to  protein  ratio,  and  to  reduce  the  level  of  potential  viruses.  The 
downstream  process  consists  of  4  chromatographic  steps 
including  a  protein  A  affinity 
chromatography, one specific viral inactivation step and a viral nano-filtration step to clear potential 
viruses. Finally, abatacept is concentrated (at 50 mg/ml) and diafiltrated into the final buffer (25 mM 
phosphate, 50 sodium chloride, pH 7.5). 
Materials used in the manufacture process are adequately controlled. The manufacturing process and 
in-process  controls  have  been  sufficiently  described.  Establishment  of  controls  for  critical  steps  and 
intermediates  are  described  in  detail  and  are  adequate.  Validation  studies  were  presented, 
demonstrating  clearance  of  process  related  impurities  and  consistency  of  the  drug  substance 
manufacturing process. 
Abatacept  has  been  characterised  extensively  using  a  battery  of  modern  analytical  state-of-the-art 
techniques. Abatacept is a homodimeric fusion protein of two identical subunits covalently linked by 
one  disulphide  bond.  Each  subunit  consists  of  amino  acids  similar  to  the  extracellular  domain  of 
human cytotoxic lymphocyte associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and human immunoglobulin IgG1 hinge, 
CH2  and  CH3  regions  (Fc).  Modifications  to  the  original  sequences  to  avoid  unintended  disulphide 
bridge formation and to reduce the ability of complement activation were introduced. Three cysteine 
residues  in  the  hinge  region  were  substituted  with  serines  by  mutation  of  the  human  IgG1  gene 
sequence.  There  is  one  interchain  disulphide  bridge  between  the  subunits  in  the  CTLA-4  derived 
regions  and  four  intrachain  bridges  within  each  chain  of  Abatacept.  In  addition,  one  proline  was 
unintentionally substituted by serine in the CH2 region.  
There are 357 amino acids in each subunit, the molecular weight is 92 300 Da (determined by mass 
spectrometry) of which 15 % is composed of carbohydrates. There are N-linked oligosaccharides and 
O-linked oligosaccharides in each chain. Terminal sialic acids of the carbohydrate moieties are said to 
be important for pharmacokinetics of the protein. In addition to heterogeneity derived from different 
glycoforms, there is N-terminal and C-terminal heterogeneity. Consequently, the drug substance is a 
mixture  of  different  iso-  and  glycoforms  of  the  protein.  Biological  properties  of  the  drug  substance 
have been characterised by using a binding assay and a human cell IL-2 inhibition assay. 
Although it is difficult to fully characterise such a large, complex and heterogeneous fusion protein by 
the  current  available  analytical  methods,  abatacept  has  been  sufficiently  characterised.  The  forced 
degradation  studies  have  given  information  on  the  potential  degradation  routes  such  as  aggregation, 
oxidation and deamidation of this light and temperature sensitive protein. 
Abatacept  manufactured  by  different  processes  were  used  during  non-clinical  and  clinical 
development.  
During  the  development  of  ORENCIA,  several  versions  of  abatacept  were  produced  in  different 
manufacturing  processes.  Differences  in  the  fermentation  scale  and  purification  strategies  were 
introduced  during  transition  from  one  process  to  another  to  e.g.  improve  removal  of  impurities,  to 
increase consistency and to optimise sialic acid content.  
©EMEA 2007 
3/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The first 4 manufacturing processes used a cell line grown in cell culture medium containing animal 
derived  components.  However,  prior  to  the  initiation  of  Phase  III  clinical  trials,  a  fifth  process  was 
developed in which the original cell line was adapted to a chemically defined animal-component-free 
medium.  Abatacept  manufactured  at  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  was  used  in  all  Phase  III  clinical  trials. 
Abatacept  manufactured  at  Lonza  Biologics  was  used  in  the  extensions  of  the  pivotal  clinical  trials. 
Comparability studies were conducted at various stages of drug development in vitro and in vivo. Due 
to the complexity and size of the protein, it was not possible to guarantee comparability only with the 
current  analytical  methodology.  Differences  in  sialic  acid  content,  in  glycosylation  profiles  and  in  
C-terminus observed between abatacept from the phase II and phase III processes were not considered 
to  be  an  issue  of  major  concern  since  comparability  was  studied  in  vivo  in  monkeys  and  in  a 
pharmacokinetic study in humans. 
The  relevance  of  the  differences  between  the  manufacturing  processes  at  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  and 
Lonza  Biologics,  which  are  both  used  for  commercial  production,  were  evaluated.  In  light  of  the 
information  and  data  provided  it  was  considered  that  although  processes  E  and  F  are  not  identical, 
technical  adaptations  to  the  operational  parameters  were  introduced  for  process  F  to  allow 
manufacture  at  higher  scale  and  therefore  processes  E  and  F  are  not  considered  to  be  alternative 
processes. 
Specifications 
The analytical procedures and their validation in general are appropriate for the assessment of the drug 
substance  and  stability  indicating  methods  were  identified.  The  set  of  specification  and  limits  were 
adequately justified on the basis of data obtained from up to 94 batches. Specifications include among 
others: bacterial endotoxins LAL by gel clot, bioburden by membrane filtering, identity by capillary 
electrophoresis,  identity  by  horizontal  isoelectric  focusing,  identity  and  primary  structure  by  tryptic 
digestion/peptide mapping, purity by size exclusion HPLC, identity and purity by Coomassie stain and 
silver stain  SDS-PAGE, determination of free sulfhydryl groups by the Ellman’s reagent assay, DNA 
by  quantitative  PCR,  MCP-1  by  ELISA,  CHO  Host  Cell  Protein  by  ELISA,  Residual  protein  A  by 
ELISA,  sialic  acid  by  hydrolysis  and  HPLC,  N-linked  carbohydrate  profile  by  HPAEC-ED,  amino 
monosaccharide  composition  by  CE,  neutral  monosaccharide  composition  by  CE,  B7  binding  by 
surface  plasmon  resonance,  potency  and  protein  concentration  by  UV  adsorbance  at  280  nm.  The 
biological potency is measured in vitro using a human cell IL-2 inhibition assay. 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture of abatacept. 
Stability 
Containers  and  storage  conditions  for  the  sterile  filtered  drug  substance  have  been  adequately 
documented  and  the  proposed  shelf-life  is  justified on  the  basis appropriate  real-time,  real-condition 
stability studies on 3 batches for process E and 3 batches for process F. The stability data generated 
from drug substance manufactured by process E and F were comparable. 
Drug Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
The drug product, ORENCIA, is a sterile lyophilisate of 250 mg abatacept per vial. The drug product 
contains  phosphate  buffer  and  sodium  chloride  derived  from  the  drug  substance  solution  and 
additional maltose monohydrate as a bulking and stabilising agent for lyophilisation. The formulation 
has  been  described  and  justified.  As  a  pharmacopoeia  monograph  does  not  exist  for  maltose 
monohydrate, the quality of this corn-derived excipient is tested according to in-house specifications. 
The  choice  of  the  standard  primary  container-closure  system  is  well  justified  (15  ml  type  I  glass, 
stopper with a seal). The secondary packaging contains a silicone oil-free syringe for reconstitution. 
Manufacture 
The  drug  product  is  manufactured  at  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  Holdings  Pharma  Ltd  in  Manati,  Puerto 
Rico, in accordance with GMP.  
©EMEA 2007 
4/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  formulation  in  the  final  buffer,  0.45 µm  pre-filtration,  two 
0.22 µm filtration, filling in vials, lyophilisation, capping, external washing, labelling and secondary 
packaging. The process, the critical steps and in-process controls are well described. The process has 
been appropriately validated. Data from media fills demonstrate suitability of the aseptic process. 
Product specification 
The specifications for the drug product have been appropriately justified and are acceptable and batch 
results demonstrate consistency. Most of the analytical methods, which were appropriately validated, 
are identical to those used for testing of the drug substance. There are no additional impurities from 
the  manufacturing  of  the  drug  product  as  compared  to  manufacturing  to  the  drug  substance.  The 
proposed  specification  for  high  molecular  weight  species  is  higher  for  the  drug  product  than  for  the 
drug substance, which is acceptable. 
Stability 
Real-time,  real-condition  stability  data  for  the  drug  product  were  provided  and  justify  the  proposed 
shelf-life of two years at 2-8°C. The shelf-life specifications for the drug product do not differ from 
the  release  specifications.  Storage  in  the  original  package  for  protection  from  light  is  supported  by 
photostability studies. 
Adventitious agents 
TSE aspects of starting materials, reagents, excipients, adjuvants, drug substance. Information on the 
viral safety of the product (e.g. for biolgical medicinal products and others if relevant), including use 
of starting materials in respect of viral safety, the adequacy/suitability of the virus removal steps and 
of the precautions taken to ensure viral safety, viral validation studies. 
In general, viral and TSE safety of ORENCIA are considered assured. Freedom of starting materials 
from adventitious agents is assured by appropriate sourcing and testing. The only material of bovine 
origin  used  in  the  manufacturing  process  is  derived  from  bovine  milk  sourced  from  the  USA. 
Compliance with the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform 
Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA/410/01  Rev.  2)  has 
been  demonstrated.  Chinese  hamster  ovarian  cells  (CHO)  are  widely  used  for  production  of  drug 
substances. The master and working cell banks for abatacept are tested for viruses. End of production 
cell banks from both drug substances processes E and F were prepared and tested as well. In-process 
pre-harvests  are  appropriately  tested  on  each  batch. The  load  of endogenous  retrovirus-like  particles 
has been addressed. 
Four orthogonal steps for the manufacturing process at Bristol-Myers Squibb and at Lonza Biologics 
are  validated  for  removal  of  viruses.  Downscale  viral  clearance  studies  were  conducted  using 
appropriate  model  viruses  (two  enveloped  viruses  –  A-MuLV  and  HSV-1  –  and  two  non-enveloped 
viruses  –  PPV  and  Reo-3)  and  demonstrated  effective  virus  removal  (minimum  of  >12  log10).  With 
respect to virus safety, and although process F contains one additional ultra-filtration and diafiltration 
step, study result demonstrated that processes E and F are comparable. 
In summary, the virus safety of the product has been adequately demonstrated. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Overall, information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product 
has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Risk-benefit balance of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed 
to resolve these after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
©EMEA 2007 
5/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The pivotal toxicology studies supporting the safety of abatacept were conducted in compliance with 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Abatacept is a fusion protein containing extracellular domains of CTLA-4, a co-stimulatory molecule 
found  on  activated  T  cells.  As  the  natural  ligand  of  the  CD80  and  CD86  molecules,  the  CTLA-4 
domains bind them with high avidity, displacing the other natural ligand, CD28, expressed on T cells. 
This blocking action deprives T cells from an important costimulatory signal, resulting in inefficient 
T-cell activation. 
Abatacept  binds  to  the  CD64  Fc-receptor  in  monocytes  but  did  not  induce  TNF-α  production  in 
monocytes. Abatacept is unlikely to induce cytokine release from monocyte/macrophages in its native 
form.  However,  abatacept-anti-abatacept  immune  complexes  or  aggregates  of  abatacept  may  behave 
differently. 
Abatacept did not cause lysis in a complement dependent cytotoxicity assay, indicating that it lost its 
complement activating capacity most likely due to mutations in the hinge-CH2 region. 
The  capability  of  abatacept  to  interfere  with  T-cell  activation  is  adequately  proven  in  assays  of 
lymphocyte  activation,  such  as  mixed  lymphocyte  reactions  and  antigen  presentation  assays. 
Proliferation  and  production  of  cytokines  were  both  inhibited  by  the  intended  therapeutic 
concentrations  of  the  drug.  In  vivo  assessment  of  the  general  effects  of  abatacept  also  supports  the 
expected mode of action, that is, prevention of the activation of naïve T cells. The effect of abatacept 
on  secondary  immune  responses  was  also  demonstrated  but  it  was  less  pronounced  than  for  the 
primary response. T cell priming without IL-2 production and cell proliferation can take place during 
abatacept  exposure.  Abatacept  did  not  affect  the  non-antigen-specific  innate  immunity.  Abatacept  is 
not cytotoxic in the classical sense but antigen-stimulated T lymphocytes may undergo apoptosis. 
Abatacept prevented collagen-induced arthritis in mice and in rats when given at the same time with 
the antigen. Its effects on pre-existing arthritis were less pronounced. 
Unfortunately, there are no non-clinical data on the combination of abatacept and methotrexate.  
Abatacept  has  not  been  compared  to  any  of  the  earlier-known  anti-lymphocyte  compounds  (e.g. 
cyclosporin or leflunomide) in any of the in vitro or in vivo experiments. 
Abatacept was immunogenic in the tested animal species. It is unclear whether the immunisation takes 
place during the exposure or only after discontinuation of the treatment since the anti-abatacept assays 
are suffering from the antigen-interference. Rechallenge of mice induced anaphylactoid reactions. This 
was the only significant finding related to safety pharmacology. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Not applicable 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No formal safety pharmacological studies were performed.  
Evaluations of the potential effects of intravenous (IV) administration of abatacept and BMS 224818 
(a  second  generation  molecule  differing  from  abatacept  by  two  amino  acid  residues  within  the 
CD80/86 binding domains, which confers a significant increase in binding avidity to CD86 relative to 
©EMEA 2007 
6/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that of abatacept in humans) on the cardiovascular, central/peripheral nervous, and respiratory systems 
were conducted as part of the pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies in monkeys. 
The  results  of  these  evaluations  did  not  reveal  any  drug-related  changes  in  cardiovascular, 
neurological,  or  respiratory  functions  following  treatment  for  up  to  1  year  with  abatacept  (human 
exposure multiples up to 9.2) or 6 months with BMS-224818 (human exposure multiples up to 7.2). 
No drug-related changes were observed in histamine, complement (C3a), TNF-α, or IL-6 levels in the 
plasma or serum immediately following dosing.  
In conclusion, there were no significant observations related to hemodynamics, ECG, or 
hypersensitivity / anaphylactoid reactions. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions with abatacept were not investigated in nonclinical studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  abatacept  has  been  studied  both  after  intravenous  and  subcutaneous 
administration in different animal species: mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys. Doses of abatacept used in 
these  non-clinical  studies  range  from  those  recommended  for  humans  on  mg/kg  basis  to  toxicology 
doses that provide a possibility to estimate the safety margin. 
Some of the early toxicokinetic studies of abatacept carried out in conjunction with exploratory dose 
ranging  and  efficacy  studies  were  not  carried  out  in  compliance  with  GLP.  However,  toxicokinetic 
and/or pharmacokinetic evaluations of abatacept to support pivotal toxicology studies were conducted 
according to GLP. 
•  Methods of analysis 
The  concentration  of  abatacept  in  serum  was  measured  using  double  antibody  sandwich  enzyme-
linked immunoassay (ELISA). Several assays were developed and validated during the development 
of  abatacept  for  the  determination  of  concentrations  of  abatacept  in  serum  of  mice,  rat,  rabbits,  and 
monkeys and also in rat milk.  The lower level of quantitation (LLQ) for abatacept in the mouse, rat, 
rabbit, and monkey serum were 1.4, 2.0, 1.0, and 1.5 ng/mL, respectively. The LLQ for abatacept in 
rat  milk  was  3.0  ng/mL.  The  calibration  range  was  in  the  range  of  1  -  40  ng/ml.    If  a  predicted 
concentration  of  a  study  sample  was  greater  than  the  highest  standard  the  samples  were  diluted  and 
reanalyzed. Separate ELISA method was developed to quantify antibodies formed against abatacept in 
monkeys as well.   
•  Main pharmacokinetic parameters  
Pharmacokinetic evaluation of abatacept has demonstrated a profile typical of monoclonal antibodies, 
with  dose-dependent  but  not  dose-proportional  increases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  values  and  increases  in 
elimination half-lives with increasing doses that were accompanied by decreasing clearance rates. This 
profile  is  probably  the  result  of  saturation  of  the  major  antibody  clearance  pathway  (Fc-mediated 
phagocytosis).  
Results  of  pharmacokinetic  studies  showed  that  the  systemic  exposure  to  abatacept  increased  as  a 
function of dose. Subcutaneous bioavailability was approximately 85% in mice, and between 41% and 
63%  in  rats.  Accumulation  was  demonstrated  following  repeated  intravenous  or  subcutaneous 
administration. Approximately 1- to 30-fold greater exposures than those in humans given 10 mg/kg 
monthly were obtained. 
The elimination half-life of abatacept in mice and rats was approximately 3 to 6 days. In rabbits and 
monkeys, t1/2 ranged from 5.2 to 7.5 days in monkeys and was 2.4 days in rabbits.  
©EMEA 2007 
7/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  total  body  clearance  (CL)  of  abatacept  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  and  monkeys  ranged  from  0.5  to 
2.0 mL/h/kg. The steady state volume of distribution (Vss) was comparable among the animal species 
tested and ranged from 0.07 to 0.24 L/kg.  
In  pregnant  rats,  a  dose-related  increase  of  abatacept  concentration  in  foetal  sera  indicated  that 
abatacept is able to cross the placental barrier. Overall, abatacept concentrations were 1.7 to 2.4-times 
higher  in  maternal  sera  as  compared  to  foetal  sera.  In  lactating  rats,  the  milk  to  serum  ratios  for 
abatacept were 0.08 to 0.09. Abatacept was also detected in pup sera but the origin of this activity is 
unclear (from maternal milk or from maternal circulation). 
Gender differences in pharmacokinetic parameters were seen in repeated dose studies in monkeys with 
higher exposure in males.  
No  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  metabolism  and  the  metabolic  pathways  of  abatacept  in 
animals  or  to  determine  the  potential  for  any  drug-drug  interactions  of  abatacept.  No  other  studies 
except excretion to milk were conducted to evaluate the distribution of abatacept. 
Toxicology 
Abatacept was tested in an extensive battery of safety evaluation studies. The animals (species) used in 
the  various  studies  have  been  selected  on  due  scientific  grounds  and  correspond  to  the  international 
guidelines.  Apart  from  those  in  the  single-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  administered  doses  can  be 
considered correctly selected. The quality and stability of the test material (as administered during the 
various  studies)  were  properly  controlled  and  validated.  All  pivotal  studies  have  been  conducted  in 
compliance with GLP regulations. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose studies were confined to a single species and to the administration of tolerable doses that 
however  do  not  provide  relevant  information  with  regard  to  potential  clinical  effects  following 
accidental overdose to humans. In single-dose monkey studies, abatacept was well tolerated at doses 
up to 100 mg/kg and did not induce other toxicity than effects related to its pharmacodynamic effects. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In repeated toxicity studies of intravenous administration of abatacept, the exposure/dose seemed to be 
linear,  with  accumulation  for  at  least  one  year.  There  were  no  significant  findings  in  physical 
examinations.  The  macroscopic  and  microscopic  analysis  of  organs  in  mice  did  not  reveal  major 
pathological findings, except the decrease in the weight of thymus and the increase in the weight of 
spleen. In the histological analysis, there was a depletion of germinal centers in the spleen and lymph 
nodes  in  monkeys.  These  changes  have  been  shown  to  be  fully  reversible.  In  the  recovering  lymph 
nodes, there was an increased cell proliferation, reflective of a rebound from the depression of activity. 
In addition, there was mild to moderate karyomegaly in the renal tubular epithelial cells in mice. The 
significance of this finding to man is unknown since the aetiology is unknown and no changes in renal 
function  was  observed.  Serum  IgG  was  depressed  in  the  intermediate  and  high  dose  groups  but 
returned towards normal by the end of post-dose follow up. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Abatacept was not genotoxic or mutagenic and did not induce chromosomal aberrations. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Lymphomas  and  mammary  tumours  were  increased.  In  this  mouse  strain,  Mouse  Lymphoma  Virus 
(MLV) is often involved with lymphomas and mouse mammary tumour virus (MMTV) in mammary 
tumours.  A  reduced  immune  response  to  these  viruses  during  abatacept  exposure  is  a  plausible 
explanation for the increase of both lymphomas and mammary tumours.  
©EMEA 2007 
8/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the current data demonstrate that abatacept-induced immunosuppression is associated with 
virus-related  lymphoproliferation  and  lymphomas,  as  well  as  virally  induced  mammary  tumours  in 
animal models. For the time being, safety data from the clinical studies is insufficient for the exclusion 
of a moderate increase of certain rare malignancies. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Embryo-foetal  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats  and  rabbits.  In  mice,  the  incidence  of 
cervical bifurcation was increased in the medium dose groups. It appears that this finding may not be 
significant since the effect was not dose-dependent and the incidence of skeletal malformations falls 
within the historical ranges.  Abatacept was shown to cross the placenta in rats and significant dose-
dependent concentrations were demonstrated in foetuses of rats and rabbits. The studies conducted in 
mice,  rats  and  rabbits  did  not  suggest  acute  toxicity  to  foetuses  or  adverse  impact  of  their 
development.  Studies  of  prenatal  and  postnatal  development,  including  maternal  function,  did  not 
suggest adverse effects. However, there were subtle alterations to the immune functions characterised 
by inflammation of the thyroid and increased T-cell-dependent antibody response in pups. The long-
term  significance  of  these  findings  has  not  been  investigated.  Thus,  the  use  of  abatacept  during 
pregnancy is not recommended. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance studies did not indicated adverse effects of intravenous administration. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Mouse  models  of  infections  caused  by  murine  cytomegalovirus  and  Pneumocystis  carinii  infections 
did not show clear evidence for an increased susceptibility. The model for latent tuberculosis in mice 
demonstrated reactivation of tuberculosis in TNF-α-blocker-treated but not in abatacept-treated mice. 
Abatacept is immunogenic in animal models. The evaluation of immunogenicity studies is hampered 
by the lack of optimal anti-abatacept assays. The current assays suffer from poor sensitivity and from 
obvious  antigen  interference.  Thus,  the  reliability  of  the  antigenicity  results  is  compromised. 
Nevertheless, anti-abatacept antibodies are detected after discontinuation of abatacept exposure as well 
as  during  low  abatacept  exposure.  It  is  probable  that  both  the  immunosuppressive  effect  and  the 
circulating  antigen  (abatacept)  are  responsible  for  the  small  number  of  positive  results.  Re-
administration of abatacept to mice was associated with anaphylactoid reactions. Thus, it is possible 
that  a  significant  immune  reaction  may  develop  after  discontinuation  of  the  treatment.  Such  an 
immune  reaction  may  cause  a  risk  of  autoimmunity  and,  upon  re-administration,  of  hypersensitivity 
reactions and loss of efficacy.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Abatacept  is  exempt  from  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  due  to  the  nature  of  the  product,  in 
accordance  with  the  draft  guideline  on  this  matter.  The  excipients  of  ORENCIA  are  common 
ingredients  which  are  well  characterized  and  do  not  pose  significant  risk  the  environment.    It  is 
concluded that abatacept solution for intravenous infusion is of no immediate risk to the environment 
and no proposals for labelling provisions are necessary to reduce any potential environmental risks. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  abatacept  used  in  pivotal  non-clinical  studies  is  not  comparable  with  abatacept  used  in  pivotal 
clinical  studies,  with  the  exception  of  the  1-year  monkey  study  which  used  Process  E  material  (as 
pivotal clinical studies). However, the safety margins can be calculated with sufficient confidence on 
the basis of toxicokinetic data. 
The main toxicological findings that are relevant to the clinical use are related to: 
•  Reversible immunosuppression 
©EMEA 2007 
9/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity (virus-induced malignancies) 
•  Anaphylactoid reactions associated with re-administration 
•  Transfer of abatacept across the placenta  
It should be noted that the toxicological studies were performed without any concomitant medication 
whereas  in  clinical  trials,  abatacept  was  used  with  other  antirheumatic  medicinal  products,  notably 
methotrexate. 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The applicant has stated that all clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP.  
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
The assays that were used for measurement of abatacept concentrations were validated and found to 
have appropriate sensitivity. 
The  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  abatacept  have  been  studied  in  psoriasis  and  multiple  sclerosis 
(phase 1) and in rheumatoid arthritis (phase II and III). There were several versions of the product and 
the  early  versions  used  in  the  phase  I  was  not  comparable  to  the  versions  used  in  phase  II  and  III. 
Therefore,  this  summary  deals  mainly  with  studies  in  RA  patients.  One  single  dose,  parallel  group 
study (IM101017) was conducted in healthy volunteers in order to compare the Phase II (Process D) 
and III (Process E) materials.  Healthy subjects (15 per treatment) were administered a 30-minute IV 
infusion of 10 mg/kg abatacept manufactured by either Process D or Process E.  Results are shown in 
the Table below. 
Table 3.   Pharmacokinetic data (Study IM101017) 
Abatacept  
Pharmacokinetic Parameter  
Cmax (µg/mL) Geometric Mean 
(CV%)  
AUC(INF) (µg.h/mL) Geometric 
Mean 
(CV%)  
Tmax (h) 
Median 
(min, max)  
T-HALF (Days)  
Mean 
(SD)  
CLT (mL/h/kg) 
Mean 
(SD)  
Vss (L/kg) 
Mean 
(SD)  
Process D  
(N = 15)  
271.5  
(14%)  
43758.2  
(17%)  
1.00  
(0.50, 6.00)  
16.82  
(4.50)  
0.23  
(0.06)  
0.10  
(0.02)  
Process E  
(N = 13)  
284.7  
(23%)  
44403.0  
(18%)  
0.50  
(0.50, 2.00)  
16.68  
(3.24)  
0.23  
(0.04)  
0.09  
(0.02)  
©EMEA 2007 
10/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results show that the two versions of abatacept were comparable. 
Data  obtained  showed  a  volume  of  distribution  (Vss)  of  0.09  to  0.10  L/kg,  which  indicated  that,  in 
accordance to animal studies, abatacept was confined primarily to the extracellular fluid volume.  
The single dose PK study
IM101065 investigated the comparability of the two versions of abatacept 
(processes E and F) that are intended for market. The results showed that the versions are strictly not 
equivalent. 
Table 4: 
Statistical Analysis Results for Abatacept Cmax, AUC(0-T), 
and AUC(INF) Between BMS Abatacept Group (Process E) 
and Lonza Abatacept Group (Process F)a (Study IM101065) 
Adjusted Geometric Mean 
Ratio of Geometric Means 
Pharmacokinetic 
Variables 
Cmax 
(µg/mL) 
b  
AUC(0-T)
(µg•h/mL) 
AUC(INF) 
(µg•h/mL) 
Process 
Process E 
Process F 
Geometric 
Mean 
242.9 
236.7 
Process E 
31526.4 
Process F 
36086.3 
Process E 
32821.5 
Process F 
37446.7 
Ratio 
Point 
Estimate 
90% Confidence
Limits 
F vs E 
0.974 
(0.878, 1.082) 
F vs E 
1.145 
(1.034, 1.267) 
F vs E 
1.141 
(1.023, 1.273) 
Simulations  were  carried  out  to  predict  trough  serum  levels  following  multiple  dosing  of  Process  E 
and  Process  F  abatacept  using  the  Phase  III  dose  regimen.  Based  on  the  simulations,  steady-state 
trough  levels  of  approximately  19  µg/mL  and  21 µg/mL  were  obtained,  with  overlapping  standard 
deviations, for Process E abatacept and Process abatacept, respectively.  
During  regulatory  assessment,  the  applicant  presented  a  new  analysis  of  the  safety  experience  of 
subjects  treated  with  abatacept  drug  substance  manufactured  at  Syracuse,  Lonza,  or  both  sites  in 
6 abatacept  clinical  studies,  including  the  long-term  open-label  extensions  of  the  5  core  rheumatoid 
arthritis studies and an open-label study to evaluate the safety of abatacept when co-administered with 
background  non-biologic  disease  modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  in  a  clinical  practice  setting 
(IM101064).  In  this  analysis,  no  adverse  events  unique  AEs  to  either  Lonza  or  Syracuse  drug 
substance  were  identified.  According  to  the  applicant,  these  data  do  not  support  any  suspicion  of  a 
quantitative or qualitative difference in the safety profile of the product based on its sourcing. For the 
EU, the applicant proposed to market a product based on abatacept from only one site. 
•  PK studies in rheumatoid arthritis 
Three  multiple  dose  abatacept  trials  were  carried  out  in  the  target  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA) 
population. In one study, PK profiles of abatacept were obtained after the first and last dose following 
intravenous  (IV)  administration  of  abatacept  at  doses  of  0.5,  2,  and  10  mg/kg.  In  the  2  remaining 
studies  PK  profiles  were  obtained  over  the  dosing  interval  between  Days  60  and  90  from  subjects 
dosed at 2 and 10 mg/kg. 
The  results  showed  that  over  the  range  of  doses  studied,  both  Cmax  and  AUC  values  for  abatacept 
increased in a proportion that was comparable to the dose increment on Day 1, but increased slightly 
more than dose proportionally on Day 57. For doses of abatacept increasing in the ratio of 1: 4: 20, the 
mean  values  for  Cmax  increased  in  the  ratio  of  1:  3.5:  19.7  (Day  1)  and  1:  7.6:  35.1  (Day  57).  For 
AUC, the ratios were 1: 3.8: 19.4 (Day 1) and 1: 4.3: 29.7 (Day 57). The elimination half-life t½ values 
obtained in this study ranged from 5.0 to 10.6 days, which was slightly shorter than t½values obtained 
in other studies. The data also suggested that accumulation was minimal range from 0.9-1.7.  
©EMEA 2007 
11/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  these  RA  subjects,  the  mean  t½,  total  body  clearance  (CL),  and  distribution  volume  (Vss)  values 
were  around  13  days,  ~  0.2  mL/h/kg,  and  ~  0.07  L/kg,  respectively.  Based  on  the  current  dosing 
schema  (dosing  at  2  and  4  weeks  after  the  first  infusion,  then  once  a  month  thereafter)  steady-state 
conditions  for  abatacept  were  reached  by  the  third  monthly  dose.  Serum  concentrations  were  above 
steady-state  trough  concentrations  during  the  first  2  months  of  treatment.  Comparison  of  the  trough 
(Cmin) values at Days 60, 90, and 180 indicated that, at the clinically used dose levels, abatacept does 
not  accumulate  following  monthly  dosing.  The  mean  Cmin  steady-state  values  for  all  subjects 
receiving monthly IV doses of 2 and 10 mg/kg abatacept ranged between 4.4 to 6.7 µg/mL and 22.0 to 
28.7  µg/mL,  respectively.  These  concentrations  are  within  the  range  of  concentrations  that  are 
effective in blocking T cell responses in vitro. 
A  Population  Pharmacokinetic  study  (POPPK)  was  conducted  in  conjunction  with  the  Phase  III 
programme.  The  POPPK  parameters  were  estimated  by  using  a  validated  POPPK  model  to  fit  the 
pooled  Phase  II  and  Phase  III  data.  The  pooled  dataset  comprises  the  model  building,  internal 
validation, and the external validation datasets, and has a total of 388 subjects. 
The  results  from  the  POPPK  analyses  revealed  that  there  was  a  trend  towards  higher  clearance  of 
abatacept with increasing weight. However, these effects on clearance are not expected to be clinically 
important after dose adjustment for body weight. No trends were noted for age or renal function. After 
correction for body weight, gender was not found to influence the PK of abatacept. Several commonly 
co-administered  medications  (MTX,  corticosteroids,  NSAIDs,  and  TNF-blocking  agents)  were  also 
investigated,  and  were  not  found  to  influence  abatacept  clearance.  Therefore,  these  co-medication 
therapies would not be expected to have clinically relevant effects on abatacept PK. Overall, none of 
the covariates analyzed appeared to be clinically significant or necessitate any dose modification to the 
target  dose  of  abatacept.  Comparison  of  the  simulated  dose-adjusted  steady-state  AUC  values  also 
supports the Phase III fixed dose regimen in providing comparable exposure across the dose groups. 
The  estimated  %  inter-individual  variability  on  clearance  form  model-building  dataset  was  27.9. 
There were no formal drug-drug-interaction studies. Such interactions are not expected considering the 
nature  of  the  products.  Clinical  data  from  studies  with  concomitant  treatment  with  various  
anti-rheumatic agents do not suggest any interactions. 
Fixed vs. weight-based dosing 
A  simplified  dosing  regimen  with  three  fixed  doses  was  used  in  phase  III  studies.  The  dose  was 
selected on the basis of trough serum abatacept concentrations that were needed in vitro to suppress T 
cell function. On the basis of predicted and observed trough concentrations, all three dose levels, in the 
respective weight categories, provided a mean abatacept concentration above10 µg/mL that is needed 
for the inhibition of T cell proliferation in vitro. In addition, the efficacy as measured by the ACR20 
was similar in all dose groups. The frequencies of both AEs and SAEs were also similar at the three 
dose levels. 
The presented data suggest that abatacept has a relatively flat exposure-response for both safety and 
clinical  efficacy.  The  proposed  dosing  provides  an  adequate  exposure  to  abatacept  for  all  adult 
patients. 
•  Special populations 
PK studies in special populations have not been conducted 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
There  were  no  formal  drug-drug-interaction  studies.  Clinical  data  from  studies  with  concomitant 
treatment with various anti-rheumatic agents do not suggest any interactions. 
©EMEA 2007 
12/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Abatacept  is  a  fusion  protein  that  consists  of  the  extracellular  domain  of  human  cytotoxic 
T-lymphocyte  antigen  4  (CTLA4)  linked  to  the  modified  Fc  portion  of  human  immunoglobulin  
G1 (IgG1). It is the first drug in a new class of agents, costimulation modulators, which prevents the 
interaction of the T-cell’s CD28 with the antigen presenting cell’s CD80/CD86 by binding avidly to 
the latter. As a consequence, T-cells are prevented from receiving the required second costimulatory 
signal  needed  for  full  activation  resulting  in  inhibition  of  multiple  aspects  of  T-cell-driven 
autoimmunity and inflammation. 
•  Primary pharmacology 
Initial  in  vitro  studies  using  human  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells  evaluated  the  ability  of 
abatacept to inhibit T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. Based on the in vitro findings, it was 
anticipated that serum trough abatacept concentrations of 10 to 30 µg/ml would be required to observe 
maximal  clinical  efficacy.  Increasing  abatacept  concentrations  (up  to  100  µg/ml)  did  not  result  in 
greater suppression of T-cell proliferation.  
Consistent  with  the  in  vitro  results,  T  cell-dependent  immune  responses  were  inhibited  in  animal 
models  at  doses  of  abatacept  where  serum  trough  concentrations  were  approximately  10  µg/ml  or 
greater. The in vitro studies and in vivo animal model data suggested that trough serum concentrations 
of abatacept between 10 and 50 µg/ml will provide maximal biologic efficacy. 
The  effect  of  abatacept  on  the  induction  of  antibodies  against  T  cell-dependent  antigens,  Keyhole 
Limpet  haemocyanin  and  bacteriophage  φX174,  were  investigated  in  psoriasis  patients.  The  data 
indicated that abatacept 8 mg/kg and above appeared to consistently block antibody responses by more 
than 95% in over 80% of the subjects.  
Study  IM101049  was  a  Phase  I  exploratory  study  in  80  healthy  subjects  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  a 
single dose of 750 mg abatacept on the antibody response following vaccinations with tetanus toxoid 
and a 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine. In this study, abatacept was administered either 2 or 8 weeks 
prior to vaccinations or 2 weeks after vaccination. The data from this study indicated that a single dose 
of  750  mg  abatacept  did  not  inhibit  the  ability  of  healthy  subjects  to  develop  a  2-fold  or  greater 
antibody response above baseline to either vaccine.  However, there was a trend towards a diminished 
response  by  healthy  subjects  when  the  vaccines  were  administered  2  weeks  and  to  a  much  lesser 
extent, 8 weeks after abatacept. 
Clinical efficacy  
The abatacept clinical development programme in RA included 6 studies: 3 Phase II and 3 Phase III 
studies in subjects ≥18 years of age with moderate to severe RA. These include 3 studies that provide 
the principal data in support of the efficacy of abatacept (IM101100, IM101102, and IM101029), as 
well as 3 studies that provide additional efficacy information (IM101031, IM101101, and IM103002). 
Efficacy  data  were  collected  on  3066  randomised  and  treated  subjects  who  received  abatacept 
(n=2045) or placebo (n=1021) during the controlled, double blind study periods (Table 5) 
©EMEA 2007 
13/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overview of the abatacept clinical development programme is given in Figure 2 below.   
Figure 2. Overview of the Abatacept Clinical Development 
MTX Inadequate 
Responders 
TNF Inadequate  
Responders 
Other Studies 
Phase II 
IM101100: 
Dose Ranging 
IM101101: Exploratory 
Comb. with Etanercept 
IM103002: Dose 
Finding Monotherapy 
Phase III 
IM101102 
IM101029 
IM101031  
Expand Safety 
In addition, five of the above mentioned RA studies were extended into open label abatacept-treatment 
periods. Another 9 RA studies have been initiated, including a Phase III study to evaluate the safety 
and efficacy of abatacept in juvenile RA. 
In general, the design, conduct, analysis and reporting complied with the relevant guidelines. 
Table 5: Overview of Completed RA Double-Blind, Controlled Study Periods 
Study No. 
Phase 
Study Design 
Background Anti-
Rheumatic Therapy 
Subjects in 
Comparator 
Group 
No. of Subjects 
Randomized and Treated 
with Abatacept 
10 mg/kg 
 or Fixed-
Dose  
Other Doses 
(mg/kg) 
Total 
Studies in Subjects with an Inadequate Response to Methotrexate 
IM101100 
Phase IIB 
IM101102 
Phase III 
Randomized, dose-
ranging, placebo-
controlled, 
double-blind in 
subjects with active 
RA while on MTX 
Randomized, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-blind in 
subjects with active 
RA while on MTX  
Day 1-180: MTX 
(10–30 mg/wk) 
Day 181-360: 
Adjustment allowed 
(+ 1 other non-
logic
bio
 RA therapy) 
Day 1-169: MTX 
(10–30 mg/wk) 
Day 170-365: 
Adjustment allowed 
(+ 1 other non-
biologic RA therapy) 
119 
115 
105 
(2.0 mg/kg) 
339 
219 
433 
0 
652 
Study in Subjects With an Inadequate Efficacy Response to TNF-Blocking Agents 
Day 1-169: Any non-
biologic RA therapy 
or anakinra 
133 
258 
0 
391 
IM101029 
Phase III 
Randomized, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-blind in 
subjects with active 
RA on background 
DMARDs who 
have failed therapy 
with TNF-blocking 
agents 
©EMEA 2007 
14/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Overview of Completed RA Double-Blind, Controlled Study Periods 
Subjects in 
Comparator 
Group 
482 
No. of Subjects 
Randomized and Treated 
with Abatacept 
10 mg/kg 
 or Fixed-
Dose  
959 
Other Doses 
(mg/kg) 
Total 
0 
1441 
Study No. 
Phase 
Study Design 
Background Anti-
Rheumatic Therapy 
IM101031 
Phase III 
Randomized, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-blind safety 
study in subjects 
with active RA, 
with or without 
pre-existing 
comorbidities, on 
background 
DMARDs and/or 
biologics 
Day 1-85: Stable 
doses:  
+ Non-biologic 
RA therapy 
+ Biologic RA 
therapy 
Day 86-365: 
Adjustment allowed: 
+ Non-biologic 
RA therapy 
+ Biologic RA 
therapy 
IM101101 
Phase IIB 
IM103002 
Phase IIA 
Other Studies 
Randomized, 
placebo-controlled, 
double blind in 
subjects with active 
RA while on ETAN  
Day 1-180: Stable 
dose: ETAN (25 mg 
2x/wk) Day 181-360: 
Adjustment allowed 
(– ETAN, + 1 non-
biologic RA therapy) 
36 
0 
85 (2.0) 
121 
None 
32 
32 
26 (0.5) 
32 (2.0) 
122 
Randomized, dose-
ranging, placebo-
controlled, double-
blind in subjects 
with active RA who 
have failed at least 
1 DMARD or 
ETAN 
Totals 
1021 
1797 
248 
3066 
In the D120 responses, the company provided an additional clinical study report: Study IM101043: A 
Phase  III,  Multi-Centre,  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled  Comparative  Study  of 
Abatacept or Infliximab in Combination with Methotrexate in Controlling Disease Activity in Subjects 
with Rheumatoid Arthritis Having an Inadequate Clinical Response to Methotrexate.  
The following endpoints were used in the clinical studies: 
For  ACR  core  data  set  and  response  definitions  data  were  collected  in  7  components  (tender  joint 
count/standardised  68  joint  count,  swollen  joint  count/  standardised  66  joint  count,  subject  global 
assessment  of  pain,  subject  global  assessment  of  disease  activity,  physician  global  assessment  of 
disease activity, subject assessment of physical function using HAQ, CRP). The ACR 20, 50 and 70 
definitions of response correspond to a 20 %, 50 % or 70 % improvement over baseline in tender or 
swollen joints and a 20 %, 50 % or 70 % improvement in 3 of the 5 remaining core data set measures. 
A  Major  Clinical  Response  (MCR)  is  defined  as  maintenance  of  an  ACR  70  over  a  continuous  
6-month period.  
VAS 100 mm scale was used for subject global pain and subject global assessment of disease activity 
and  physician  global  assessment  of  disease  activity.    Physical  function  was  evaluated  using  the 
disability  index  of  a  validated  functional  status  and  degree  of  disability  instrument  modified  HAQ. 
©EMEA 2007 
15/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  questionnaire  includes  questions  assessing  physical  function  in  8  domains:  dressing,  arising, 
eating,  walking,  hygiene,  reach,  grip  and  common  activities.  The  questions  were  evaluated  on  a 
 4-point scale, the higher scores indicating grater dysfunction.  
The radiographic  evaluation of structural damage progression was performed by using the Genant-
modified  Sharp  grading  scheme.  The  erosion  score  was  determined  from  14  sites  in  each  wrist  and 
hand and 6 joints in each foot scored using a 8-point scale from 0 to 3.5, A joint narrowing score was 
determined from 13 sites in each wrist and hand and 6 sites in each foot scores using a 9 point-scale 
from 0 to 4.  
The SF-36 questionnaire, validated for use of RA patients, was used to assess the impact of abatacept 
on  health-related  quality  of  life.  The  questionnaire  covers  four  physical  (physical  function,  role-
physical,  bodily  pain,  and  general  health)  and  four  mental  (vitality,  social  function,  role-emotional, 
and  mental  health)  subscales  of  health  dimensions.  The  higher  score  indicates  better  quality  of  life. 
SF-36 score were collected during Screening, Days 1, 90, 180 and 360. 
Disease  activity  score  (DAS)28:    DAS28  is  a  continuous  disease  measure  that  is  a  composite  of  
4 variables: the 28 tender joint count, the 28 swollen joint count, ESR or CRP, and subject assessment 
of  disease  activity  measure  on  a  visual  analogue  scale.1  DAS28  has  numeric  thresholds  that  define 
high disease activity (> 5.1), low disease activity (< 3.2) and remission (< 2.6). A clinically significant 
response  is  a  decrease  in  DAS28  score  of  >  1.2  from  baseline.  By  utilizing  the  European  League 
Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response criteria, the DAS28 also incorporates a categorical response 
measure that defines a good, moderate, or no response. 
•  Dose finding study (pilot) 
Study IM103002:  A pilot, multi-centre, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled study to 
evaluate the safety, preliminary clinical activity and immunogenicity of multiple doses of BMS-
188667 and BMS-224818 administered intravenously to subjects with rheumatoid arthritis. 
The  major  objective  of  this  pilot  study  was  to  assess  the  relative  safety  and  preliminary  efficacy 
(clinical activity) and immunogenicity of BMS-188667 and BMS-224818 in subjects with rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) and to assess the suitability for continued clinical development. This trial included males 
or females (not nursing and not pregnant), 18 - 65 years of age. 
The  active  RA  was  evidenced  by  ≥  10  swollen  joints  and  ≥  12  tender  joints  and  Erythrocyte 
Sedimentation Rate (ESR) ≥28 mm/hr or morning stiffness ≥45 minutes. 
The  study  medication  dose  levels  planned  for  intravenous  infusion  were:  BMS-188667  (CTLA4Ig) 
0.5, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/kg, BMS-224818 (LEA29Y) 0.5, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/kg, placebo for BMS-188667 
and placebo for BMS-224818. The subjects were randomized in parallel fashion to 1 of 8 dosing arms 
(target sample size): BMS-188667 at 0.5 mg/kg (N = 30), 2 mg/kg (N = 30) or 10 mg/kg (N = 30); 
BMS-224818  at  0.5  mg/kg  (N  =  30),  2  mg/kg  (N  =  30)  or  10  mg/kg  (N  =  30);  placebo  for  BMS-
188667 (N = 15) or placebo for BMS-224818 (N = 15). The placebo groups were pooled for analysis 
purposes. The study medication was administered by intravenous infusion over one hour on Days 1, 
15, 29, and 57. Due to the long serum half-life of these agents, it was anticipated that effective drug 
exposure would be present for a minimum of 85 days. BMS-188667 was derived from manufacturing 
Process D and was formulated as a 200 mg/vial sterile, non-pyrogenic lyophile. 
©EMEA 2007 
16/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was the number of subjects who achieved a 20% ACR response (ACR 20) on 
Study Day 85.  
The ACR 20 response on Study Day 85 is shown in Table below. Clear trends for increasing response 
with dose occurred for both active treatments. At the 10-mg/kg dose levels of BMS-188667 and BMS-
224818, the percentage of subjects achieving ACR 20 response was 53.1% and 61.3%, respectively. 
This  pilot  study  was  not  powered  to  detect  statistically  significant  between-group  differences. 
However,  the  95%  confidence  interval  of  the  difference  in  ACR  20  response  for  the  BMS-224818,  
10 mg/kg group, compared with placebo, excluded “0”. 
•  Main / supportive studies 
Study  IM101100:  A  Phase  IIB,  multi-centre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  to  evaluate 
the safety and clinical efficacy of two different doses of BMS-188667 administered intravenously 
to subjects with active rheumatoid arthritis while receiving methotrexate 
The  primary  objective  of  this  trial  was  to  compare  the  clinical  efficacy  of  two  different  doses  of 
abatacept  (BMS-188667;  10  and  2  mg/kg)  combined  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  with  MTX  plus 
placebo in subjects with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) as assessed by ACR 20 at 6 months.  
This trial included  adult patients, aged 18 years or older of either sex. The patients were to meet the 
criteria of the American Rheumatism Association (1987) for the diagnosis of RA and the criteria of the 
ACR  (1991)  RA  functional  classes  I,  II  or  III.  The  time  from  the  initial  diagnosis  of  RA  was  to  be 
more than 1 year. The patients must have been on MTX treatment for at least 6 months with a weekly 
dose of 10-30 mg, and at a stable dose for 28 days prior to treatment. 
For MTX monotherapy (patients were only receiving MTX, oral corticosteroids, and NSAIDs, and did 
not  require  washout/stabilization  of  other  DMARDs),  the  patients  had  to have  the  following  disease 
activity at screening: ≥ 10 swollen joints (66 joint count) and ≥ 12 tender joints (68 joint count) and 
CRP ≥ 1.0 mg/dL. 
Subjects  were  randomised  1:1:1  to  one  of  the  following  treatment  groups:  abatacept  10  mg/kg  by 
intravenous infusion, abatacept 2 mg/kg by intravenous infusion or abatacept placebo by intravenous 
infusion. Infusion doses were based upon the subject’s body weight 
Altogether  524  patients  were  screened.  Of  these,  339  patients  were  randomised.  Among  subjects 
randomised  115  were  randomised  to  abatacept  10  mg/kg,  105  to  abatacept  2  mg/kg  and  119  to 
placebo.  Mean doses of MTX (15-16 mg/wk) and oral corticosteroids (6-7 mg/day) on Day 1 were 
comparable among all three treatment groups 
A greater proportion of subjects in the abatacept group completed the 360 days of treatment compared 
with  the  placebo  group:  78%  of  those  randomized  to  the  10  mg/kg  group,  71%  randomized  to  the  
2 mg/kg group and 60% randomized to the placebo group. During the first 180 days, more subjects in 
the  placebo  group  discontinued  the  study  than  in  the  abatacept  groups  (35%  in  the  placebo  group,  
24%  in  the  2  mg/kg  group,  15%  in  the  10  mg/kg  group).  From  Day  181  to  Day  360,  a  similar 
proportion of subjects in each group discontinued the study. 
©EMEA 2007 
17/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy variable was ACR 20 response at Day 180 (6 months).  There was a statistically 
significant (61% vs 35%, p < 0.001) difference in ACR 20 response at Day 180 for the 10 mg/kg (plus 
MTX) group compared with the placebo (MTX alone) group, and no significant difference in ACR 20 
responses at Day 180 between the 2 mg/kg (plus MTX) group and the placebo group (Table below). 
The percentages of subjects who achieved a MCR at Day 360 were significantly higher in both the 10 
and 2 mg/kg groups (7.8% and 5.7%, respectively) when compared with the placebo group (0.8%; p = 
0.008  and  0.036,  respectively).  At  each  study  visit,  the  ACR-N  was  consistently  higher  in  the  10 
mg/kg group than in the 2 mg/kg and placebo groups. 
Subjects treated with 10 mg/kg had improvements in physical function (mHAQ) at both Day 180 and 
Day 360 that were significantly higher relative to improvements for the placebo group. 
Conclusion 
The  results  of  the  primary  efficacy  variables  analysis  show  that  there  was  a  statistically  significant 
difference in the outcome between the abatacept group and the placebo group in the ITT population. 
The 10mg/kg group was constantly superior to placebo. However, 2mg/kg also showed activity. Thus, 
it  remains  unclear  whether  a  middle  dose,  e.g.  5mg/kg,  would  also  be  effective  in  the  maintenance 
therapy setting. The advantage of a lower maintenance dose would be the avoidance of unnecessary 
immunosuppression.  The  potential  risk,  besides  a  relapse,  is  the  emergence  of  anti-abatacept 
antibodies  when  the  immunosuppressive  abatacept  blood  level  is  not  reached  over  the  whole  period 
between  the  doses.  The  applicant  offers  a  follow  up  measure  in  the  context  of  a  new  randomised 
clinical study in early rheumatoid arthritis.  
©EMEA 2007 
18/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  IM101102:    A  Phase  III,  multi-center,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  to  evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of BMS-188667 in combination with methotrexate vs methotrexate alone 
in subjects with active rheumatoid arthritis and inadequate response to methotrexate.   
The primary objectives were to compare the clinical efficacy of abatacept combined with MTX versus 
placebo  plus  MTX  in  subjects  with  active  RA  currently  receiving  MTX  on  symptomatic  relief  as 
measured  by  ACR  20  response  following  6  months  of  treatment  (Day  169),  physical  function  as 
measured  by  the  disability  index  of  the  HAQ  at  12  months  (Day  365),  and  structural  damage  as 
assessed by erosion score using a Genant-modified Sharp scoring method at 12 months treatment (Day 
365). 
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  determine  the  effect  of  abatacept  in  combination  of  MTX  on 
structural damage as assessed by total score and joint space narrowing score using a Genant-modified 
Sharp scoring method at 12 months treatment (Day 365), to assess the ACR 20, ACR 50 and ACR 70 
over  time,  determine  the  proportion  of  subjects  receiving  abatacept  in  combination  with  MTX  who 
achieve  major  clinical  response  (continuous  ACR  70  for  6  months)  counts  Day  169,  assess  the 
immunogenicity of abatacept in combination with MTX, assess the changes in surrogate markers (RF, 
CRP,  ESR,  sIL-2R)  at  6  months,  assess  the  change  in  functional  status  by  HAQ  and  health  related 
quality of life (SF-36), and to assess the PK of abatacept.  
This trial included adult patients, aged 18 years or older of either sex, who were willing to participate 
in  the  study  and  had  signed  the  informed  consent.  The  patients  were  to  meet  the  criteria  of  the 
American Rheumatism Association (1987) for the diagnosis of RA and the criteria of the ACR (1991) 
RA functional classes I, II or III. The time form the initial diagnosis of RA was to be more than 1 year. 
The patients must have been on MTX treatment for at least 3 months with at least a weekly dose of  
15  mg,  and  at  a  stable  dose  for  28  days  prior  to  treatment.  MTX  weekly  doses  of  10  mg  were 
permitted for subjects who could not tolerate higher doses.  
For MTX monotherapy, the patients had to have the following disease activity at randomization: ≥ 10 
swollen joints (66 joint count) and ≥ 12 tender joints (68 joint count) and CRP ≥ 1.0 mg/dL. 
For combination DMARD therapy, the patients had to have the following disease activity at screening: 
≥ 6 swollen joints (66 joint count) and ≥ 8 tender joints (68 joint count) and no restriction on CRP.  
The  main  exclusion  criteria  were  pregnancy  or  breast-feeding,  active  vasculitis  of  a  major  organ 
system,  severe,  progressive,  or  an  uncontrolled  renal,  hepatic,  haematological,  gastrointestinal, 
pulmonary,  cardiac,  neurological  or  cerebral  disease,  patients  with  malignancy-suspicious 
mammogram, history of cancer within last 5 years (other than non-melanoma skin cell cancers cured 
by  local  resection),  history  of  drug  or  alcohol  abuse,  serous  bacterial  infections  in  3  months,  active 
infections, anaemia and thrombocytopenia.  
Subjects  were  randomised  2:1  to  either  of  the  following  treatment  groups:  abatacept  fixed  dose  by 
intravenous infusion (500mg for subjects < 60 kg, 750 mg for subjects from 60 to 100 kg and 1 gram 
for subjects > 100 k) plus MTX or placebo plus MTX.  During the first 6 months, the patients were 
maintained  on  a  stable  dose  of  MTX  (minimum  15  mg/week,  decreased  only  for  toxicity), 
corticosteroids and concomitant medications for the treatment of RA. 
The baseline characteristics and baseline radiographic scores were similar for both treatment groups. 
The  antirheumatic  medications  at  randomization  were  comparable  in  the  treatment  groups:  
312  (72.1%)  of  abatacept  groups  subjects  and  149  (68  %)  of  placebo  group  patients  were  having 
corticosteroids.  At  Day  169,  the  mean  dose  of  MTX  was  16  mg/wk  in  the  abatacept  groups  and 
15 mg/wk in the placebo group. At Day 365, the mean dose of MTX was 15 mg/wk in both treatment 
groups. At Day 169, the mean corticosteroid maintenance dose was 5 mg/day in the abatacept group 
compared with 4 mg/day in the placebo group. At day 365, the mean corticosteroid maintenance dose 
was 4 mg/day in the abatacept group compared with 5 mg/day in the placebo group. 
©EMEA 2007 
19/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common reason for study discontinuation was lack of efficacy in the placebo group (18 %) 
compared  to  abatacept  group  (3  %),  and  the  AEs  in  the  abatacept  group  (4  %)  compared  with  the 
placebo group (2 %). 
RESULTS 
Abatacept +MTX was shown to be superior to MTX alone in all three co-primary efficacy endpoints. 
A  significant  improvement  in  ACR  20  was  seen  on  Day  15  in  the  abatacept  group  (p<0.05).  The 
improvement in ACR 20 remained significant at Day 29 and continued through Day 365. Significant 
improvement (p<0.001) in ACR 50 was seen on Day 57 in the abatacept group and continued through 
Day 365. Significant improvement (p<0.001) in ACR 70 was demonstrated on Day 85 in the abatacept 
group  and  continued  through  Day  365.  A  sustained  ACR  20  response  was  seen  by  Day  57  in 
approximately 50 % of subjects in the abatacept group compared with 29 % of subjects in the placebo 
group.  The  ACR  70  response  was  maintained  over  a  continuous  6-month  period.  By  Day  365 
significantly  more  subjects  treated  with  abatacept  achieved  a  MCR  (14  %)  compared  to  subjects  on 
placebo  (2  %),  p<0.001.  In  6  %  of  the  subjects  in  the  abatacept  group  achieved  MCR  over  a 
continuous 9-month period compared to placebo group (0.1 %), p=0.002. The disease activity at Day 
169  and  365  was  significantly  lower  in  the  abatacept  group  subjects  compared  with  placebo  group 
subjects.    
In  conclusion,  Abatacept  +MTX  has  a  modest  but  definite  anti-inflammatory  effect  in  patients  with 
advanced  RA.  This  effect  is  reflected  in  improved  function  and  reduced  pain.  Abatacept  has  also 
shown to reduce the rate of radiologically measured joint damage. The effect appears rather small as 
compared to published results with TNF-α blockers.  
Study IM10029:  A Phase III, multi-centre, randomised, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of BMS-188667 in subjects with active rheumatoid arthritis on background 
DMARDS who have failed anti-TNF therapy  
The primary objectives were to compare the clinical efficacy of abatacept in active RA on background 
DMARDs versus placebo on background DMARDs on the following: clinical efficacy as measured by 
ACR 20 response rate at 6 months and improved physical function as measured by the disability index 
of the HAQ at 6 months. 
The  secondary  objectives  included  comparison  of  ACR  50  and  ACR  70  at  Day  169  (Month  6), 
assessment of the ACR 20, ACR 50 and ACR 70 over time, assessment of the change in functional 
status by HAQ and health related quality of life (SF-36), and to assess the PK of abatacept.  
For  patients  with  prior  (to  the  screening)  anti-TNF  therapy,  the  patients  had  to  have  the  following 
disease activity at randomization: ≥ 10 swollen joints (66 joint count) and ≥ 12 tender joints (68 joint 
count) and CRP ≥ 1.3 mg/dL. 
For patients with current (at screening) etanercept or infliximab therapy, the patients had to have the 
following  disease  activity at  screening: ≥  6  swollen  joints  (66  joint  count)  and ≥  8  tender  joints  (68 
joint count) and no restriction on CRP at screening. All subjects who were on etanercept at screening 
visit  were  required  to  undergo  a  28-day  washout  period  of  their  etanercept.  The  wash  out  for 
infliximab was 60 days.  The patients had to have the following disease activity at randomization: ≥ 10 
swollen joints (66 joint count) and ≥ 12 tender joints (68 joint count) and CRP ≥ 1.3 mg/dL.  
If  patients  had  failed  etanercept  of  infliximab  in  the  past,  they  had  to  be  on  a  stable  anti  rheumatic 
therapy but still fulfill the activity criteria for entry: a minimum of 10 swollen and 12 tender joints. 
After initiation of the study, adalimumab treatment became available in the USA. Subjects enrolled in 
the study could have received adalimumab prior to the study, but they were not eligible unless they 
failed prior treatment with either etanercept or infliximab for inadequate efficacy.  
©EMEA 2007 
20/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  anti-TNF-therapy  failure  was  defined  as  inadequate  efficacy  response  to  etanercept  and/or 
infliximab  after  being  treated  for  at  least  3  months.  Acceptable  failure  documents  included  one  or 
more of the following: Medical records, letter provided by a referring physician, or other "reason for 
referral"  documents  (e.g.,  insurance  authorization  form),  provided  they  contain  the  relevant 
information  to  support  anti-TNF  therapy  failure  for  inadequate  efficacy.  For  subjects  currently 
receiving anti-TNF therapy, the relevant documents were required to state that the subject was failing 
anti-TNF therapy for inadequate efficacy as determined by a physician's clinical assessment, and that 
the subject had a minimum of 10 swollen and 12 tender joints. In subjects previously treated with anti-
TNF therapy, the relevant documents were required to indicate that the subject failed anti-TNF therapy 
for  inadequate  efficacy  as  determined  by  a  physician's  clinical  assessment,  and  that  they  were 
currently in active disease (a minimum of 10 swollen and 12 tender joints) at the time of enrollment. 
Overall, of the 391 subjects randomised and treated, 39% were current anti-TNF users compared with 
61% who were prior anti-TNF users.  
Oral  corticosteroid  treatment  had  to  be  reduced  to  the  equivalent  of  ≤  10  mg  prednisone  daily  for  
28 days and stabilized for 25 out of 28 days prior to treatment. 
The study was performed in 101 sites worldwide; 69 sites in the USA, 24 sites in Europe, 8 in Canada. 
The study period was from December 2002 to June 2004. Altogether 738 patients were enrolled. Of 
these,  393  patients  were  randomised.  Of  these,  391  were  treated.  Among  subjects  randomised  and 
treated 258 were randomised to abatacept and 133 to placebo. Subjects completing the double-blind 
period could continue in the open-label period.  
A greater proportion of subjects in the abatacept group (86 %) completed the 169 days of treatment 
compared with the placebo group (74 %). The most common reason for study discontinuation was lack 
of efficacy in the placebo group (20 %) compared to abatacept group (5 %). AEs were the reason for 
discontinuation  in  4  %  of  subjects  in  both  groups.  One  subject  in  the  abatacept  group  who 
discontinued the study for an SAE subsequently died on Day 104. One of the subjects who received 
placebo and discontinued experienced an SAE the day before the first infusion.   
The baseline demographics and disease features were similar in the groups. The mean age of patients 
was 53-55 years and the mean duration of RA was 11-12 years. There was a high disease activity at 
baseline, e.g. in terms of the number of swollen joints (22).  
Data are presented on the disease activity before discontinuation of the anti-TNF at screening and at 
baseline  after  discontinuation.  These  data  demonstrate  that  the  disease  activity was  decreased  below 
the pre-treatment level during abatacept treatment 
Table below shows responders as defined by ACR20 at Day 169: 
The improvement in ACR 20 was  seen on Day 15 in the abatacept group (p<0.01). At Day 169, an 
ACR 50 response was achieved by significantly more subjects in the abatacept group compared with 
the  placebo  group  (20%  vs.  4%,  p  <  0.001).      Similarly,  an  ACR  70  response  was  achieved  by 
significantly  more  subjects  in  the  abatacept  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (10%  vs.  2%, 
p = 0.003). 
©EMEA 2007 
21/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significantly more subjects in the abatacept group compared with the placebo group achieved a HAQ 
response that was clinically meaningful (defined as an improvement of at least 0.3 units in the HAQ 
disability index), 47 % vs. 23 %, p< 0.001. 
Study IM101101: A multicentre, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled study to evaluate 
the  safety  and  clinical  efficacy  of  intravenous  infusions  of  BMS-188667  (Abatacept,  2  mg/kg) 
given  monthly  in  combination  with  subcutaneous  injections  of  Etanercept  (25  mg)  given  twice 
weekly to subjects with active rheumatoid arthritis 
The objective of the study was to compare the clinical efficacy of abatacept (2 mg/kg) to placebo given 
on  a  background  of  etanercept  after  6  months  of  treatment  in  subjects  with  active  RA  with  an 
inadequate  response  to  etanercept,  as  assessed  by  ACR  20  (using  a  modified  definition  of  the  ACR 
criteria  based  on  tender  joints,  swollen joints,  and 2 of  the  4  remaining  core  components,  excluding 
CRP).  
This  was  a  12-month  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-design  study.  Adult 
subjects  with  active  RA  despite  etanercept  therapy  who  met  the  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  for  this 
study were randomized 2:1 to treatment with either abatacept (2 mg/kg, IV monthly) plus etanercept 
(25 mg SC twice weekly) or placebo (IV monthly) plus etanercept (25 mg SC twice weekly).  
DMARDs other than etanercept were not permitted. Low-dose stable corticosteroids (at 10 mg daily or 
less)  and/or  stable  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs),  including  acetylsalicylic  acid 
(ASA), use was allowed.  
At 6 months, subjects who achieved at least a 50% reduction in their swollen and tender joint counts 
were  to  discontinue  etanercept  and  continue  on  their  original  treatment  assignment  of  abatacept  or 
placebo  for  an  additional  6  months.  In  the  case  of  flare,  these  subjects  were  permitted  to  restart 
etanercept  therapy  after  15  days.  Addition  of  an  oral  DMARD  (hydroxychloroquine,  sulfasalazine, 
leflunomide or MTX) was permitted during this second 6 months period. 
The  baseline  demographics  and  disease  characteristics  were  similar  in  the  groups.  Surprisingly,  a 
minority of patients had been exposed to other DMARDs than etanercept prior to the study. 
The adherence to the treatment was worse than in other abatacept studies. The most common reasons 
for discontinuation were lack of efficacy and adverse events (see Table below). 
©EMEA 2007 
22/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Table below summarizes the results on ACR20 responses. The treatment effect is modest at best. 
Modified ACR Response Rates: Percentage of Subjects Meeting Criteria  
Abatacept 2 mg/kg + Etanercept 
(N=85) 
Placebo + Etanercept  
(N=36)  
Day 180  
ACR 20  
ACR 50  
ACR 70  
Day 360  
ACR 20  
ACR 50  
ACR 70  
ITT Population  
48.2  
25.9  
10.6a  
48.2  
28.2  
9.4  
30.6  
19.4  
0  
30.6  
16.7  
5.6  
a Statistically significant compared with the placebo group (p = 0.04).  
Subjects in the abatacept group had an improvement in physical function (mHAQ) at Day 180 that was 
statistically  significant  (p  <  0.01)  relative  to  the  improvement  for  the  placebo  group;  however  this 
significant difference was not sustained at Day 360. 
When compared with the placebo group, subjects in the abatacept group demonstrated clinically and 
statistically significant improvements in 6 of the 8 domains of the SF-36 (Quality of Life) at Day 180 
and 5 of the 8 domains at Day 360, compared with baseline. 
Safety 
Subjects  in  the  abatacept  group  had  higher  rates  of  related  AEs,  SAEs,  including  two  malignancies, 
related SAEs and discontinuations due to AEs compared with the placebo group. Infections (mainly 
respiratory infections) were more common in the abatacept group than in the placebo group (64% vs 
31%). Five subjects discontinued the study due to an infection - 4 in the abatacept group. In asthmatic 
subjects, the rate of peri-infusional AEs was numerically higher in the abatacept group. Five patients, 
all  in  the  abatacept  group,  discontinued  the  abatacept  treatment  due  to  SAEs:  angioneurotic  edema, 
complex partial seizures, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, chest pain, and serious infection. 
Conclusion  
The  tolerability  of  the  etanercept-abatacept  combination  was  poor  as  compared  to  etanercept  alone. 
There  are  potential  safety  signals,  notably  the  infections  but  also  hypersensitivity  reactions. 
Considering  these  potential  problems  and  the  moderate  effect,  the  applicant  does  not  recommend 
combination treatment with anti-TNF. This information is provided in the proposed SPC: 
Study  IM101031:  A  Phase  III,  Multi-Centre,  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled 
Clinical  Use  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety  and  Tolerability  of  BMS-188667  Administered 
Intravenously to Subjects with Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) With or Without Medical Co-
Morbidities  Receiving  Disease  Modifying  Anti-Rheumatic  Drugs  (DMARDs)  and/or  Biologics 
Approved for RA 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  the  assessment  of  safety.  Subjects  with  active  RA,  with  or 
without  co-morbidities  and  receiving  background  non-biologic  RA  therapy  and/or  biologic  RA 
therapy were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive abatacept or placebo. Background therapy was held 
stable for 3 months, after which it could have been altered according to response. The duration of the 
double-blind phase was 12 months. Approximately 2 years of data have been collected in the double 
blind and open-label periods combined. 
©EMEA 2007 
23/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  total  of  161  study  centres  treated  subjects  in  this  study:  91  sites  in  the  United  States;  24  sites  in 
Europe;  8  sites  in  Canada;  4  sites  in  Australia;  3  sites  in  Argentina;  10  sites  in  Brazil;  7  sites  in 
Mexico; 3 sites in Peru; 2 sites in Thailand; 4 sites in Taiwan; and 5 sites in Turkey. 
Eligible  subjects  were  randomized  to  1  of  2  treatment  groups:  abatacept  fixed  dose  approximating 
10 mg/kg  or  placebo  intravenous  (IV)  infusion.  All  subjects  continued  their  background  therapy  for 
rheumatoid arthritis (non-biologic or biologic disease-modifying drugs or combination) throughout the 
double-blind 
treatment  period.  Double-blind  study  medication  (abatacept  or  placebo)  was 
administered  on  Days  1,  15,  29,  and  every  28  days  thereafter,  for  a  total  of  14  doses.  Dose 
modification  of  double  blind  study  medication  was  not  permitted.  Abatacept  dose  was  (500  mg  for 
subjects < 60 kg, 750 mg for subjects 60 to 100 kg and 1 g for subjects > 100 kg). 
A  total  of  1441  subjects  were  randomized  and  treated:  959  in  the  abatacept  group  and  482  in  the 
placebo group. The duration of RA was approximately 10 years. Non-biological DMARDs were used 
by more than two thirds of patients, with methotrexate being the most common (75%–78%). Biologic 
RA therapy was used by 9% to 10% of subjects, and between 62% to 63% of subjects used oral and/or 
injectable  corticosteroids.  In  both  treatment  groups,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  selected  co-
morbidities  was  6  to  7%  for  type  1  or  2  diabetes,  6%  for  asthma,  4%  for  chronic  pulmonary 
obstructive pulmonary disease, and 1 to 2% for congestive heart failure. 
Median percentage improvements from baseline in subject- and physician-reported disease outcomes 
(subject  pain  assessment,  subject  global  assessment,  physician  global  assessment)  at  Day  365  were 
higher for abatacept-treated subjects (47.5%, 47.1%, and 63.3%, respectively) compared with placebo-
treated  subjects  (26.0%,  30.4%,  and  43.0%,  respectively).  Median  percentage  improvements  from 
baseline  in  physical  function  (HAQ  disability  index)  (28.6%  vs.  14.3%)  were  greater  for  subjects 
treated with abatacept compared to placebo at Day 365. 
Safety 
Overview of Safety During Double-blind Period (IM101031)  
Number (%) 
Subjects 
Deaths  
SAEs  
Related SAE  
Discontinuation due to SAE  
AEs  
Related AEs  
Discontinuation due to AE  
Abatacept 
N = 959 
5 (0.5) 
123 (12.8) 
23 (2.4) 
23 (2.4) 
866 (90.3) 
534 (55.7) 
52 (5.4) 
Placebo  
N = 482  
4 (0.8)  
59 (12.2)  
13 (2.7)  
7 (1.5)  
417 (86.5)  
239 (49.6)  
20 (4.1)  
There  were  no  remarkable  differences  between  the  abatacept  or  placebo  arms  for  infections, 
autoimmune disease or malignancies.  
Mammograms were to be performed for female subjects at screening and after completing 1 year of 
treatment  at  Day  365.  Three  women  had  abnormalities  on  their  follow-up  mammograms  that  were 
indicative  of  malignancy,  including  1  in  the  abatacept  group  and  2  in  the  placebo  group.  Increased 
blood pressure was reported more commonly in the abatacept group. 
©EMEA 2007 
24/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
The results are assuring for the risk of infections and malignancies. However, the size of the database 
is  not  sufficient  to  uncover  rare  adverse  events  and  this  study  does  not  provide  sufficient  data  to 
support use of abatacept with other DMARDs other than MTX.  Nevertheless, abatacept may be added 
on to methotrexate-based combinations that are commonly used in the medical practice. 
•  Progression of joint damage  
The  impact  of  abatacept  on  the  progression  of  joint  destruction  was  investigated  by  using  joint 
radiographs.  Radiographic  techniques  were  standardised  both  with  regard  to  the  radiographic 
procedures  and  their  assessment.  A  validated  and  generally  accepted  method  was  used  to  score  the 
radiographs for erosions and joint space narrowing (Genant HK et al, 1998). 
Study  IM101102  is  pivotal  for  the  radiographic  evaluation  of  joint  damage.  The  change  in  erosion 
score  was  a  co-primary  endpoint.  Changes  in  JSN  and  total  scores  were  evaluated  as  secondary 
endpoints.  The  primary  analysis  was  ITT  with  available  paired  assessments  and  included  all 
radiographic  data  regardless  of  whether  the  subject  discontinued  study  drug.  The  distribution  of 
changes  was  significantly  different  between  treatment  groups  in  favour  of  abatacept  for  erosion 
(p = 0.029), JSN (p = 0.009) and total score (p = 0.012). The mean and median changes from baseline 
in  radiographic  measurements  at  1 year  indicated  a reduction of approximately  50%  in  radiographic 
progression  compared  with  placebo.  Similar  effects  were  noted  for  JSN  and  total  score.  A  total  of 
467/536  (87%)  subjects  treated  in  the  open-label  period  were  included  in  the  Day 729  primary 
analysis.  These  subjects  had  radiographic  assessments  at  baseline,  Day 365,  Day  729  or  at  early 
termination.  
Subjects  originally  randomised  to  abatacept  who  continued  to  receive  abatacept  in  the  open-label 
period  (2  years)  demonstrated  less  progression  of  structural  damage  over  the  2  year  period  with 
minimal progression during the second year compared with subjects originally randomised to placebo 
who  received  abatacept  in  open-label  period  (1 year).  This  study  provided  robust  evidence  for  the 
reduction of the rate of joint destruction during abatacept treatment. 
Two  other  studies  (IM  10100  &  IM  101101)  had  radiographic  evaluation  as  a  tertiary  outcome 
measure, but were not powered to detect differences. 
•  Special populations 
Children  and  adolescents  were  excluded  from  the  past  clinical  trials.  There  is  an  ongoing  clinical 
study in juvenile polyarthritis (IM101033 trial) 
A total of 323 patients 65 years of age and older, including 53 patients 75 years and older, received 
abatacept in placebo-controlled clinical trials. Similar efficacy was observed in these patients and in 
younger patients.  
•  Additional study 
During  evaluation  of  the  Marketing  Application,  BMS  submitted  results  of  a  further  pivotal  trial 
(Study IM101043). 
Study  IM101043:  A  Phase  III,  Multi-Centre,  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled 
Comparative  Study  of  Abatacept  or  Infliximab  in  Combination  with  Methotrexate  in 
Controlling  Disease  Activity  in  Subjects  with  Rheumatoid  Arthritis  Having  an  Inadequate 
Clinical Response to Methotrexate  
This  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  placebo-controlled,  3  group,  active  control 
(infliximab),  multi-centre,  multinational,  12-month  study  divided  into  2  periods:  Period  1  (Days  1  - 
197) and Period 2 (Days 198 - 365). Adult subjects with active RA who were inadequate responders to 
©EMEA 2007 
25/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MTX,  and  who  met  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  for  the  study,  were  randomised  3:3:2  to  the 
following groups for 6 months: ABA, INF or placebo (PLA). Treatment with placebo was limited to  
6 months to validate the clinical response rates of the 2 active treatment groups. In Period 2, subjects 
in the PLA group were reallocated to receive abatacept (after Day 197 termed the PLA-ABA group). 
Subjects  in  the  ABA  or  INF  groups  during  Period  1  continued  their  treatment  during  Period  2.  All 
subjects had the opportunity to receive open-label abatacept after completing the first 12 months of the 
study, if they continued to meet eligibility requirements. 
The primary efficacy outcome measure was reduction in DAS28 at 6 months (Day 197) in the 
ABA group compared with the PLA group. Other secondary efficacy endpoints are presented in the 
methods section (see the Table below) 
All  subjects  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  medication  during  the  double-blind  period  were 
evaluated  for  safety.  Adverse  events  (AEs),  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  including  deaths, 
discontinuations due to AEs, clinical laboratory test abnormalities, changes in vital signs, and physical 
examinations,  were  examined. The  immunogenic  potential  of  abatacept  and  infliximab  was  assessed 
based on levels of anti-abatacept antibodies and human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA), respectively, 
using validated sensitive, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods. 
Statistical analysis 
The primary analysis was the comparison of the ABA and PLA groups with respect to changes from 
baseline  to  Day  197  in  DAS28  using  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  model  with  treatment 
group as the effect and baseline value as the covariate. Point estimates, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 
and  p-values  were  computed  for  the  treatment  difference  within  the  framework  of  the  ANCOVA 
model. 
A  summary  of  DAS28  scores  at  Day  197  were  prepared  for  the  following  subgroups:  age,  gender, 
race, geographic region, duration of RA, swollen joint counts, tender joint counts, CRP levels, and RF 
factor status. No statistical tests were performed for the subgroup analyses. 
Trial - and concomitant treatment 
Subjects in the INF group received infliximab (3 mg/kg IV). Subjects in the PLA-ABA group received 
normal  saline  (NS)  IV  on  Days  1  to  196  and  abatacept  IV  on  Days  197  to  365.  During  the  study, 
subjects  were  to  have  received  a  stable  dose  of  MTX  (minimum  15  mg  weekly).  Use  of  parenteral 
MTX  was  acceptable  as  clinically  indicated.  To  minimize  potential  MTX  toxicity,  all  subjects 
received folic acid, folinic acid, or leucovorin according to the MTX product label. 
The concomitant therapy was allowed as follows:  
Days 1 - 197 
Increases in MTX were not permitted; decreases were permitted due to toxicity. Other DMARDs were 
not  permitted.  Low-dose  stable  glucocorticoids  (≤  10  mg  daily  prednisone  equivalent)  and/or  stable 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including acetyl salicylic acid (ASA), were allowed. 
For  subjects  experiencing  pain  not  adequately  controlled  by  the  baseline  and  study  medications, 
analgesics  not  containing  ASA  or  NSAIDs  were  permitted;  however,  additional  NSAIDs  or  rescue 
analgesics were not permitted 12 hours before a joint evaluation. 
Days 198 - 365 
Adjustments in glucocorticoids (maximum of 10 mg prednisone equivalent daily) and 
MTX  (maximum  of  25  mg  weekly)  were  permitted.  If  clinically  indicated,  1  of  the  following 
DMARDs could be added at the investigator’s discretion: hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine, gold, or 
azathioprine.  DMARDs  were  to  be  used  according  to  the  manufacturer’s  recommendations. 
Analgesics were permitted as described above for Days 1 - 197.   
©EMEA 2007 
26/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient disposition 
Of the 748 subjects who were enrolled, 156 were randomized to the ABA group, 165 were randomized 
to  the  INF  group,  and  110  were  randomized  to  the  PLA  group  (this  group  received  abatacept  plus 
MTX for the second 6 months).  
During  the  first  197  days  of  the  double-blind  period,  the  rate  of  premature  discontinuation  was  low 
among  subjects  treated  with  placebo  (2.7%);  the  corresponding  rates  of  discontinuation  for  the  INF 
and ABA groups were 7.9% and 5.8%, respectively  
The number of patients with DMARDs other than MTX was 4.8 % in the infliximab group, 0.6 % in 
the abatacept group and 3.6 % in the placebo-abatacept group (Days 198-365). 
RESULTS 
The primary objectives 
The reduction in DAS28 scores at Day 197 for ABA was greater compared with PLA (-2.53 vs -1.48, 
p  <  0.001).  A  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  ABA  group  compared  with  the  PLA  group  had 
clinically  significant  improvement  in  disease  activity  (defined  as  a  decrease  in  DAS28  score  ≥  1.2, 
82%  vs  52%),  low  disease  activity  (defined  as  DAS28  score  ≤  3.2,  21%  vs  11%)  and  were  in 
remission (defined as DAS28 score < 2.6, 11% vs 3%). 
The secondary objectives 
At  Day  197,  a  greater  reduction  in  DAS28  scores  was  also  observed  for  INF  compared  with  PLA 
(-2.25 vs -1.48, p < 0.001). A greater proportion of subjects in the INF group compared with the PLA 
group had clinically significant improvement in disease activity (defined as a decrease in DAS28 score 
≥ 1.2, 72% vs 52%), low disease activity (defined as DAS 28 score ≤ 3.2, 26% vs 11%) and were in 
remission (defined as DAS 28 score < 2.6, 13% vs 3%).  
A  pre-specified  exploratory  analysis  was  conducted  to  compare  DAS28  responses  for  the  ABA  and 
INF groups at Day 197. A similar proportion of subjects in the ABA and INF groups had clinically 
significant  improvement  in  disease  activity  (defined  as  a  decrease  in  DAS28  score  ≥  1.2,  difference 
between proportions of 9.6%, 95% CI -0.5 to 19.6). Similar proportions were also seen for low disease 
activity (defined as DAS28 score ≤ 3.2) 20.7% vs 25.6%, difference of -5.0%, 95% CI -15.1 to 5.1 and 
for remission (defined as DAS28 score < 2.6) 11.3% vs 12.8%, difference of -1.5, 95% CI -9.4 to 6.5). 
The mean DAS 28 scores over time (day 1-365) are presented in Figure below. 
©EMEA 2007 
27/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At  Day  197,  greater  mean  reductions  in  HAQ-DI  from  baseline  were  observed  for  the  ABA  group 
compared with the PLA group (p < 0.001). Mean reductions from baseline in the HAQ-DI subscales 
were  consistent  with  those  for  HAQ-DI.  Similarly,  greater  mean  reductions  from  baseline  were 
observed for the HAQ-DI (p < 0.001) and its subscales at Day 197 for the INF group compared with 
the PLA group.  
Subjects in the ABA group had greater improvements from baseline in the physical (p < 0.001) and 
mental  (p  =  0.004)  summary  measures  at  Days  197  than  subjects  in  the  PLA  group.  Subjects  in  the 
INF group had greater improvements from baseline in the physical (p = 0.002) and mental (p = 0.027) 
summary measures at Days 197 than subjects in the PLA group 
Subjects in the PLA-ABA group had their efficacy  measures summarised but were not compared to 
the other groups between Days 198 and 365. 
Safety  
The mean exposure to study drug during the first 6 months of the double-blind period was similar to 
the planned duration of 197 days in all 3 treatment groups (191.7 to 194.4 days), consistent with low 
overall rate of early withdrawal during Days 1 – 197. The median number of infusions of study drug 
was  9  in  all  3  treatment  groups,  and  fewer  than  2%  of  subjects  in  any  group  received  3  or  fewer 
injections. 
During  Days  1  -  197,  the  AE  profile  was  generally  similar  for  the  ABA  +  MTX  and  PLA  +  MTX 
groups, both in  terms  of  the  overall  frequencies  of  AEs  and  related  AEs  as  well  as  discontinuations 
due  to  AEs  or  SAEs.  The  overall  frequencies  of  AEs,  related  AEs,  and  SAEs,  were  also  similar  for 
INF + MTX and PLA + MTX groups during Days 1 - 197.  
©EMEA 2007 
28/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of acute infusional events reported during Days 1 - 197 in all 3 treatment groups were 
mild  or  moderate  in  intensity.  During  Days  1  -  197,  the  frequency  of  pre-specified  infections  (ie, 
mycobacterial,  herpes  virus  family,  invasive  fungal  and  opportunistic  infections)  was  similar  for  the 
ABA (7.7%) and PLA (7.3%) groups, but was higher among subjects in the INF group (10.9%).  
Conclusion 
The  study  was  not  designed  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  or  superiority  of  abatacept  compared  to 
infliximab, but rather to validate the efficacy responses (assay sensitivity), and to directly compare the 
safety  profile  of  the  active  biologic  treatment  groups  to  placebo  at  6  months.  The  results  on  the 
primary efficacy endpoint confirm that the abatacept-MTX combination is superior to placebo-MTX 
combination.  The same is true for the infliximab-MTX combination over placebo-MTX combination. 
The  efficacy  based  on  disease  activity  (DAS28)  seems  to  be  maintained  over  time  to  day  365.  The 
improvement over placebo was also shown in physical function and quality of life. The radiographic 
outcomes  were  not  assessed.    The  patients  were  permitted  to  have  additional  DMARDs  and 
adjustment of the MTX dose from the day 198 on. The number of patients with DMARDs other than 
MTX  was  4.8  %  in  the  infliximab  group,  0.6  %  in  the  abatacept  group  and  3.6  %  in  the  placebo-
abatacept group. 
Overall,  no  new  safety  concerns  with  Abatacept  use  were  identified  from  this  study.  During  days  
1  -  365,  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  severe  AEs  was  similar  for  the  abatacept  (13.5%)  and 
infliximab  (13.9%)  groups.  The  number  of  infections  and  infestations  and  infusional  events  was 
somewhat lower in the abatacept group than in the infliximab group, but the overall number of cases 
was low. The results should be interpreted with caution until further comparative data are available.  
The results of the open-label extension period should be submitted when available.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The clinical programme assessed provides robust data on the efficacy of Abatacept. The new product 
has a modest anti-inflammatory effect in advanced RA. As a result, there is relatively rapid symptom 
relief  and  improvement  of  function.  In  addition,  abatacept  has  a  small  but  definite  effect  on  the 
radiological progression of joint damage. 
It remains unclear  whether a reduced dose, e.g. 5mg/kg, would also be effective in the maintenance 
therapy setting.  
The  tolerability  of  its  use  in  combination  with  etanercept  was  poor  however  with  potential  safety 
signals detected. For time being, Abatacept is not recommended as combination treatment with anti-
TNF.  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In the Phase II/III RA clinical program, 2778 subjects were exposed to abatacept in the double blind 
and open-label periods combined. This includes 2688 subjects from the 5 core RA studies IM101100, 
IM101101, IM101102, IM101029, IM101031) and 90 subjects from the Phase IIA study, IM103002.  
Approximately  83%  of  subjects  (2311  subjects)  were  exposed  to  abatacept  (all  doses)  for  at  least 
12 months and approximately 50% of subjects (1378) were exposed to abatacept (all doses) for at least 
24  months  in  the  double  blind  and  open-label  periods  combined.  The  enrolled  patients  were  mainly 
women with seropositive RA with approximately 10 years duration. The disease was active at the time 
recruitment. 
All  of  the  core  RA  studies  excluded  subjects  with  severe  or  uncontrolled  co-morbid  conditions. 
Subjects with less severe, controlled co-morbid conditions were enrolled.  
©EMEA 2007 
29/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The presence or absence of four co-morbid conditions of particular interest (diabetes mellitus, asthma, 
COPD,  and  chronic  heart failure)  at  baseline  was  determined  through  specific questions  on the  case 
report form for the large safety study, IM101031. The number of subjects in this study with the noted 
co-morbid conditions at baseline was: diabetes mellitus (type 1 and type 2) (N=96), asthma (N=83), 
COPD (N=54), and CHF (N=18). 
Overall,  abatacept  was  well  tolerated  in  the  double  blind,  controlled  study  periods.  Most  subjects 
(88.8%)  reported  at  least  one  AE  during  the  double-blind  study  periods.  A  small  increase  in  the 
proportion of subjects reporting SAEs (14.0% vs 12.5%) and discontinuation due to SAEs (2.8% vs 
1.6%) was observed with abatacept relative to placebo 
•  Adverse events  
Higher frequencies of AEs in the abatacept group compared with the placebo group were reported for 
the  following  system  organ  classes  (SOCs):  infections  and  infestations  (54.1%  vs  48.7%), 
gastrointestinal disorders (39.0% vs 35.8%) and nervous system disorders (32.2% vs 27.6%). Severe 
and very severe infections were reported by a small proportion of subjects (severe: 2.9% vs 2.6%; very 
severe:  0.2%  vs  0.4%  in  the  abatacept  and  placebo  groups,  respectively).  Dyspepsia  was  the  only 
gastrointestinal event reported by ≥2% of subjects in the abatacept group compared with the placebo 
group.  Few  events  of  dyspepsia  were  severe  (0.2%  in  each  group)  or  very  severe  (<0.1%  vs  0%). 
Nervous  system  disorders  were  slightly  more  common  in  the  abatacept  group  compared  with  the 
placebo group, mainly due to higher frequencies of headache (18.3% vs 12.7%) and dizziness (9.5% 
vs 7.0%). Approximately half of all reports of headache and dizziness were reported as peri-infusional 
(onset within 24 hours after the start of the infusion): headache 8.2% and 5.1% and dizziness 4.9% and 
3.8% in the abatacept and placebo groups respectively. 
The only other event reported by ≥2% of subjects in the abatacept group compared with the placebo 
group was hypertension (6.6% vs 4.6%). Mouth ulceration and aphthous stomatitis may be associated 
with herpes simplex, which was more common with abatacept than placebo (1.9% vs 1.0%). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious  adverse  events  were  reported  by  14.0%  of  subjects  in  the  abatacept  group  compared  with 
12.5% of subjects in the placebo group. No particular type of SAE was increased in abatacept-treated 
patients as compared to placebo, except infections that were more frequently reported in the abatacept 
group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (3.0% vs 1.9%).  A  total  of  16  subjects  died  during  the  
double-blind periods:  9  subjects  (0.5%)  in  the  abatacept  group  and  7  subjects  (0.7%)  in  the  placebo 
group.  One  patient  who  received  abatacept  died  of  pulmonary  aspergillosis.  Risk  of  serious  adverse 
events, including infections, is higher in the elderly. 
Malignancies were not increased in abatacept treated patients. Lymphoma was reported in 1 abatacept-
treated subject during the double-blind period and additional 3 cases during the open-label period.  
Infections were rarely serious and there was not specific pattern, except an increase in Herpes simplex 
infections. Common bacterial infections may also be increased.   
•  Special populations 
Children and adolescents were excluded from the past clinical trials.  
In  the  elderly  involved  as  a  minor  fraction  in  the  placebo-controlled  clinical  trials,  the  frequency  of 
SAEs  was  higher  in  abatacept-treated  subjects  ≥65  years  of  age  compared  with  placebo-treated 
subjects  (25,1%  vs  16,9%).  Approximately  two-thirds  of  this  difference  was  accounted  for  by 
differences in the rates of serious infection (5,6% vs 2,7%) and malignancies (6,2% vs 2,7%). 
In the double blind and open-label periods of the 5 core studies, 8 pregnancies that involved women 
treated  with  abatacept  were  reported.  Of  these  8  women,  7  received  MTX  and  one  received 
leflunomide as a concomitant medication.  
©EMEA 2007 
30/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three  subjects  experienced  a  spontaneous  abortion  during  the  first  trimester  (one  had  a  history  of  
2  previous  spontaneous  abortions,  one  had  a  history  of  a  previous  unsuccessful  pregnancy,  and  one 
had no prior history of pregnancy). Two subjects terminated the pregnancies by an induced abortion. 
Three pregnancies were ongoing. In addition, 1 spouse of a subject became pregnant and delivered a 
normal, healthy baby. 
In a Phase II MS study (IM101200), 3 women became pregnant: 2 study subjects and 1 partner of a 
study subject. One subject delivered a healthy baby 10 months after discontinuation from the study; 
the  other  subject  had  an  elective  abortion  at  4  weeks  gestation  and  the  partner  had  a  spontaneous 
abortion (miscarriage) at approximately 2 months gestation. 
• 
Immunogenicity 
Abatacept was associated with a relatively low (2.8%) frequency of immunogenicity in RA subjects. 
The  frequency  of  immunogenicity  in  subjects  who  missed  doses  was  not  increased.  Subjects  who 
discontinued therapy were more frequently immunopositive (immune responses on days 56 and/or 85 
after the last dose) than subjects who did not discontinue (7.4% vs 2.6%).  
Estimates of PK parameters (clearance, central compartment volume, steady-state AUC, and steady-
state Cmin values) were comparable in immunopositive subjects and the larger population of subjects 
who  did  not  develop  immunogenicity.  Neutralizing  antibody  activity  was  documented  in  9  of  14 
samples in 8 of 13 subjects.  
Due to the small number of subjects across studies that developed an immune response, conclusions 
concerning  the  impact  of  immunogenicity  on  safety  and  efficacy  cannot  be  made.  However,  the 
development  of  immunogenicity  in  subjects  did  not appear  to  be  associated  with  adverse  safety  and 
efficacy outcomes.  Further assessment of immunogenicity and possible clinical consequences remains 
important and is currently addressed in the context of the Risk Management Plan.  The current ELISA 
assay  is  complex  and  not  amenable  to  large-scale  use.    As  a  follow-up  measure,  the  applicant  will 
report the results from clinical samples with a new (MSD) anti-abatacept assay (compared to the old 
ELISA assay).  
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Abatacept  is  well  tolerated  by  most  patients.  Severe  infections  are  likely  to  be  encountered  during 
post-marketing use. An increase in Herpes simplex infections has already been encountered. Common 
bacterial  infections  also  seem  to  be  associated  with  abatacept-treatment.  On  the  basis  of  the 
mechanism of action, it was anticipated that intracellular infections might increase. This will have to 
be followed up post-marketing. The risk of malignancies and autoimmune disorders is impossible to 
assess at this point. 
For time being, there is no direct evidence for immune-mediated adverse effects or loss of efficacy. 
However, the assays for anti-abatacept antibodies are insensitive and there is an antigen interference 
that  may  cause  false  negative  results  in  the  anti-abatacept  assay.  The  risk  of  hypersensitivity  after 
treatment interruption and re-exposure is difficult to assess, especially for abatacept monotherapy. The 
applicant  provided  preliminary  data  from  a  clinical  study  in  juvenile  polyarthritis,  in  which  patients 
were re-exposed to abatacept, either alone or in combination with methotrexate. Abatacept-antibodies 
were detected after discontinuation of the abatacept treatment. However, the presence of the abatacept-
antibodies  was  not  associated  with  any  particular  adverse  events  after  reintroduction  of  abatacept. 
These data are reassuring but preliminary and hence no conclusions can be reached.   
The increase in certain adverse events in the elderly may be explained on the basis of age-dependent 
increase  of  some  concomitant  diseases  in  general.  However,  immunosenescence  is  thought  to  be 
the  elderly.  Thus,  additional 
involved 
immunosuppression by abatacept may be more harmful for the elderly. Further data will be obtained 
for  this  age  group  from  the  ongoing  clinical  trials  and  from  the  ongoing  and  planned 
pharmacoepidemiological studies. 
infections  and  malignancies 
increase  of 
the 
in 
in 
©EMEA 2007 
31/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The issues of infections, immunogenicity, malignancies and autoimmune disorders will be included in 
the Risk Management Plan (RMP). The risk management plan will include two pregnancy registries. 
For  time  being,  the  use  of  abatacept  during  a  pregnancy  is  not  recommended.    It  is  anticipated  that 
abatacept will be used “off label” in children and adolescents. This has been taken into account in the 
pharmacovigilance plan. Further studies need to be carried out as a post-marketing commitment. 
5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
There is already a large database for abatacept in the proposed use: 
Period 
Double-blind period 
Open label extension 
Total 
No. of patients 
Patient time 
No. of subjects 
Person-years 
No. of subjects 
Person-years 
No. of subjects 
Person-years 
Abatacept 
Placebo 
Total  
1955 (258/1697) 
1687 
2339 
3077 
2688 
4764 
Recommended dose 
1765 
1526 
2339 
3077 
2624 
4603 
989 (133/856) 
794 
- 
- 
989 
794 
With  a  sample  size  of  1955  subjects  exposed  to  abatacept  during  double-blind  periods,  it  was 
estimated that there would be sufficient power to detect event rates of at least  0.2%. Obviously, the 
sample  size  and  duration  of  exposure  to  date  are  insufficient  to  adequately  characterize  a  rare  event 
with long latency such as malignancy. Such events have to be addressed post-marketing. There is an 
ongoing open label follow up of the placebo-controlled clinical studies with 2339 patients.  
The identified and potential risks as well as the important missing information are listed in the 
following Table: 
Identified 
safety risks 
Potential 
safety risks 
Important 
missing 
information 
infection with special reference to tuberculosis (TB), 
infusion-related reactions. 
• 
• 
•  malignancies, with special reference to lymphoma, non-melanoma skin cancer 
(NMSC), lung cancer and breast cancer, 
autoimmune disorders, 
immunogenicity, 
• 
• 
•  pregnancy. 
• 
children, 
• 
vaccination, 
• 
hepatic and renal impairment, 
• 
combination biologic therapy,  
• 
elderly. 
The applicant proposed to undertake epidemiology studies in several countries as part of its ongoing 
assessment  of  abatacept  safety.    One  study  is  using  NDB  the  United  Health  Care  medical  and 
pharmacy  claims  database  in  the  United  States.  The  other  4  studies  are  nested  in  existing  RA 
registries:  
1.  Prospective cohort using the Antirheumatic Therapy in Swedish database  
©EMEA 2007 
32/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Prospective  cohort  study  using  the  British  Society  of  Rheumatology  Biologics  Register 
(BSRBR) 
3.  Prospective  cohort  study  using  Rheumatoid  Arthritis  Observation  of  Biologic  Therapy 
(RABBIT, DE). 
4.  Prospective  cohort  study  using  National  Databank  of  Rheumatic  Diseases  (RALLY,  United 
States) 
In addition, reference is made to two pregnancy registries (US Pregnancy Registry OTIS / EU 
Pregnancy Registry ENTIS) 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Identified Risks 
Infections 
Tuberculosis 
COPD 
Infusion-related 
reactions 
Potential Risks   
Malignancies 
     Lymphoma 
     NMSC 
     Lung cancer 
     Breast cancer 
Induction/exacerbation 
of autoimmune disease 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
- Specific subsections on 
infections and/or ADRs in 
patients with COPD in sections 
4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC 
- Alert Card will be used to 
inform patients of the need for 
an adequate history and 
screening for infections 
- Specific subsection on allergic 
or infusion-related reactions in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the 
SmPC.   
- Specific subsection on 
malignancies in sections 4.4 
and 4.8 of the SmPC.   
- Specific subsection on auto-
immune disease or auto-
antibodies in sections 4.4 and 
4.8 of the SmPC.   
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Special CRFs for spontaneous ADRs of 
special interest 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Epidemiology studies: 
US Claims Database (IM101-045A, UHC), 
US Registry (IM101-045B, RALLY) and 
three EU registries (IM101-125, ARTIS; 
IM101-126, BSRBR; IM101-127, 
RABBIT) will assess (hospitalized) 
infections and tuberculosis (annual reports 
and relative risk abatacept vs non-biologic 
DMARDs at pre-defined milestones)  
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Relevant epidemiology Studies 
- Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Special CRFs for spontaneous ADRs of 
special interest 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Epidemiology studies: 
US Registry (IM101-045B, RALLY) and 
three EU registries (IM101-125, ARTIS; 
IM101-126, BSRBR; IM101-127, 
RABBIT) will assess malignancies 
including lymphoma, NMSC, lung cancer, 
and breast cancer (annual reports and 
relative risk abatacept vs non-biologic 
DMARDs at pre-defined milestones) 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Special CRFs for spontaneous ADRs of 
special interest 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up   
 to 5 years 
- Relevant epidemiology studies 
©EMEA 2007 
33/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Specific subsection on 
immunogenicity in section 4.8 
of the SmPC  
- Section on pregnancy in 
section 4.6 of the SmPC 
Immunogenicity 
Effects during 
pregnancy 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Follow-up Measure to validate new assay 
for anti-abatacept antibodies. 
- Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Epidemiology studies: 
A US pregnancy registry (IM101-121) 
assessing safety in both the mother and 
offspring up to one year following 
delivery, conducted by the Organization of 
Teratology Information Specialists (OTIS) 
for 5 years with annual reports (exposure 
to abatacept vs. other anti-rheumatic 
therapy during pregnancy).  
A second similar pregnancy registry to be 
initiated in the EU utilizing the ENTIS 
network.  
Outcomes of pregnancies occurring in the 
other epidemiology studies to be included 
in the annual reports.  
Missing Information 
Paediatric 
population 
- Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Study IM101033 
- Relevant epidemiology Studies  
Vaccination 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Sub-study IM101064 
Hepatic and renal 
impairment 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Combination 
therapy 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Relevant epidemiology Studies 
Elderly population 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
- Open extensions of pivotal clinical trials 
up to 5 years 
- Epidemiology studies 
- Section 4.2 of the SmPC 
indicates that there is no 
experience in children or 
adolescents and that abatacept is 
not recommended for children 
until further data is available. 
- Specific subsection on 
vaccination and ORENCIA 
treatment in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
- Section 4.2 of the SmPC 
indicates that abatacept has not 
been studied in this patient 
population and that no dose 
recommendations can be made 
- Subsection on combination 
therapy in section 4.4 and 4.5 of 
the SmPC 
- Statements on the use of 
ORENCIA in the elderly in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the 
SmPC. 
Two identified risks have been considered for the Patient Alert Card: infections and infusion-related 
reactions. Of these, the risks related to infections appear the most relevant for on-treatment follow-up 
of subjects to minimize risks through direct information to the patients.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
©EMEA 2007 
34/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been  presented  to  give  reassurance  on  viral/TSE  safety.  Minor  unresolved  quality  issues  having  no 
impact  on  the  Risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments undertaken by the applicant within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
An increased incidence of lymphomas and breast cancers were observed in mice. These tumours are 
attributed to suppression of the immune defence against tumorigenic viruses. Viruses associated with 
human cancers include human papilloma virus (HPV), hepatitis B and C, human herpes virus-8 (HHV-
8),  and  Epstein  Barr  virus  (EBV).  Lymphomas  have  been  detected  in  monkeys  exposed  to  heavy 
immunosuppressive  regimens  with  other  medicinal  products.  Interestingly,  with  one  of  these 
medicinal products, B cell proliferation was observed in spleen and lymph nodes of some monkeys. 
This  B  cell  proliferation  may  have  been  due  to  lymphocryptovirus  that  is  related  to  human  Epstein 
Barr Virus.  
So far, tumours were an isolated finding in mice. This may not necessary be the case although mice 
may have exceptionally high risk of malignancy.  
Efficacy 
The new medicinal product has a modest anti-inflammatory effect in advanced RA. As a result, there 
is relatively rapid symptom relief and improvement of function. In addition, abatacept has a definite 
effect on the radiological progression of joint damage although the clinical significance of this finding 
cannot  be  fully  established  yet.  Abatacept  has  not  been  compared  to  other  biological  antirheumatic 
products in adequate clinical trials. On the basis of the available data, the benefit/risk of abatacept has 
not yet been established to the same degree as anti-TNF-α-blockers. However, abatacept may have an 
important role in RA therapy as it seems to be effective in TNF-α-blocker-resistant RA.  
Safety 
The  acute  tolerability  of  abatacept  is  good  as  compared  to  traditional  antirheumatic  products  and 
comparable  to  that  of  the  current  biological  antirheumatics.  However,  the  main  concern  is  in  the 
potential rare and unexpected severe adverse effects of abatacept. Abatacept belongs to a new class of 
immunosuppressive, non-cytotoxic medicinal products. It aims to blocks partially the T-cell activation 
that follows antigen-binding to the T-cell antigen receptor via MHC-1 molecules. Thus, it will inhibit 
both the primary and to a lesser extent secondary T cell-mediated immune responses but not already 
established  immunological  memory  or  effector  functions.  T-cell-dependent  B-cell  functions  are  also 
suppressed.  Abatacept  is  unlikely  to  affect  T  cell-independent  and  the  non-antigen-specific  innate 
immunity. This relative  selectivity is an advantage in suppressing excessive or autoreactive immune 
responses.  Nevertheless,  blocking  the  main  pathway  of  antigen-specific  immunity  is  likely  to  have 
undesired  consequences.  The  immune  system  is  a  complex  network  aiming  to  maintain  the  delicate 
balance between stimulatory and inhibitory stimuli. Therefore, it is very difficult to predict the long- 
term effects of abatacept treatment. Abatacept is not cytotoxic in its classical sense but T lymphocytes 
that bind antigens but that are not entering to growth and proliferation cycles, may undergo apoptosis.  
At the present, there are signals for an increased risk of infections and possibly of certain autoimmune 
disorders.  The  association  of  immunosuppression  to  an  increased  risk  of  cancer  in  well  known.  The 
incidence  and  type  of  malignancies  are  dependent  on  the  degree  and  possible  the  type  of 
immunosuppression. The increased risk of malignancies is due to an increase of certain types of cancer 
such  as  lymphomas,  cervical,  skin,  and  head  and  neck  cancers.  These  carcinomas  have  also  been 
associated with viruses.   
©EMEA 2007 
35/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk-management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities adequately address these.  
•  User consultation 
User  testing  has  been  performed  on  the  Patient  Information  Leaflet  and  from  the  results  it  can  be 
concluded that the relevant information is accessible and understandable for the patients. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
For  time  being,  there  is  no  clear  signal  in  the  clinical  database.  However,  the  safety  database  is 
insufficient for the exclusion of a moderate increase of certain rare malignancies such as lymphomas. 
Considering the rarity of the conditions of interest, special post marketing risk management measures 
are needed. Thus, the modest efficacy of abatacept must be weighed against its potential risks. 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns  
(cid:131)   the following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
Plus 
(cid:190) Patient Alert Card  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  ORENCIA  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated 
for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have had an 
insufficient response or intolerance to other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including at least 
one tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
36/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
