16 December 2021               
EMA/696828/2021 
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Orencia  
abatacept 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000701/P46/067 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 4 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
Clinical study number and title ..................................................................................... 6 
Description................................................................................................................. 6 
Methods .................................................................................................................... 7 
Results .................................................................................................................... 12 
2.3.2. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 15 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ...................................... 17 
  Fulfilled: ............................................................................................................. 17 
4. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 17 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 2/18 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
The  MAH  has  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  ORENCIA  (abatacept),  in  accordance  with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
The final clinical study report (CSR) is for the company-sponsored observational study IM101841: 
“Overall Survival in 7/8 HLA-matched Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Patients Treated with 
Abatacept Combined with a Calcineurin Inhibitor and Methotrexate - An Analysis of the Center for the 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) Database” 
Study  IM101841  was  a  retrospective  observational  study  evaluating  adult  and  pediatric  patients  (6 
years of age or older) who received abatacept in addition to standard of care acute Graft Versus Host 
Disease  (aGVHD)  prophylaxis  regimens  in  the  context  of  an  unrelated  donor  (URD)  allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). These patients were compared to matched controls. The 
primary objective of the study was to compare the overall survival (OS) 180 days post-HSCT in 7/8 
HLA-matched patients between those treated with a calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) + methotrexate (MTX) 
+ abatacept without antithymocyte globulin (ATG) to those treated with CNI + MTX without ATG.  
This submission includes also a short clinical overview (dated 22092021).  
The  study  IM101841  CSR  was  issued  on  31  March  2021,  which  was  considered  the  date  of 
completion of this observational study for the due date of the Article 46 submission.  
The study IM101841 is not part of a specific paediatric investigation plan. According to the MAH, the 
EU  submission  plan  has  not  yet  been  decided  and  will  be  evaluated  after  the  conclusion  of  FDA’s 
assessment. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
In  the  US,  initial  discussions  of  possible  registrational  intent  pathways  began  with  the  US  Food  and 
Drug Administration (FDA) in Jun-2017 with early data from a Phase 2 investigator-sponsored research 
study, ABA2 (IM1091311). The FDA granted orphan drug designation to abatacept for the prevention 
of  graft  versus  host  disease  (GVHD)  in  Dec-2017  (DRU-2017-6141)  and  Breakthrough  Therapy 
Designation in Oct-2019, based on the results of the ongoing study IM101311. Additional interactions 
on  the  subsequent  development  program  occurred,  including  discussion  on  the  FDA’s  Real-World 
Evidence  (RWE)  Program  that  focuses  on  exploring  the  potential  of  RWE  to  support  regulatory 
decisions  about  product  effectiveness.  In  support  of  the  RWE  program,  the  BMS-sponsored  registry 
Study  IM101841  was  submitted  to  the  FDA  on  23  June  2021  as  an  efficacy  supplement  to  the 
development program. Study IM101841 protocol and analytical plan were then prospectively discussed 
with  the  FDA  under  BTD,  following  consideration  of  the  ABA2  study.  Accordingly,  these  studies  have 
been submitted to the FDA on 23 June 2021 and are currently under review for this indication.  
The  study  IM101841  CSR  was  issued  on  31  March  2021,  which  was  considered  the  date  of 
completion of this observational study for the due date of the Article 46 submission.  
The  supplemental  Biologics  License  Application  (BLA)  is  under  FDA  Priority  Review  with  a  feedback 
expected before 23-Dec-2021.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 3/18 
 
 
 
 
The study is not part of a specific pediatric investigation plan. Accordingly, the EU submission plan 
has not yet been decided and will be evaluated after the conclusion of the FDA assessment. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Abatacept  is  a  selective  costimulation  modulator  and  a  soluble  fusion  protein  consisting  of  the 
extracellular domain of human cytotoxic T lymphocyte (T cell)-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) linked to 
the  modified  Fc  (hinge,  CH2,  and  CH3  domains)  portion  of  human  immunoglobulin  G1  (IgG1). 
Intravenous  (IV)  abatacept  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  adult  rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in the European Union (EU), United States (US), Japan, Latin 
America, and other countries. A subcutaneous (SC) formulation of abatacept in a prefilled syringe and 
autoinjector  has  been  approved  for  adult  RA  and  PsA  patients  in  the  EU,  US,  and  several  other 
countries.  IV  abatacept  is  also  approved  for  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis  (JIA)  in  patients  aged  6  and 
above in the EU, US, and other countries, and SC abatacept is approved for JIA in patients aged 2 and 
above in the EU and US. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Scientific Background 
Overview of GVHD 
Allogeneic  HSCT  is  an  effective  treatment  for  aggressive  leukemias  and  other  hematological 
malignancies, often offering the only option for potential cure. However, some of its benefit, especially 
in  the  case  of  URD  transplantation,  is  offset  by  a  high  rate  of  transplant-related  mortality  (TRM) 
stemming  largely  from  severe  acute  GVHD  and  infection.  Acute  GVHD  occurs  when  reconstituting 
donor T cells become activated against recipient tissues. This activation can result in severe immune-
mediated tissue damage to the host, with the skin, liver and gastrointestinal (GI) tract being the most 
common  targets.  Acute  GVHD-mediated  damage  to  these  vital  organs  has  been  associated  with 
increased morbidity and death. 
GVHD  is  the  leading  cause  (20%)  of  non-relapse  mortality  in  HSCT  recipients.  GVHD  is  divided  into 
acute (aGVHD) and chronic (cGVHD) forms, and are both common complications of HSCT. aGVHD and 
cGVHD variants have been classically characterized by the time to onset, with aGVHD occurring within 
the  first  100  days  post-transplantation  and  cGVHD  occurring  thereafter.  However,  clinical  findings, 
rather than a set time period, have increasingly been used to differentiate between the subtypes. 
While T cell depletion of the allograft can successfully reduce rates of aGVHD, patients receiving T cell-
depleted grafts exhibit profound defects in protective immunity and often die of infection or relapse of 
the  primary  disease.  This  has  created  an  unmet  clinical  need  for  a  strategy  that  more  effectively 
prevents severe aGVHD, while preserving the transplant recipient’s protective immune response. 
Standard Treatments for GVHD Prophylaxis 
There are no approved therapies for the prevention of aGVHD, which is a significant cause of morbidity 
and  mortality  following  allogenic  HSCT.  Current  transplant  management  focuses  on  prevention  of 
aGVHD  using  prophylactic  regimens  aimed  at  either  suppression  of  donor  T  cell  function  with 
immunomodulatory  agents,  or  depletion  of  T  cells  from  the  donor  graft.  Using  current  therapeutic 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 4/18 
 
 
 
 
 
protocols, a high number of allogeneic HSCT recipients ultimately fail standard CNI + MTX prophylaxis 
and  develop  aGVHD,  which  is  the  leading  cause  of  non-relapse  related  death  after  URD  HSCT.  While 
the use of post-transplant cyclophosphamide (PT-Cy)-based GVHD prophylaxis is growing, CNI + MTX-
based  regimens  remain  the  standard  to  which  new  strategies  are  compared,  with  ongoing  studies 
actively  comparing  a  variety  of  drug  combinations  (including  PT-Cy)  to  CNI  +  MTX.  Transplant 
recipients at high risk include those receiving HSCT from URDs with whom they are matched at only 7 
of 8 human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci (“7/8 mismatched” URD [MMUD] transplants); the incidence 
rate  of  severe  (Grade  [Gr]  III-IV)  aGVHD  in  this  population  is  reported  to  be  as  high  as  40%  after 
HSCT,17  and  transplant  associated  mortality  as  high  as  45%.  Especially  in  certain  ethnic  groups,  the 
ability  to  find  a  “fully  matched”  (“8/8  matched”  URD  [MUD]  transplants)  donor  is  greatly  reduced, 
limiting  access  to  this  therapy  due  to  the  concern  about  the higher  risk  of  morbid  sequelae  and  fatal 
outcomes associated with mismatched transplants. 
Role of Abatacept in the Prophylaxis of GVHD 
The  immune  activation  observed  in  aGVHD  bears  close  resemblance  to  the  immune  activation  that 
occurs  during  both  organ  rejection  and  autoimmunity.  Studies  in  these  diseases  have  led  to  the 
development of a new class of protein biologics called costimulation blockade agents, which specifically 
target T cells and interfere with their ability to become fully activated effector cells. 
Abatacept,  a  fusion  protein  consisting  of  the  extracellular  domain  of  CTLA-4  fused  to  a  modified  Fc 
fragment  of  IgG1,  is  a  selective  costimulation  modulator  that  inhibits  full  T  cell  activation.  Abatacept 
binds to CD80 and CD86 on antigen presenting cells, thereby blocking the interaction with CD28 on T 
cells that provide a costimulatory signal necessary for full activation of T cells.21 Abatacept has proven 
efficacy  in  RA,  which  is  thought to  be  a  systemic  T cell-mediated  autoimmune  disease  predominately 
affecting  the  joints.  Similar  to  the  pathophysiology  of  RA,  T  cells  capable  of  contributing  to  the 
pathogenesis  of  GVHD  become  fully  activated  by,  and  then  utilize  the  CD28:CD80/86  co-stimulatory 
signaling pathway to propagate the immune response. As such, studies in both murine and non-human 
primate models have shown CTLA4-Ig-mediated blockade of the CD28:CD80/86 costimulatory pathway 
can modulate the T cell activation that occurs during GVHD. Therefore, despite the differences between 
the 2 diseases, T cells are thought to play a critical role in the diverse clinical manifestations of each 
disease. 
Study ABA2 (IM101311) 
Study ABA2 was an investigator-sponsored study providing data that would help understand the role of 
abatacept  for  aGVHD  prophylaxis.  The  results  are  submitted  in  a  CSR  within  the  references  with  the 
study identified as Study IM101311. 
This  ongoing  Phase  2,  investigator-sponsored  study  has  a  duration  of  up  to  Day  180  (primary 
endpoint), with 5 years of long-term follow-up. The study consists of 2 cohorts: 
•  8/8  MUD  cohort  -  A  randomized,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  cohort  for  subjects  who 
received a HSCT from 8/8 MUD 
o 146 enrolled subjects were randomized 
o 142 subjects were treated with study medication and transplanted (73 with Abatacept+CNI + 
MTX and 69 with Placebo+CNI+ MTX) 
•  7/8 MMUD cohort - A single arm cohort for subjects who received a HSCT from 7/8 MMUD. 
o Of the 46 subjects enrolled, 44 were eligible for treatment 
o 43 subjects were treated with Abatacept+CNI + MTX 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 5/18 
 
 
 
In the 8/8 MUD cohort, the addition of abatacept to a CNI + MTX-based prophylactic regimen resulted 
in  numerical  improvement  in  severe  graft  vs.  host  disease-free  survival  (GFS),  a  numerically  lower 
incidence  rate  of  severe  aGVHD,  and  numerically  lower  TRM  rates  compared  to  placebo.  The  OS  and 
disease-free  survival  (DFS)  rates  in  the  abatacept  treated  subjects  were  also  numerically  higher 
compared to placebo. 
In  the  7/8  MMUD  cohort,  the  addition  of  abatacept  to  a  CNI  +  MTX-based  prophylactic  regimen 
resulted  in  a  clinically  significant  improvement  in  GFS,  a  lower  incidence  rate  of  severe  aGVHD,  and 
lower  TRM  rates.  The  OS  and  DFS  rates  were  also  significantly  higher  in  the  abatacept  treated 
subjects, compared to pre-specified matched registry controls. 
The  adverse  events  reported  in  this  study  were  consistent  with  those  expected  in  a  population  of 
patients  with  hematologic  malignancies  undergoing  stem  cell  transplantation;  review  of  those  events 
did not identify any unexpected safety concerns among abatacept-treated patients. At Day 365, there 
were  more  cases  of  CMV  invasive  disease  (9)  and  post-transplant  lymphoproliferative  disease  (PTLD) 
(2)  in  the  abatacept  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (2  cases  of  CMV  disease  and  no  PTLD)  in 
the  8/8  MUD  cohort.  Through  Day  365,  there  were  2  cases  of  CMV  invasive  disease  and  2  cases  of 
PTLD in the 7/8 MMUD cohort. All evaluable cases of CMV disease and PTLD were successfully treated 
with standard therapies, with clinical resolution in all subjects. 
Unmet Medical Need 
While  the  risk  of  severe  aGVHD  is  impacted  by  multiple  factors,  the  degree  of  matching  between 
recipient and donor HLA alleles is the single most important factor affecting the incidence and severity 
of  this  potentially  life-threatening  complication  of  HSCT.  Thus,  the  transplants  with  the  least  risk  are 
those  performed  between  siblings  who  have  complete  HLA  matching,  whereas  those  between 
donor/recipient  pairs  that  have  1  or  more  HLA  mismatches  carry  a  significantly  higher  risk  of  GVHD. 
While fully HLA-matched sibling-sibling transplants are preferable, only a minority of patients (< 20%) 
have access to such donors.26 For the majority of patients, an alternative source of donor cells must be 
found. These include umbilical cord blood, and those from HLA-mismatched family members and URDs 
who  have  registered  with  the  United  States  National  Marrow  Donor  Program  (NMDP).  The  NMDP  has 
been  a  major  source  of  donors  for  HSCT  for  the  last  35  years.  Prospective  transplant  recipients  are 
matched with potential donors in this registry for 8 HLA (A, B, C and DRB1) alleles. 
The  likelihood  of  finding  a  suitable  8/8  MUD  varies  by  ethnicity.  Globally,  the  probability  of  finding  a 
8/8 match was 72% for white patients, 46% for Asian or Pacific Islander patients, and 30% for African 
patients. The probability of successful HSCT greatly increases when an 8/8 MUD is found compared to 
a 7/8 MMUD. As such, the development of treatment regimens that better prevent aGVHD represents a 
critical need for URD transplant recipients, particularly those (often non-white patients) receiving a 7/8 
MMUD HSCT. 
Clinical study number and title 
The MAH has submitted the final CSR for the company-sponsored observational study IM101841 titled 
“Overall Survival in 7/8 HLA-matched Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Patients Treated with 
Abatacept Combined with a Calcineurin Inhibitor and Methotrexate - An Analysis of the Center for the 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) Database” 
Description 
Study IM101841 was a retrospective observational study using routine data collected in the database 
of the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) on outcomes for URD 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 6/18 
 
 
 
HSCT patients treated by transplant specialists. The CIBMTR collects data on all allogeneic (related and 
unrelated) HSCTs performed in the US and on all HSCTs done with products procured through the C. 
W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program, but performed outside of the US. 
Methods 
Study participants 
The disposition for key study groups is found in Table 1. 
Table 1 Disposition of Patients in IM101841 
a These 2 groups make up the Primary Objective Cohort. 
b OS in these 2 groups is the first secondary objective. Gr II-IV and Gr III-IV GFS in these 2 groups is an exploratory 
objective. 
c OS in these 2 groups is the second secondary objective. Gr II-IV and Gr III-IV GFS in these 2 groups is an 
exploratory objective.  
Eligible  subjects  were  patients  in  the  CIBMTR  registry  who  were  at  least  6  years  old  at  the  time  of 
transplant,  who  had  a  bone  marrow  (BM)  or  peripheral  blood  (PB)  stem  cell  donor  with  whom  they 
were  matched  at  7/8  HLA  (A,  B,  C,  DRB1)  loci,  and  met  other  inclusion/exclusion  criteria.  For  the 
primary objective, the study included 7/8-HLA-matched URD transplant recipients treated with CNI + 
MTX + abatacept without ATG or CNI + MTX without ATG from the CIBMTR database.  
To adjust for possible confounding due to differences between the treatment groups based on known 
key  prognostic  factors,  a  propensity  score,  predicting  probability  of  abatacept  treatment  was 
developed,  and  the  inverse  probability  of  treatment  weighting  (IPTW)  was  applied  to  estimate  the 
average  treatment  effect  if  the  entire  cohort  had  been  treated.  The  patients  were  weighted  by  the 
stabilized inverse probability of receiving the treatment they actually received. The comparison of OS 
within 180 days of follow-up post-HSCT between the treatment groups was based on a weighted log-
rank  test  using  a  2-sided  alpha  of  0.05.  Supplemental  analyses  were  conducted  using  a  propensity 
score matching approach. 
The  analysis  methods  for  the  secondary  and  exploratory  comparisons  were  similar  to  the  primary 
comparison. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 7/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion Criteria 
Patients  in  the  CIBMTR  database  meeting  the  following  criteria  were  included  in  the  eligible  patient 
population: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Patients who underwent first allogenic transplant in the United States 
Patients with an unrelated donor who are HLA-matched at 7/8 loci (A, B, C, DRB1) 
Patients at least 6 years old with weight at least 20 kg 
Patients with a Karnofsky/Lansky performance score > 80% 
Patients whose first allogeneic transplant occurred from 01-Jan-2011 to 31-Dec-2018 
Patients with any of the following diseases: acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia  (ALL),  chronic  myelogenous  leukemia  (CML),  myelodysplastic  syndromes 
(MDS), Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) 
Patients with any of the following GVHD prophylaxis treatments: 
CNI + MTX (with or without ATG and with or without abatacept); or 
PT-Cy without ATG 
Patients  treated  with  any  of  the  following  conditioning  regiments:  total  body  irradiation 
(TBI)/cyclophosphamide  (Cy),  busulfan  (Bu)/Cy,  Bu/fludarabine  (flu),  Flu/Melphalan 
(MEL) 
Exclusion Criteria 
Patients with the following characteristics were excluded from the eligible patient population: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Patients with missing information on ATG (yes/no) 
Patients receiving alemtuzumab (Campath) 
Patients with cord blood grafts 
Patients with non-MDS myeloproliferative disorders (NOTE: Patients with chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia [CMMoL] were included) 
Patients who did not consent to participate in research 
Patients treated at embargoed centers for research 
Patients treated with abatacept and ATG 
•  Among  non-abatacept  treated  patients,  patients  transplanted  at  centers  with  abatacept  trial 
patients 
• 
Patients with any of the following missing propensity score variables: 
o Disease status at transplantation (early, intermediate, advanced HL and NHL- chemosensitive) 
o Age 
o Gender (male, female) 
o HSCT graft source (BM, PB) 
o Conditioning intensity (myeloablative, non-myeloablative / reduced intensity) 
o Karnofsky/Lansky Performance Score (80%, 90-100%) 
o CNI type (tacrolimus, CsA) 
Treatments 
Treatment was not administered in this observational study.  The primary objective cohort comprised 
patients who were 7/8 HLA-matched and received either: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 8/18 
 
 
 
•  CNI + MTX + abatacept without ATG 
•  CNI + MTX without ATG 
Subgroups for secondary and exploratory objectives were also 7/8 HLA matched and received 1 of the 
following GVHD prophylaxis regimens: 
Tacrolimus + MTX + abatacept without ATG 
•  CNI + MTX + abatacept without ATG 
•  CNI + MTX with ATG 
• 
• 
• 
•  CsA + MTX + abatacept without ATG 
•  CsA + MTX without ATG 
Tacrolimus + MTX without ATG 
PT-Cy without ATG 
Duration of follow-up  
OS data from first transplant up to and including 180 days after the transplant were analyzed. For the 
safety endpoints, data at 100 days and 180 days after transplant were analysed. 
Concomitant Therapy 
Study  groups  were  based  on  GVHD  prophylaxis  treatments.  Concomitant  therapy  for  comorbid 
diseases or other reasons were not collected.  
Criteria for evaluation  
This clinical study report (CSR) includes results for the primary, secondary, and exploratory objectives 
in addition to the analyses requested by the Food and Drug Administration. The primary and secondary 
objective  includes  OS  during  180  days  of  follow-up  post-transplant.  The  event  for  this  outcome  was 
death by any cause. OS time was defined as the time between the date from allogeneic transplant to 
the  documented  date  of  death  as  reported  by  the  treating  physicians.  All  causes  of  death  were 
reported under this outcome. Patients still alive were censored at 181 days after transplantation. 
Objectives 
Primary  
• 
To compare the 180-day OS post-HSCT in 7/8 HLA-matched patients treated with CNI + MTX 
+ abatacept without ATG to those treated with CNI + MTX without ATG 
Secondary 
• 
• 
To compare the OS with 180 days of follow-up post-HSCT in patients treated with CNI + MTX + 
abatacept without ATG to those treated with CNI + MTX with ATG 
To assess the OS with 180 days of follow-up post-HSCT in patients treated with tacrolimus + 
MTX + abatacept without ATG and those treated with tacrolimus + MTX without ATG 
Endpoints 
• 
Primary Endpoint 
Overall  survival  was  the  primary  outcome  and  was  evaluated  during  180  days  of  follow-up  post- 
transplant.  The  event  for  this  outcome  was  death  by  any  cause.  OS  time  was  defined  as  the  time 
between the date from allogeneic transplant to the documented date of death as reported by treating 
physicians. All causes of death were reported under this outcome. Patients still alive were censored at 
181 days after transplantation. 
• 
Secondary Endpoints 
The  secondary  endpoint  was  OS  and  was  assessed  in  the  manner  described  above,  in  the  following 
subgroups: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 9/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Patients treated with CNI + MTX + abatacept without ATG to those treated with CNI + MTX with 
ATG 
Patients  treated  with  tacrolimus  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  and  those  treated  with 
tacrolimus + MTX without ATG 
Sample size 
The sample size is not based on statistical assumptions, but on the availability of patients in the base. 
Approximate sample sizes for each of the exposure groups are provided in Table 2.  
Table 2 Approximate Number of Eligible Patients by Treatment Group (Planned) 
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
N/A 
Statistical Considerations 
For the primary objective cohort, the weighted log-rank test was used to compare OS with 180 days of 
follow-up post-transplant in patients receiving GVHD prophylaxis with CNI + MTX + abatacept without 
ATG  to  standard  GVHD  prophylaxis  with  CNI  +  MTX  without  ATG,  using  the  stabilized  inverse  of  the 
propensity  score  as  weights.  Patients  were  censored  at  181  days  post-transplant  or  at  time  of  last 
follow-up, whichever was earlier. The primary comparison was evaluated at a 2-sided alpha of 0.05. 
The marginal hazards ratio (HR) for OS and the corresponding 2-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) 
were  estimated  in  a  weighted  Cox  proportional  hazards  model  with  treatment  as  the  only  covariate 
using a robust variance estimator that accounts for the sample weights. 
In  addition,  the  marginal  HR  for  OS  and  the  corresponding  2-sided  95%  CI  was  estimated  in  a 
weighted  Cox  proportional  hazards  model  with  treatment  and  disease  status  (early,  intermediate, 
advanced,  chemo-sensitive,  chemo-resistant)  as  covariates.  The  estimated  survival  probability  over 
time was provided by weighted Kaplan-Meier curves up to 180 days after transplant. 
A hierarchical testing procedure was applied for the secondary comparison of OS between CNI + MTX 
+ abatacept without ATG and those treated with CNI + MTX with ATG. The secondary comparison test 
was  performed  if  the  primary  comparison  was  statistically  significant  at  alpha=0.05.  The  analysis 
methods  to  assess  OS  among  patients  treated  with  CNI  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  and  those 
treated with CNI + MTX with ATG will be the same as for the primary analysis. 
Formal log-rank tests were not conducted for the sub-group of patients treated with tacrolimus + MTX 
+  abatacept  without  ATG  and  those  treated  with  tacrolimus  +  MTX  without  ATG.  However,  the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 10/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marginal HR for OS (and the corresponding 2-sided 95% CI for OS) were estimated in a weighted Cox 
proportional  hazards  models  using  stabilized  IPTW  with  treatment  as  the  only  covariate  and  with 
treatment and disease status as the covariates, and a robust variance estimator that accounted for the 
sample  weights.  The  estimated  survival  probabilities  over  time  were  provided  by  weighted  Kaplan-
Meier curves up to 180 days after transplant. 
Changes in Study Conduct and Planned Analysis 
In  response  to  comments  from  the  US  FDA,  the  study  protocol  was  amended  once  to  incorporate 
changes  to  the  planned  statistical  analyses  intended  to  better  establish  comparability  between  the 
comparison groups by accounting for unmeasured confounding factors: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Inclusion Criteria were added to ensure comparability between patient populations and to more 
closely reflect patients under the regulatory authority of the FDA: 
Removed  the  exclusion  criteria  regarding  conditioning  regimens  and  reworded  into  an 
equivalent inclusion criterion to improve readability. 
Added relapse free-survival and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease as outcomes to be 
reported. 
Clarified that the weighted long-rank test will use a two-sided alpha of 0.05. 
Exploratory  objectives  were  added  to  evaluate  patients  enrolled  in  the  ABA2  clinical  trial  and 
those who were not enrolled (off-label use setting) and for the evaluation of relapse-free 
survival and PTLD. 
The Patient Sampling section was added. 
Subgroups were added to include patients treated with CNI + MTX + abatacept without ATG in 
the  ABA2  clinical  trial  and  CNI  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  among  patients  who 
were not treated (off-label use setting). 
A  list  of  comorbidities  was  added,  along  with  an  overall  Hematopoietic  Cell  Transplant- 
Comorbidity Index. 
A  stipulation  was  added  for  description  of  outcomes  and  independent  variables  of  interest 
among those patients excluded due to missing data. 
The number of eligible patients was adjusted, and details were added describing the propensity 
score modeling. 
Sensitivity analyses were also included to evaluate the patients with missing covariate or outcome data 
and to further analyse the relationship between covariates, treatment assignment, and outcome. 
Ethics and Subject Rights 
The  study  did not  require review  and  approval  by  ethics  committees or  informed  consent  as  it  was  a 
secondary  data  analysis  of  an  existing  registry,  the  CIBMTR  database,  that  provided  a  subset  of  its 
data  for  this  study.  Research  conducted  by  CIBMTR  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  ethical 
principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. The rights, safety, and well- being of the 
study subjects were the most important consideration and prevailed over the interests of science and 
society.  The  study  did  not  require  review  and  approval  by  ethics  committees  or  informed  consent  as 
these activities are covered under the consent process for the CIBMTR observational database. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 11/18 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Disposition of each study group is presented in Table 3. 
Table 3 Disposition of Patients in IM101841 
a These 2 groups make up the Primary Objective Cohort.  b OS in these 2 groups is the first secondary objective. Gr II-IV and Gr III-IV GFS in 
these 2 groups is an exploratory objective. c OS in these 2 groups is the second secondary objective. Gr II-IV and Gr III-IV GFS in these 2 groups 
is an exploratory objective. 
Numbers analysed 
The  population  selected  (N  =  216)  included  patients  with  hematologic  malignancies  in  the  US  who 
received allogenic transplant from an URD HLA-matched at 7/8 loci.  
Demographic and Other Baseline Characteristic 
In  the  primary  analysis  group,  patients  receiving  CNI  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  were  younger 
than  patients  receiving  CNI  +  MTX  without  ATG  based  on  mean  age  (Table  1.2.5-1).  Two-thirds  of 
patients  in  CNI  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  were  male,  whereas  approximately  one-half  of 
patients in CNI + MTX without ATG were male. The majority of patients in both groups had Karnofsky/ 
Lansky Performance Scores between 90 and 100 and were white. Twenty-seven (27; 12.5%) patients 
were < 18 years of age. 
Within the cohort used to meet the primary objective, in the weighted samples using stabilized IPTW 
with  propensity  scores  (PS),  the  CNI  +  MTX  +  abatacept  without  ATG  group  and  the  CNI  +  MTX 
without ATG group had nearly the same mean age, with a much smaller difference between the groups 
compared  to  unweighted  age.  All  other  characteristics  were  similar  between  the  unweighted  and  the 
weighted  analyses,  with  smaller  differences  between  the  groups  for  the  weighted  variables.  The 
weighted distribution of key demographics was similar between the 2 treatment groups. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 12/18 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective cohort demographics are presented in Table 4. 
Table 4 Demographic Characteristics at Transplant - Primary Objective Cohort (unweighted) 
Source: Table 6.3.1-1 of IM101841 CSR 
Clinical pharmacology results 
N/A 
Efficacy results 
Study  IM101841  found  that  use  of  abatacept  +  CNI  +  MTX  results  in  a  statistically  significant 
improvement  in  OS  (P-value  =  0.0028;  survival  rate  at  Day  180:  98%  vs  75%;  HR:  0.07  [95%  CI, 
0.01, 0.30]) (Figure 1 and Table 5) and GFS (Gr II-IV survival rate at Day 180: 65% vs 35%, HR: 0.44 
[95%  CI,  0.19,  0.99];  Gr  III-IV  survival  rate  at  Day  180:  100%  vs  61%,  HR  0.00  [95%  CI,  NA,  no 
abatacept subjects reported events]) compared to CNI + MTX alone. 
Abatacept + SOC (without ATG) also resulted in a statistically significant improvement in OS and GFS 
when compared to CNI + MTX+ATG (P-value = 0.0060; survival rate at Day 180: 98% vs 74%; HR: 
0.08  [95%  CI,  0.02,  0.36]).  Given  the  potential  promise  of  both  abatacept-based  and  PT-Cy-based 
GVHD  prophylaxis  regimens  compared  to  SOC,  Study  IM101841  included  a  direct  comparison  of 
abatacept + CNI + MTX versus PT-Cy. OS was slightly higher up to Day 180 in the abatacept regimen 
group than in the PT-Cy group, but the difference was not significant (P-value=0.1097; survival rate at 
Day 180: 98% vs 88%; HR: 0.15 [95% CI, 0.03, 0.67]). 
In the abatacept + CNI + MTX without ATG group compared to the CNI + MTX without ATG group, the 
GFS rates at Day 100 and Day 180 were higher, there were fewer events of Gr III-IV aGVHD or death, 
and the RFS rate at Day 100 and Day 180 was higher. Findings from the supplemental and sensitivity 
analyses  were  similar  to  the  those  in  the  primary  analysis.  With  the  PS  using  1:1  matching,  the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 13/18 
 
 
 
 
 
survival  rate  at  Day  180  was  higher  in  subjects  treated  with  abatacept  +  CNI  +  MTX  without  ATG, 
compared to subjects treated with CNI + MTX without ATG. 
In  the  secondary  analysis  population,  OS  rate  through  180  days  was  significantly  higher  (P-value  = 
0.0043)  in  the  subgroup  of  subjects  receiving  abatacept  +  tacrolimus  +  MTX  without  ATG  group 
compared to subjects receiving tacrolimus + MTX without ATG. 
Figure  1:  Kaplan-Meier  Plot  of  OS  During  180  Days  of  Follow-up  Post-treatment  Weighting 
(IPTW) Scores (PS) in the Primary Objective Cohort 
Propensity  scores  obtained  from  a  logistic  regression  model  including  gender,  disease,  age,  HSCT  graft  source,  conditioning  intensity, 
performance score, and CNI type as covariates. Based on weighted Kaplan-Meier method. Symbols represent censored observation. OS time is 
defined as the time between the date of transplant to the date of death. Subjects are censored at 181 days post-transplant or at time of last follow-
up, whichever is earlier. NE: Not Estimable. Source: Figure 8.2-1 of the IM101841 CSR. 
Table 5 Summary of OS During 180 Days of Follow-up Post-Transplant Using 
Stabilized IPTW with Propensity Scores in the Primary Objective Cohort (PS 
Model1)  
n = Number of subjects who died of any cause, m = Number of subjects in the analysis  Propensity scores obtained from a logistic regression 
model including gender, disease, age, HSCT graft source, conditioning intensity, performance score, and CNI type as covariates (A) Based on 
weighted  Kaplan-Meier  method.  (B)  Marginal  hazard  ratio  based  on  weighted  Cox  proportional  hazards  model  with  treatment  as  the  only 
covariate using a robust variance estimator that accounts for the sample weights. Ties are handled using the Breslow method. (C) Marginal hazard 
ratio based on weighted Cox proportional hazards model with treatment and disease status as covariates using a robust variance estimator that 
accounts for the sample weights. Ties are handled using the Breslow method. OS time is defined as the time between the date of transplant to the 
date of death. Subjects are censored at 181 days post-transplant or at time of last follow-up, whichever is earlier. NA: Not Applicable. NE: Not 
Estimable. Source: Table 8.2-1 of the IM101841 CSR27 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 14/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety results 
The  CIBMTR  database  (from  which  the  data  for  Study  IM101841  was  collected)  does  not  include 
reports of individual adverse events (AEs) and causality assessment at the individual case level is not 
feasible. 
The  occurrence  of  PTLD  after  transplant  is  a  datapoint  captured  in  the  CIBMTR  database  and  was 
chosen  as  an  exploratory  safety  outcome.  Given  the  small  sample  size,  data  was  collected  among 
patients with available results at 2 timepoints: up to the first 100 and 180 days after transplant. There 
were  no  cases  of  PTLD  reported  at  Day  100  or  at  Day  180  in  the  primary  objective  cohort  of  Study 
IM101841 (Table 6). 
Table 6 Proportion of Subjects who Developed PTLD During 180 Days of Follow-up Post-
transplant 
Note: n = Number of subjects who developed PTLD, m = Number of subjects in the analysis. Subjects with available CRF data are included. 
2.3.2.  Discussion on clinical aspects  
The MAH has submitted the final clinical study report (CSR) for the company-sponsored observational 
paediatric study IM101841 for ORENCIA (abatacept), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended: 
 “Overall Survival in 7/8 HLA-matched Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Patients Treated with 
Abatacept Combined with a Calcineurin Inhibitor and Methotrexate - An Analysis of the Center for the 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) Database” 
Study  IM101841  was  a  retrospective  observational  study  evaluating  registry  data  on  adult  and 
paediatric  patients  (6  years  of  age  or  older)  who  received  an  unrelated  donor  (URD)  allogeneic 
hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  (HSCT)  and  abatacept  (ORENCIA)  in  addition  to  standard  of 
care acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) prophylaxis regimens. The population selected included 
216  patients.  In  the  study  of  7/8  HLA-matched  patients  treated  with  background  GVHD  prophylaxis 
CNI  +  MTX  ±  abatacept  without  ATG,  the  OS  at  Day  180  was  statistically  significantly  greater  in  the 
CNI  +  MTX  with  abatacept  without  ATG  group  compared  to  patients  treated  with  background  CNI  + 
MTX without ATG (98% vs 75%, HR: 0.07 [0.01, 0.30]; P value = 0.0028).  
By  design,  the  CIBMTR  database  (from  which  the  data  for  Study  IM101841  was  collected)  does  not 
include  reports  of  individual  adverse  events  and  in  this  setting  causality  assessment  at  the  individual 
case level is not feasible. The occurrence of PTLD after transplant was chosen as an exploratory safety 
outcome  and  showed  that  there  were  no  cases  of  PTLD  reported  at  Day  100  or  at  Day  180  in  the 
primary objective cohort of Study IM101841. 
Overall, study IM101841 retrospectively analyzed patient information recorded in the CIBMTR registry 
database. The accrued data suggest a clinical benefit on OS in 7/8 HLA-matched HSCT patients treated 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 15/18 
 
 
 
 
 
with  abatacept  combined  with  a  calcineurin  inhibitor  and  methotrexate.  The  accrued  safety  data  was 
exploratory in nature. Due to the nature of the data, firm overall conclusion cannot be made. For the 
regulatory  purpose  of  this  P46  submission  these  data  are,  however,  considered  adequate  and 
sufficient. 
On  the  regulatory  background  of  the  MAH  abatacept  aGVHD  development  program,  the  MAH  states 
that in the US, initial discussions of possible registrational intent pathways began with the US Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) in Jun-2017 with early data from a Phase 2 investigator-sponsored research 
study, ABA2 (IM1091311). The FDA granted orphan drug designation to abatacept for the prevention 
of GVHD in Dec-2017 (DRU-2017-6141) and Breakthrough Therapy Designation in Oct-2019, based on 
the  results  of  the  ongoing  study  IM101311.  Additional  interactions  on  the  subsequent  development 
program occurred, including discussion on the FDA’s Real-World Evidence (RWE) Program that focuses 
on exploring the potential of RWE to support regulatory decisions about product effectiveness.  
According  to  the  MAH,  in  support  of  the  RWE  program,  the  company-sponsored  registry  study 
IM101841 was submitted to the FDA on 23 June 2021 as an efficacy supplement to the development 
program. Study IM101841 protocol and analytical plan were then prospectively discussed with the FDA 
under BTD, following consideration of the ABA2 study. Accordingly, these studies have been submitted 
to the FDA on 23 June 2021 and are currently under review for this indication.  
The  study  IM  101841  is  not  part  of  a  specific  pediatric  investigation  plan.  Accordingly,  the  EU 
submission plan has not yet been decided on and will be evaluated after the conclusion of the FDA 
assessment. 
On this background, the Applicant provided, on request, clarification on the following two questions 
1 and 2: 
1.  The  MAH  is  requested  to complete  the  Annex  1  (Line  listing  of  all  the  studies  included  in  the 
development program). 
MAH Response: see attached the completed Annex 1. 
Assessment of response: A completed Annex 1 has been provided, as requested.  
Conclusion: Issue resolved 
2.  The MAH states that the study IM101841 is not part of a specific paediatric investigation plan 
and  the  EU  submission  plan  has  not  yet  been  decided  on  and  will  be  evaluated  after  the 
conclusion of FDA’s assessment. (The MAH has stated that studies, including study IM101841, 
are currently under review by the FDA). This can be taken as reasonable considering the stated 
timelines and is thus acceptable, if done in a timely manner. However,  
a)  the  MAH  should  submit  the  timelines  for  all  future  submissions  concerning  the  company 
aGVHD  development  programme  and  commit  to  these  submissions  in  a  timely  manner 
(due date). 
MAH Response  
The  MAH  does  not  have  an  aGVHD  development  program  beyond  the  two  studies  listed  in 
Annex  1.  In  this  context,  currently,  the  MAH  has  not  yet  made  a  decision  to  file  for  a  new 
indication  in  EU  based  on  results  from  these  studies.  Nevertheless,  should  an  aGVHD 
prevention  indication  be  approved  in  the  US,  BMS  commits  to  submit  this  indication  in  EU  so 
that  the  SmPC  covers  this  information,  as  a  US  approval  could  promote  some  desire  to  use 
ORENCIA in this setting in EU irrespective of the approved indications. This submission would 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 16/18 
 
 
 
 
   
then occur in Q4-2022 (due date by 30 November 2022, based on EMA’s timetable) i.e. after 
patent expiry (23 November 2022), and would therefore not require a previously agreed PIP. 
Assessment  of  response: The MAH has provided the requested timelines and a commitment 
on future submissions.   
Conclusion: Issue resolved 
b)  the  MAH  is  requested  to  clarify  the  exact  current  status  of  the  study  IM101311.  Is  a  P46 
procedure planned for this study? 
Response:  the  investigator-sponsored  Phase  2  ABA2  study  (IM101311)  is  currently  ongoing, 
in the 5-year long-term follow-up phase. An Art. 46 submission is not planned for this study. 
As  this  is  not  a  BMS-sponsored  study,  the  MAH’s  understanding  is  that  it  does  not  fall  under 
the scope of the Art. 46 requirement.  
Assessment  of  response:  The  CHMP  recommends  the  MAH  to  submit  the  results  of  study 
IM101311 when available. 
Conclusion: Issue resolved 
In  an  overall  conclusion,  all  issues  requiring  clarification  were  adequately  and  sufficiently  addressed. 
No open issues remain. This P46 can be considered fulfilled. 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
Based on the provided data on the company-sponsored observational study IM101841: 
“Overall Survival in 7/8 HLA-matched Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Patients Treated with 
Abatacept Combined with a Calcineurin Inhibitor and Methotrexate - An Analysis of the Center for the 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) Database”, 
This article P46 submission is considered fulfilled. 
  Fulfilled: 
No  further  action  required  based  on  the  results  of  the  study  IM101841  and  no  amendment  to  the 
product  information  is  required  at  this  point  of  time.  However,  the  CHMP  recommends  the  MAH  to 
submit the results of study IM101311 when available.  
4.  Request for supplementary information 
None 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 17/18 
 
 
 
 
      
 
Annex 1. Line listing of all the studies included in the development 
program 
Clinical studies (listed by chronological date of completion): 
Product Name: Orencia  
Study title 
Active substance: abatacept 
BMS sponsored study IM101841: 
Overall Survival in 7/8 HLA-matched Hematopoietic 
Stem Cell Transplantation Patients Treated with 
Abatacept Combined with a Calcineurin Inhibitor and 
Methotrexate - An Analysis of the Center for the 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research 
(CIBMTR) Database 
Investigator-sponsored  Phase  2  ABA2 
(IM101311): 
Abatacept Combined With a Calcineurin Inhibitor and 
Methotrexate 
for  Graft  Versus  Host  Disease 
Prophylaxis: A Randomized Controlled Trial 
study 
Study number 
Date of completion 
IM101841 
31 March 2021 
(date of the CSR) 
Date  of  submission  of 
final study report 
30  September 
(EMEA/H/C/000701/P46
/067) 
2021 
IM101311 
N/A (ongoing study) 
N/A 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/696828/2021  
Page 18/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
