Summary of risk management plan for Orfadin 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Orfadin. The RMP details important risks of 
Orfadin, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about Orfadin's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Orfadin's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Orfadin should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Orfadin should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Orfadin's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Orfadin is authorized for treatment of adults and children with hereditary tyrosinemia type I (HT-1) in 
combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine. Orfadin is also indicated for 
treatment of adults with alkaptonuria (AKU). (see SmPC for the full indications). It contains nitisinone 
as the active substance and it is given by mouth as capsules or suspension. 
Further information about the evaluation of Orfadin’s benefits can be found in Orfadin’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks  
Important risks of Orfadin, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Orfadin’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
• 
• 
• 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including yearly PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Orfadin are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Orfadin. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Developmental and cognitive disorders (for the indication hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1) 
Missing information 
Use in elderly 
Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Use in pregnant women 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Developmental and cognitive disorders (for the indication 
hereditary tyrosinemia type 1) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Completed clinical studies, literature review, and postmarketing 
surveillance. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
All HT-1 patients treated with Orfadin. Most likely patients with 
poor compliance with diet restrictions. 
Risk minimization measures 
No risk minimization measures identified 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Completed clinical studies, literature review, and postmarketing 
surveillance. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
All HT-1 and AKU patients treated with Orfadin and with high 
levels of tyrosine. Potentially, HT-1 patients with poor compliance 
with diet restrictions and ensuing high levels of tyrosine most 
likely have an increased potential risk. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
SmPC section 4.6 
Missing information: Use in elderly 
Risk minimization measures 
No risk minimization measures identified 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
SmPC section 4.6 
II.C Postauthorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Orfadin. 
II.C.2 Other studies in postauthorization development plan 
There are no studies in the postauthorization development plan. 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
 
 
