1.  Introduction 
1.1  Problem statement 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Hereditary  tyrosinaemia  type  1  (HT-1)  is  a  devastating  inherited  disease,  mainly  of  childhood.  It  is 
characterised  by  severe  liver  dysfunction,  impaired  coagulation,  painful  neurological  crises,  renal  tubular 
dysfunction  and  a  considerable  risk  of  hepatocellular  carcinoma  (Weinberg  et  al.  1976,  Halvorsen  1990, 
Kvittingen 1991, van Spronsen et al. 1994, Mitchell et al. 1995). The condition is caused by an inborn error 
in the final step of the tyrosine degradation pathway (Lindblad et al. 1977). The incidence of HT-1 in Europe 
and  North  America  is  about  one  in  100,000  births,  although  in  certain  areas the incidence is considerably 
higher. In the province of Quebec, Canada, it is about one in 20,000 births (Mitchell et al. 1995). The mode 
of inheritance is autosomal recessive. 
The primary enzymatic defect in HT-1 is a reduced activity of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) in the 
liver, the last enzyme in the tyrosine degradation pathway. As a consequence, fumaylacetoacetate (FAA) and 
maleylacetoacetate  (MAA),  upstream  of  the  enzymatic  block,  accumulate.  Both  intermediates  are  highly 
reactive and unstable and cannot be detected in the serum or urine of affected children. Degradation products 
of  MAA  and  FAA  are  succinylacetone  (SA)  and  succinylacetoacetate  (SAA)  which  are  (especially  SA) 
toxic, and which are measurable in the serum and urine and are hallmarks of the disease. 
SA is also an inhibitor of Porphobilinogen synthase (PBG), leading to an accumulation of 5-aminolevulinate 
(5-ALA) which is thought to be responsible for the neurologic crises resembling the crises of the porphyrias.  
The accumulation of toxic metabolites starts at birth and the severity of phenotype is reflected in the age of 
onset  of  symptoms  (Halvorsen  1990,  van  Spronsen  et  al.  1994).  In  the  acute  form,  which  is  the  most 
common, patients develop signs of hepatic failure during the first weeks or months of life. There is failure to 
thrive, vomiting, diarrhoea and fever. Melena and epistaxis are frequent. If untreated, death from liver failure 
usually occurs within 2-8 months (Goldsmith and Laberge, 1989). In the sub-acute form the clinical course 
is  less  rapid  than  in  the  acute  form,  although  the  symptoms  are  similar,  albeit  less  severe.  This  form  is 
characterised by chronic progressive liver disease and renal tubular dysfunction (the Fanconi syndrome) with 
hypophosphatemia  and  rickets  (Kvittingen  1991).  Patients  may  have  recurrent  porphyria-like  crises  with 
respiratory failure and hepatocellular carcinoma develops in up to 40% of patients (Kvittingen 1991). Both 
are  responsible  for  death,  which  usually  occurs  during  the  first  decade  (van  Spronsen  et  al.  1994).  In  the 
1/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chronic form, the progress of the disease is slow with rickets and tubulopathy as the most prominent findings 
(Halvorsen 1990). 
The treatment strategy of HT-1 includes dietary restriction of phenylalanine and tyrosine and orthotopic liver 
transplantation (Mitchell et al. 1995). However, the diet does not prevent the progression of the disease. The 
major  concerns  about  liver  transplantation  are  the  peri-operative  morbidity  and  mortality,  the  potential 
hazards of chronic immunosuppressive therapy, the psychological stress of the procedure and the difficulties 
of obtaining a suitable donor liver. In addition, there are particular problems transplanting a child with acute 
HT-1 in severe liver failure. However, when the transplantation is successful, the disease is cured. 
1.2  About the product 
Nitisinone  or  NTBC  (2-(2-  nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione)  inhibits  the  enzyme  4-
hydroxy phenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD), i.e. the second step in tyrosine degradation both in vitro and 
in animals. This has only been indirectly verified in man. HPPD enzyme is located ‘upstream’ in the tyrosine 
degradation  pathway  with  respect  to  the  enzyme  fumarylacetoacetate  hydrolase,  the  last  step  in  tyrosine 
degradation which is deficient in patients suffering from HT-1. HPPD inhibition prevents the accumulation 
of  maleylacetoacetate  and  fumarylacetoacetate,  which  occurs  in  HT-1  patients  as  a  consequence  of  their 
inherited defect of fumarylacetoacetate hydroxylase activity. Maleylacetoacetate and fumarylacetoacetate are 
toxic  and  reactive  metabolites  and  their  accumulation  may be  related  to  the  development of hepatocellular 
carcinomas  seen  in  HT-1  patients  (Endo  et  al.,  J  Biol  Chem  1997,  272:24426-32).  They  are  partially 
converted  to  succinylacetone  and  succinylacetoacetate,    which  inhibit  the  porphobilinogen(PBG)-synthase 
activity in the heme synthesis pathway. This leads to accumulation and increased excretion in the urine of 5-
aminolevulinate (5-ALA). 
Nitisinone  treatment  leads  to  normalised  porphyrin  metabolism  with  normal  erythrocyte  porphobilinogen 
synthase activity and urine 5-ALA and decreased urinary excretion of succinylacetone. 
However,  as  in  animal  experiments,  plasma  tyrosine  and  phenolic  acid  excretion  increased  in  all  patients 
treated  with  nitisinone.Therefore  nitisinone  is  used  in  combination  with  a  strict  low  protein  diet, 
supplemented with an amino acid formula deficient in phenylalanine and tyrosine. 
1.3  The development programme 
Nitisinone was originally developed as a herbicide in the 1980s, but abandoned when it was found to cause 
eye  lesions  in  rats.  Subsequently  this  was  shown  to  be  related  to  high  plasma-levels  of  the  amino  acid 
tyrosine.  Most of the non-clinical data in the present submission derive from studies conducted at that time 
with  technical  grade  material containing  90-92%  nitisinone. The proposed drug substance is manufactured 
by the same route and processes as the would-be herbicide except for a modification of the last purification 
step  to  yield  a  substance  with  purity  ≥  98%. Since technical grade nitisinone tested  positive in some early 
genotoxicity  studies,  these  tests  were  repeated  with  the  purified  drug  substance.  When  development  of 
nitisinone as a herbicide was discontinued, ongoing animal studies were halted and not reported, although the 
main findings and conclusions were summarised in interoffice memoranda. The Applicant has subsequently 
prepared  more  detailed  reports  on  four  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  based  on  such  memoranda  and  the 
available raw data. 
Efficacy evaluation is based on a large compassionate use program open to all patients with HT-1. 
The promising results of a pioneering study on the first five patients with HT-1 treated with nitisinone were 
published in 1992. A worldwide study was then started (the NTBC Study), co-ordinated by the team from 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital (SU), Gothenburg, Sweden, to document the effects of nitisinone treatment. 
On request, nitisinone was distributed from SU to hospitals all over the world on a compassionate use basis. 
The physicians/investigators sent blood and urine samples for analysis to SU at regular intervals, according 
to a protocol designed by the research team at SU, together with results of local laboratory tests and clinical 
information. The NTBC Study period was from February 1991 to August 1997. The patients continued the 
treatment after the study on compassionate use basis. Other patients not included in the NTBC study have 
been also treated with nitisinone. From late 1994 the distribution of nitisinone was gradually shifted from SU 
to Swedish Orphan AB, Stockholm, Sweden.  
2/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  documentation  in  the  present  application  consists  mainly  of  the  analysis  of  the  results  of  the 
NTBC  Study. The safety analysis also includes those patients given nitisinone on compassionate use basis 
but  not  participating  in  the  NTBC  Study.  The  cut  off  date  was  December  2003.  In  addition,  one 
pharmacokinetic study on 10 healthy adult volunteers has been completed. 
The pharmaceutical processes and facilities for both drug manufacturing and finished product comply with 
GMP rules.  
With the exception of a comprehensive battery of genotoxicity tests and reproduction toxicity tests, none of 
the safety studies of nitisinone meet statutory GLP provisions (Directive 2001/83/EC, Annex I, and Council 
Directives  87/18/EEC  and  88/320/EEC).  However,  in  view  of  the  rare  occurrence  and  seriousness  of  the 
disease, the lack of therapeutic alternatives and the obvious clinical efficacy, the CHMP was of the opinion 
that  the  limited  non-clinical  investigations  should  not  preclude  a  recommendation  for  a  marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
The NTBC study was not performed according to the GCP rules, was never monitored and the reporting was 
inconsistent and decreased over time. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Orfadin  is  presented  as  hard  capsules  containing  2mg,  5mg  and  10mg  of  nitisinone  as  active  substance. 
Other ingredients are pregelatinised starch (maize), and the capsules contain gelatine and colouring agents. 
The capsules are packed in HDPE bottle sealed with a LDPE cap. 
Drug Substance  
Nitisinone is a white to yellowish-white crystalline powder poorly soluble in water. The active substance is a 
weak acid and it is highly soluble in the pH range 4.5-7.2 in phosphate buffer solutions. Nitisinone has the 
chemical name 2-(2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl)-cyclohexane-1,3-dione. It does not show polymorphism. 
CF3
O
O
O
NO2
• 
Manufacture 
Nitisinone  is  synthesized  in  two  main  steps  followed  by  isolation  and  purification  of  the  active  substance. 
Adequate  in-process  controls  are  applied  during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control  methods  for 
intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have  been  presented.  A  reprocessing  procedure  is 
performed in case of non-compliance of the product. 
Batch analysis data are provided for 6 batches produced with the proposed synthetic route. Such data show 
that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly. 
• 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (IR,  melting  point  DSC),  assay 
(98.5-101.0%,  HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  loss  on  drying,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals,  residual 
solvents (GC), chlorides, and microbiological contamination. 
3/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods used 
in  the  routine  controls  are  suitably  described.  The  validation  studies  are  in  accordance  with  the  ICH 
Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
• 
Stability 
Stability studies (long term 25°C ± 2°C/60% ± 5% RH; accelerated 40°C ± 2°C/75% ± 5% RH) have been 
performed in three production batches of the active substance. Such studies, performed in accordance with 
current  ICH  guidelines,  were  conducted  on  the  drug  substance  proposed  packaging  for  storage  and 
distribution of the active substance. 
Tested  parameters,  particularly  those  relative  to  “related  substances”  (HPLC)  and  “assay”  (HPLC)  are 
suitable to detect significant changes in the quality of the product. Analytical methods were those described 
for the control at release. 
A photostability study, performed according to ICH guidelines, has also been presented; tests and analytical 
methods are those used in the stability studies. 
The data presented suggest that nitisinone is a stable and not light-sensitive compound. 
Therefore, the data provided are sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period. 
Drug Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  intrinsic  physico-chemical  properties  of  the  active  substance  were  taken  into  account  for  the 
development of an oral solid formulation. 
During the development of the product different excipients were used. A sufficiently stable preparation was 
obtained using pregelatinised starch as single excipient (diluent). 
Some  batches  used  for  the  clinical  trials  contain  other  excipient  instead  of  pregelatinised  starch.  The 
dissolution profiles of both formulations showed that it is not likely that the change in excipient would have 
any influence on bioavailability. 
Pregelatinised starch is the only excipient for the powder mixtures. Gelatin and titanium dioxide (E 171) are 
used  for  the  capsules  shell,  and  antifoam,  iron  oxide  black  (E  172),  shellac,  soya  lecithin  are  used  in  the 
imprint.  All  the  excipients  comply  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  The  bovine  gelatin  used  is  in  compliance  with  the 
European  Commission  Decision  2001/2/EC  regulating  the  use  of  material  presenting  risks  as  regards 
transmissible  spongiform  encephalopathy.  The  components  of  the  ink  have  been  properly  specified.  The 
excipients have been chosen based on their function and on their compatibility with the active substance and 
with each other. 
HDPE  bottles  sealed  with  tamper  proof LDPE  caps  are  used  as  primary  packaging.  All  materials comply 
with Eur Ph and are adequate to support the stability and use of the product. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacture  comprises  (1)  grinding  and  sieving  of  active  ingredient,  (2)  mixing  of  active  ingredient 
with  pregelatinised  starch  (3)  capsule  filling,  (4)  transfer  of  the  capsule  to  a  bulk  container,  and  (5) 
filling/labelling of the container and packaging. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process in 5 production-scale batches (three consecutive batches of 2 mg and one batch of 5 
mg and 10 mg capsules). The manufacturing process has adequately been validated and is satisfactory. The 
in process controls are adequate for this hard capsule preparation.  
4/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  batch  analysis  data  show  that  the  hard  capsules  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Product Specification 
• 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  of  nitisinone 
(HPLC, UV), identification starch (Ph. Eur.), degradation products (HPLC), assay (HPLC, 95-105% of the 
label), microbial purity (Ph Eur), dissolution, content uniformity and mass uniformity. 
Degradation  products  are  controlled  and  their  limits  are  justified  by  reference  to  stability  studies  and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished products are appropriate to control the quality of the 
finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  on  three  production-scale  batches  of  each  capsule  strength  confirm  satisfactory 
uniformity of the product at release. 
Stability of the Product 
• 
Stability  data  of  5  batches  (1  production  and  4  pilot  batches)  of  the  strengths  2  mg  and  10  mg  in  hard 
capsules was provided. One production and two pilot scale batches of each of the  strengths were stored at 
5˚C, 25ºC/60% RH, 30ºC/60% RH and at 40ºC/75% RH for 12, 18 and 28 months, respectively. 
The  parameters  investigated  were  appearance,  disintegration,  dissolution,  microbial  purity,  assay  and 
degradation products.  
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the  SPC  are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have  been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Nitisinone was originally developed as a herbicide in the 1980s, but abandoned when it was found to cause 
eye  lesions  in  rats.  Subsequently  this  was  shown  to  be  related  to  high  plasma-levels  of  the  amino  acid 
tyrosine.  Most of the non-clinical data in the present submission derive from studies conducted at that time 
with  technical  grade  material containing  90-92%  nitisinone. The proposed drug substance is manufactured 
by the same route and processes as the would-be herbicide except for a modification of the last purification 
step  to  yield  a  substance  with  purity  ≥  98%. Since technical grade nitisinone tested  positive in some early 
genotoxicity  studies,  these  tests  were  repeated  with  the  purified  drug  substance.  When  development  of 
nitisinone as a herbicide was discontinued, ongoing animal studies were halted and not reported, although the 
main findings and conclusions were summarised in interoffice memoranda. The Applicant has subsequently 
prepared  more  detailed  reports  on  four  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  based  on  such  memoranda  and  the 
available raw data. 
5/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
The  documentation  submitted  to  support  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  consists  of  3  original  non-GLP 
reports  (dated  1989  and  1984)  and  3  literature  papers  published  by  the  same  group  of  researchers  on 
international  journals  from  1995  and  2000,  without  any  information  on  product  preparation or on batches 
used,  unless  otherwise  stated.  No  safety  pharmacology  and  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  studies,  according  to 
current guidelines, have been submitted. 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
• 
Nitisinone is a potent in-vitro and in-vivo inhibitor of hepatic HPPD in rodents (IC50 ≈ 40 nM ≈ 13 ng/ml). It 
has  been  established  that  nitisinone  is  not  irreversibly  bound  to  HPPD-inhibitor  [EI]  complex  but  slowly 
dissociate  with  a  recovery  of  37%  of  the  7  hour  period.  In  rodents,  HPPD  inhibition  was  associated  with 
elevated plasma tyrosine levels and an increase in hepatic tyrosine transaminase activity, presumably due to 
enzyme induction. There is no information about the effects of nitisinone on renal HPPD or the kinetics of 
HPPD inhibition in human liver or kidney tissue. Published data from mouse models with mutations resulting 
in a deficiency of  FAH activity suggests that levels of nitisinone resulting in a lack of detectable SA in the 
urine  may  not  completely  inhibit  HPPD  activity.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  a  homologous  mutation  in 
mice resulting in a lack of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) activity result in neonatal death, which can 
be reversed by a second mutation resulting in a lack of hydroxphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) (Sun et 
al., 2000). Animals in which the second mutation has been introduced develop normally without evidence of 
the  liver  or  kidney  pathology  that  is  associated  with  HT-1.  The  administration  of  nitisinone  in  the  FAH 
deficient mice has been demonstrated to decrease the levels of urinary SA, in some cases to below the limit of 
detection (Al-Dhalimy et al., 2002). While nitisinone was able to reverse the lethal nature of the mutation, it 
was not able to protect against the changes seen in the liver and kidneys (Al-Dhalimy et al., 2002; Dieter et 
al., 2003). This lack of protection, combined with the data from the double-knock out mice studies, suggests 
that  complete  blockade  of  the  HPPD  activity  is  required  in  order  to  protect  against  the  hepatic  and  renal 
changes seen. 
The clinical consequences of any residual activity of HPPD will be influenced by a number of factors 
including dietary adherence and the level of back mutation resulting in FAH activity that may be occurring in 
each patient. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary  pharmacodynamics  was  not  investigated,  although  other  studies  showed  no  effect  on  rat  and 
guinea pig α1, α2 or β2 adrenoreceptors at 10-5 M ≈ 30 µg/ml. As nitisinone has a high specificity for HPPD, 
no  inhibition  of  other  enzymes  of  the  same  family  is  expected.  However,  the  potential  for  undesired 
pharmacological effects and pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicines is unknown, as the general 
receptor binding profile of nitisinone has not been established. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Safety pharmacology studies comprised screening tests for behavioural effects, muscle relaxation and cardio-
respiratory effects in rats. Oral doses of 500 mg/kg but not 200 mg/kg caused CNS depression, prolonged 
halothane-induced  sleeping  time  and  induced  muscle  weakness.  There  were  no significant changes in heart 
rate, blood pressure, ECG recordings or respiration rate at 350 mg/kg p.o. However, there is little confidence 
in these results as none of the safety pharmacology studies were GLP-compliant and they all included small 
numbers of animals of a single gender. Furthermore, the rat is not a suitable model for assessing the potential 
risk for QT interval prolongation in humans. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Analysis  of  the  key  hepatic  enzymes  involved  in  tyrosine  catabolism  showed  that  HPPD  activity  was 
markedly  inhibited  soon  after  dosing,  the  activity  recovering  very  slowly,  while  the  activity  of  tyrosine 
aminotransferase (TAT) in the liver was induced about two-fold and homogentisic acid oxidase (HGO) was 
not affected. 
6/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, the available pharmacodynamic data and the increase in Tyr plasma levels clearly demonstrate 
the  effect  of  nitisinone  on  Tyr  catabolism,  which  is  provided  by  the  inhibition  of  the  HPPD  enzyme.  In 
addition, the data provide an indication that no major effects on the main body systems are expected due to 
nitisinone  administration.  The  preclinical  data,  except  for  information  on  QT  prolongation,  although  not 
extensive, provide sufficient pharmacodynamic evidence to support the proposed therapeutic indication. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  available  pharmacokinetic  studies  are  limited  and  the  lack  of  comparative  animal  and  human  data 
preclude  an  appraisal  of  the  relevance  of  the  animal  species  used  in  the  toxicity  testing  for  human  safety 
assessment. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
In  rats, nitisinone had a terminal half-life of about 9 hours and was rapidly and completely absorbed after 
oral administration. There are no data on basic pharmacokinetic parameters in other animal species. 
• 
Distribution 
Tissue  distribution  has  been  investigated  in  the  rat  and  the  mouse  and  the  results  published  (Lock  et  al, 
Toxicol. Appl.Pharm: 1996 and Lock et al Toxicology 2000). In both species, administration of a single oral 
dose  of  [14C]-nitisinone  [either  0.3  or  30µ mol/kg  (0.1  or  10mg/kg)  body  weight  in  rats,  and  30µ mol/kg 
(10mg/kg)  body  weight  in  mice]  led  to  selective  retention  of  radiolabel  in  the  liver(>90%  associated 
reversibly with the cytosol fraction) and in kidneys and to a lesser extent in the rat Harderian gland. Since the 
time  course  of  the  distribution  to  the  liver  is  paralleled  by  the  time  course  of  HPPD  inhibition  and 
tyrosinaemia, these findings probably result from binding of nitisinone to the enzyme. There are no data on 
plasma protein binding.  
No retention of radiolabel was detected in the eye, where nevertheless ocular lesions occurred with incidence 
of 35% and 75% at low and high doses used, respectively. Associated with this finding there was a marked 
increase maximum of Tyr at 24 hours after dosing, both in the plasma (about 2500nmol/ml, rats) and in the 
ocular fluid (3500-4000nmol/ml, rats). 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) and excretion 
The route of elimination of nitisinone has been investigated both in animals and man. In an autoradiographic 
study in rats excretion of nitisinone and two hydroxylated  metabolites was found in the urine. In an earlier 
study in rats, labelled nitisinone was found to be excreted in both the faeces and urine at approximately equal 
levels. Information about the metabolism and excretion of nitisinone is limited to data from a pilot study in 4 
rats sacrificed at 6 hours after oral administration of a single dose of radiolabelled substance. The tentative 
identification  of  hydroxylated  metabolites  and  2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic  acid  in  urine  points  to  the 
involvement of the cytochrome P450 system in the metabolism of nitisinone. A repeat-dose toxicity study in 
mice also produced findings that are consistent with liver enzyme induction. Investigations on the potential 
for  drug-drug  interactions  between  nitisinone  and  other  medicines  that  induce  or  inhibit  cytochrome  P450 
activity  have  been  studied  in  vitro  on  human  microsomes  (see  clinical  PK,  metabolism  and  interaction 
studies) 
In addition, the likelihood that the metabolism of xenobiotics and endogenous substances other than tyrosine 
might be affected by the inhibition of HPPD and other enzymes of the same family as well as by the possible 
induction  of 
(phenylpyruvate, 
tyrosine  kinase  was  discussed.  As  other  potential  substrates 
dihydroxyphenylpyruvate  and  α-ketoisocaproate)  can  still  undergo  normal  degradation  via  other  metabolic 
pathways,  no  clinically  significant  effect  is  expected.  The  inhibition  of  tyrosine  kinase  complex  is  also 
unlikely. 
7/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters (in different species) 
Only  limited  pharmacokinetic  data  are  available  in  animals  The  tentative  identification  of  hydroxylated 
metabolites  and  2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic  acid  in  urine  points  to  the involvement of the cytochrome 
P450 system in the metabolism of nitisinone. Findings in mice are consistent with liver enzyme induction. 
No  clinically  significant  effect  is  expected  for  a  possible  inhibition  on  metabolism  of  xenobiotics  or 
endogenous compounds other than tyrosine or for an effect on tyrosine kinase complex. 
Toxicology 
Toxicological  data  are  mainly  derived  from  comprehensive  records  based  on  original  toxicological 
investigation  studies  of  nitisinone  as  an  herbicide,  which  were  terminated  earlier  than  originally  scheduled 
because the developmental plan for nitisinone as herbicide was cancelled. The species used for these studies 
were rats, mice, rabbits, dogs and monkeys. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
The  acute  oral  toxicity  of  nitisinone  appears  to  be  low,  but  is  poorly  documented,  with  no  description  of 
acute clinical signs. The oral LD50 in rat is probably equal or superior to 1000 mg/kg and in mice between 
600  to  800  mg/kg.  Among  others,  the  available  studies  are  not  GLP-compliant,  clinical  signs  are  not 
described  and  autopsy  was  not  performed.  Single-dose  toxicity  following  i.v.  administration  was  not 
investigated. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In all animal species tested in repeated toxicity studies, except in monkeys, ocular lesions resulted to be the 
main  findings.  Repeat-dose  oral  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  the  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  rhesus 
monkey. The rodent studies were terminated early due to the abandon of the product as a herbicide. 
The chronic oral toxicity in mice, originally a carcinogenicity at dose levels of 0, 10, 350, 1500 or 3500ppm 
(approximately 0, 2, 70, 300 or 700mg/kg body weight) was terminated early after 6.5 month of treatment. 
The  target organs in the mouse were the liver, the kidney and the peripheral nervous system. Liver lesions 
included  centrilobular  hypertrophy  with  nuclear  enlargement  consistent  with  enzyme  induction.  Although 
there  was  evidence  of  kidney  enlargement  and  impaired  renal  function,  this  organ  was  not  examined 
microscopically. The incidence and severity of sciatic nerve degeneration seemed dose-related. The applicant 
draws no conclusions about the NOAEL; however, it seems to be in the order of 10 ppm or approximately 2 
mg/kg/day.  
The chronic rat oral study, originally a 2 year combined toxicity/carcinogenicity (dose levels 0, 1, 5, 40, 120, 
320, 800 ppm in the diet) was terminated early at 12 month with a planned interim termination at 3 month. 
The  target  organs  were  the  cornea  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  the  liver.  Corneal  lesions  observed,  at  all  dose 
levels  were  inflammatory  in  nature  and  included  oedema  and  hyper-vascularisation.  They  were  not 
reversible, as ghost vessels remained after a 3-month recovery period. The LOAEL for this effect was 1ppm 
or 0.05 mg/kg/day. A NOAEL was not established.  
In  rabbits,  oral  administration  of  50  or  250  mg/kg/day  for  3  months  caused  lethality,  but  no  gross  eye 
abnormalities.  
In the dog 3 month oral toxicity study (doses levels of 0, 0.1, 0.5, 1.5 or 5mg/kg/day), the target organs were 
the  eyes,  gastrointestinal  tract  and  nervous  system.  Eye  lesions  comprised  degenerative  and  inflammatory 
changes  of  the  cornea  and  were  transient  and  reversible  in  nature.  The  LOAEL  for  this  effect  was  0.1 
mg/kg/day. A NOAEL was not established. 
Nitisinone  was  well  tolerated  and  did  not  produce  eye  lesions  in  rhesus  monkeys  administered  up  to  10 
mg/kg/day for up to 13 weeks 5days/week. As there are no toxicokinetic data, human safety margins cannot 
be determined. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Technical grade nitisinone was mutagenic in bacteria and mutagenic and clastogenic in mammalian cells in 
vitro. The purified drug substance tested negative in bacteria, but was mutagenic in mammalian cells in vitro 
and was not tested for chromosome damage in vitro. In vivo, technical grade material tested negative in the 
mouse bone marrow micronucleus test, whereas purified nitisinone produced a weakly positive response with 
8/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no  clear  dose-response  relationship.  Given  the  positive  tests  for  genotoxicity  in  vitro  and  the  presence  of 
structural alerts (electrophilic centres and an aromatic nitro group), an in vivo mouse liver unscheduled DNA 
synthesis  assay  was  subsequently  performed  at  the  request  of  CHMP.  The  results  showed no induction of 
DNA  repair  in  the  mouse  liver  after  oral  doses  of  nitisinone  up  to  250  mg/kg.  The  overall  available  data 
seem to indicate that there no evidence of in vivo genotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Proper  tests  for  carcinogenic  potential have not been performed although  nitisinone is intended for chronic 
treatment. Carcinogenicity studies were commenced in rats and mice, but interrupted after 12 and 6½ months 
(see section repeat dose toxicity). There were no indications of any treatment-related tumours. However, no 
definitive  conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  these  studies,  as  they  were  not  conducted  according  to  current 
standards, and because of the relatively short duration of exposure. 
The only long-term safety study was performed in the FAH knock-out mouse published by Al-Dhalimy et al. 
(2002),  with  many  of  the  characteristics  of  hereditary  tyrosinaemia  type  1  also  develops  hepatocellular 
carcinomas.  The  animals  received  up  to  6  mg/kg/day  of  nitisinone  for  >2 years.  In  this  study,  nitisinone 
improved the poor condition of the animals. Histology included the liver and the kidney and was apparently 
only performed on organs with macroscopic changes, but there were no indications of other treatment-related 
tumours. The high dose of the compound rather decreased the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas, though 
without preventing its occurrence. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Four preliminary non-GLP studies, including 3 embryo foetal studies and one fertility study in rats have been 
conducted. 
Maternotoxicity  and  embryotoxicity  (reduction  of  pup  survival  and  mean  weight)  were  observed  from  20 
mg/kg/day and 50m/kg/day and above, respectively. No evidence of teratogenicity was found in the rat.  
In the preliminary fertility study, no treatment related effects on pregnancy rate, but significant litter effects 
were seen at the dose of 100 mg/kg/day (only dose tested). 
Four  additional  GLP  studies  have  been  subsequently  performed,  including  an  embryo-foetal  study  in  the 
mouse (doses 5, 50, 250 mg/kg/day) and rabbit (doses 5, 12, 25 mg/kg/day), a fertility and early embryonic 
study in the mouse (doses 5, 50, 250 mg/kg/day ) and a pre and postnatal in the mouse (doses, 5, 50, 250 
mg/kg/day). 
The  results  of  these  new  studies  indicate  that  nitisinone  show  embryo  foetal  toxicity  in  the  mouse and the 
rabbit, for both of which the NOELs was not determined (< 5mg/kg/day). In light of the lack of toxicokinetic 
data  for  the  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies,  and  of  adequate  pre-clinical  PK  data  for 
nitisinone, the comparison for safety factor can be possible only on a mg/kg basis and not on exposure.  
Nitisinone induced dose-dependent malformation (umbilical hernia or gastroschisis) in rabbits and changes in 
ossification  at  all  dose  levels  in  mice  and  rabbits,  although  not  always  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  The 
alteration on ossification noted in both species is considered treatment related. Moreover, nitisinone reduced 
pup growth and pup survival in mice at doses which correspond to several multiples of the maximum human 
recommend  dose.  The  NOAEL  for  maternal  effect  can  be  considered  5mg/kg/day  in  both  species.  These 
results are reflected in the SPC (section 5.3) 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Ocular lesions  
A  series  of  studies  were  performed  in  order  to  characterise  the  ocular  lesions.  From  these studies resulted 
that  histologically  the  first  lesion  to  be  observed  was  a  focal  epithelial  disorganisation  in  the  cornea.  Diet 
changes  (lowering  protein  content)  several  weeks  after  dosing  with  nitisinone  did not influence the corneal 
lesions. The raised plasma tyrosine due to nitisinone administration probably caused the ocular keratitis more 
than a direct effect on eyes of the compound itself.  
Tyrosinemia induction . 
Nitisinone  (10mg/kg)  produced  a  marked  (about  50-70%)  increase of  tyrosine levels in plasma and ocular 
fluid  in  the  dog,  rabbit  and  monkey,  reversible  upon  cessation  of  dosing.  Only  dogs  developed  corneal 
lesions. 
9/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental assessment 
Nitisinone  belongs  to  a  class  of  potent  herbicides  (triketones)  with  potential  risk  for  the  environment. 
However, the PECsurfacewater and PEC/PNEC ratio are far below the action limit, and the data presented in the 
expert  report,  including  data  from  other  chemicals  of  the  same  class,  do  not  indicate  that  nitisinone  could 
pose a potential risk for the environment in the conditions of use. 
• 
Summary of toxicological findings 
Ocular  lesions  (cornea)  were  the  main  finding  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  all  species  except  the 
monkey. Other identified target organs were the liver, kidney and peripheral nervous system. No effect levels 
were  either  not  determined  or  were  close  to  the  therapeutic  dose.  However,  the  lack  of  toxicokinetic  data 
precludes the determination of human safety margins. 
In the genotoxic battery, some tests were positive or equivocal, however the overall data suggest that there is 
no evidence of in vivo genotoxicity. 
The results of the available long-term studies do not suggest a tumorigenic potential. However, as no proper 
tests for carcinogenic potential have been performed, no definitive conclusion can be made. 
Reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  have  shown  malformations  in  mice  and  rabbit  (mainly 
ossification  abnormalities).  As  increased  plasma  levels  of  tyrosine  have  been  reported  to  induce 
developmental  toxicity,  it  is  not  known  whether  the  findings  were  due  to  nitisinone,  to  increased  plasma 
levels of tyrosine, or to a combination of both. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The available pharmacodynamic data and the increase in Tyr plasma levels clearly demonstrate the effect of 
nitisinone on Tyr catabolism, which is provided by the inhibition of the HPPD enzyme. The data provide an 
indication that no major effects on the main body systems are expected due to nitisinone administration. The 
preclinical  data,  although  not  extensive,  provide  sufficient  pharmacodynamic  evidence  to  support  the 
proposed therapeutic indication. 
Only limited pharmacokinetic data are available in animals. The cytochrome P450 system is involved in the 
metabolism of nitisinone and findings in mice are consistent with liver enzyme induction. 
No  clinically  significant  effect  is  expected  with  regard  to  inhibition  of  metabolism  of  xenobiotics  or 
endogenous compounds other than tyrosine. In addition no effect is expected on the tyrosine kinase complex. 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  main  target organ  was  the  eye,  with  corneal  lesions  resulting  probably 
from the accumulation of tyrosine. 
The overall genotoxicity data suggest that there is no evidence of in vivo genotoxicity. 
The results of the available long-term studies do not suggest a tumorigenic potential. However, as no proper 
tests for carcinogenic potential have been performed, no definitive conclusion can be made. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have shown malformations in mice and rabbit and this is 
reflected in the SPC. Furthermore, mothers receiving nitisinone should not breast-feed since a transfer of 
nitisinone in the maternal milk is possible (see SPC sections 4.3 and 5.3).  
There is no indication that nitisinone could pose a potential risk for the environment in the conditions of use. 
In  view  of  the  rare  occurrence  and  seriousness  of  the  disease,  the  lack  of  therapeutic  alternatives  and  the 
obvious  clinical  efficacy,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  shortcomings  considered  in  the  non-clinical 
investigations  should  not  preclude  a  recommendation  for  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Efficacy evaluation is based on a large compassionate use program open to all patients with HT.  
The promising results of a pioneering study on the first five patients with HT-1 treated with nitisinone were 
published in 1992 (Lindstedt S et al., Lancet, 1992). A worldwide study was then started (the NTBC Study), 
co-ordinated by the team from Sahlgrenska University Hospital (SU), Gothenburg, Sweden, to document the 
effects of nitisinone treatment. On request, nitisinone was distributed from SU to hospitals all over the world 
10/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on a compassionate use basis. The physicians/investigators sent blood and urine samples for analysis to SU 
at  regular  intervals,  according  to  a  protocol  designed  by  the  research team  at  SU,  together  with results of 
local laboratory tests and clinical information. The NTBC Study period was from February 1991 to August 
1997. From late 1994 the distribution of nitisinone was gradually shifted from SU to Swedish Orphan AB, 
Stockholm,  Sweden.  Some  patients,  who  were  not  included  in  the  NTBC  Study,  were  also  treated  with 
nitisinone.  
The  clinical  documentation  in  the  present  application  consists  mainly  of  the  analysis  of  the  results  of  the 
NTBC  Study.  The safety analysis also includes those patients given nitisinone on compassionate basis but 
not participating in the NTBC Study. In addition, one pharmacokinetic study on 10 healthy adult volunteers 
has been completed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The final formulation to be used for  commercialisation is a hard gelatine capsule containing the compound 
mixed with pregelatinized starch. 
Most  of  the  available  information  derives  from  a  study  in  healthy  adult  volunteers  comparing  a  liquid 
formulation  with  a  hard  gelatine  capsule  containing  the  compound  mixed  with  lactose,  i.e.  the  first 
formulation nitisinone.  
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  used  coupled  column  HPLC  liquid  chromatography  for 
measurement of nitisinone in plasma. The method has been validated. 
In  the  NTBC  study,  the  nitisinone  plasma/serum  concentration  was  determined  by  an  enzyme  inhibition 
assay that was based on the release of 14CO2 from the 4-hydroxy[1-14C]phenylpyruvate. This method had 
been validated for linearity and repeatability. For repeatability an internal control was prepared and analysed 
during  the  period  of  two  years.    The  overall  coefficient  of variation for the 306 measurements during that 
period with a mean nitisinone concentration of 37.7µmol/L was estimated to be 3.6% 
In the study in healthy subjects, the paired difference of pharmacokinetic parameters, i.e. after administration 
of the capsule and liquid formulation, were evaluated by the Pitman randomisation test based on Wilcoxon 
matched  paired  sign  rank  test.  Bioequivalence  was  established  by  the  Weslake’s  95%  interval  for 
untransformed values and the Hauschke-Steinijans nonparametric test for bioequivalence. 
In  the  bioequivalence  analysis  of  the  preliminary  and  final  formulation  performed  as  a  intra-patient 
comparison,  the  nitisinone  serum  concentrations  were  compared  using  the  two  one-sided  95%  confidence 
interval bioequivalence procedure (ANOVA, log ratios, 90% two sided confidence interval within 0.8-1.25). 
A  90%  two-sided  confidence  interval  for  the  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  after  12  months  of 
nitisinone treatment was also calculated. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
The pharmacokinetics of  nitisinone have been studied in healthy volunteers (n = 10) after administration of 
1mg/kg as capsule and liquid formulations. Absorption of nitisinone was rapid for the liquid formulation and 
in six patients the maximum concentration (Cmax) appeared prior to the first sample, i.e 15min after dosing. 
For the capsules, the first formulation of nitisinone containing the active compound mixed with lactose, the 
rate  of  absorption  (Tmax)  was  slower  and  more  variable,  ranging  from  1.6  to  11.1h (mean  4.2  h).  Other 
pharmacokinetic parameters are show below: 
Table 1.  Mean pharmacokinetic parameters of  nitisinone in healthy volunteers 
Parametersa                        Capsule formulation              Liquid formulation 
Tmax (h) 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
AUC (µg/mL .h) 
T1/2 (h) 
(a) Data from pharmacokinetic modelling. Each value is the mean (SD) of 10 subjects. 
The dose was 1 mg/kg. 
4.2   (3.0)                          < 0.2 5  
7.7   (1) 
599   (153) 
54.5   (13.0) 
7.8   (1.4) 
598   (142) 
53.6   (8.2) 
11/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The NTBC study reveals that this drug is rapidly absorbed and slowly eliminated, regardless of the 
formulation. 
• 
Bioequivalence 
No  formal  bioequivalence  study  has  been  performed.  However,  the  study  in  healthy  adult  volunteers 
comparing a liquid formulation with a hard gelatine capsule containing the compound mixed with lactose, i.e. 
the  first  formulation  nitisinone,  shows  an  equivalence  of  the  2  formulations  for  most  of  PK  parameters 
(except Tmax) as described above. 
Furthermore, retrospective data analysis from patients a) receiving the first formulation compared with data 
from  patients  receiving  the  to-be-marketed  formulation  -  a hard  gelatine  capsule  containing  the  compound 
mixed  with  pregelatinized  starch  -  or  b)  shifting  from  the  first  to  the  final  formulation  suggest  that  the 
formulations used in clinical documentation are essentially bioequivalent. 
The  possibility  of  developing  a  paediatric  formulation  was  investigated  by  the  applicant  but  the  stability 
results  of  the  liquid  formulation  were  unsatisfactory.  Therefore  the  applicant  decided  to  keep  using  the 
capsule  which  can  be  opened  for  young  children  who  cannot  swallow.  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  a 
paediatric  formulation  would  be  preferable,  and  requested  the  applicant  to  consider  to  investigate  the 
development of such a formulation in the future. 
• 
Distribution 
The pharmacokinetics of nitisinone were studied during the first doses (0.2-0.6mg/kg) in four patients in the 
NTBC Study, three children (aged 2 months to 27 months) and one adult (aged 21 years) with untreated HT-
1. The one-compartment pharmacokinetic analysis suggested a small volume of distribution of 0.3L/kg (0.1 
to 0.5L/kg). 
• 
Metabolism and Elimination 
The knowledge on metabolism and excretion is limited.  
In  vitro  investigations  were  conducted  to  identify  whether  nitisinone  was  a  substrate  for  a  range  of  P450 
isozymes  (1A2,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6,  2E1  and  3A4).  Incubation  with  pooled  human  microsomes  identified  a 
single  NAPH-dependent  metabolite  which  accounted  for  approximately  2%  of  the  sample  radioactivity.  A 
single  metabolite  with  a  similar  retention  time  on  the  chromatogram  was  seen  also  when  nitisinone  was 
incubated  with  expressed  3A4  isozymes.  LC-MS/MS  evaluation  has  identified  this  as  a  hydroxylated 
metabolite  with  the  hydroxylation  on  the  cyclohexanedione  moiety.  The  in  vitro  data  thus  suggests  some 
involvement of CYP3A4 in the metabolism of nitisinone. 
This  was  further  reinforced  by  the  presentation  of  data  from  a  single  patient  who  was  on  concurrent 
treatment  with  phenobarbital.  Upon  withdrawal  of  phenobarbital,  an  inducer  of  CYP  3A4,  there  was  a 
significant  increase  in  the  plasma  concentration  of  nitisinone.  The  metabolism  via  CYP  3A4  would  be  in 
agreement with the excretion of hydroxylated metabolites that was seen in the rat study.  
Therefore,  it  appears  that  the  mode  of  elimination  of  nitisinone  is  via  hydroxylation  with  subsequent 
excretion in both the urine and faeces. 
In  order  to  try  and  further  characterise  the  pharmacokinetic  profile in the patient population, the available 
data  from  the  NTBC  Study  has  been  subjected  to  a  population  kinetic  analysis.  Data  on  the  following 
parameters  was  available  for  207  patients  on  nitisinone  treatment  for  up  to  54 months: body weight, dose 
and plasma nitisinone concentration. However, no data is available on the time of dose administration or the 
time  from  last  dose  to  sampling.  As  the  patients  received  the  drug  twice  daily  and  the  absorption  rate  is 
considered to be small compared to the elimination rate, it was assumed that the patients rapidly reached an 
oscillatory  steady-state  and  that  this  was  maintained  throughout  the  treatment  period.  As  the  data  was 
assumed to be steady-state, the only parameter that could be estimated was clearance. It was determined that 
the clearance for the population contained within the NTBC Study was 0.0956L/kg/day. In addition, the T1/2 
for the population was estimated based on the VD of 0.1 – 0.5L/kg. The average terminal half-life (T1/2) was 
found to vary between 17.3 and 86.9 days with a mean value of 52.1 hours which corresponds well to the 
12/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
value  of  54  hours  (median)  that  was  seen  in  healthy  volunteers.  Given  the  heterogeneity  of  the  patient 
population further characterization of the PK profile is not possible. 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
A total of 239 patients treated on “named patient” basis between July 93 and March 2000 were included in 
the second, complementary analysis. There was no evidence of a non-linear dose-concentration relationship.  
The dose normalized nitisinone serum concentrations increased from about 30µmol/L per mg/kg/day during 
the first years to about 42µmol/L per mg/kg/day during the fifth year after start the nitisinone treatment for 
the patients who started before 24 months of age. The patients who started nitisinone after 24 months of age 
had higher dose normalized drug concentrations than younger patients. The regression analysis showed that 
nitisinone  serum  concentrations  increased  by  about  1.2-2  µmol/L  per  year  of  increased  start  age.  Also,  a 
significant  increase  in  the  nitisinone  serum  concentrations  was  observed  during  the  first  three  years  of 
treatment, 19% between year 1 and 2 and 14% between year 2 and 3. After that, there was only a moderate 
increase in nitisinone concentrations, less than 6% per year. This increase per treatment year was in the same 
order of magnitude as the increase for each year of increased age at start of treatment. 
• 
Special populations 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  HT-1  are  limited  to case  reports  during  the  first  three  doses  and 
after treatment discontinuation in seven patients (mainly children) and suggest that the drug elimination T1/2 
is probably shorter in children (patients) than in adults (healthy). Drug measurements over time suggest that 
the  nitisinone  serum  concentrations  are  higher  in  older  children  than  in  younger,  and  increase  with  time 
during the first three years of therapy.  
• 
Interaction studies 
A series of in vitro studies have been performed to investigate the potential involvement of nitisinone on six 
P450 isozymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4). 
It was found that incubation with nitisinone had no effect on the metabolism of selective substrates for the 
CYP1A2,  CYP2C19  or  CYP3A4.  nitisinone  was  determined  to  be  a  moderate  inhibitor  of  the  CYP2C9 
isozyme  with  an  IC50  of  46
M.  It  was  also  found  to  be  a  weak  inhibitor  of  the  CYP2D6  and  CYP2E1 
isozymes  with  IC50  values  of  >100
M.  Based  on  the  absence  of  an  effect  on  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9,  and 
CYP3A4 and the high IC50 values of the other CYP isozymes, it is considered that nitisinone will not inhibit 
the clearance of drugs that are metabolised via the cytochrome P450 system. 
µ
µ
The effect of the co-administration of an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and nitisinone is not known but the relatively 
low degree of metabolism observed in the microsomal preparation expressing a singly isozyme may suggest 
that  there  will  be  no  significant  effect  of  a  P450  inhibitor  on  nitisinone  plasma  concentrations.  However, 
until further interaction data is available one cannot exclude that a dose-adjustment will be necessary when 
nitisinone is co-administered with inducers and inhibitors of CYP3A4. This is also reflected in the SPC. 
No formal food interactions studies have been performed. However, nitisinone has been co-administered with 
food  during  the  generation  of  efficacy  and  safety  data.  Therefore,  it  is  recommended  that  if  nitisinone 
treatment is initiated with food, this should be maintained on a routine basis. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The pharmacological effect of nitisinone is to prevent the development of clinical phenotype of HT-1.  HT-1 
is a life–threatening disease and the only other effective treatment available is liver transplantation.  
• 
Nitisinone  inhibits  the  enzyme  4-hydroxy  phenylpyruvate  dioxygenase  (HPPD),  i.e.  the  second  step  in 
tyrosine degradation, both in vitro and in animals. This was only indirectly verified in man. This inhibition 
prevents the accumulation of maleylacetoacetate and fumarylacetoacetate that occurs in HT-1 patients as a 
consequence  of    their  inherited  defect  of  fumarylacetoacetate  hydroxylase  activity,  the  last  step  in  the 
tyrosine degradation. 
13/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through  this  mechanism  of  action,  nitisinone  enhances  the  effects  of  a  diet  restricted  in  tyrosine  and 
phenylalanine,  which  is  used  to  alleviate  the  HT-1  progression.  This  diet  is  concomitantly  required,  since 
HPPD  inhibition  causes  tyrosinemia,  which  in  man  can  produce  ocular  toxicity.  The  efficacy  of  this 
approach was only indirectly verified in man, but it has recently been confirmed in double mutant Fah-/-Hpd-
/-mice (Endo and Sun, J Inherit Metab Dis 25: 227-34, 2002). These mice grew normally without evidence 
of liver and renal disease. 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Nitisinone prevents accumulation of maleylacetoacetate and fumarylacetoacetate. These compounds are toxic 
and reactive metabolites. Their accumulation may be related to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma 
seen in HT-1 patients (Endo et al., JBiolChem, 272, 24426-32, 1997). They are also partially converted to 
succinylacetone  and  succinylacetoacetate,  which  inhibit  the  PBG-synthase  activity  in  the  heme  synthesis 
pathway.  This  leads  to  accumulation  and  increased  excretion  in  the  urine  of  5-aminolevulinate  (5-ALA). 
This  compound is likely responsible of the development of neuropathic porphyria –like symptoms in HT-1 
patients. 
Nitisinone  treatment  leads  to  normalised  porphyrin  metabolism  with  normal  erythrocyte  porphobilinogen 
synthase activity and urine 5-ALA and decreased urinary excretion of succinylacetone.  
However, as in the animal experiments, plasma tyrosine and phenolic acid excretion increased in all patients 
treated with nitisinone. 
• 
Discussion on Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  supporting  the  present  application  are  rather  scarce.  There  is  limited  or  no 
information on the drug distribution, including binding to blood components, main route(s) of elimination and 
physiological and pathological factors that may alter the absorption, distribution and elimination of this drug 
in humans. This is considered to be acceptable taking into account the extreme rarity of the disease and the 
heterogeneity of the patient population.  
Most  of  the  available  information  derives  from  a  study  in  healthy  adult  volunteers  comparing  a  liquid 
formulation and a hard gelatine capsule containing the compound mixed with lactose, i.e the first formulation 
of nitisinone. This study tells us that this drug is rapidly absorbed and slowly eliminated, regardless of the 
formulation. 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  HT-1  are  limited  to  case  reports  and  suggest  that  the  drug 
elimination  is  probably  faster  in  children  (patients)  than  in adults (healthy). Drug measurements  over time 
suggest that the nitisinone serum  concentrations increase with treatment time during the first three years of 
therapy. 
The  relationship  between  the nitisinone serum concentration and the inhibition of the target enzyme HPPD 
has not been directly measured in man. The optimisation of the dose has been derived from the relationship 
between  nitisinone  serum  concentration  and  the  probability  to  obtain  a  decline  in  plasma  and  urine 
succinylacetone  and  urine  5-ALA,  to  reverse  inhibition  of  PBG-deaminase  and  to  normalize  serum  alpha-
fetoprotein (see section “Clinical efficacy”). This approach is considered acceptable since the mechanism of 
action is clear and the biochemical parameters monitored are markers of the clinical phenotype of HT-1. 
Infants reportedly required a higher dose to obtain the effects.  
The lack of studies regarding genetic differences in pharmacodynamic response is acceptable considering the 
limited number of patients. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  clinical  development  programme  consists  of  one  uncontrolled,  compassionate  use,  multicentre  trial 
(NTBC Study), which was co-ordinated by the Sahlgrenska University Hospital (SU), Gothenburg, Sweden. 
The study was not performed according to current GCP rules. 
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
No  formal  dose-finding  study  was  done.  An  initial  experience  based  on  five  patients  (Lindstedt  S  et  al., 
1992) tested a daily dose of 0.1 to 0.6mg/kg bodyweight. Treatment duration was 7-9 months and evaluation 
criteria  were  Urinary-succinylacetone,  Plasma-SA,  PBG-synthase,  Urinary-5-ALA,  α-fetoprotein,  liver 
14/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
function, tyrosine. Based on results of this study, the 0.6mg/kg dose was recommended until it became clear 
to the investigators that it was generally too low. From mid 1993, an initial daily dose of 1mg/kg has been 
recommended.  Adjustments  to  the  dose  are  recommended  if  the  response  is  inadequate,  as  judged  by  the 
effect on the HT-1 specific parameters and/or low nitisinone serum concentrations. 
• 
Main studies 
METHODS 
Evidence of clinical efficacy is mainly based on the compassionate use in 207 patients enrolled in the NTBC 
Study,  a  large  uncontrolled  study  co-ordinated  by  the  team  from  Sahlgrenska  University  Hospital  (SU), 
Gothenburg, Sweden, and involving 96 local investigators at 87 different hospitals in 25 countries. 
Nitisinone was administered orally twice daily, initially at a daily dose of 0.6mg/kg bodyweight until it was 
clear  that  this  dose  was  generally  too  low.  From  1994,  1mg/kg  was  recommended  as  total  daily  initiation 
dose. The individual response to treatment was evaluated and the dose was adjusted if considered necessary. 
No  daily  dose  exceeded  3.0mg/kg.  Nitisinone  treatment  was  always  combined  with  a  diet  restricted  in 
tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
Besides the main analysis regarding the 207 patients who were included between 23 February 1991 and 21 
August 1997, a complementary analysis refers to the 250 patients who were included between 1 July 1993 
and  28  March  2000,  after  all  investigators  had  received  the  recommendations  of  an  initial  daily  dose  of 
1mg/kg bodyweight.  
HT-1 specific biochemical variables (urine and plasma succinylacetone, erythrocyte PBG-synthase and urine 
5-ALA),  α-fetoprotein,  death,  liver  transplants,  hepatocellular  carcinoma  and  porphyria-like  crises  were 
evaluated.  
RESULTS ON EFFICACY 
Survival 
The  primary  efficacy  variables  for  the  study  consisted  of  the  following:  survival,  survival  without 
transplantation, death due to liver failure, transplantation due to liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
The total patient population of 207 patients in the database is the result of the cumulative enrolment into the 
study over the period from February 23, 1991 to August 21, 1997, which has been used as the pivotal study 
period. At the time of data cut off, out of the 207 patients enrolled there were 169 patients still on treatment 
and a total of 38 withdrawals.  
The reasons for withdrawal are shown in the following table: 
Reason for withdrawal 
Survived 
Number of patients 
Died 
All 
Death during nitisinone treatment 
liver failure 
HCC 
  multiorgan failure 
All 
Liver transplantation 
Elective 
liver failure 
suspected HCC, verified 
suspected HCC, not verified 
All 
Parents’ wish to discontinue 
All withdrawals 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4 
7 
5 
6 
22 
- 
22 
7 
2 
1 
10 
3 
0 
2 
0 
5 
1 
16 
7 
2 
1 
10 
7 
7 
7 
6 
27 
1 
38 
Since patients have been enrolled on an ongoing basis and all patients entered up to the point of data cut-off 
(August  21,  1997)  have  been  included  in  the  analyses,  each  patient  has  been  on  treatment  for  a  different 
15/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period of time. As a result, patients have been on treatment up to a period of 75 months with the number of 
patients diminishing with the length of treatment. This can be seen in the following figure. 
207
250
200
150
174
148
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
r
e
b
m
u
N
100
50
0
120
95
80
61
46
35
13
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
Time on treatment (years)
6
5
5
5.5
3
6
As a result, the number of patients who were available for inclusion in analysis after one, two and four years 
of treatment was 148, 95 and 35 respectively. 
The  two-year  and  four-year  survival  was  96%  (N=95)  and  93%  (N=35),  respectively;  two-year  and  four-
year survival also including deaths after stopping nitisinone treatment was 93% (N=109) and 90% (N=43), 
respectively;  two-year  and  four-year  survival  without  liver  transplantation  was  84%    (N=95)  and  78% 
(N=35), respectively (see Table below). 
Survival 
Total population 
Start age 0-2 months 
Start age 0-6 months 
Start age 2-6 months 
Start age >6 months 
Survival without transplantation 
Total population 
Start age 0-2 months 
Start age 0-6 months 
Start age 2-6 months 
Start age >6 months 
Survival incl death after nitisinone 
stop 
Total population 
Start age 0-2 months 
Start age 0-6 months 
Start age 2-6 months 
Start age >6 months 
n  No. of patients at 
1 yr  2 yrs  4 yrs 
207  148 
12 
16 
55 
80 
43 
64 
93 
127 
207  148 
12 
16 
55 
80 
43 
64 
93 
127 
95 
7 
30 
23 
65 
95 
7 
30 
23 
65 
207  162 
12 
16 
58 
80 
64 
46 
127  104 
109 
7 
33 
26 
76 
35 
3 
11 
8 
24 
35 
3 
11 
8 
24 
43 
3 
13 
10 
30 
Probability (95% confidence interval) 
4 yrs 
2 yrs 
1 yr 
 96%  (93;98)  96%   (93;99)  93%   (88;98) 
 88%  (71;100)  88%  (65;100)  88%  (52;100) 
 94%  (88;100)  94%  (85;100)  94%  (80;100) 
95%  (90;100)  95%  (90;100)  95%  (90;100) 
 97%  (94;100)  97%  (94;100)  93%  (85;100) 
 88%   (83;93)   84%   (78;90)   78%   (69;86) 
 88%  (70;100)   88%  (65;100)   88%  (52;100) 
 89%   (81;97)   85%   (75;95)   82%   (66;97) 
89%    (81;97)  84% 
(75;94)  80%   (68;92) 
 88%   (82;94)   83%   (76;91)   76%   (65;87) 
 96%   (93;99)   93%   (89;97)   90%   (83;96) 
 88%  (70;100)   88%  (65;100)   88%  (52;100) 
 94%  (88;100)   92%  (84;100)   92%  (80;100) 
 95%  (90;100)   93%  (86;100)   93%  (86;100) 
 97%  (93;100)   94%   (89;99)   89%   (81;97) 
Liver failure 
The improved survival of the younger patients, i.e. patients with the acute form, is reflected in the decreased 
occurrence of liver failure and transplantation due to liver failure. In the nitisinone study 7/80 (9%) patients 
with treatment start < 6 months died of liver failure or were transplanted due to liver failure whereas in the 
16/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
historical control (van Spronsen) 35/83 (42%) patients with symptom onset < 6 months died of liver failure 
or recurrent bleeding with or without liver failure. Transplantation due to liver failure was performed in the 
historical control in 6/108 patients (6.4%), in the nitisinone study in 7/207 (3.4%). 
Heptocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
In  two  retrospective  surveys  of  HT-1  patients  on  dietary  treatment,  the  occurrence  of  HCC  was  37% 
(Weinberg et al. 1976) and 18% (van Spronsen et al. 1994), respectively, in all patients older than 2 years. 
In the NTBC study, the cumulative probability (and 95% CI) of death due to HCC, transplantation due HCC 
or diagnose of HCC for all patients who started nitisinone treatment after 24 months of age, was 8%, 12% 
and 27% at 1-, 2- and 4-years respectively. (see Table below). 
The plasma concentration of nitisinone was not correlated to the risk of development of HCC as there was no 
difference in the mean plasma nitisinone concentration between those patients who developed HCC and those 
that did not develop HCC during the NTBC Study period. 
The analysis of a possible effect of age at the start of treatment on the risk for developing HCC, examined in 
a total of 554 patients who had been exposed to nitisinone (cut-off date 31 December, 2003), is as follows: 
Patients without HCC 
Patients with HCC 
Age < 12 months at 
start of treatment 
368 
3 
There is a significant effect on the time at initiation of treatment in the development of HCC. Patients who 
initiate treatment after the age of 12 months have a significantly higher risk of developing HCC (Fisher exact 
test,  p<0.000001).  The  relative  risk  for  developing  HCC  is  13.52  (95%  CI:  4.07  –  44.89)  if  treatment  is 
initiated after the age of 12 months. 
Age > 12 months at 
start of treatment 
163 
20 
Serum α-fetoprotein (AFP) 
Serum  AFP  concentration  decreased  significantly  in  most  patients  during  nitisinone  treatment,  from  levels 
highly above the reference limit at the pre-treatment evaluation to levels slightly above the reference limit at 
one year after treatment start. The decrease in serum AFP concentration may indicate a change from rapid 
proliferation to a more normal proliferation rate of hepatic cells. 
Liver function 
γ
ALT  and  albumin  increased  during  the  first  year  of  treatment,  while  AST, 
GT,  and  bilirubin  decreased 
(these  findings are from about one fourth of the study population). After 6 months of nitisinone treatment, 
almost 80% of the patients whose values have been reported had normal prothrombin complex levels, while 
90%  of  patients  with  HT-1  had  abnormal  prothrombin  complex  levels before start of nitisinone treatment. 
Serum 
g/L, N=104) at one year 
after treatment start. 
-Fetoprotein concentration significantly decreased (from median 471 to 3.1
α
µ
Neurological symptoms 
17/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Porphyria-like symptoms, which reportedly occur in >40% children with HT-1 on dietary treatment, during 
nitisinone treatment only occurred in one patient with sub-optimal treatment at the time preceding the event. 
No information on the occurrence of neurologic crises is provided  by van Spronsen except that respiratory 
failure/porphyria  like  syndrome  was  the  cause  of  death  in  5/108  patients.  Mitchell  (1990)  reported  on 
neurologic crises in 20/48 patients hospitalised for HT-1. 
Biochemical variables 
Among  the  biochemical  parameters,  it  was  observed  in  the  main  and  the  complementary  analysis  that 
succinylacetone  in  urine  was  reduced  to  below  the  reference  limit  (i.e.  1.0mmol/mol  creatinine)  in  two 
months (N=186) after start of the nitisinone treatment. Plasma succinylacetone also decreased to below the 
reference limit (0.1µmol/l for plasma succinylacetone) (N=172) but more slowly than in urine (median time 
to  normalisation  3.9  vs.  0.3  months).  Urine  5-ALA  rapidly  decreased  within  reference  limits  (median  0.2 
month, N=163). PBG-synthase activity  increased rapidly up to reference limits within one month in half of 
patients (median 0.3 month, max 7.5 months) (N=180).  
The complementary analysis of the 250 patients enrolled between 1 July 1993 and 28 March 2000 (after all 
investigators  had  received  the  recommendations  of  an  initial  daily  dose  of  1mg/kg  bodyweight)  gives  the 
following information on the normalization of laboratory variables: 
U-succinylacetone:  more  than 90%  of  the  patients  had urine succinylacetone values in the reference range 
already during the first week of treatment, and after the first month almost all patients were normalized. 
P-succinylacetone: no patient had plasma succinylacetone values within the reference range during the first 
month of treatment. During the sixth month, about 90% of the patients were reported to be normalized, and 
at the end of the first treatment year, almost all patients were normalized. 
Erc-PBG-synthase:  more  than  90%  of  the patients had urine succinylacetone values in the reference range 
during the first months of treatment, and during the second month all patients but one were normalized. 
U-5-aminolevulinate:  more  than  80%  of  the  patients  had  urine  5-aminolevulinate  values  in  the  reference 
range  already  during  the  first  week  of  treatment,  and  after  the  first  month  all  patients  but  one  were 
normalized. 
S- 
 -fetoprotein: the percentage of normalized patients increased gradually over the first two-year period of 
nitisinone treatment. After the first treatment year, a little more than 50% of  the patients were normalized, 
and at the end of the second treatment year, about 90% of the patients were normalized, i.e. had values below 
the 90th percentile of a normal population. 
α
18/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematology 
Platelet (N=46) and erythrocyte count (N=40), and blood haemoglobin (N=51) were significantly increased 
at one year of nitisinone treatment. 
Renal function 
One  year  after  start  of  nitisinone  treatment,  both  the  urine  excretion  of  amino  acids  (N=8)  and  the  serum 
concentration  of  phosphate  (N=12)  were  within  the  reference  ranges  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  who  had 
signs of renal tubular dysfunction before treatment (the Fanconi syndrome) (N=34). 
Effects in relation to nitisinone concentrations 
There  was  a  significant  inverse  relationship  between  nitisinone  concentration  and  the  probability  of 
recurrence of values outside normal ranges for U-succinylacetone, P-succinylacetone and Erc-PBG-synthase 
(see Table below). For U-5-aminolevulinate, there were reference values only for the group of patients older 
than 24 months at the start of nitisinone treatment. Therefore, the number of observations was too small to 
perform  a  meaningful  analysis  on  this  variable.  At  a  nitisinone  serum  concentration  of  30
mol/L,  the 
estimated probability of recurrence was about 6% for both U-succinylacetone and Erc-PBG-synthase  
µ
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
p
e
c
n
e
r
r
u
c
e
R
1,0
0,9
0,8
0,7
0,6
0,5
0,4
0,3
0,2
0,1
0,0
0
10
20
30
U-SA
P-SA
PBG-synthase
5-ALA
70
80
90
100
40
50
NTBC concentration (µmol/L)
60
Figure: The probability for recurrence of pathological values after once being normalized during 
the first two years of NTBC treatment versus NTBC serum concentration in patients who were 
followed for at least two years.  Pathological values were defined as >1 mmol/mol creatinine for U-
succinylacetone, >0.1 µmol/l for P-succinylacetone, < 0.58 nkat/g Hgb for PBG-synthase and >23 
mmol/mol creatinine for U-5-ALA. 
Nitisinone in comparison to diet treatment 
The  probability  of  survival  for  HT-1  patients  on  nitisinone  treatment  and  diet  in  the  NTBC  Study  was 
compared  with  the  survival  estimates  in  the  earlier  international  survey  of  108  patients  with  HT-1  treated 
with a diet restricted in tyrosine and phenylalanine alone (van Spronsen et al. 1994). 
The  two-  and  four-year  survival  probabilities  for  patients  who  started  nitisinone  treatment  at  <  2  months 
were  88%  and  88%,  respectively,  the  2-and  4-year  survival  probabilities  for  the  patients  of the  historical 
control (van Sponsen et al, 1994, dietary treatment) being 0-2 months at onset of symptoms, 29% and 29%, 
respectively. 
The  survival  probabilities  for  the  patient  group  on  nitisinone  with  a  start  of  treatment-age  between  2-6 
months  were  calculated  to  be 95%. In comparison, the corresponding values for two  and four years in the 
historical values determined by Van Spronsen et al. (1994) were 74% and 65% respectively . 
19/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  two-  and  four-year  survival  probabilities  for  patients  with  start  of  treatment  beyond  6  months 
(nitisinone)  and  start  of  symptoms  beyond  6  months  of  age  (van  Spronsen),  respectively,  appear  to  differ 
only marginally for dietary therapy + nitisinone and dietary therapy only. 
The  Table  below  shows  the  experiences  from  the  Quebec  NTBC  Study  Group  (Mitchel  GA,  personal 
communication) on a subset of patients from the NTBC Study. These data show the clear impact resulting 
from the introduction of nitisinone treatment compared with diet alone. The hospitalisations and neurological 
crises were eliminated, the number of liver transplants was markedly reduced and no deaths occurred except 
after transplantation. 
Non-nitisinone treated 
During nitisinone 
treatment 
p-value* 
Patients 
Number 
Follow-up, pat months 
Hospitalisations for HT-1 complications 
Number 
Duration, pat months (% of total) 
Neurological crises 
Number 
Duration, pat months 
Hepatic transplantation 
Number 
Transplants (per patient year) 
Age at transplant (months) 
Deaths 
Total 
Pre-transplantation 
Number per patient year 
Age at death (months) 
Post-transplantation 
AGE AT DEATH 
(MONTHS) 
27 
1562** 
190 
69 (4.4%) 
92 
33.5 
19 
0.146 
24.8 ± 4.1 
(4.9 – 78.6) 
10 
8 
0.061 
12.6 ± 3.3 
2 
5 ; 25 
34 
1529 
0*** 
0 (0%) 
0 
0 
5 
0.039 
41.3 ± 12.8 
(34.8 – 90.6) 
2 
0 
0 
- 
2 
89 ; 104 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.008 
0.003 
0.40 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The NTBC Study has not been designed according to GCP rules. In addition, since HT-1 is a life-threatening 
disease and nitisinone was considered as the only effective treatment besides liver transplantation, no control 
group  was  included.  Considering  that  HT-1  is  a  very  rare  disease,  the  number  of  patients  included  in  the 
clinical programme, reached through a high number of centres over many years is considered to be sufficient 
for a marketing authorisation approval under exceptional circumstances. 
Nitisinone treatment in the doses  used in the NTBC Study almost completely prevents the formation of the 
toxic metabolites. The risk for death, or the need for liver transplantation due to liver failure, appear to be 
small in patients in whom nitisinone treatment is started before six months of age. The risk of hepatocellular 
carcinoma is also  reduced if nitisinone treatment is started early, before the age of 12 months. The risk for 
life-threatening porphyria-like crises is almost eliminated. 
Some areas have not been investigated in great detail in the NTBC Study. For example, there were signs of 
improved  kidney  function  in  a  small  subgroup  of  patients  with  renal  tubular  dysfunction.  It  was  also 
suggested  that  a  low  thrombocyte  count  could  be  related  to  liver  disease,  and  that  these  effects  were 
eliminated  by  nitisinone  treatment.  The  general  well-being  has  also  been  reported  to  have  improved 
significantly, but quality of life assessment scores  were not administered.  Since the international survey by 
van  Spronsen  et  al.  used  as  a  control  in  the  evaluation  of  the  NTBC  Study  mainly  covers  an  earlier  time 
period and was designed differently, statistical comparisons are not valid. However, the difference between 
the  outcome  in  the  survey,  in  which  the  patients  had  been  treated  with  diet  only,  and  the  outcome  in  the 
20/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NTBC  Study, in which the patients had been treated with nitisinone and diet, is suggestive: the efficacy of 
the  nitisinone  is  also  confirmed  by  the  Quebec  NTBC  Study  group,  which  reported  a  dramatic  change  in 
treatment outcome after nitisinone treatment was introduced. 
It is concluded that nitisinone seems to be an effective treatment for HT-1, particularly if started early before 
there is irreversible liver damage. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
• 
The total exposure in the NTBC study includes more than 1300 patient years, as summarised in the Table 
below. The safety evaluation is mainly based on a total of 441 patient years from the NTBC Study (median 
treatment time 675 days for the total population). During the time period covered by the main analysis of the 
NTBC Study, 24 patients received nitisinone without being included in the study. After the main analysis of 
the NTBC Study, 21 August 1997, until 30 April 2001, three periodic safety update reports were prepared, 
based on a total of 927 patient years of nitisinone treatment in 365 patients. 
Patient exposure 
NTBC Study Rep 
 (N=207) 
Safety Add 
 (N=24) 
PSUR 97-98 
 (N=266) 
Median treatment time  
675  days 
Min treatment time 
Max treatment time  
Mean treatment time  
156  days 
1  day 
707  days 
194  days 
497  days 
2  days 
497  days 
397  days 
PSUR 99 
 (N=282) 
365  days 
3  days 
365  days 
331  days 
PSUR 00-01 
 (N=318) 
486  days 
6  days 
486  days 
440  days 
Total exposure 
441 patient yrs 
13 patient yrs 
289 patient yrs 
255 patient yrs 
383 patient yrs 
Adverse events  
• 
All recorded adverse events in the safety evaluations are listed in the Tables below. 
Number and percentage of patients with adverse drug reactions,  
i.e. adverse events that may be causally related to treatment with nitisinone. 
WHO body class 
WHO preferred term 
Anaemia 
NTBC  
Study Rep 
 (N=207) 
- 
N. of patients (% of all) 
PSUR 
97-98 
 (N=266) 
- 
Safety 
Addendum 
 (N=24) 
- 
PSUR 
99 
 (N=282) 
1 (0.4%) 
PSUR 
00-01 
 (N=318) 
- 
Body as a whole, general 
disorder 
Platelet, bleeding and  
clotting disorders 
Skin and appendages  
Disorders 
White cell and RES  
Disorders 
Vision disorders 
*Serious AE 
Thrombocytopenia 
3+3* (3%) 
Dermatitis exfoliative 
Pruritus 
Rash erythematous 
Granulocytopenia 
Leucocytosis 
Leucopenia 
Blepharitis 
Conjunctivitis 
Corneal opacity 
Eye pain 
Keratitis 
Photophobia 
2 (1.0%) 
3 (1.4%) 
- 
2 (1.0%) 
- 
4 (2%) 
2 (1.0%) 
4 (2%) 
4 (2%) 
3 (1.2%) 
5 (2%) 
4 (2%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 (0.8%) 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
4 (1.5%) 
2 (0.8%) 
3 (1.1%) 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
3 (1.1%) 
2 (0.7%) 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
 Number and percentage of patients with adverse events unlikely to be causally related to treatment with nitisinone. 
WHO body class 
WHO preferred term 
N. of patients (% of all) 
21/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body as a whole, general   Anaemia 
Disorders 
Death 
Pyrexia 
NTBC  
Study Rep 
 (N=207) 
- 
1* (0.5%) 
- 
Safety 
Addendum 
 (N=24) 
- 
1* (4%) 
- 
PSUR 
97-98 
 (N=266) 
- 
2* (0.8%) 
- 
PSUR 
99 
 (N=282) 
- 
1* (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
PSUR 
00-01 
 (N=318) 
1* (0.3%) 
- 
- 
22/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolic and nutritional   Dehydration 
disorders 
WHO body class 
WHO preferred term 
Cardiovascular disorders,   Cyanosis 
General 
Central and peripheral  
nervous system disorders 
Convulsions 
Encephalopathy 
Headache 
Hyperkinesia 
Abdominal pain 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Enanthema 
Gastritis 
Gastroenteritis 
GI haemorrhage 
Melaena 
Tooth discoloration 
Alfa-fetoprotein incr 
Hepatic enzymes incr 
Hepatic function dis 
Liver cirrhosis 
Liver enlargement 
Liver failure 
Porphyria 
Hypoglycaemia 
Thirst 
Fracture pathological 
Brain neoplasm benign 
Hepatic neoplasm** 
Hepatic neoplasm mali 
Lymphoma malignant 
Epistaxis 
Haematuria 
Nervousness 
Somnolence 
Amenorrhoea 
Infection 
Otitis 
Septicaemia 
Bronchitis 
Respiratory insuffi 
Alopecia 
Rash maculo-papular 
Skin dry 
Hyperkalemia 
Renal tubular disorder 
Cataract 
Retinal disorder 
 Other  
 - elective liver transpl 
- liver transpl for    
  unknown reason 
Gastro-intestinal system  
disorders 
Liver and biliary system  
disorders 
Musculo-skeletal system 
disorders 
Neoplasm 
Platelet, bleeding &  
clotting disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Reproductive disorders, 
female 
Resistance mechanism  
disorders 
Respiratory system  
disorders 
Skin and appendages  
disorders 
Urinary system disorders 
Vision disorders 
Other 
* Serious AE 
NTBC  
Study Rep 
 (N=207) 
1* (0.5%) 
3* (1.4%) 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1* (0.5%) 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14* (7%) 
1* (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1* (0.5%) 
6* (3%) 
10* (5%) 
- 
2 (1.4%) 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.5%) 
- 
N. of patients (% of all) 
PSUR 
97-98 
 (N=266) 
- 
Safety 
Addendum 
 (N=24) 
- 
PSUR 
99 
 (N=282) 
- 
- 
1* (4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1* (4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1* (4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1* (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
10* (4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1* (0.4%) 
2* (0.8%) 
1* (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2* (0.8%) 
- 
1* (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 (0.8%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2* (0.7%) 
- 
6* (3%) 
2* (0.7%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2* (0.7%) 
2* (0.7%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
1 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.4%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1* (0.4%) 
PSUR 
00-01 
 (N=318) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 (0.6%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6* (1.9%) 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
- 
1* (0.3%) 
4* (1.3%) 
1* (0.3%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
- 
- 
7* (3%) 
1* (4%) 
5* (2%) 
3* (1.1%) 
1* (0.3%) 
1* (0.4%) 
1* (0.4%) 
1* (0.3%) 
23/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  event  was  visual  disorder  (21  cases),  including  eye  pain,  keratitis, 
conjunctivitis,  corneal  opacity  and  photophobia.  It  is  well  recognised  that  a  high  plasma  tyrosine 
concentration may cause corneal lesions. Corneal lesions, due to the formation of tyrosine crystals, develop 
in  some  species  treated  with  nitisinone,  e.g.  rat  and  dog,  but  not  in  the  monkey  and  mouse.  In  the  main 
analysis  of  the  NTBC  study  too,  the  most  common  adverse  events  reported  was  eye  disorder,  including 
conjunctivitis,  photophobia,  eye  pain,  keratitis,  and  corneal  lesion,  which  were  reported  in  a  total  of  14 
patients.  The  eye  symptoms  were  all  transient,  but  in  some  patients  they  reappeared.  For  the  majority  of 
these cases, the final outcome of the eye symptoms was not reported. These events were regarded to be non-
serious. They were considered to have a possible causal relationship to the nitisinone treatment: patients with 
plasma tyrosine concentration above 800µmol/l on one or more occasions, had a significantly increased risk 
of  developing  eye  symptoms  compared  with  those  who  never  exceeded  that  plasma  tyrosine  level.  Eye 
problems during nitisinone treatment disappeared either spontaneously or after improved compliance with the 
diet. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
• 
The 49 serious adverse events reported in the pivotal study included liver failure (14), HCC (10 verified, 6 
not  verified), multiorgan failure (1), elective liver transplantation (7), and thrombocytopenia  (3). The three 
cases of thrombocytopenia, which were all transient, were the only serious adverse events considered to have 
a  possible  causal  relationship  to  nitisinone,  whereas  the  other  events  mentioned  above  are  well  known 
manifestations of HT-1 and not considered to be causally related to nitisinone treatment. 
During the time period covered by the NTBC Study, a total of 5 serious adverse events were reported in a 
Safety Addendum regarding 24 patients who received nitisinone without being included in the NTBC Study. 
All  these  events  were  well-known  manifestations  of  HT-1:  encephalopathy  (1),  hepatic  neoplasm  (1), 
respiratory  insufficiency  (1),  and  elective  liver  transplantation  (1).  In  addition,  there  was  one  report  of  a 
patient  who  died  without  further  details known, and one report of  treatment being  discontinued because of 
the lack of efficacy on renal complications after liver transplantation. 
In the three Periodic Safety Update Reports, the serious adverse events (61 events) were liver failure (22), 
hepatic neoplasm (8 verified carcinoma, 4 suspected but not verified), elective liver transplantation (9), liver 
transplantation  for  unknown  reason  (3),  porphyria  (2),  liver  cirrhosis  (2),  multiorgan  failure  (1), 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage (1). All these events are well-recognised manifestations or outcomes of HT-1. 
The  serious  adverse  event  list  also  includes  3  cases  of  infection,  1  case  of  retinal  degeneration, 1  case  of 
anaemia  related  to  thalassemia,  2  cases  of  death  without  further  details  known,  and  one  patient  who  first 
reported treatment for Hodgkin’s lymphoma but died after relapse two years later.  
A  total  of  34  patients  died  during  treatment  with  nitisinone,  mostly  due  to  liver  failure  (N=19),  or 
gastrointestinal  bleeding,  encephalopathy  or  liver  cancer  (N.=5),  3  due  to  fever  or  infection,  2  due  to 
multiorgan  failure,  2  due  to  porphyric  crisis  or respiratory insufficiency, 1 due to lymphoma and 2 due to 
unknown reasons.  
A total of 61 patients were liver transplanted, 17 due to liver failure, 13 due to liver cancer, in 17 cases an 
elective transplantation was performed, 11 patients were transplanted because of suspected (not verified) 
liver cancer, and in 3 cases the reasons are unknown. 
Laboratory findings 
• 
In the main analysis of the NTBC Study there were 3 cases of severe thrombocytopenia considered to have a 
possible causal relationship to treatment. For 7 patients there were reports of leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
or a combination of both, which were regarded as not serious adverse events. These events were considered 
possibly to have a causal relationship to the nitisinone treatment.  The tests returned to normal in all cases, 
some of them spontaneously and some after temporary dose reduction. Some of these cases were reported to 
occur following infection. 
In the three PSUR, 2 cases of granulocytopenia, 2 cases of thrombocytopenia, 1 case of acute pancytopenia, 
and  1  case  of  mild  leukocytosis  on  three  separate  occasions may possibly be causally related to nitisinone 
treatment. The cases are regarded as non-serious adverse events. 
24/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
• 
Not addressed 
Immunological events 
• 
None reported 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
• 
No AE related to drug-drug interaction have apparently been reported. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
• 
In  the  NTBC  Study,  no  patients  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  because  of  adverse  events  considered  to 
have a causal or possible causal relationship to the treatment. In the pivotal study 37 out of 38 patients with 
serious AEs discontinued nitisinone treatment and were withdrawn from the study. However, all these 38 
serious  adverse  events  were  considered  to  be  complications  of  HT-1,  and  to  have  no  causal 
relationship to nitisinone treatment. There were 3 cases of severe thrombocytopenia considered to have a 
possible  causal  relationship  to  treatment,  and  another  8  different  serious  adverse  events  which  were  not 
considered likely to have a causal relationship to treatment. All these 10 patients (one patient had 2 events) 
remained in the study taking nitisinone, the serious adverse event being resolved. 
Post marketing experience 
• 
Nitisinone was authorized in USA in January 2002.  
Also  based  on  this  experience,  a  safety  update  with  respect  to  the  data  contained  in  the  dossier  has  been 
provided. It includes information up to February 28th, 2004. 
A  total  of  566  HT-1  patients  have  been  treated  with nitisinone  for varying periods of time  since February 
1991.  A  total  of  439  of  the  patients  remained  on  nitisinone  treatment  as  of  December  31st,  2003.  The 
outcome for the remaining patients is as follows: death (44); transplantation (70); withdrawal (5) and lost to 
follow-up (6). 
The  mean  exposure  is  1555  days  (or  4.3  years)  with a  range  of  1-4695  days.  This  corresponds  to  a  total 
nitisinone exposure of 2331 patient years. The mean age at start of treatment for the exposed population is 
1.7 years (range 0- 21.7 years, n=554, age at start of treatment missing for 12 patients). Fifty percent of the 
population  started  treatment  below  the  age  of  6 months, 28% started between the age of 6 and 24 months 
with the remaining (22%) starting at an age greater than 24 months. 
Until mid 1993, the recommended dose was 0.6mg/kgbw; since then it is 1mg/kgbw. Due to the individual 
variation  and  the  multiple  parameters  influencing  the  clinical  outcome,  dosing  is  based  on  the  composite 
biochemical response. 
A total of 44 deaths have been reported. In the majority of the cases (29 of 44 cases, 66%), the patient died 
due  to  liver  associated  diseases  such  as  hepatocellular  carcinoma  and  or  hepatic  failure.  However,  in  the 
remaining  cases  the  underlying  liver  disease  was  likely  a  contributing  factor  for  death,  even  if  the  direct 
cause of death was attributed to another cause. The remaining deaths were as follows: in seven cases it was 
not possible to obtain sufficient information to classify the cause of death; two cases were due to infection or 
septicaemia; one case to respiratory insufficiency; one case to encephalopathy; one case to GI haemorrhage; 
one case to malignant lymphoma and one case to porphyria. Time on nitisinone treatment for patients who 
died is available for 33 patients. The mean time on treatment is 9.6 months (range: 1 day to 76.6 months). 
A total of 70 patients underwent a liver transplantation. Seventeen (24.2%) due to hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC),  17  (24.2%)  to  liver  failure  or  cirrhosis,  12  were  due  to  suspected  but  not  verified  HCC,  and  24 
(34.3%) were prophylactic (elective) transplantations due to risk for liver cancer or liver failure. The time on 
nitisinone treatment is available for 68 patients. The mean time on treatment was 24.4 months (median 14.4 
months, range 2 days to 90.7 months, see Table 9.). The mean age at start of treatment was  38.5 months, 
(range 0.65 months to 15.9 years, n=69). 
25/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 24 cases of HCC have been identified in the population of 566 patients. One patient (Patient #52) 
had  been  diagnosed  with  HCC prior to treatment with nitisinone and underwent transplantation two weeks 
after the initiation of therapy. The majority of the patients who have developed HCC had nitisinone treatment 
initiated after the age of 12 months. 
The  mean age at start of treatment was 73.4 months ((6.1 years) range 1 month to 18.0 years). The mean 
time  on  nitisinone  treatment  was  27.7  months  (range  0.5  month  to  114.9  months  (9.6  years)).  The  data 
indicate that the patients developing hepatocellular cancer started treatment at a rather late age in comparison 
to the whole study population. While 69% of patients without cancer started treatment below the age of 12 
months, only 11% of the patients with hepatocellular cancer started treatment before the age of 12 months. 
Patients who initiate treatment after the age of 12 months have a significantly higher risk of developing HCC 
(Fisher  exact  test, p<0.000001). The relative risk for developing HCC is 13.52 (95% CI: 4.07 – 44.89) if 
treatment is initiated after the age of 12 months. Dose and time on nitisinone treatment and dose in patients 
who developed HCC did not differ statistically from the population not developing cancer (data not shown). 
In addition to hepatic failure, malignancies and liver transplants, a total of 29 patients reported other serious 
adverse events: The remaining cases of serious adverse events that occurred in more than one patient were: 
convulsions  (6);  anaemia  (2);  unknown  cause  of  death  (4);  GI  haemorrhage (2); septicaemia  (2); infection 
(2); thrombocytopenia (3) and porphyria (3). 
the  haematological  system  (granulocytopenia, 
Of  the  non  serious  adverse  events,  83  were  visual  disorders  (most  common  were  blepharitis,  corneal 
deposits,  corneal  opacity,  corneal  ulceration,  keratopathy  or  keratitis,  conjunctivitis,  eye  pain  or 
photophobia)  and  17  events  were  of 
leucopenia, 
thrombocytopenia and leucocytosis). 
Symptoms  of  visual  disorders  were  found  to  be  transient  but  were  seen  to  re-occur  in  some  patients. 
However,  it  was  found  that  these  symptoms  resolved with increased adherence to the dietary restriction of 
tyrosine and phenylalanine. It was determined that in patients who had plasma tyrosine concentrations above 
800µmol/L, at one or more occasion, had an increased risk of developing eye symptoms. The haematological 
adverse  events  may  be  related  to  nitisinone  treatment.  However,  no  patient  has  terminated  nitisinone 
treatment as a result of either the visual or haematological adverse events. 
A total of six cases of convulsions have been reported and all were rated as serious. The causes of these were 
as follows: febrile (2); idiopathic (2) hypoglycaemia (1); and not specified (1). The two cases of idiopathic 
convulsions were placed on carbamazepine and phenobarbital respectively and no further seizures have been 
reported. There are too few cases to make any meaningful causality assessment. 
In comparison with the earlier reported adverse events, the major finding during the latest reporting period is 
that  there  is  a  continuing  decrease  in  the  number  of  patients  with  liver  malignancies  or  liver  transplants. 
During  the  latest period, no patients have undergone liver transplantation and  no patient has reported liver 
failure. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Based  on  the  data  provided,  nitisinone  treatment  does  not  appear  to  raise  significant  safety  concerns.  All 
serious  adverse  events  appear  to  be  well  recognised  manifestations  or  outcomes  of  HT-1  such  as  life-
threatening  liver  failure  or  cancer,  respiratory  failure,  porphyria-like  neurological  crisis  and  renal  tubular 
dysfunction (Fanconi syndrome). 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  (AE)  were  visual  disorders,  which  were  regarded  to  be  non-
serious and to disappeared either spontaneously or after improved compliance with the diet. 
Besides  eye  symptoms,  the  adverse  events,  which  may  be  attributed  to  treatment  with  nitisinone  include 
thrombocytopenia and leucopenia and skin symptoms. 
The AEs possibly related to nitisinone treatment are reported in the SPC, 4.8. Furthermore, in section 4.4 of 
the  SPC,  warnings  are  given  addressing  the  risk  of  visual  disorders,  liver  function  monitoring  and 
platelets/white blood cell monitoring. 
Convulsions  might  represent  a  new  signal  which  has  not  been  reported  during  the  safety evaluation of the 
pivotal  evaluation  period.  This  would  have  to  be  monitored  in  the  future,  in  association  with  data  on 
neurological development. 
Furthermore, due to the limited number of patients with sufficient follow-up, the long-term safety profile of 
nitisinone is not well-known, especially the risk of chronic renal or liver disease in patients with the chronic 
26/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
form  of  the  disease.  A  post-marketing  surveillance  programme  is  aimed  at  providing  such additional data. 
(see letter of undertaking). 
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The available pharmacodynamic data and the increase in Tyr plasma levels clearly demonstrate the effect of 
nitisinone on Tyr catabolism, which is provided by the inhibition of the HPPD enzyme.  
Only limited pharmacokinetic data are available in animals. The cytochrome P450 system is involved in the 
metabolism of nitisinone and findings in mice are consistent with liver enzyme induction. 
No  clinically  significant  effect  is  expected  with  regard  to  inhibition  of  metabolism  of  xenobiotics  or 
endogenous compounds other than tyrosine. In addition no effect is expected on the tyrosine kinase complex. 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  main  target organ  was  the  eye,  with  corneal  lesions  resulting  probably 
from  the  accumulation  of  tyrosine.  However,  as  not  all  tissues  from  the  12-  and  the  six-month  studies  in 
rodents  have  been  examined  histologically,  further  investigations  on  the  availability  of  these  additional 
samples for histology have been required as a specific obligation. 
The overall genotoxicity data suggest that there is no evidence of in vivo genotoxicity. 
The results of the available long-term studies do not suggest a tumorigenic potential. However, as no proper 
tests for carcinogenic potential have been performed, no definitive conclusion can be made. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have shown malformations in mice and rabbit and this is 
reflected in the SPC. Nitisinone should not be used during pregnancy. Mothers receiving nitisinone should 
not breast-feed since a transfer of nitisinone in the maternal milk is possible (see SPC sections 4.3 and 5.3). 
Efficacy 
Nitisinone treatment in the doses  used in the NTBC Study almost completely prevents the formation of the 
toxic metabolites. The risk for death, or the need for liver transplantation due to liver failure, appear to be 
small in patients in whom nitisinone treatment is started before six months of age. The risk of hepatocellular 
carcinoma is also  reduced if nitisinone treatment is started early, before the age of 12 months. The risk for 
life-threatening porphyria-like crises is almost eliminated. 
Some areas have not been investigated in great detail in the NTBC Study such as improvement of patients 
with  renal  tubular  dysfunction,  relation  between  thrombocytopenia  and  liver  disease  and  their  possible 
recovery  under  nitisinone  treatment,  the  assessment  of  the  improved  quality  of  life.  Since  the international 
survey by van Spronsen et al. used as a control in the evaluation of the NTBC Study mainly covers an earlier 
time  period  and  was  designed  differently,  statistical  comparisons  are  not  valid.  However,  the  difference 
between the outcome in the survey, in which the patients had been treated with diet only, and the outcome in 
the NTBC Study, in which the patients had been treated with nitisinone and diet, is suggestive: the efficacy 
of the nitisinone is also confirmed by the Quebec NTBC Study group, which reported a remarkable change 
in treatment outcome after nitisinone treatment was introduced. 
Overall,  nitisinone seems to be an effective treatment for HT-1, particularly if started early before there is 
irreversible liver damage. 
Safety 
27/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  data  provided,  nitisinone  treatment  does  not  appear  to  raise  significant  safety  concerns.  All 
serious adverse events appear to be well recognised manifestations or outcomes of HT-1. 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  (AE)  were  visual  disorders,  which  were  regarded  to  be  non-
serious and to disappeared either spontaneously or after improved compliance with the diet. 
Besides  eye  symptoms,  the  adverse  events,  which  may  be  attributed  to  treatment  with  nitisinone  include 
thrombocytopenia and leucopenia and skin symptoms. 
The AEs possibly related to nitisinone treatment are reported in the SPC, 4.8. Furthermore, in section 4.4 of 
the  SPC,  warnings  are  given  addressing  the  risk  of  visual  disorders,  liver  function  monitoring  and 
platelets/white blood cell monitoring. 
However,  due  to  the  limited  number  of  patients  with  sufficient  follow-up,  the  long-term  safety  profile  of 
nitisinone is not well-known, especially the risk of chronic renal or liver disease in patients with the chronic 
form of the disease. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  submitted  non-clinical  data  are  in  general  of  poor  quality  compared  with  the  current  standard  (not 
always compliant with GLP). However, taken together, the non-clinical data seem to be sufficient to make a 
risk assessment. Therefore, in view of the severity of the disease, its rare occurrence, the lack of therapeutic 
alternatives and the obvious clinical efficacy, the deficiencies of the non-clinical part of the dossier are still 
considered acceptable for recommending a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. Further 
investigations  on  the  availability  of additional samples for histology in long-term rodent toxicology studies 
have been required. A letter of undertaking was provided by the applicant to resolve this issue as a specific 
obligation. 
The benefit-risk profile of nitisinone in the treatment of HT-1 seems to be favourable. Nitisinone appears to 
provide a better outcome for patients than that reported in literature with diet alone. This is reflected by both 
biochemical marker normalisation and clinical improvement: the risk for death, liver transplantation due to 
liver  failure  or  porphyria  crises  seems  to  be  reduced,  particularly  in  patients  starting  nitisinone  before  six 
months  of  age.  There  are  no apparent  major safety concerns: as addressed in the  Special warnings section 
(4.4) of the SPC, the risk of leukopenia and thrombocytopenia must be carefully monitored and the risk of 
visual disorders due to the formation of tyrosine crystals must be avoided through strict compliance to a diet 
deficient  in  phenylalanine  and  tyrosine  and  the  monitoring  of  plasma  tyrosine  levels.  Convulsions  might 
represent  a  new  signal  which  has  not  been  reported  during  the  safety  evaluation  of  the  pivotal  evaluation 
period. This would have to be monitored in the future, in association with data on neurological development. 
The  risk  of  HCC  indeed  appears  to  be  lower  if  treatment  is  initiated  as  early  as  possible.  However  these 
promising  findings  have  some  limitations,  as  they  come  from  one  single  uncontrolled  study  conducted  in 
several centres (87 in 25 countries).  
Clinical  specific  obligations  that  should  be  covered  on  an  ongoing  basis  by  a  post-marketing  surveillance 
programme for the use of nitisinone in the treatment of Hypertyrosinaemia type 1, include monitoring liver, 
renal.  haematological,  neurological  and  ophthalamic  status.  In  a  letter  of  undertaking,  the  applicant 
committed to perform these analyses as specific obligations and provide the details of these commitments in 
due time. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus that 
the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Orfadin  in  the  treatment  of  “Treatment  of  patients  with  confirmed  diagnosis  of 
hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine” 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances,  since  the  indication  for  which  the  product  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the 
Applicant  cannot  be  reasonably  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  evidence  (Directive  2001/83/EC  as 
amended). In addition the medicinal product would be under restricted medicinal prescription (see section 4.2 
of the SPC). In a letter of undertaking the applicant committed to perform a number of specific obligations 
and follow-up measures with a time schedule for fulfilment. 
28/28 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
