20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/245389/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): nitisinone 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002169/201802 
Period covered by the PSUR: 21 February 2017 to 20 February 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for nitisinone, the scientific conclusions of 
CHMP are as follows:  
In an ongoing phase III clinical study (SONIA 2) to assess the effectiveness and safety of nitisinone in 
patients with alkaptonuria, ten of 69 nitisinone-treated patients have presented with signs of 
tyrosine-related ocular adverse events. In addition, two literature articles referred to patients using 
nitisinone at low doses for the treatment of alkaptonuria. These articles focused on the observation that 
keratopathy may be asymptomatic. The introduction of a low protein diet with low dose nitisinone was 
successful in controlling plasma tyrosine levels (below 600 μmol/L) and in controlling visual symptoms. The 
evidence was collected in the context of off-label use of nitisinone, i.e. alkaptonuria, which is characterised 
by high plasma tyrosine levels. Nevertheless, since tyrosine-related ocular adverse events are a known and 
listed feature in patients with HT-1 treated with nitisinone, the risks related to a delayed diagnosis of 
asymptomatic eye disorders may also apply in the approved indication. Therefore, the PRAC concluded that 
the current recommendation for specific examination before treatment should be modified to include regular 
examinations of the eyes also during treatment. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for nitisinone the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing nitisinone is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/245389/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
