SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Orgalutran.  This 
scientific discussion has been updated until 1 May 2002. For information on changes after this 
date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction  
Ganirelix  is  the  active  substance  for  the  medicinal  product  Orgalutran.  Ganirelix  is  a  synthetic 
decapeptide  that  possesses  competitive  antagonistic  activity  to  gonadotropin-releasing  hormone 
(GnRH, gonadorelin, LHRH) and reversibly inhibits the secretion of pituitary gonadotropins, thereby 
preventing a surge in luteinising (LH) hormone, which would negatively affect the fertilisation rate by 
premature ovulation.  
Current  practice  in  controlled  ovarian  hyperstimulation  (COH)  combines  stimulation  by  exogenous 
gonadotropins with the suppression of endogenous gonadotropins by GnRH agonists. Use of agonists 
gives  rise  to  an  initial  flare-up  of  endogenous  gonadotropin  secretion  and  therefore  requires  a  2-3-
week pre-treatment to achieve complete suppression. 
Orgalutran  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  premature  luteinising  hormone  (LH)  surges  in  women 
undergoing  COH  for  assisted  reproduction  techniques  (ART).  In  clinical  trials  Orgalutran  was  used 
with recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). 
Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with FSH may start at day 2 or 3 of menses. Orgalutran (0.25 mg) 
should  be  injected  subcutaneously  once  daily,  starting  preferably  on  day  6  FSH  administration.  The 
start  of  Orgalutran  may  be  delayed  in  absence  of  follicular  growth,  although  clinical  experience  is 
based on starting Orgalutran on day 6. Daily treatment with Orgalutran should be continued up to the 
day that sufficient follicles of adequate size are present. Because of the half-life of ganirelix, the time 
between  two  Orgalutran  injections  and  between  the  last  Orgalutran  injection  and  the  hCG  injection 
should not exceed 30 hrs, as otherwise a premature LH surge may occur. 
Orgalutran  is  formulated  as  sterile,  ready  for  use  solution  for  subcutaneous  injection,  as  a  prefilled 
syringe containing 0.25 mg ganirelix (as free base) per 0.5 ml.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition  
Composition: Orgalutran is presented as sterile, ready for use solution for subcutaneous injection in a 
prefilled syringe containing 0.25  mg ganirelix (as free base) per 0.5  ml. The excipients included are 
mannitol, acetic acid, sodium hydroxide and/or acetic acid  (pH adjustment) and water for injections.  
Containers:  Ready-for-use,  1  ml  disposable  syringe  of  colourless  borosilicate  glass  (hydrolytic  glass 
type  I).  The  syringe  is  provided  with  a  stainless  steel  needle  and  a  natural  rubber  needle  shield  and 
closed  by  a  siliconised,  grey  rubber  piston.  The  disposable  pre-filled  glass  syringe  is  for  single  use 
only.   
Active substance 
Ganirelix  is  a  synthetic  decapeptide.    The  proposed  specifications  for  the  active  substance  are 
acceptable, but will be re-evaluated, when more experience is gained.  
Batch analysis data are provided for nine lots. These are in accordance with proposed specifications.  
Based  on  the  stability  results  obtained,  it  is  recommended  to  store  the  ganirelix  drug  substance  at  a 
temperature of 2-8°C in closed amber class bottles with a re-test date of 2 years. Furthermore, during 
transport and for short-term storage during production, the drug substance can be stored at 25°C for 1 
month. In addition the drug substance should be protected from high relatively humidity, using closed 
1/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bottles, to prevent moisture uptake. Long-term exposure of the unprotected drug substance to day light 
should be avoided. 
Other ingredients 
All ingredients are of Ph. Eur and USP/NF quality where relevant.  
Product development and finished product 
Clinical trial formula 
A total  of  10 batches  have been used in the clinical program  and ganirelix concentration was  in the 
range of 0.125 mg/ml to 4.0 mg/ml. Otherwise the composition of batches is essentially the same as 
that for the marketed product.  In contrast to the marketed product, all clinical batches were filled in 2-
ml vials (0.5 ml extractable volume per vial).  
Development pharmaceutics 
A range of ganirelix formulations from 0.125 to 10 mg/ml was tested under stress conditions (oxygen, 
nitrogen, air, sterilisation and variable pH) and the optimal characteristics of the formulation and the 
manufacturing  process  were  defined.  The  formulations,  0.125  and  4.0  mg/ml  were  also  tested  in  a 
compatibility study with packaging materials.  
Manufacturing process and process validation  
The  manufacturing  process  is  adequately  described  and  all  the  steps  of  the  process  validation  are 
regarded as standard operation procedures. The process was validated with respect to homogeneity of 
the bulk solution, filtration, filling and terminal sterilisation.  
Specifications of the medicinal product 
The  controls  on  the  finished  product  are  comprehensive  and  include  pharmaceutical  tests  (colour, 
clarity,  pH,  relative  osmotic  pressure,  extractable  volume,  sterility  and  particles)  and  are  performed 
using  standard  compendial  methods.  A  reversed  phase  HPLC  is  used  for  identification  and  assay  of 
ganirelix  and  determination  of  degradation  products.  HPTLC  identification  of  ganirelix  is  used  at 
release. The LAL test was used for the determination of bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur).  The proposed 
specifications for the finished product are acceptable, but will be re-evaluated, when more experience 
is gained.  
Batch analysis results 
Analysis data of six batches of Orgalutran 0.5 mg/ml solution for injection are provided. The results 
show that the proposed specifications are fulfilled. 
Stability of the medicinal product 
Stability data on three batches  of 18-month storage at 5°C, 25°C/60% RH, 30°C/60% RH and of 6-
month storage at 40°C/75% RH are provided. The finished product is sensitive to light; therefore the 
product should be protected from light during storage. 
Shelf  life:  Based  on  the  stability  data,  a  shelf  life  of  18  months  is  acceptable  when  the  product  is 
stored  in  the  original  package  in  order  to  protect  from  light.  The  product  cannot  be  frozen.  New 
stability data were submitted to extend the shelf life from 18 months to 2 years on 28 June 2001. The 
section 6.3 of the SPC was updated accordingly (positive CPMP opinion on 16 July 2001). 
Discussion on Chemical and pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Remaining points are indicated to be addressed post-approval. 
2/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects  
Pharmacodynamics  
Synthetic analogues of GnRH with a deletion or substitution of the histidine in position 2 have been 
shown  to  be  competitive  antagonists  of  the  native  hormone.  Ganirelix  has  a  9-fold  higher  receptor 
binding affinity (Kd = 0.4 nM) as compared to GnRH (Kd = 3.6 nM). No clinically relevant receptor 
binding  was  found  among  62  general  receptor  binding  assays.  It  has  also  been  demonstrated  that 
ganirelix  inhibits  GnRH-induced  LH  and  FSH  release  from  rat  pituitary  cells  in  a  concentration-
dependent manner. 
The  anti-gonadotropic  potency  of  ganirelix  was  investigated  in  female  and  male  animals.  Ganirelix 
treatment of female rats resulted in a dose-related inhibition of ovulation with an ED50 of  0.3 µg/rat 
(1.4 µg/kg) when administered at noon on pro-oestrus. Ganirelix treatment at 2.5 µg/kg/day resulted in 
an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  vaginal  oestrus.  Treatment  with  2.5  or  10  µg/kg/day  did  not  affect 
mating  but  fertility  was  slightly  reduced.  During  treatment  with  much  higher  dosages  (0.7  and  5.0 
mg/kg/day) a reversible complete blocking of the oestrus cycle and mating occurred. After cessation 
of treatment circulating level dropped below 1 ng/ml and fertility returned to normal. 
Ganirelix reduced testosterone secretion in male rats, dogs and monkeys. There was a good correlation 
between  plasma  concentrations  of ganirelix  and suppression of plasma  testosterone levels.  Ganirelix 
induces reversible suppression of the release of endogenous gonadotropins without initial stimulation 
inherent to GnRH agonists. 
General Pharmacology programme 
The  general  pharmacology  profile  of  ganirelix  has  been  investigated  in  a  number  of  standard 
experimental procedures and in addition in studies aiming to elucidate histamine-releasing properties 
of ganirelix using rat peritoneal cell assay.  
Central nervous system 
In general gross behaviour studies in mice a small dose-related increase in CNS stimulation (abnormal 
separation of mice) was found. Ganirelix did not modify maximal electroshock-induced tonic seizures 
or pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures in mice. Furthermore ganirelix did not have any effect on the 
ability  of  mice  to  remain  on  the  wire  (neurological  deficit  test).  In  contrast,  there  was  a  significant 
increase  in  duration  of  the  loss  of  righting  reflex  induced  by  hexobarbital  at  0.1  mg/kg  s.c.  of 
ganirelix. In addition, ganirelix had a slight hyperthermic effect (at 0.1  mg/kg, s.c., but not with the 
higher dose). Hence the latter two effects may have been a chance finding since neither were observed 
at the higher dose. 
Cardiovascular system 
All  investigated  GnRH  antagonists  including  ganirelix  induced  marked  blood  pressure  reduction  in 
rats  following  intravenous  administration.  However,  there  is  a  600-fold  safety  margin  to  the 
antiovulatory effect (antiovulatory action: ED50 1.4 µg/kg s.c.; hypotensive activity: ED50 900  µg/kg 
i.v.). Ganirelix does not change blood pressure or heart rate at doses up to 1 mg/kg s.c. or 0.1 mg/kg 
iv.  in  rats.  Ganirelix  did  not  change  arterial  blood  pressure,  heart  rate  or  behaviour  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys at doses up to 1 mg/kg given s.c.  
Respiratory system 
Ganirelix did not change (up to 1 mg/kg s.c.) any respiration related parameters in dogs.  
Renal effects 
Ganirelix did not have any significant diuretic, natriuretic or kaliuretic effects at doses up to 1 mg/kg 
sc.  
Gastrointestinal effects 
Ganirelix at s.c. doses of 0.001 and 0.01-0.1 mg/kg was reported to increase the secretion of gastric 
acid by about 50% in pylorus-ligated male rats. However, the increase in gastric acid secretion was not 
dose-related and is therefore unlikely to be directly associated with administration of ganirelix.  
3/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of ganirelix on histamine release in vitro:  
Histamine releasing properties of ganirelix and detirelix (another GnRH antagonist) were investigated 
in  rat  peritoneal  cells.  The  EC50  was  17.8  µg/ml  for  ganirelix  and  0.2  µg/ml  for  detirelix.  This  low 
histamine releasing potency of ganirelix is in line with its mild hypotensive effect. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  ganirelix  was  tested  in  a  number  of  species  using  single  dose  administration 
mainly of 3H-labeled ganirelix. At 1 mg/kg i.v. plasma t½ was about 1.4 h in rats and 5 h in monkeys. 
After s.c. administration, the elimination mainly depends on liberation of ganirelix from the injection 
depot,  at  least  at  larger  doses  used  in  experimental  animals.  Ganirelix  is  rapidly  distributed  to  all 
tissues, with the highest amounts of radioactivity found in the liver and the small intestine. Very low 
levels were present in the bone, brain, eye, fat, muscle, pituitary and thyroid. Protein binding in vitro 
was 82-84 % in human, monkey and rat plasma. Excretion of ganirelix was mainly biliary, since 58-84 
% of the dosed radioactivity was found in faeces and only 13-26 % in urine (rats and monkeys). Three 
truncated  metabolites  were  identified  in  bile.  Binding  of  these  metabolites  to  the  human  GnRH 
receptor  was  about  100  fold  lower  in  comparison  to  the  parent  compound  ganirelix.  The 
pharmacokinetics of ganirelix after single and repeated doses has been sufficiently investigated. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  monkeys.  Ganirelix  administered  s.c.  up  to 
40 mg/kg induced no mortality in both species. Predominant effects were atrophy/ weight reduction of 
the reproductive organs and skin irritation at the injection site. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated dose toxicity studies were conducted in mice, rats, cynomolgus monkeys and rabbits. Data 
have  been  provided  to  demonstrate  that  the  ganirelix  exposure  of  different  animal  species  used  in 
toxicology studies was sufficient as compared to man. 
In  general,  ganirelix  was  well  tolerated.  Effects  on  reproductive  organs  were  seen  in  many  studies, 
which  is  in  agreement  with  the  known  pharmacological  action  of  ganirelix.  In  mice,  subchronic 
ganirelix  caused  ovarian  interstitial  cell  hyperplasia  in  all  investigated  doses  (1,3  and  10  mg/kg/day 
s.c. for three months). Toxic effects were also in spleen and liver, like hemosiderosis and hepatocytic 
midzonal hypertrophy. In rats, decreased erythrocyte counts were observed, as well increased levels of 
AST and ALT at the highest ganirelix dose (10 mg/kg/day s.c.). In many cases some degree of local 
irritation and inflammation at the injection site were observed.  
Reproduction studies 
In  female  rats,  fertility  was  impaired  at  a  subcutaneous  dose  beyond  0.5  µg/kg/day.    In  a  13-week 
repeated dose toxicity study, male rats proved infertile at doses of 0.1 µg/kg/day and higher. Ganirelix 
administered  during  pregnancy/organogenesis  resulted  in  a  significant  increase  of  the  number  of 
resorptions  in  rats  receiving  10  µg/kg/day  and  rabbits  receiving  30  or  50  µg/kg/day.  Teratogenic 
effects were not observed in foetuses from ganirelix treated dams.  
Mutagenic potential 
Ganirelix was not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium or in Escherichia coli. Furthermore, ganirelix 
did not induce chromosome aberrations or mutations in mammalian cells with or without S9-mix and 
was  also  negative  in  the  in  vivo  bone  marrow  micronucleus  test  was  performed  in  male  and  female 
mice. All mutagenicity and genotoxicity studies conform to Good Laboratory Practice. 
Carcinogenicity potential 
No formal carcinogenicity studies have been conducted based on the short duration of the treatment, 
ie.  from  5  to  maximally  14  days,  which  is  acceptable.  Although  women  may  undergo  multiple 
treatment cycles, the treatment is never aimed to be continuous 
4/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local tolerance 
Ganirelix has no sensitising potential in the guinea pig assay performed. 
Special toxicity studies 
Ganirelix is compatible with human blood. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects  
Ganirelix is a GnRH antagonist with high receptor binding affinity (Kd = 0.4 nM). Ganirelix treatment 
of  female  rats  resulted  in  a  dose-related  inhibition  of  ovulation  with  an  ED50  of  1.4  µg/kg  when 
administered at noon on pro-oestrus. Ganirelix treatment at 2.5 µg/kg/day resulted in an increase in the 
incidence of vaginal oestrus. Treatment with 2.5 or 10 µg/kg/day did not affect mating but fertility was 
slightly  reduced.  During  treatment  with  much  higher  dosages  (0.7  and  5.0  mg/kg/day)  a  reversible 
complete  blocking  of  the  oestrus  cycle  and  mating  occurred.  After  cessation  of  treatment  fertility 
returns  to  normal.  Ganirelix  has  mild  histamine  releasing  potential.  Generalised  hypersensitivity 
reactions after s.c. Administration has not been observed. Administration of ganirelix up to 1 mg/kg 
s.c. to animals evoked no effects on the central nervous, respiratory, cardiovascular and renal systems. 
Ganirelix did not induce any unexpected toxic effects. Ganirelix exposure of different animal species 
used  in  toxicology  studies  was  sufficient  as  compared  to  man.  The  predominant  effects  observed  in 
mice, rats and monkeys relate to the pharmacodynamic action of the drug.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Ganirelix is a competitive antagonist to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH, gonadorelin, LHRH) 
and it reversibly inhibits the secretion of pituitary gonadotropins. 
The  approved  indication  for  Orgalutran  is:  the  prevention  of  premature  luteinising  hormone  (LH) 
surges  in  women  undergoing  controlled  ovarian  hyperstimulation  (COH)  for  assisted  reproduction 
techniques (ART).  
In clinical trials Orgalutran was used with recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (FSH).  
Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with FSH may start at day 2 or 3 of menses. Orgalutran (0.25 mg) 
should  be  injected  subcutaneously  once  daily,  starting  on  day  6  FSH  administration.  The  start  of 
Orgalutran may be delayed in the absence of follicular growth, although clinical experience is based 
on  starting Orgalutran on  day 6. Daily treatment with Orgalutran  should be continued up to the day 
that  sufficient  follicles  of  adequate  size  are  present.  Because  of  the  half-life  of  ganirelix,  the  time 
between  two  Orgalutran  injections  and  between  the  last  Orgalutran  injection  and  the  hCG  injection 
should not exceed 30 hrs, as otherwise a premature LH surge may occur. 
The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  ganirelix  were  investigated  in  altogether 
five phase I/II trials. Documentation of efficacy was based on the results of three pivotal, multicenter, 
randomised, controlled studies (38607, 38616 and 103-001) and a phase II dose finding study (38602).  
In  addition,  pregnancy  and  delivery  follow-up  was  presented  for  the  subjects  who  got  pregnant  in 
these trials.  
Clinical pharmacology  
The pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of ganirelix were investigated in both healthy 
volunteers  and  women  receiving  IVF  in  five  phase  I/II  trials.  The  studies  were  conducted  in 
compliance with GCP. 
Overview  of  trials  presenting  pharmacokinetic  and/or  pharmacodynamic  data  is  given  in  the  table 
below: 
5/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol  Trial description 
Single dose trials 
38604 
38613 
trial 
Single-centre,  open-label,  randomised, 
to  assess 
two-way  cross-over 
absolute bioavailability 
Single-centre,  open-label  trial  to  assess 
the  excretion  balance  and  metabolite 
Profile 
Multi-dose trials 
38605 
38612 
38602 
Single-centre,  open-label,  randomised, 
parallel-design 
to  assess  dose-
trial 
proportionality and pharmacokinetics 
Single-centre,  open-label,  randomised, 
two-way  cross-over  trial  to  assess  local 
tolerance and bioavailability ** 
Multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind 
dose-finding 
the 
optimal  dose  of  Org  37462  in  IVF 
subjects 
to  determine 
trial 
No. 
subjects* 
of 
Dose (mg) 
Route 
19 
3 
15 
15 
15 
16 
31 
66 
70 
69 
66 
30 
IV 
SC 
IV 
SC 
SC 
SC 
0.25 
1 
0.125 
0.25 
0.5 
2.0 
0.0625 
0.125 
0.25 
0.5 
1.0 
2.0 
* All subjects treated with Org 37462 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  prevention  of  premature  LH  surges  is  achieved  through  competitive  binding  of  ganirelix  to  the 
GnRH  receptors  in  the  pituitary  gland.  As  a  result  of  this  binding  suppression  of  (1)  Luteinising 
Hormone  (LH),  (2)  Follicle  Stimulating  Hormone  (FSH)  occurs.  The  ganirelix  suppression  of  the 
release of LH and FSH may affect also (3) Estradiol (E2) levels. 
In young female volunteers, after administration of 0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg, a sustained and consistent 
suppression  of  LH  was  only  observed  at  0.5  mg/day  of  ganirelix  at  24  hours  after  the  preceding 
injection.  However,  a  dose-dependent,  but  variable  suppression  was  observed  at  4-6  hours  after  the 
last  of  seven  injections.  The  pre-dose  serum  LH  levels  increased  during  the  study  and  a  further 
increase (mild rebound) was observed after the last injection. Similar patterns were observed for FSH 
and  E2.  The  median  time  to  return  of  menses  was  30  days  (min  12,  max  38  days),  after  the  last 
injection. 
A  much  higher  than  recommended  dose  (2  mg/day  for  14  days)  of  ganirelix  provided  a  profound 
suppression  of  serum  LH,  FSH  and  E2  in  healthy  women.  Progesterone  concentrations  were  only 
slightly affected. 
In the phase I-II studies in healthy women and subjects scheduled for IVF, the effect of ganirelix on 
serum  LH  and  FSH  appears  to  fade  within  a  few  days  after  initial  clear  suppression.  The  same 
phenomenon  is  observed  in  men  in  whom  cyclic  changes  in  gonadotropins  are  not  a  complicating 
factor.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The mean absolute bioavailability of ganirelix following a single s.c. dose (0.25 mg) was 91% (Study 
38604).  The  volume  of  distribution  approximates  to  total  body  water.  After  s.c.  injection,  tmax  was 
0.75-1.5  h.  Serum  concentrations  in  all  subjects  were  above  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (0.02 
ng/ml) until at least 24 hours from the s.c. injection. 
Following multiple doses of ganirelix (0.125,  0.25 or 0.5  mg s.c.) given  once daily steady state was 
observed between days 2 and 3 (Study 38605). No statistically significant dose-effect was found for 
6/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  dose-normalised  parameters  Cmax  and  Css,  min,  indicating  dose  proportionality.  No  statistically 
significant difference between the dose groups was found for the parameters tmax, tss, DF and weight-
normalised  Clapp.  The  dose  normalised  AUC0-24  of  the  0.25  mg  dose  group  was  statistically 
significantly  higher  compared  to  the  0.125  mg  and  0.5  mg  dose  groups.  The  differences,  however, 
were  not  remarkable  and  are  probably  without  clinical  significance.  A  statistically  significant 
difference  was  found  between  t½  in  the  lowest  dose  group  and  the  other  two  dose  groups.  At  the 
proposed dose of 0.25 mg/day, t½ was approximately 16 hours.  
Pharmacokinetic  analysis  indicates  an 
inverse  relationship  between  bodyweight  and  serum 
concentrations  of  ganirelix.  There  was  a  tendency  towards  an  increased  incidence  of  LH  and 
progesterone  rises  in  women with  a higher  body weight (>80 kg), but  no effect on clinical  outcome 
was  observed.  The  applicant  addressed  this  issue  at  the  oral  explanation  to  the  CPMP  and  these 
findings are addressed in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The excretion balance and metabolite profile was studied following a single intravenous injection of 
[14C]-labeled ganirelix in healthy female volunteers of reproductive age (Study 38613). Approximately 
90% of the dose was excreted in urine and faeces within 192 hours. Over the entire collection period 
(up to 768 h), 22.1% of the dose was recovered in urine and 75.1% in faeces. Urinary excretion was 
completed  within  24  h  after  drug  administration,  whereas  faecal  excretion  was  almost  completed 
within 192 hours. An apparent elimination half-life of 10.4 h was found for plasma [14C]-radioactivity. 
Unchanged ganirelix was the major radioactive compound present in plasma up to 4 h postdose (50-
70%). Additional compounds included the 1-7 peptide (10-15% of radioactivity). Unchanged ganirelix 
was also the main compound in urine but was not observed in faeces. The 1-4 and 1-6 peptides were 
not observed in human plasma, but only in urine and faeces. 
Interaction studies 
No specific pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction studies were performed.  
Since ganirelix is degraded by hydrolysis, the potential for pharmacokinetic interactions is deemed to 
be  low.  The  lack  of  interaction  studies  and  that  the  possibility  of  interactions  with  commonly  used 
medicinal  product  including  histamine  liberating  products  can  not  be  excluded  are  indicated  in  the 
SPC  (see  Section  4.5  of  the  SPC  Interaction  with  other  medicinal  product  and  other  forms  of 
interaction).  
Special groups 
Pharmacokinetics  in  special  subgroups  like  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment,  elderly  and 
children were not investigated. In view of the proposed indication, this is acceptable. However, the use 
of  Orgalutran  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  liver  or  renal  impairment  is  contraindicated  (see 
section 4.3 of the SPC Contraindications). 
Pregnancy and lactation 
No clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available. It is not known whether ganirelix is excreted in 
breast milk. The use of Orgalutran is contraindicated during pregnancy and lactation (see Section 4.3 
of the SPC Contraindications and section 4.6 of the SPC Pregnancy and Lactation). 
Clinical efficacy 
The efficacy claim is based on the results of three pivotal, multicentre, randomised, controlled studies 
(38607,  38616,  103-001)  and  a  phase  II  dose  finding  study  (38602).    In  addition,  pregnancy  and 
delivery follow-up was presented. The total number of subjects who received ganirelix in the phase II 
and III studies (excluding the follow-up studies) is 1386. The different study design characteristics are 
described below. 
7/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of study 
Dose finding 
Phase II 
Studies 
No 
38602 
Design 
MC, DB, R, MD 
Healthy 
infertile couples 
females  of 
Therapeutic 
confirmatory 
Phase III 
38607 
MC,O,R, MD, P, using 
  as  a 
buserelin  (B) 
treatment 
reference 
healthy 
including 
females  of 
infertile 
couples 
N* 
31 
66 
70 
69 
66 
30 
463 
238 
38616  MC,  O, R,  MD,  Using 
(T)  as  a 
triptorelin 
treatment 
reference 
healthy 
including 
infertile 
females  of 
couples 
226 
111 
103-001  MC,  O, R,  MD,  Using 
leuprolide  (L)  as  a 
treatment 
reference 
healthy 
including 
females  of 
infertile 
couples 
198 
99 
Dose  
0.0625 mg 
0.125 mg 
0.25 mg 
0.50 mg 
1 mg 
2 mg 
0.25mg (G) 
0.6mg (B) 
G: 0.25 mg 
T:0.1 mg  
G:0.25 mg  
L: 1.0 mg 
Route / 
Duration 
s.c.  ,  starting  at 
day  6  of  ovarian 
stimulation,  once 
a 
daily 
maximal  duration 
of 14 days. 
for 
for 
G:s.c.,  starting  at 
day  6  of  ovarian 
stimulation  once 
daily 
a 
maximal  duration 
of 14 days. 
intranasally 
B: 
four  times  daily 
to  4 
starting  2 
weeks  prior 
to 
ovarian 
stimulation. 
G: s.c, once a day, 
starting  on  day  6 
of 
ovarian 
stimulation  for  a 
maximal  duration 
of 14 days 
T:  s.c  once  daily 
to  4 
starting  2 
weeks  prior 
to 
ovarian 
stimulation. 
G: s.c, once daily, 
starting  on  day  6 
of 
ovarian 
stimulation  for  a 
maximal  duration 
of 14 days 
L:  s.c,  once  daily 
to  4 
starting  2 
to 
weeks  prior 
ovarian 
stimulation. 
* All-Subjects-Treated group 
As  described  below  the  primary  efficacy  variable  in  the  phase  III  study  was  the  mean  number  of 
oocytes and the ongoing pregnancy rate. In the analysis of phase II study, per protocol amendment, a 
distinction between primary and secondary efficacy variables was not made. 
The  need  for  luteal  phase  support  in  cycles  using  Orgalutran  has  not  been  studied.  In  clinical  trials, 
luteal  phase  support  was  given  according  to  study  centres’  practice.  Major  exclusion  criteria  in  the 
trials  included  endocrine  abnormality,  abnormal  cervical  smear,  current  type  I  hypersensitivity, 
epilepsy,  diabetes,  cardiovascular,  gastrointestinal,  renal  or  pulmonary  disease,  most  of  which  were 
usual exclusion criteria for ART. 
The clinical efficacy and safety studies were conducted according to GCP. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
Protocol 38602 is a phase II, multi-center, double-blind, randomised, dose-finding study to select the 
minimal effective dose of ganirelix to prevent premature LH surges. The study was conducted in 13 
study centres, in nine countries.   
8/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once daily, one of six doses of GnRH antagonist ganirelix (0.0625 mg, 0.125 mg, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1 
mg,  2  mg)  was  administered  subcutaneously  (sc)  in  women  undergoing  COH  for  IVF.  For  COH, 
recFSH treatment with fixed dose (150 IU) was to start on day 2 of the menstrual cycle by one daily sc 
injection, preferentially in the upper leg or arm. On day 6 of FSH treatment, ganirelix treatment was 
started by daily sc injections, at the same time the dose of recombinant FSH (recFSH) was adjusted 
depending  on  the  ovarian  response  as  assessed  by  daily  ultrasound.  Urinary  hCG  was  injected  for 
ovulation  induction  when  there  were  at  least  3  follicles  >  17  mm  observed.  Oocyte  pick-up  was 
performed  30  to  36  hours  thereafter,  followed  by  in  vitro  fertilisation/  intra  cytoplasmic  sperm 
injection (IVF/ICSI). Luteal support was given as intravaginal/intramuscular progesterone or HCG.  
Results 
In  total,  342  women  were  randomised  of  whom  332  received  ganirelix.  58.4%  of  the  women  had 
primary infertility. The number of subjects treated with 0.0625 mg and 2 mg of ganirelix was lower 
than the other treatment groups, as randomisation to these groups was stopped prematurely, following 
the  advice  of  the  External  Independent  Advisory  Committee.  The  lowest  dose  group  was  stopped 
because  of  a  too  high  incidence  of  LH  rises  and  the  highest  dose  group  because  of  poor  clinical 
outcome (ovarian response). 
The serum LH and rises of estradiol (E2) decreased with increasing ganirelix doses. Serum FSH levels 
were similar between dose groups.  
The total amount of recFSH administered was not different between the dose groups, and the median 
daily recFSH dose ranged between 150 IU and 183 IU. The total duration of ovarian stimulation with 
recFSH was 10 days. On the day of HCG, the number of follicles > 11 mm were similar in all the six 
dose groups, whereas serum E2 levels were highest in the lowest ganirelix group, i.e. 1475 pg/ml and 
lowest in the highest ganirelix group, i.e. 430 pg/ml. The mean number of oocytes and embryos was 
similar  in  all  groups.  The  implantation  rate  and  pregnancy  rate  per  attempt  was  lowest  in  the  2  mg 
group  (1.5  %  and  3.8%  respectively)  and  highest  in  the  0.25  mg  group  (21.9%  and  36.8  % 
respectively). 
A  daily  dose  of  0.25  mg  of  ganirelix  prevented  premature  LH  rises  in  98.6%  (68/69)  women 
undergoing  COH  (one  patient  is  not  included  due  to  lack  of  compliance).    The  dose-finding  study 
shows  that  daily  dose  of  0.25  mg  should  be  optimal  based  on  preventing  premature  LH  surges  and 
clinical outcome (number of oocytes and good quality embryos, implantation rate and vital pregnancy 
rate).  However, the optimal starting day of ganirelix during COH has not been studied prospectively, 
e.g. according to follicle size as assessed by ultrasound. Also, in this study only patients with normal 
LH/FSH  ratio  and  normal  BMI  range  have  been  included.  In  clinical  IVF  programs,  many  patients 
have either subnormal or elevated LH levels. The applicant was asked to clarify this issue at an oral 
explanation. The CPMP concluded that there are very limited data (8 subjects) which suggest, that in 
subjects with normal FSH, but elevated LH (day 1 and/or day 6 of stimulation), ganirelix suppresses 
LH levels. 
Main studies 
Protocol  38607  is  a  phase  III,  multi-center,  open-label,  randomised  (ratio  2:1)  study  to  assess  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  ganirelix  in  women  undergoing  COH  for  IVF/ICSI,  using  a  long  protocol  of 
buserelin as a reference treatment. The study was conducted in 20 centres, in 10 countries. The total 
number  of  subjects  in  the  Intent-to-Treat  group  was  701  (463  subjects  in  ganirelix  group  and  238 
subjects in the buserelin group). 
The trial was designed to show non-inferiority of ganirelix to buserelin. For the number of oocytes, a 
non-inferiority margin was choosen and the applicant compared the one-sided confidence interval for 
the  difference  between  ganirelix  and  control  groups  to  that  margin.  However,  instead  of  defining  a 
delta and using one-sided confidence intervals, the applicant compared for pregnancy rates the point 
estimate of the difference between ganirelix and control groups to a predefined margin. This practice 
is not in accordance with current guidance. 
The  selected  ganirelix  dose,  0.25  mg  was  administered  once  daily  sc,  starting  at  day  6  of  ovarian 
stimulation. The reference treatment was buserelin, 0.6 mg daily, intranasally, (0.15 mg four times a 
day).  If  down-regulation  had  not  occurred  after  14  days,  the  dose  was  doubled.  Both  ganirelix  and 
buserelin were continued during recFSH treatment, until hCG injection. Because the COH treatment 
9/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regimens for agonist and antagonists are dissimilar,  i.e. agonist treatment starting two to four weeks 
prior to ovarian stimulation and antagonist treatment starting after five days of FSH stimulation, it was 
impossible to conduct a blinded trial.  
Primary  efficacy  variables  were  the  number  of  cumulus-oocyte-complexes  and  ongoing  pregnancy 
rate.  Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  treatment  failure  and  number  of  good  quality  embryos.  The 
study was designed to show that the combination of  efficacy, safety and convenience of ganirelix is 
not  clinically  inferior  to  the  current  care,  i.e.  GnRHa  treatment  in  a  long  protocol.  For  the  ongoing 
pregnancy  rate  per  attempt  a  treatment  difference  within  a  margin  of  -5%  was  considered  to  be 
acceptable  taking  into  account  an  expected  ongoing  pregnancy  rate  of  about  22%.  For  cumulus-
oocyte-complexes the margin was -3 oocytes. 
Results 
On day 6 of recFSH treatment, just prior to the first ganirelix injection, 20 subjects (4.3%) had an LH 
value  >  10  IU/l,  the  E2  values  in  these  subjects  ranged  from  348  to  1900  pg/ml.  For  15  of  the  20 
subjects with an LH rise, LH levels were measured again after two ganirelix injections and for 14 out 
of these 15 subjects, LH had decreased to below 10 IU/l. 
The incidence of LH rises >10 IU/l during ganirelix and COH treatment was 2.8% and seemed to be 
unfavourable for the clinical outcome. Also, in order to prevent premature LH rises, daily compliance 
was considered to be essential. 
The comparison of LH levels between the two treatment groups up to two weeks after ET indicates a 
more rapid recovery from pituitary suppression in the ganirelix group.  
The mean number of cumulus-oocyte-complexes per attempt was 8.7 in the ganirelix group and 9.7 in 
the  buserelin  group,  the  difference  was  within  the  specified  non-inferiority  margin.  However,  the 
ongoing  pregnancy  rates  per  attempt  were  20.3%  in  the  ganirelix  group  and  25.7%  in  the  buserelin 
group, the  difference  being  5.4% (97.5% lower confidence limit -11.9%), outside the specified non-
inferiority margin. 
The median duration of ganirelix treatment was five days, and that of buserelin treatment 26 days. The 
median duration of recFSH treatment was 9 days in the ganirelix group and 10 days in the buserelin 
group, the total recFSH doses administered were 1500 IU and 1800 IU, respectively. In the ganirelix 
group,  13  subjects  (2.8%)  showed  rises  of  serum  LH  >  10  IU/l  (all  of  them  were  checked  for 
compliance, and none of them got pregnant), in the buserelin group 3 subjects (1.3%). Median serum 
E2  on  the  day  of  or  on  the  day  before  hCG  was  1190  pg/ml  and  1700  pg/ml  for  the  ganirelix  and 
buserelin  groups,  respectively.    The  mean  fertilisation  rate  was  equal  in  both  groups  (62.1%).  The 
implantation rate was 15.7% in the ganirelix group and 21.8% in the buserelin group, resulting in the 
vital pregnancy rates per attempt of 21.8% and 28.2%, respectively.   
The  ongoing  pregnancy  rates  differed  between  the  study  centres.  In  view  of  the  different  pattern  of 
follicular growth and the lower oestradiol levels per antral follicle on the day of hCG administration in 
the ganirelix group, it is considered important that recFSH dose adjustments are based primarily on the 
number and size of the follicles and not on the levels of circulating oestradiol.  This information  has 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Trial 103-001 (ganirelix vs. leuprorelin) 
This was a Phase III, multicenter, open-label, randomised study of healthy female partners of infertile 
couples scheduled for in vitro fertilisation (IVF). Patients were allocated either to the Orgalutran (0.25 
mg/day s.c. in the upper leg, 1-14 days) treatment group or to the leuprolide acetate (1.0 mg/day for a 
maximum  of  21  days)  reference  group.  Progesterone  was  to  be  administered  to  subjects  for  luteal 
support according to the routine standard care for the investigator's site. 
In  the  ganirelix  group,  recFSH  treatment  was  to  begin  on  the  second  or  third  day  of  the  menstrual 
cycle  (starting  dose  225  IU  for  the  first  five  days,  thereafter  adjusted  according  to  ultrasoud  scan 
findings).  Ganirelix  treatment  was  to  begin  on  day  6  of  recFSH  treatment.  hCG  was  administered 
when  an  adequate  ovarian  response  was  observed  (at  least  3  follicles  ≥  17  mm).  In  the  leuprolide 
group,  recFSH  treatment  was  to  begin  after  adequate  suppression  with  leuprolide  was  achieved.  A 
higher starting dose of recFSH was used in this study compared study 38607 (150 IU/day). 
10/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  total  of  313  subjects  were  randomised  (208  in  the  Orgalutran  group  and  105  in  the  leuprorelin 
acetate group).  
Primary  efficacy  variables  identified  were  the  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  and  ongoing  pregnancy 
rate.  The  study  treatment  failure  and  number  of  good  quality  embryos  obtained  were  the  secondary 
efficacy variables.  
The  ongoing  pregnancy  rate  per  attempt  was  30.8%  in  the  ganirelix  group  and  36.4%  in  the 
leuprorelin group (lower one-sided 97.5% confidence limit for estimated treatment difference -15.7%). 
The mean number of oocytes was 11.6 in the ganirelix group and 14.1 in the leuprorelin group (lower 
one-sided 97.5% confidence limit for estimated treatment difference –4.0), which exceeded the pre-set 
non-inferiority margin of -3. 
During  ganirelix  treatment,  3.5  %  (n=7)  subjects  had  a  LH  value  >  10  IU/l  compared  to  only  one 
subject in the leuprorelin group. 
Trial 38616 (ganirelix vs. triptorelin) 
This  was  a  multi-center,  open-label  randomised  (2:1)  trial  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
ganirelix with a long protocol of GnRH agonist triptorelin. 
In total, 355 subjects were randomised, 236 to Orgalutran and 119 to triptorelin. Of these subjects, 337 
received  treatment  (all  according  to  randomisation),  226  women  received  Orgalutran,  and  111 
received triptorelin. 
Ganirelix (0.25  mg/day) was  administered once daily per s.c. injection (in the upper leg), starting at 
day 6 of ovarian stimulation. The minimum duration of treatment was 1 day and maximum 14 days. 
Triptorelin was given once daily per s.c. injection of 0.1 mg in the upper leg. If down-regulation had 
not occurred after 14 days, treatment with triptorelin was extended with a maximum of two times one 
week. After down-regulation, recFSH treatment was started. During recFSH Treatment Day 1 through 
5,  the  daily  dose  of  recFSH  was  to  be  fixed  to  150  IU.  Triptorelin  administration  continued  during 
ovarian stimulation, with a maximum of another 19 days. Luteal phase support: progesterone was to 
be given daily, starting at the latest at the day of embryo transfer (ET), for 2 weeks, or up to menses. If 
pregnancy occurred, luteal phase support could be continued for several additional weeks.   
Primary efficacy variables were the number of oocytes and ongoing pregnancy rate. 
The treatment failure rate (treatment failure defined as a subject not having an hCG injection, or the 
hCG  injection  given  because  of  premature  luteinisation)  in  the  ITT  population  was  4.9%  in  the 
ganirelix group and 4.5% in the triptorelin group.  
The mean number of oocytes per attempt in the ITT group was 7.9 in the ganirelix group and 9.6 in 
the triptorelin group. The estimated treatment difference, based on adjusted-for-center means (7.3 and 
8.6, respectively) was -1.3 oocyte, with a lower one-sided 97.5% confidence limit of -2.4 oocyte. This 
difference is within the non-inferiority margin.  
The mean number of good quality embryos in the ITT group was 2.7 embryos in the ganirelix group 
and  2.9  embryos  in  the  triptorelin  group.  The  estimated  treatment  difference,  based  on  adjusted-for-
center means (2.2 and 2.5, respectively) was -0.3 embryo.  
The ongoing pregnancy rates per attempt in the ITT group (including two spontaneous pregnancies in 
the  triptorelin  group)  were  31.0%  in  the  ganirelix  group  and  35.1%  in  the  triptorelin  group.  The 
estimated  treatment  difference,  based  on  adjusted-for-center  pregnancy  rates  of  ganirelix  and 
triptorelin (31.3% and 35.1%, respectively), was -3.8%. The ongoing pregnancy rates per attempt for 
the  ITT  group  minus  the  subjects  who  were  found  spontaneously  pregnant  during  down  regulation 
with triptorelin, were 31.0% in the Org 37462 group and 33.9% in the triptorelin group. The estimated 
treatment difference, based on adjusted-for-center pregnancy rates of 31.4% and 33.9%, respectively, 
was -2.5%. 
11/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies 
Experience on repeated cycles 
Study  38608  was  a  single-centre,  open-label  trial  designed  to  assess  the  safety  of  ganirelix  (0.25 
mg/day)  in  women  undergoing  1,  2  or  3  controlled  ovarian  hyperstimulation  (COH)  cycles  and 
possible several frozen embryo cycles (prior to the third treatment cycle), and scheduled for IVF with 
or without ICSI. A total of 167 women received treatment. 
Seventy-nine subjects (47%) continued with a second cycle and 30 out of 79 received ganirelix during 
a third cycle. In total, 47 subjects had at least one frozen embryo cycle. 
The mean number of oocytes for the ITT group was 7.4, 5.1 and 5.8 for cycles 1, 2 and 3, respectively. 
Mean  implantation  rates  were  rather  low,  but  comparable  between  cycles.  Ongoing  pregnancy  rates 
per attempt were similar between treatment cycles for the ITT group, i.e. 17.3%, 16.5% and 16.7% for 
cycle 1, 2 and 3, respectively. When frozen embryo cycles were included, the ongoing pregnancy rates 
were 20,8%, 16.5% and 16.7%, respectively (cumulative rate 31.5%). 
The  frequency  of  adverse  events,  including  local  injection  site  reactions  was  similar  during  the  first 
and subsequent treatment cycles. No antibody formation was detected. 
Discussion on the clinical efficacy 
The proposed dose of ganirelix was appropriately chosen on the basis of a phase II dose-ranging trial 
and dose related safety. 
The  pivotal phase III trials failed to demonstrate non-inferiority according to  the ICH guidelines for 
ongoing  pregnancy  rate  compared  with  long  GnRH  agonist  regimens.  In  all  three  trials  there  was  a 
tendency towards a lower pregnancy rate with ganirelix. Overall, the pregnancy rate in the three phase 
III trials was 25.4% in the ganirelix group and 30.1% in the GnRH agonist groups. In all three pivotal 
phase III trials a smaller number of oocytes was obtained in the ganirelix regimen compared with long 
GnRH agonist regimens.  Overall,  combined analysis showed  a treatment difference  of –1.3 oocytes, 
with a lower 97.5% confidence limit of –1.9 oocytes. 
The observed differences for pregnancy rate and oocytes were considered clinically acceptable. 
Overall, the incidence of LH rises (≥ 10 IU/L) was slightly higher during ganirelix treatment (2.4%). 
Considering  LH  rises  along  with  concomitant  progesterone  rises  (≥  1  ng/mL),  the  incidence  was 
comparable to GnRH agonist regimens (1.2% versus 0.8%). 
Given  the  rapid  reversibility  of  the  effect  of  ganirelix,  compliance  with  recommended  posology  is 
obviously an important factor for efficacy of the medicinal product. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The  Integrated  Summary  of  Safety  (ISS)  includes  22  trials  at  the  cut-off  day  of  August  31,  1998. 
However, 11 of these trials have limited value for the assessment of safety of ganirelix in the proposed 
indication,  as  a  number  of  studies  were  performed  in  men  and  higher  than  recommended  doses  and 
treatment durations were used. The applicant submitted further safety information from studies, which 
were  ongoing  at  the  time  of  the  MAA  submission,  including  pregnancy  follow-up  and  reports  of 
repeated use and two additional comparative phase III trials. Overall in the 4 controlled efficacy and 
safety  trials  (38602,  38607,  38616  and  103-001),  1217  women  have  been  treated  with  ganirelix.  In 
addition, 167 women received ganirelix in the open phase III study 38608. 
Adverse events (AE) and serious adverse event/deaths  
No subjects died in any of the clinical pharmacology trials. There were no maternal deaths in any of 
the efficacy and safety trials, including pregnancy and delivery follow-up studies.  
Overall,  in  the  4  controlled  clinical  trials  (38602,  38607,  38616  and  103-001)  the  incidences  of 
adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) were 23.1% and 3.0% respectively. The most 
frequent  SAEs  were  ectopic  pregnancy,  miscarrige  and  OHSS;  well  known  complications  of  ART. 
12/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no important differences in the frequency of ectopic pregnancies and miscarriage between 
ganirelix and comparators. 
Common  AEs  (≥1%) 
treatment  groups  were  headache,  abdominal  pain 
(gynaecological),  foetal  death,  ovarian  hyperstimulation  syndrome  (OHSS),  vaginal  bleeding, 
abdominal  pain  (gastrointestinal),  nausea  and  injection  site  reaction.  Injection  site  reactions  were 
generally observed during the first 4 hours following injection. 
Uncommon  AEs  (< 1%)  were  dizziness, asthenia and  malaise. Most of the AEs in  the  clinical trials 
were rated as mild or moderate, only 1.6% were rated as severe. 
the  ganirelix 
in 
The overall safety profile of ganirelix in the controlled clinical trials were generally similar to GnRH 
agonist  treatment.  However,  a  lower  incidence  of  injection  site  reactions  was  observed  for  ganirelix 
than for GnRH agonists. One hour after injection, the incidence of at least once a moderate or severe 
local  skin  reaction  per  treatment  cycle  was  12%  in  ganirelix  treated  patients  and  25%  in  patients 
treated subcutaneously with a GnRH agonist. 
Worsening of pre-existing eczema has been reported in one subject after first ganirelix dose.  
Importantly, no SAEs attributable to generalised histamine release have been reported. 
The most serious complication of COH is OHSS. In the 4 main trials the overall incidence of OHSS 
was 2.9% in the ganirelix groups and 3.8% in the comparator groups. A high incidence of OHSS was 
observed in study 103-001, which could be related to the high dose of FSH used. 
One subject in clinical pharmacology trial 38605 became pregnant after ganirelix treatment before the 
first  spontaneous  menses.  After  six  months  of  pregnancy,  the  subject  delivered  a  dead  baby  with 
hydrocephalus  and  a  cleft  palate.  A  trisomy  was  found.  The  date  of  conception  is  reported  to  have 
been 7 days after the last 0.125 mg dose of ganirelix. The event was judged unlikely related to study 
drug by both the investigator and the sponsor. However, a causal role cannot be excluded completely. 
A  great  majority  (95%)  of  subjects  (n=74)  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  experienced  at  least 
one  AE.  All  AEs  were  rated  mild  or  moderate.  The  most  frequent  treatment-related  AEs  were 
headache, injection site reaction, hot flushes, dizziness and fatigue. Most of these AEs may partly be 
ascribed  to  the  down-regulation  of  FSH  and  LH  and  therefore  may  occur  less  during  IVF  treatment 
due to the exogenous administration of FSH. 
Discontinuations 
Discontinuations due to AEs were rare in the controlled trials (0-0.4%) and not more frequent during 
ganirelix  treatment  than  during  GnRH  agonist  treatment.  The  reported  reasons  for  discontinuation 
were risk of developing OHSS. 
One  subject  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  discontinued  due  to  worsening  of  existing  eczema 
after the first ganirelix injection. Injection was not given to the affected skin area. 
Laboratory findings 
There  were  no  obvious  differences  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  at  least  one  post-baseline 
clinically  significant  abnormal  haematology  value  between  the  ganirelix  and  the  GnRH  agonist 
groups.  Clinically  significant  abnormal  biochemistry  values  were  observed  in  more  than  1%  of 
subjects for low blood glucose, low Pi, high Pi and high total bilirubin. However, the incidences were 
similar in both ganirelix and GnRH agonist groups.  
Abnormal low or high systolic or diastolic blood pressure values (or clinically significant decrease or 
increase  from  baseline)  were  infrequent  in  both  ganirelix  and  buserelin  groups.  There  were  no 
apparent  differences  between  the  groups.  Relative  increase  from  baseline  in  body  weight  of  at  least 
7% was observed in 1.3% and 3.5% of subjects in the ganirelix and buserelin groups, respectively. 
Pregnancy and children follow-up 
In  total,  339  women  who  had  an  ongoing  pregnancy  after  treatment  with  ganirelix  participated  in  5 
follow-up  trials.  Of  these,  159  fully  completed  the  follow-up  study,  as  per  the  cut-off  date  of  the 
Consolidated Response, and for these completed subjects all safety data on both mother and infants is 
available. The total number of infants born from completed subjects is 197. All infants were optionally 
13/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
followed up to maximally 8 weeks after birth. At the time of submission of the MAA, of the 73 live-
born  infants,  SAEs  were  reported  in  7  (9.6%),  AEs  in  15  (20.5%)  and  AEs  of  severe  intensity  in  3 
infants (4.1%). The SAEs were foetal maturation impaired (n=2), neonatal sepsis, neonatal apnoea and 
arrhythmia,  premature  birth  (twin  pregnancy),  exomphalos/tongue  disorder  (autosomal  dominant 
Beckwith Wiedemann syndrome). In addition, one case of trisomy 18 was diagnosed after the delivery 
of  a  still-born  foetus.  Other  foetal  disorders  (reported  as  "minor")  were  clubfoot  (n=1),  skull 
malformation (1), naevus (1), pyloric stenosis (1), and skin malformation (1). Neonatal jaundice was 
reported  in  three  infants  (4.1%)  and  polycythemia  in  one  infant.  No  cases  of  infants  with  abnormal 
psychomotor development were reported. 
Compared  to  the  GnRH  agonist  regimens,  a  slightly  higher  incidence  of  total  anomalies  (major  and 
minor)  were  reported  following  ganirelix  treatment.  The  applicant  was  requested  to  provide  and 
update based on ongoing follow-up studies at an oral explanation to the CPMP. 
Based on the clinical data and a review of literature concerning the incidence of congenital anomalies 
in the general population and in the context of ART, the CPMP concluded that currently there is no 
evidence  of  increased  incidence  of  major  anomalies.  The  data  as  regards  to  minor  anomalies  are 
inconclusive. 
The applicant agreed to provide additional data on pregnancy and children follow-up as stated in the 
letter of undetaking dated 19 January 2000 (see also section on Post-marketing experience).  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Based on the data obtained, ganirelix has an acceptable safety profile. Ganirelix is a weak histamine 
liberator.  Only  local  reactions  associated  with  this  property  have  been  reported  so  far,  however,  the 
possibility  of  a  generalised  reaction  cannot  be  excluded,  especially  in  subjects  with  concomitant 
allergic  symptoms.  Therefore,  appropriate  warnings  were  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  Short-lived  injection  site  reactions  are  frequent.  Altogether,  discontinuations  due  to 
adverse events were rare in the phase II and III studies. 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  ganirelix  is  similar  to  GnRH  agonists  in  the  three  phase  III  trials.  A 
slightly lower incidence of injection site reactions in observed for ganirelix than for comparators. The 
incidence of OHSS, an important complication of COH, is similar with ganirelix and GnRH agonist 
regimens. 
Altogether,  the  current  data  do  not  indicate  an  increased  risk  of  congenital  anomalies  following 
treatment with ganirelix compared to long GnRH-agonist regimens or to published incidence figures. 
The applicant agreed to provide additional data on pregnancy and children follow-up as stated in the 
letter of undertaking dated 19 January 2000 (see also section on Post-marketing experience). 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Ganirelix is a GnRH antagonist with high receptor binding affinity (Kd = 0.4 nM). Ganirelix treatment 
of female rats resulted in a dose related inhibition of ovulation. 
Ganirelix  has  mild  histamine  releasing  potential.  Generalised  hypersensitivity  reactions  after  s.c. 
Administration has not been observed.  
Administration  of  ganirelix  up  to  1  mg/kg  s.c.  to  animals  evoked  no  effects  on  the  central  nervous, 
respiratory, cardiovascular and renal systems.  
14/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ganirelix did not induce any unexpected toxic effects. Ganirelix exposure of different animal species 
used  in  toxicology  studies  was  sufficient  as  compared  to  man.  The  predominant  effects  observed  in 
mice, rats and monkeys relate to the pharmacodynamic action of the drug.  
Efficacy 
The proposed dose of ganirelix was appropriately chosen on the basis of a phase II dose-ranging trial 
and  dose  related  safety.  At  a  dose  of  0.25  mg/day  s.c,  sufficient  suppresion  of  LH  secretion  is 
produced in view of the therapeutic indication. 
Phase III trials indicated a tendency towards a lower ongoing pregnancy rate and less oocytes with the 
ganirelix regimen compared with long GnRH agonist regimens. However, these observed differences 
are considered clinically acceptable in view of the overall risk/benefit of the product. 
Overall, the incidence of LH rises was low during ganirelix treatment and the incidence of LH rises 
along  with  concomitant  progesterone  rises  was  comparable  to  the  incidence  in  the  GnRH  agonist 
regimens. 
Safety 
Based  on  the  data  obtained,  ganirelix  has  an  acceptable  safety  profile.  Short-lived  injection  site 
reactions  are  frequent,  but  generally  occurred  less  often  than  after  GnRH  agonist  injections. 
Altogether, discontinuations due to adverse events were rare in the phase II and III studies. 
The incidence of OHSS during ganirelix treatment, an important complication of COH, was similar to 
that reported for GnRH agonists. The overall safety profile of ganirelix is similar to comparators in the 
three phase III trials.  
The  current  data  do  not  indicate  an  increased  risk  of  congenital  anomalies  following  treatment  with 
ganirelix compared to long GnRH-agonist regimens  or  to published  incidence figures.  However, the 
applicant has been asked to provide additional data on pregnancies after Orgalutran treatment with a 
focus  on  infant  outcome  in  the  indicated  timeframe  as  agreed  in  the  letter  of  undertaking  dated  19 
January 2000 (see also section on Post-marketing experience). 
Benefit/risk assessment 
During an oral explanation held during the CPMP on 14 December 1999, the applicant addressed the 
following issues: the overall benefit/risk profile of ganirelix compared to GnRH agonists, the effect of 
body  weight  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ganirelix  and  finally  the  company’s  proposal  for  follow-
up/monitoring of congenital anomalies (pregnancy, delivery and infant outcome). 
Phase III trials indicated a tendency towards a lower ongoing pregnancy rate and less oocytes with the 
ganirelix regimen compared with long GnRH agonist regimens. However, these observed differences 
are considered clinically acceptable in view of the overall risk/benefit of the product. 
Overall, the incidence of LH rises was low during ganirelix treatment and the incidence of LH rises 
along  with  concomitant  progesterone  rises  was  comparable  to  the  incidence  in  the  GnRH  agonist 
regimens. 
Based on the data obtained, ganirelix has an acceptable safety profile. The current data do not indicate 
an increased risk of congenital anomalies following treatment with ganirelix compared to long GnRH-
agonist regimens or to published incidence figures. However, the applicant has been asked to provide 
additional  data  on  pregnancies  after  Orgalutran  treatment  with  a  focus  on  infant  outcome  in  the 
indicated timeframe as agreed in the letter of undertaking dated 19 January 2000 (see also section on 
Post-marketing experience). 
Based on the CPMP review of available data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Orgalutran  in  the  prevention  of  premature  luteinising 
hormone  surges  in  women  undergoing  controlled  ovarian  hyperstimulation  for  assisted  reproduction 
techniques was favourable. 
15/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Post-marketing experience  
Follow-up  data  on  pregnancy  outcome  from  the  current  clinical  trial  programme  -  As  follow-up 
measure,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  provided  the  analysis  of  the  updated  clinical  trials 
database, which suggests the following: 
The total incidence of congenital malformations is slightly higher in the ganirelix group compared to 
GnRH agonist treatment groups (7.6% vs. 5.5%). The Odds Ratio is 1.4 (95% CI 0.65-3.0). However, 
the  incidence  of  all  malformations  is  within  the  reported  incidence  of  6-10%  according  to  the 
CDER/CBER reviewer guidance for “Evaluation of human pregnancy outcome data” (June 1999). 
The incidence of major congenital malformations is slightly higher in the ganirelix group compared to 
GnRH  agonist  group  regardless  of  whether  a  conventional  definition  (1.4%  vs.  0.6%)  or  a  broader 
definition (4.1% vs. 3.3%) is used. The Odds Ratio is 2.5 (95% CI 0.3-20.5). However, the incidence 
figures are within or below those reported in literature (2-4%). 
The update does not suggest any specific pattern in the reported malformations. 
Overall,  the  data  presented  do  not  imply  that  ganirelix  increases  the  incidences  of  anomalies  in 
newborns. The continuation of follow-up studies is recommended.  
16/16 
  EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
