EMA/41900/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000274 
EPAR summary for the public 
Orgalutran 
ganirelix 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Orgalutran. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Orgalutran. 
What is Orgalutran? 
Orgalutran is a solution for injection in a prefilled syringe. Each syringe contains 0.25 mg of the active 
substance, ganirelix. 
What is Orgalutran used for? 
Orgalutran is used to prevent premature ovulation (early release of eggs from the ovary) in women 
having fertility treatment and who are having ovarian stimulation (stimulation of the ovaries so that 
they produce more eggs). In premature ovulation, the ovaries release eggs that may be immature and 
not suitable for use in techniques such as in-vitro fertilisation. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Orgalutran used? 
Treatment with Orgalutran should be carried out by a doctor who has experience in this type of fertility 
treatment. 
Orgalutran is given as a single 0.25-mg injection under the skin once a day. Treatment should start on 
day 5 or 6 after the start of ovarian stimulation with follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) or corifollitropin 
alfa (a modified FSH). When treatment should start depends on how well the ovaries are responding to 
stimulation. Treatment with Orgalutran should be continued up to the day that there are enough large 
follicles (small sacs in the ovary that hold the eggs). 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orgalutran is preferably given into the upper leg. The patient or her partner may give the injections 
themselves, if they have been trained and have access to expert advice. For further information on 
how to use Orgalutran, see the package leaflet. 
How does Orgalutran work? 
The active substance in Orgalutran, ganirelix, blocks the receptors for a natural hormone called 
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH controls the secretion of another hormone called 
luteinising hormone (LH), which causes ovulation (the release of eggs during the menstrual cycle). 
During fertility treatment, ovarian stimulation is normally used to make the ovaries produce more than 
one egg. A few days later, a hormone called human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) is given to trigger 
ovulation, and the eggs are then harvested. By blocking the effect of GnRH, Orgalutran stops the 
production of LH, and therefore prevents premature ovulation. 
How has Orgalutran been studied? 
The ability of Orgalutran to prevent premature ovulation has been studied in three main studies 
involving 1,335 women. Orgalutran was compared with buserelin, leuprorelin, and triptorelin (GnRH 
agonists: another group of medicines used to prevent premature ovulation, which work by stimulating 
the receptor for GnRH to such an extent that the body stops making LH). The main measures of 
effectiveness were the number of eggs that could be harvested and the number of women who became 
pregnant. 
What benefit has Orgalutran shown during the studies? 
After treatment with Orgalutran, the average number of eggs that could be harvested was between 7.9 
and 11.6 per woman. Between 20% and 31% of the women became pregnant. Overall, the values for 
the GnRH agonists were slightly higher. 
What is the risk associated with Orgalutran? 
In studies, the most common side effect with Orgalutran (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) was a 
skin reaction at the injection site, mainly redness with or without swelling. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Orgalutran, see the package leaflet. 
Orgalutran should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to ganirelix, to any of 
the other ingredients, to GnRH or to other GnRH analogues (medicines that have a similar structure to 
GnRH and modify the activity of GnRH in the body). It must not be used by women who are pregnant 
or breast-feeding, or in women with moderate or severe kidney or liver disease. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Sometimes, the ovaries can over-respond to stimulation. This is called ‘ovarian hyperstimulation 
syndrome’. Doctors and patients must be aware of this possibility. 
Why has Orgalutran been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Orgalutran’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Orgalutran  
EMA/41900/2011  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
Other information about Orgalutran: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Orgalutran to N.V. Organon on 17 May 2000. The marketing authorisation is valid for an unlimited 
period. 
The full EPAR for Orgalutran can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Orgalutran, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2011. 
Orgalutran  
EMA/41900/2011  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
