ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Orgovyx 120 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 120 mg of relugolix. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Light red, almond-shaped, film-coated tablet (11 mm [length] × 8 mm [width]) with “R” on one side 
and “120” on the other side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Orgovyx is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced hormone-sensitive prostate 
cancer.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Orgovyx should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
medical treatment of prostate cancer.  
Posology 
Treatment with Orgovyx should be initiated with a loading dose of 360 mg (three tablets) on the first 
day, followed by a 120 mg (one tablet) dose taken once daily at approximately the same time each day.  
Because relugolix does not induce an increase in testosterone concentrations, it is not necessary to add 
an anti-androgen as surge protection at initiation of therapy. 
Dose modification for use with P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of Orgovyx with oral P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitors must be avoided. If 
co-administration is unavoidable, Orgovyx should be taken first and dosing should be separated by at 
least 6 hours (see section 4.5). Treatment with Orgovyx may be interrupted for up to 2 weeks if a short 
course of treatment with a P-gp inhibitor is required.  
Dose modification for use with combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers 
Co-administration of Orgovyx with combined P-gp and strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A inducers 
must be avoided. If co-administration is unavoidable, the dose of Orgovyx must be increased to 
240 mg once daily. After discontinuation of the combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer, the 
recommended 120 mg dose of Orgovyx once daily must be resumed (see section 4.5). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missed doses 
If a dose is missed, Orgovyx must be taken as soon as the patient remembers. If the dose was missed 
by more than 12 hours, the missed dose must not be taken and regular dosing schedule should be 
resumed the following day.  
If treatment with Orgovyx is interrupted for greater than 7 days, Orgovyx must be restarted with a 
loading dose of 360 mg on the first day, followed with a dose of 120 mg once daily.  
Special populations  
Elderly 
No dose adjustment in elderly patients is required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment in patients with mild, or moderate renal impairment is required. Caution is 
warranted in patients with severe renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment is required (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Orgovyx in children and adolescents under 18 years of age for the 
indication of treatment of advanced hormone-sensitive prostate cancer.  
Method of administration 
Oral use.  
Orgovyx can be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). Tablets should be taken with some liquid 
as needed and should be swallowed whole. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Effect on QT/QTc interval prolongation 
Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval. 
In patients with a history of or risk factors for QT prolongation and in patients receiving concomitant 
medicinal products that might prolong the QT interval (see section 4.5), physicians should assess the 
benefit-risk ratio including the potential for Torsade de pointes prior to initiating Orgovyx. 
A thorough QT/QTc study showed that there was no intrinsic effect of relugolix on prolongation of the 
QTc interval (see section 4.8). 
Cardiovascular disease 
Cardiovascular disease such as myocardial infarction and stroke has been reported in the medical 
literature in patients with androgen deprivation therapy. Therefore, all cardiovascular risk factors 
should be taken into account. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in bone density 
Long-term suppression of testosterone in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated 
with a GnRH receptor agonist or GnRH antagonist is associated with decreased bone density. 
Decreased bone density, in patients with additional risk factors, may lead to osteoporosis and increased 
risk of bone fracture.  
Hepatic impairment 
Patients with known or suspected hepatic disorder have not been included in long-term clinical trials 
with relugolix. Mild, transient increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) have been observed but were not accompanied by an increase in bilirubin or 
associated with clinical symptoms (see section 4.8). Monitoring of liver function in patients with 
known or suspected hepatic disorder is advised during treatment. The pharmacokinetics of relugolix in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment has not been evaluated (see section 5.2). 
Severe renal impairment 
The exposure to relugolix in patients with severe renal impairment may be increased by up to 2-fold 
(see section 5.2). Because a lower dose of relugolix is not available, caution in patients with severe 
renal impairment is warranted upon administration of a 120-mg dose of relugolix once daily. The 
amount of relugolix removed by haemodialysis is unknown. 
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monitoring 
The effect of Orgovyx should be monitored by clinical parameters and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
serum levels. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Potential for other medicinal products to affect the exposure to relugolix 
P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of Orgovyx and oral P-gp inhibitors should be avoided. Relugolix is a P-gp 
substrate (see section 5.2). Upon co-administration of a 120-mg dose of relugolix following 
administration of 500-mg doses of erythromycin four times daily for 8 days, a moderate P-gp and 
moderate CYP3A inhibitor, the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) and maximum 
plasma concentration (Cmax) of relugolix was increased by 3.5- and 2.9-fold, respectively, due to 
inhibition of intestinal P-gp by erythromycin, which resulted in an increase in the oral bioavailability 
of relugolix.  
Upon co-administration of a 120 mg dose of relugolix and a single 500 mg dose of azithromycin, a 
weak P-gp inhibitor, the AUC and Cmax of relugolix were increased by 1.5- and 1.6-fold, respectively, 
although in the median concentration-time curves increases in relugolix exposure up to 5-fold were 
observed 1-3 hours after dosing. When the single dose of azithromycin was administered 6 hours after 
the 120 mg relugolix dose, the AUC and Cmax of relugolix were increased by 1.4- and 1.3-fold, 
respectively (see Table 1); the increase in relugolix exposure in the median concentration-time curves 
was maximally 1.6-fold in the window 1-3 hours after dosing. Due to limited number of subjects 
(n=18) and high PK variability, confidence intervals around these increases were wide (for AUC from 
1.0- to 2.1-fold). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administration of Orgovyx with other oral P-gp inhibitors also may increase the AUC and Cmax of 
relugolix and may therefore increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with Orgovyx. Medicinal 
products that are oral P-gp inhibitors include certain anti-infectives (e.g. azithromycin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, gentamicin, tetracycline), antifungal agents (ketoconazole, itraconazole), 
antihypertensives (e.g. carvedilol, verapamil), antiarrhythmics (e.g. amiodarone, dronedarone, 
propafenone, quinidine), antianginal agents (e.g. ranolazine), cyclosporine, human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, telaprevir). 
If co-administration with once or twice daily oral P-gp inhibitors cannot be avoided, Orgovyx should 
be taken first, with the oral P-gp inhibitor taken 6 hours thereafter, and patients should be monitored 
more frequently for adverse reactions. Alternatively, treatment with Orgovyx may be interrupted for up 
to 2 weeks for a short course of treatment with a P-gp inhibitor (e.g. for certain macrolide antibiotics). 
If treatment with Orgovyx is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume administration of Orgovyx with 
a 360 mg loading dose on the first day followed by 120 mg once daily (see section 4.2).  
Combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers 
Co-administration of Orgovyx with combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers should be avoided. 
Upon co-administration of a 40-mg dose of relugolix following administration of 600-mg doses of 
rifampicin once daily for 13 days, a P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer, the AUC and Cmax of relugolix 
were decreased by 55% and 23%, respectively, due to induction of intestinal P-gp (and CYP3A) by 
rifampicin, which resulted in a decrease in the oral bioavailability of relugolix. Co-administration of 
Orgovyx with other combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducers also may decrease the AUC and Cmax 
of relugolix and may therefore reduce the therapeutic effects of Orgovyx. Medicinal products that are 
combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducers include the androgen receptor inhibitor apalutamide, 
certain anticonvulsants (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital), anti-infectives (e.g. rifampicin, 
rifabutin), St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), HIV or HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir) 
and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. efavirenz). 
If co-administration cannot be avoided, the Orgovyx dose should be increased (see section 4.2). After 
discontinuation of the combined P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer, the recommended dose of Orgovyx 
should be resumed once daily.  
Other medicinal products  
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of relugolix were observed upon 
co-administration of relugolix with voriconazole (strong CYP3A inhibitor; 400-mg doses twice daily 
on the first day followed by 200-mg doses twice daily for 8 days), atorvastatin (80-mg doses once 
daily for 10 days), or acid-reducing agents. No clinically significant differences in the 
pharmacokinetics of a single 5-mg dose of midazolam (sensitive CYP3A substrate) or a single dose of 
10-mg of rosuvastatin (breast cancer resistance protein [BCRP] substrate) were observed upon 
co-administration with relugolix. Based on limited data (n=20) in men who received a 120-mg dose of 
relugolix and 80- to 160-mg doses of enzalutamide (an androgen receptor signalling inhibitor that is a 
strong CYP3A inducer and P-gp inhibitor) concomitantly for up to 266 days in the phase 3 study, 
plasma relugolix trough and serum testosterone concentrations did not change to a clinically 
significant extent upon adding enzalutamide to the relugolix monotherapy. Therefore, the same dose of 
relugolix may be maintained during combination treatment.  
Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the concomitant use of Orgovyx 
with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce 
Torsade de pointes such as class IA (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, 
sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, 
antipsychotics, etc. should be carefully evaluated (see section 4.4). 
Effect of co-administered medicinal products on the exposure to relugolix from clinical trials and 
associated dosing recommendations are summarised in Table 1. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Effect of co-administered medicinal products on relugolix exposure (Cmax, AUC0-inf) from 
clinical trials and recommendations 
Interacting drug dose 
regimen 
erythromycin  
500 mg QID, multiple 
doses 
Relugolix 
dose 
regimen 
120 mg 
single dose 
Change in 
relugolix 
AUC0-inf 
Change in 
relugolix 
Cmax 
3.5 -fold ↑ 
2.9 -fold ↑ 
azithromycin 
500 mg single dose 
120 mg 
single dose 
1.5 -fold ↑ 
1.6 -fold ↑ 
azithromycin 
500 mg single dose 6 
hours 
after administration of 
relugolix 
voriconazole 
200 mg BID, multiple 
doses 
1.4 -fold ↑ 
1.3 -fold ↑ 
120 mg 
single dose 
12% ↑ 
18% ↓ 
fluconazole  
200 mg QD, multiple 
doses 
atorvastatin 
80 mg QD, multiple doses 
rifampicin 
600 mg QD, multiple 
doses 
40 mg 
single dose  
40 mg 
single dose 
40 mg 
single dose 
19%↑ 
44% ↑ 
5%↓ 
22%↓ 
55%↓ 
23%↓ 
Recommendation 
Concomitant use of 
Orgovyx with 
erythromycin and other 
oral P-gp inhibitors is 
not recommended 
If concomitant use with 
once or twice daily oral 
P-gp inhibitors is 
unavoidable (e.g. 
azithromycin), take 
Orgovyx first, and 
separate dosing with the 
P-gp inhibitor by at least 
6 hours and monitor 
patients more frequently 
for adverse reactions. 
If concomitant use with 
once or twice daily oral 
P-gp inhibitors is 
unavoidable (e.g. 
azithromycin), take 
Orgovyx first, and 
separate dosing with the 
P-gp inhibitor by at least 
6 hours and monitor 
patients more frequently 
for adverse reactions. 
No dose modifications 
recommended for co-
administration of 
relugolix and CYP3A4 
inhibitors devoid of P-
gp inhibition 
Co-administration of 
Orgovyx with 
rifampicin and other 
strong CYP3A4 and/or 
P-gp inducers is not 
recommended 
Potential for relugolix to affect the exposure to other medicinal products 
Relugolix is a weak inducer of CYP3A-mediated metabolism. Upon co-administration of a single 
5-mg dose of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, following once daily administration of 120-mg 
doses of Orgovyx to steady state, the AUC0-inf and Cmax of midazolam was decreased by 22% and 14%, 
respectively, which is not considered to be clinically meaningful. Clinically meaningful effects on 
other CYP3A4 substrates are not expected; however, if a decrease in the therapeutic effects occur, 
medicinal products (e.g. statins) may be titrated to achieve desired therapeutic effects. 
6 
 
 
 
 
Relugolix is an inhibitor of BCRP in vitro. Upon co-administration of a single 10-mg dose of 
rosuvastatin, a BCRP and OATP1B1 substrate, following once daily administration of 120-mg doses 
of relugolix to steady state, the AUC0-inf and Cmax of rosuvastatin were decreased by 27% and 34%, 
respectively. The decrease in exposure to rosuvastatin is not considered clinically meaningful; 
however, rosuvastatin may be titrated to achieve desired therapeutic effects. The effect of relugolix on 
other BCRP substrates has not been evaluated and the relevance for other BCRP substrates is 
unknown. 
Relugolix is an inhibitor of P-gp in vitro. However, upon co-administration of a single 150 mg dose of 
dabigatran etexilate, a P-gp substrate, with a single 120 mg dose of relugolix, the AUC0-inf and Cmax of 
total dabigatran was increased by 17% and 18%, respectively, which is not considered to be clinically 
meaningful. Therefore, clinically meaningful effects of a 120 mg dose relugolix on other P-gp 
substrates are not expected.   
Considering that the 360 mg loading dose of relugolix has not been tested, dose separation of the 
loading dose of relugolix from administration of other P-gp substrates is advised. 
In vitro studies 
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes: Relugolix is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 nor an inducer of CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 at clinically 
relevant plasma concentrations.  
Transporter systems: Relugolix is not an inhibitor of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1, OAT1, OAT3, 
OCT2, MATE1, MATE2-K, or BSEP at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
This medicinal product is not indicated in women of childbearing potential. It is not to be used in 
women who are, or may be, pregnant or breast-feeding (see section 4.1). 
Contraception 
It is not known whether relugolix or its metabolites are present in semen. Based on findings in animals 
and mechanism of action, if a patient engages in sexual intercourse with a woman of childbearing 
potential, effective contraception during treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose of Orgovyx must 
be used.  
Pregnancy 
There is a limited amount of data from the use of relugolix in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown that exposure to relugolix in early pregnancy may increase the risk of early pregnancy loss 
(see section 5.3). Based on the pharmacological effects, an adverse effect on pregnancy cannot be 
excluded.  
Breast-feeding 
Results from nonclinical studies indicate that relugolix is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see 
section 5.3). No data are available regarding the presence of relugolix or its metabolites in human milk 
or its effect on the breast-fed infant. An effect on breast-feeding newborns/infants cannot be excluded.  
Fertility 
Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action, Orgovyx may impair fertility in males of 
reproductive potential (see section 5.3). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Orgovyx has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Fatigue and dizziness 
are very common (fatigue) and common (dizziness) adverse reactions that may influence the ability to 
drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly observed adverse reactions during relugolix therapy are physiological effects of 
testosterone suppression, including hot flushes (54%), musculoskeletal pain (30%), and fatigue (26%). 
Other very common adverse reactions include diarrhoea and constipation (12% each). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions listed in Table 2 are classified according to frequency and system organ class. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse drug reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), and not 
known (cannot be estimated from available data). Within each frequency group, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Table 2. Adverse reactions reported in the HERO study 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Endocrine disorders 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Anaemia 
Gynaecomastia 
Insomnia 
Depression 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Cardiac disorders 
Rare 
Unknown 
Vascular disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Myocardial infarction 
QT prolonged (see sections 4.4 and 4.5) 
Hot flush 
Hypertension 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common 
Diarrhoeaa 
Constipation 
Nausea 
Hyperhidrosis 
Rash 
Uncommon 
Urticaria 
Angioedema 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Reproductive and breast disorders 
Common 
General disorder and administration site conditions 
Libido decreased 
Musculoskeletal painb 
Osteoporosis/osteopenia 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Investigations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Fatiguec 
Weight increased 
Glucose increasedd 
Triglyceride increasedd 
Blood cholesterol increasede 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
Alanine aminotransferase increasedd  
a Includes diarrhoea and colitis 
b Includes arthralgia, back pain, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, bone pain, neck pain, arthritis, 
musculoskeletal stiffness, non-cardiac chest pain, spinal pain, and musculoskeletal discomfort  
c Includes fatigue and asthenia 
d Grade 3/4 increases identified through clinical laboratory test monitoring (see below) 
e There were no reported cholesterol increases > grade 2 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Changes in laboratory parameters 
Changes in laboratory values observed during up to 1 year of treatment in the phase 3 study (N = 622) 
were in the same range for Orgovyx and a GnRH agonist (leuprorelin) used as active comparator. ALT 
and/or AST concentrations > 3x upper limit of normal (ULN) were reported for 1.4% of patients with 
normal values prior to treatment, following treatment with Orgovyx. An increase to grade 3/4 ALT was 
observed in 0.3% of patients and to grade 3/4 AST in 0% of patients treated with Orgovyx, 
respectively. No events were associated with increased bilirubin. 
Haemoglobin concentration decreased by 10 g/L during up to 1 year of treatment. Marked decrease in 
haemoglobin (≤ 105 g/L) was observed in 4.8% following treatment with Orgovyx, with decreases to 
grade 3/4 in 0.5%. Glucose increased to grade 3/4 in 2.9% and triglycerides increased to grade 3/4 in 
2.0% of patients observed. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no known specific antidote for overdose with Orgovyx. In the event of an overdose, Orgovyx 
should be stopped and general supportive measures should be undertaken until any clinical toxicity has 
diminished or resolved, taking into consideration the half-life of 61.5 hours. Adverse reactions in the 
event of an overdose have not yet been observed; it is expected that such reactions would resemble the 
adverse reactions listed in section 4.8. It is not known if relugolix is removed by haemodialysis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Endocrine therapy, other hormone antagonists and related agents, ATC 
code: L02BX04 
Mechanism of action 
Relugolix is a nonpeptide GnRH receptor antagonist that competitively binds to GnRH receptors in the 
anterior pituitary gland preventing native GnRH from binding and signalling the secretion of 
9 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Consequently, the production of 
testosterone from the testes is reduced. In humans, FSH and LH concentrations rapidly decline upon 
initiating treatment with Orgovyx and testosterone concentrations are suppressed to below physiologic 
concentrations. Treatment is not associated with the initial increases in FSH and LH concentrations 
and subsequently testosterone (“potential symptomatic flare”) observed upon initiation of treatment 
with a GnRH analogue. Following discontinuation of treatment, pituitary and gonadal hormone 
concentrations return to physiologic concentrations. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The safety and efficacy of Orgovyx was evaluated in HERO, a randomised, open-label study in adult 
men with androgen-sensitive advanced prostate cancer requiring at least 1 year of androgen 
deprivation therapy and who were not candidates for surgical or radiation therapy with curative intent. 
Eligible patients had either evidence of biochemical (PSA) or clinical relapse following local primary 
intervention with curative intent and were not candidates for salvage surgery, had newly diagnosed 
androgen-sensitive metastatic disease, or had advanced localized disease unlikely to be cured by 
primary intervention with either surgery or radiation. Eligible patients had to have an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1. Patients with disease progression 
during the treatment period were encouraged to remain on study and, if indicated, may have received 
radiotherapy as prescribed by the investigator. If PSA levels rose, patients were allowed to receive 
enzalutamide after the confirmation of PSA progression or docetaxel during the study. 
The primary efficacy outcome measure was medical castration rate defined as achieving and 
maintaining serum testosterone suppression to castrate levels (< 50 ng/dL) by day 29 through 
48 weeks of treatment, plus non-inferiority of relugolix compared to leuprorelin was assessed (see 
Table 3). Other key secondary endpoints included castration rates on day 4 and 15, castration rates 
with testosterone < 20 ng/dL at day 15, and PSA response rate at day 15 (see Table 4). 
a) 
A total of 934 patients were randomised to receive Orgovyx or leuprorelin in a 2:1 ratio for 48 weeks: 
Orgovyx at a loading dose of 360 mg on the first day followed by daily doses of 120 mg 
orally. 
Leuprorelin 22.5 mg injection (or 11.25 mg in Japan, Taiwan, and China) subcutaneously 
every 3 months. Leuprorelin acetate 11.25 mg every 3 months is a dosage regimen that is 
not recommended for this indication in the European Union. 
b) 
The population (N = 930) across both treatment groups had a median age of 71 years (range 47 to 
97 years). The ethnic/racial distribution was 68% White, 21% Asian, 4.9% Black, and 5% other. 
Disease stage was distributed as follows: 32% metastatic (M1), 31% locally advanced (T3/4 NX M0 
or any T N1 M0), 28% localized (T1 or T2 N0 M0), and 10% not classifiable.  
The primary efficacy results of Orgovyx to leuprorelin on achieving and maintaining serum 
testosterone at castrate levels (T< 50 ng/dL) are shown in Table 3 and Figure 1. The baseline 
testosterone levels and the time-course of testosterone suppression by Orgovyx and leuprorelin during 
the 48 week treatment period are shown in Figure 2. 
Table 3. Medical castration rates (testosterone concentrations < 50 ng/dL) from week 5 day 1 
(day 29) through week 49 day 1 (day 337) in HERO 
No. treated 
Responder rate (95% CI)c 
Difference from leuprorelin (95% CI) 
Leuprorelin 
22.5 or 11.5 mga 
308b 
88.8% 
(84.6%, 91.8%) 
Orgovyx 
360/120 mg 
622b 
96.7% 
(94.9%, 97.9%) 
7.9% 
(4.1%, 11.8%)d 
p-value < 0.0001 
a 22.5 mg dosed in Europe and North America; 11.25 mg dosed in Asia. The castration rate of the subgroup of 
patients receiving 22.5 mg leuprorelin (n = 264) was 88.0% (95% CI: 83.4%, 91.4%). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b Two patients in each arm did not receive the study treatment and were not included.  
c Kaplan-Meier estimates within group. 
d Non-inferiority was tested with a margin of -10%. 
Figure 1: Cumulative incidence of testosterone concentrations < 50 ng/dL in HERO  
Figure 2: Testosterone concentrations from baseline to week 49 (mean and 95% CI) in HERO  
A summary of the results of the key secondary endpoints are shown in Table 4. 
Table 4. Summary of key secondary endpoints 
Secondary endpoint 
Cumulative probability of testosterone suppression to 
< 50 ng/dL prior to dosing on day 4 
Cumulative probability of testosterone suppression to 
< 50 ng/dL prior to dosing on day 15 
Proportion of patients with PSA response at Day 15 
followed with confirmation at day 29 
Orgovyx 
(N = 622) 
56.0 
Leuprorelin 
(N = 308) 
0.0 
98.7 
79.4 
12.1 
19.8 
p-Value 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative probability of testosterone suppression to 
< 20 ng/dL prior to dosing on day 15 
Abbreviations: PSA = prostate-specific antigen. 
78.4 
1.0 
<0.0001 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Orgovyx in all subsets of the paediatric population in treatment of advanced hormone-sensitive 
prostate cancer (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After oral administration of a single 360 mg loading dose, the mean (± standard deviation [± SD]) of 
AUC0-24 and Cmax of relugolix were 985 (± 742) ng.hr/mL and 215 (± 184) ng/mL, respectively. After 
administration of a 120 mg dose once daily, the mean (± SD), Cmax, Cavg (average plasma concentration 
over the 24-hour dosing interval), and Ctrough of relugolix at steady-state were 70 (± 65) ng/mL, 17.0 (± 
7) ng/mL and 10.7 (± 4) ng/mL, respectively.  
The accumulation of exposure to relugolix upon once daily administration of a 120-mg dose of 
relugolix is approximately 2-fold. After once daily administration of relugolix following a 360-mg 
loading dose on the first day of administration, steady state of relugolix is achieved by day 7.  
Absorption 
The absorption of relugolix after oral administration is primarily mediated by intestinal P-gp, for 
which relugolix is a substrate. After oral administration, relugolix is rapidly absorbed, reaching 
quantifiable concentration by 0.5 hours post-dose followed by one or more subsequent absorption 
peaks. The median (range) time to Cmax (tmax) of relugolix is 2.25 hours (0.5 to 5.0 hours). The absolute 
bioavailability of relugolix is 11.6%. 
After administration of a single 120-mg dose of relugolix following consumption of a high-calorie, 
high-fat meal (approximately 800 to 1 000 calories with 500, 220, and 124 from fat, carbohydrate, and 
protein, respectively), the AUC0-∞ and Cmax were decreased 19% and 21%, respectively. The decreases 
in exposure to relugolix with food are not considered to be clinically meaningful and therefore 
Orgovyx may be administered without regard to food (see section 4.2).  
Distribution 
Relugolix is 68 to 71% bound to plasma proteins, primarily to albumin and to a lesser extent to α1-acid 
glycoprotein. The mean blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.78. Based on the apparent volume of distribution 
(Vz), relugolix distributes widely to tissues. The estimated volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) 
is 3 900 L.  
Biotransformation 
In vitro studies indicate that the primary CYP enzymes contributing to the overall hepatic oxidative 
metabolism of relugolix were CYP3A4/5 (45%) > CYP2C8 (37%) > CYP2C19 (< 1%) with the 
oxidative metabolites, Metabolite-A and Metabolite-B, formed by CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C8, 
respectively. 
Elimination 
Once absorbed, approximately 19% of relugolix is eliminated as unchanged active substance in the 
urine and approximately 80% is eliminated through multiple biotransformation pathways, including 
CYP3A and CYP2C8 and multiple other minor metabolic pathways, with a minor contribution from 
biliary secretion of unchanged medicinal product and/or metabolites. Approximately 38% of the 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered dose is excreted as metabolites (other than Metabolite-C) in the faeces and urine. 
Metabolite-C, which is formed by intestinal microflora, is the primary metabolite in faeces (51%) and 
further reflects non-absorbed drug. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Relugolix is associated with greater than dose-proportional increases in exposure at doses below 
approximately 80 mg, which is consistent with the dose-dependent saturation of intestinal P-gp and the 
corresponding decreasing contribution of intestinal P-gp efflux to the oral bioavailability of relugolix 
as the dose is increased. Upon saturation of intestinal P-gp, a greater proportion of the absorption of 
relugolix is governed by passive diffusion, and the exposure to relugolix increases in proportion to 
dose within the 80- to 360-mg dose range. The saturation of intestinal P-gp with higher doses of 
relugolix is demonstrated by the dose-related increases in exposure to relugolix associated with 
erythromycin, a strong P-gp inhibitor (and moderate CYP3A inhibitor), where the increases in 
exposure was less for a 120-mg dose compared with lower doses of relugolix (20 or 40 mg) (see 
section 4.5). 
Special populations  
Population PK (PopPK) and PopPK/PD analyses suggest that there are no clinically meaningful 
differences in exposure of relugolix or testosterone concentrations based on age, race or ethnicity, 
body size (body weight or body mass index) or stage of cancer.  
Renal impairment 
Based upon the dedicated renal impairment studies with 40 mg relugolix, the exposure to relugolix 
(AUC0-t) was increased by 1.5-fold in patients with moderate renal impairment and by up to 2.0-fold in 
patients with severe renal impairment as compared to subjects with normal renal function. The 
increases in patients with moderate renal impairment are not considered to be clinically meaningful. 
With respect to patients with severe renal impairment, caution is warranted upon once daily 
administration of a 120-mg dose of relugolix (see section 4.4).  
The effect of end stage renal disease with or without haemodialysis on the pharmacokinetics of 
relugolix has not been evaluated. The amount of relugolix removed by haemodialysis is unknown.  
Hepatic impairment  
After administration of a single 40-mg dose of relugolix to patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment, the total exposure to relugolix (AUC0-∞) was decreased by 31% or was comparable, 
respectively, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. The mean elimination half-life of 
relugolix in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and healthy control subjects was 
comparable. 
No dose adjustment for Orgovyx in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment is required (see 
section 4.2). The effects of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of relugolix have not 
been evaluated. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data based on conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, 
genotoxicity, or carcinogenic potential reveal no special hazard for humans beyond those discussed 
below.  
In human GnRH-receptor knock-in male mice, oral administration of relugolix decreased prostate and 
seminal vesicle weights at doses ≥ 3 mg/kg twice daily for 28 days. The effects of relugolix were 
reversible, except for testis weight, which did not fully recover within 28 days after drug withdrawal. 
These effects in knock-in male mice are likely associated with the pharmacodynamics of relugolix; 
however, the relevance of these findings to humans is unknown. In a 39-week repeat dose toxicity 
study in monkeys, there were no significant effects on male reproductive organs at oral relugolix doses 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up to 50 mg/kg/day (approximately 36 times the human exposure at the recommended dose of 120 mg 
daily based on AUC). Relugolix (doses of ≥ 1 mg/kg) suppressed LH concentrations in castrated male 
cynomolgus monkeys; however, the suppressive effect of relugolix on LH and sex hormones was not 
evaluated in the 39-week toxicity study in intact monkeys. Therefore, the relevance of the lack of 
effect on reproductive organs in intact male monkeys to humans is unknown. 
In pregnant rabbits orally dosed with relugolix during the period of organogenesis, spontaneous 
abortion and total litter loss were observed at exposure levels (AUC) less than that achieved at the 
recommended human dose of 120 mg/day. No effects on embryofoetal development were observed in 
rats; however, relugolix does not interact significantly with GnRH receptors in that species. 
In lactating rats administered a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg radiolabelled relugolix on post-partum 
day 14, relugolix and/or its metabolites were present in milk at concentrations up to 10-fold higher 
than in plasma at 2 hours post-dose decreasing to low levels by 48 hours post-dose. The majority of 
relugolix-derived radioactivity in milk consisted of unchanged relugolix. 
Environmental risk assessment studies have shown that relugolix may pose a risk for the aquatic 
compartment (see section 6.6). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sodium starch glycolate (E468) 
Hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463) 
Magnesium stearate (E572) 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Titanium dioxide (E171)  
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Carnauba wax (E903) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Orgovyx film-coated tablets are supplied in a bottle. Each high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle 
contains 30 film-coated tablets and a desiccant and is closed with a child-resistant induction seal 
polypropylene (PP) cap.  
Pack sizes of 30 and 90 (3 packs of 30) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
This medicinal product may pose a risk to the environment (see section 5.3). Any unused medicinal 
product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est 6ª planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1642/001 
EU/1/22/1642/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 29 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Orgovyx 120 mg film-coated tablets 
relugolix  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 120 mg of relugolix 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
90 (3 packs of 30) film-coated tablets. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, 
IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est 6ª planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1642/001 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/22/1642/002 90 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 30) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
orgovyx 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Orgovyx 120 mg film-coated tablets 
relugolix  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 120 mg of relugolix 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est 6ª planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1642/001 30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/22/1642/002 90 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 30) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Orgovyx 120 mg film-coated tablets 
relugolix 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Orgovyx is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Orgovyx  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Orgovyx 
Possible side effects  
How to store Orgovyx  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Orgovyx is and what it is used for 
Orgovyx contains the active substance relugolix. It is used for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced prostate cancer who respond to hormone therapy. 
Relugolix works by blocking a step in the process that signals the testes to produce testosterone (the 
male sex hormone). As testosterone can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer, by decreasing it to 
very low levels, relugolix prevents prostate cancer cells from growing and dividing.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Orgovyx 
Do not take Orgovyx 
- 
if you are allergic to relugolix or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Orgovyx if you have any of the following: 
- 
Heart circulation conditions such as heart rhythm problems (arrhythmia). The risk of heart 
rhythm problems may be increased when using Orgovyx. Your doctor may check your body 
salts (electrolytes) and the electrical activity of your heart during treatment with Orgovyx.  
Tell your doctor right away if you get any signs or symptoms like dizziness, fainting, feeling 
that your heart is pounding or racing (palpitations) or chest pain. Those can be symptoms of 
serious heart rhythm problems. 
Liver disease. Liver function may need to be monitored. Use of Orgovyx has not been 
investigated in patients with severe liver disease. 
Renal (kidney) disease. 
Osteoporosis or any condition that affects the strength of your bones. Reduced levels of 
testosterone may lead to thinning of bones. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Monitoring of your disease with a blood test for prostatespecific antigen (PSA). 
Children and adolescents 
Orgovyx is not for use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Orgovyx 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Orgovyx may interfere with some medicines used to treat heart rhythm problems (e.g. quinidine, 
procainamide, amiodarone and sotalol) or might increase the risk of heart rhythm problems when used 
with some other drugs (e.g. methadone [used for pain relief and part of drug addiction detoxification], 
moxifloxacin [an antibiotic], antipsychotics used for serious mental illnesses).  
Other medicines may interfere with the absorption of relugolix, resulting in either an increase in blood 
levels that may increase side effects or decrease in blood levels that may decrease the effectiveness of 
Orgovyx. Examples of medicines that may interfere with Orgovyx include: 
- 
- 
Certain medicines used to treat epilepsy (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital). 
Certain medicines used to treat bacterial infections (e.g. rifampicin, azithromycin, 
erythromycin, clarithromycin, gentamicin, tetracycline).  
Certain medicines used to treat fungal infections (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole). 
Certain medicines used to treat prostate cancer (e.g. apalutamide). 
Herbal remedies containing St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).   
Certain medicines used to treat high blood pressure (e.g. carvedilol, verapamil). 
Certain medicines used to treat arrhythmias (e.g. amiodarone, dronedarone, propafenone, 
quinidine). 
Certain medicines used to treat angina (e.g. ranolazine). 
Certain medicines used as immunosuppressants (e.g. cyclosporine). 
Certain medicines used to treat HIV infections (e.g. ritonavir [or ritonavir-containing 
combinations], efavirenz). 
Certain medicines used to treat hepatitis C (e.g. telaprevir). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Your doctor may therefore change your medications, change when you take your certain medications, 
the dose of the medicines, or increase the dose of Orgovyx. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding, and fertility 
Orgovyx is intended for use in men with prostate cancer. This medicine could possibly have an effect 
on male fertility.  
This medicine is not indicated in women who could become pregnant. It is not used in women who 
are, or may be pregnant or breast-feeding.  
- 
Information for men:  
- 
If you are having sex with a woman who can become pregnant, use a condom and another 
effective birth control method used by your partner, during treatment and for 2 weeks 
after treatment with this medicine, to prevent pregnancy.  
If you are having sex with a pregnant woman, use a condom to protect the unborn child. 
- 
Driving and using machines 
Tiredness and dizziness are very common (tiredness) and common (dizziness) side effects that may 
impair your ability to drive and use machines. These side effects may be due to the treatment or effects 
resulting from the underlying disease. 
Orgovyx contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Orgovyx 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
three tablets on the first day of treatment.  
The recommended dose is:  
• 
•  one tablet once a day after that, taken around the same time each day. 
Your doctor may change your dose if needed. 
Swallow whole. The tablets can be taken with or without food with some liquid.  
If you take more Orgovyx than you should 
There have been no reports of serious harmful effects from taking several doses of this medicine at 
once. If you have taken too many Orgovyx tablets, or you discover that a child has taken some, talk to 
your doctor as soon as possible. Bring the medicine to show the doctor.  
If you forget to take Orgovyx 
If you remember missing a dose less than 12 hours after the usual time you would have taken it, take it 
as soon as you remember and then carry on taking your next tablets at the next days as usual. If you 
miss a dose by more than 12 hours, do not take the dose. Just take your next dose the following day as 
usual.  
If you stop taking Orgovyx 
If you would like to stop taking this medicine, talk to your doctor first. Your doctor will explain the 
effects of stopping treatment and discuss other possibilities with you.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects could be serious. 
Seek urgent medical attention if you develop: 
- 
(angioedema) (uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Rapid swelling of your face, mouth, lips, tongue, throat, abdomen, or arms and legs 
The following side effects have been reported with Orgovyx and are listed below according to the 
frequency with which they occur.  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
hot flush 
diarrhoea 
constipation  
muscle and joint pain 
tiredness 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
low red cell count (anaemia) 
breast enlargement in men (gynaecomastia)  
sleeplessness 
depression 
dizziness 
headache 
high blood pressure 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
upset stomach including feeling sick (nausea) 
increased sweating  
rash 
decreased interest in sex 
increased weight  
increased blood sugar levels 
increased blood fat (triglyceride) levels 
increased blood cholesterol level 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) 
- 
increased liver enzymes  
- 
hives (urticaria) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
- 
heart attack 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
changes in the electrocardiogram (QT prolongation) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed 
in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Orgovyx 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the bottle label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Orgovyx contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is relugolix.  
The other ingredients are mannitol (E421), sodium starch glycolate (E468), hydroxypropyl 
cellulose (E463), magnesium stearate (E572), hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), 
iron oxide red (E172), carnauba wax (E903).  
See “Orgovyx contains sodium” in section 2 for more information. 
What Orgovyx looks like and contents of the pack 
Orgovyx film-coated tablets are light red, almond-shaped, film-coated tablets (11 mm [length] × 8 mm 
[width]) with “R” on one side and “120” on the other side. Orgovyx is available in a plastic white 
bottle containing 30 film-coated tablets, in pack sizes of 30 film-coated tablets and 90 film-coated 
tablets (3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets). Each bottle also contains a desiccant to help to keep your 
medicine dry (protect it from moisture), do not remove the desiccant from the bottle. Each bottle is 
enclosed with an induction-sealed, child-resistant cap.  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est 6ª planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
AT / BE / BG / CY / CZ / DE / DK / EE / FI / FR / HR / HU / IS / IT / LT / LV / LX / MT / NL / NO 
/ PT / PL / RO / SE / SI / SK / UK(NI) / ES 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 93 301 00 64 
EL 
Win Medica Pharmaceutical S.A.  
Tel: +30 210 7488 821 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
