EMA/145519/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005353 
Orgovyx (relugolix) 
An overview of Orgovyx and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Orgovyx and what is it used for? 
Orgovyx is a medicine used to treat advanced cancer of the prostate (a gland of the male reproductive 
system) in adult patients when the cancer is ‘hormone-sensitive’, which means that it responds to 
treatments that reduce the levels of testosterone (the male sex hormone). 
Orgovyx contains the active substance relugolix. 
How is Orgovyx used? 
Orgovyx is available as tablets. The recommended dose is three tablets on the first day of treatment 
and then one tablet once a day taken around the same time each day. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Orgovyx, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Orgovyx work? 
The testicles produce testosterone which can make prostate cancer cells grow. The active substance in 
Orgovyx, relugolix, works by blocking a step in the process that signals the testicles to produce 
testosterone. 
This step involves the release of a hormone called gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the 
brain. By blocking the effects of GnRH, Orgovyx reduces the amount of testosterone in the body and 
slows down the growth of the prostate cancer cells. 
What benefits of Orgovyx have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 934 men with advanced hormone-sensitive prostate cancer showed that 
Orgovyx is effective at reducing the amount of testosterone to levels seen in men whose testicles have 
been surgically removed. 
During the first year, 97% of the patients receiving Orgovyx had the required reduction of testosterone 
levels, compared with 89% of patients receiving leuprorelin (another medicine for prostate cancer). 
These results showed that Orgovyx was as effective as leuprorelin. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Orgovyx? 
The most common side effects with Orgovyx (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are hot 
flushes, muscle and joint pain and tiredness. Other very common side effects are diarrhoea and 
constipation. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions for Orgovyx, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Orgovyx authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Orgovyx’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
A main study showed that Orgovyx was as effective as standard treatment with another medicine 
(leuprorelin) in reducing testosterone levels of patients with advanced hormone-sensitive prostate 
cancer. Orgovyx was generally well-tolerated by most of the patients. Its side effects were mild and 
manageable. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Orgovyx? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Orgovyx have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Orgovyx are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Orgovyx are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Orgovyx 
Orgovyx received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 29 April 2022. 
Further information on Orgovyx can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/orgovyx 
This overview was last updated in 04-2022. 
Orgovyx (relugolix)  
EMA/145519/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
