Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of the risk management plan for Orgovyx (relugolix) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Orgovyx. The RMP details 
important risks of Orgovyx, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Orgovyx’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Orgovyx's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Orgovyx should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Orgovyx should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Orgovyx RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for  
Orgovyx  is  authorized  for  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  advanced  prostate  cancer  who 
respond to hormone therapy. It contains relugolix and it is given by oral route. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Orgovyx’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Orgovyx 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) website: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/orgovyx 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Orgovyx, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about the risks associated with Orgovyx, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Orgovyx is not yet available, it is 
listed under missing information below. 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Orgovyx are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Orgovyx. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks  
Not applicable 
II.C Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligations 
of Orgovyx therapy.   
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
There are no studies required for Orgovyx therapy. 
 
 
