Summary of Risk Management Plan for ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) 
This is a summary of the RMP for ORKAMBI. The RMP details important risks of 
ORKAMBI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about ORKAMBI’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
ORKAMBI’s SmPC and its package leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare 
professionals and patients on how ORKAMBI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for ORKAMBI should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ORKAMBI’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
ORKAMBI tablets are authorised for the treatment of CF in patients aged 6 years and older 
who are homozygous for the F508del-CFTR mutation. ORKAMBI granules are authorised 
for the indicated treatment of children with CF aged 1 to 5 years who are homozygous for the 
F508del-CFTR mutation. See SmPC for the full indication. 
Further information about the evaluation of ORKAMBI’s benefits can be found in 
ORKAMBI’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/orkambi. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of ORKAMBI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about ORKAMBI’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of ORKAMBI, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of ORKAMBI is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of ORKAMBI are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ORKAMBI. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
• Respiratory events 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
• Cataracts 
• Use in pregnant and lactating women 
• Use in patients with organ transplant 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. 
Respiratory events 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Cataracts 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Some respiratory events (e.g., chest tightness and shortness of breath) were observed with 
Orkambi treatment. In two 24-week, placebo-controlled studies, most of these events were 
mild or moderate in severity and did not require discontinuation of Orkambi treatment. These 
events mostly occurred during the first week of treatment and resolved within a few days 
without a need to change the dose of Orkambi.  
Patients who were treated with Orkambi for up to 120 weeks did not show any worsening of 
these events over time. 
Respiratory events can be serious and can sometimes lead to stopping Orkambi treatment, 
particularly in patients with poor lung function. 
During a study in patients aged 6 through 11 years, a decrease in lung function test results was 
observed within hours of taking Orkambi. This decline in lung function mostly resolved after 
2 weeks of treatment. 
General risk factors for respiratory events may include underlying CF and its associated 
pulmonary manifestations.  
Overall, respiratory events occur more frequently and tend to be more severe or lead to 
discontinuation in patients with lower ppFEV1. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2 where advice is given for additional monitoring in patients 
with ppFEV1 <40. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 
Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Study 124 
Lens opacities (cataracts) were observed in newborn rats and were considered IVA-related. 
This finding has not been observed in older animals. The potential relevance of these findings 
in humans is unknown, but given the developmental differences between rats and humans, it is 
unlikely that the finding is relevant to humans 2 years of age and older.  
 
In the IVA and Orkambi programmes, there have been some reports of non-congenital (not 
present since birth or the first year of life) lens abnormalities in patients. The majority of the 
reported events involved small findings and did not affect vision. The relationship of these 
events to IVA monotherapy and Orkambi therapy is uncertain because of the presence of other 
possible causes. 
Risk factors for cataracts include aging, trauma to the eye, ultraviolet light and radiation 
exposure, diabetes mellitus, intraocular (inside the eye) inflammation, and systemic or topical 
corticosteroid use. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2 where advice is given on ophthalmological examinations 
in paediatric patients. 
SmPC Section 5.3 
Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Study 124 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Use in patients with organ transplant 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2 where advice is given on the 
use of Orkambi during pregnancy and breastfeeding. 
SmPC Section 5.3 
Prescription only 
None 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2 where advice is given that 
Orkambi use in this population is not recommended.  
SmPC Section 4.5 and PL Section 2 provide a list of 
immunosuppressants (used after organ transplant) with which 
concomitant use of Orkambi is not recommended. 
Prescription only 
None 
CF: cystic fibrosis; IVA: ivacaftor;  PL: package leaflet; ppFEV1: percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second; 
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Study Name and Title: The Post-Authorisation Efficacy study (PAES) is an observational, 
registry-based study to evaluate the benefits of early initiation of LUM/IVA in CF patients 
aged 2 to 5 years who are homozygous for F508del-CFTR.  
Note: The PAES will be expanded to evaluate patients who initiate LUM/IVA at 1 to less 
than 2 years of age. 
Rationale and Study Objectives:  
The objective of this study is to evaluate benefits of early initiation of LUM/IVA 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable 
