20 September 2018 
EMA/695038/2018 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Orkambi  
lumacaftor / ivacaftor 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/003954/P46/013 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Orkambi 100mg/125mg film-coated tablet 
Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  
EMEA/H/C/003954/P46/013 
Applicant: Vertex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
CHMP Rapporteur:  
Nithyandan Nagercoil 
Start of the procedure: 
30 April 2018 
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 2/23 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Recommendation ......................................................................................... 6 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Clinical  aspects ................................................................................................. 6 
3. Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation ......................... 19 
4. Clarifications requested ......................................................................... 19 
5. Assessment of responses to the points for clarification ......................... 19 
6. Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation following the 
Assessment of MAH responses .................................................................. 22 
7. Outstanding issues ................................................................................ 23 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 3/23 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
ALP 
ALT 
AST 
AT  
AUC 
AUCτ 
βhCG  
BMI 
CF 
CFQ-R 
CFRD 
CFTR 
CFTR 
CRF 
CSR 
CYP 
DEXA 
DIOS 
DOF 
ECG 
EDC 
ETT 
EU 
FDA 
FDC 
adverse event  
alkaline phosphatase 
alanine aminotransferase 
aspartate aminotransferase 
anaerobic threshold 
area under the concentration versus time curve 
AUC during a dosing interval 
beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin 
body mass index 
cystic fibrosis 
Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised 
CF related diabetes 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene 
CF transmembrane conductance regulator protein 
case report form 
clinical study report 
cytochrome P450 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry 
distal intestinal obstruction syndrome 
degrees of freedom   
electrocardiogram 
electronic data capture  
early  termination of treatment  
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
fixed-dose combination 
F508del-CFTR 
CFTR gene mutation with an in-frame deletion of a phenylalanine codon 
corresponding to position 508 of the wild-type protein 
F508del-CFTR 
CFTR protein with a deletion of phenylalanine corresponding to position 508 of the 
wild-type protein 
FAS  
FEV1 
FH  
FVC 
GAD-7 
GERD 
GFR 
GGT 
Full Analysis Set 
forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
fasting hyperglycaemia 
forced vital capacity  
Generalised Anxiety Disorder  
gastroesophageal reflux disease 
glomerular filtration rate 
gamma glutamyl transferase 
HbA1c 
glycosylated haemoglobin 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 4/23 
 
 
 
 
ICH 
IGT 
International Conference on Harmonization 
impaired glucose tolerance  
INDET 
interdeterminate glucose tolerance 
IVA 
LFT 
LLN 
Ls 
LUM 
LUM/IVA 
MedDRA 
MMRM  
NGT  
OE  
OGTT 
PEx 
ppFEV1 
PHQ-8 
PR 
q12h 
QTcB 
RML  
SAE 
SAP 
SBP 
SD 
SE  
SOC 
TEAE 
UK 
ULN 
URTI 
US 
VCO2 
VO2 
VE 
ivacaftor  
liver function test 
lower limit of normal 
least squares 
lumacaftor  
lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
mixed-effects model for repeated measures  
normal glucose tolerance  
ophthalmological examination  
oral glucose tolerance test 
pulmonary exacerbation  
percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
Patient Health Questionnaire 
PR interval, segment 
every 12 hours 
QT interval corrected by Bazett’s formula 
restricted maximum likelihood  
serious adverse event 
statistical analysis plan 
systolic blood pressure 
standard deviation 
standard error  
system organ class 
treatment emergent adverse event 
United Kingdom 
upper limit of normal 
upper respiratory tract infection 
United States 
    carbon dioxide production  
     oxygen consumption 
   pulmonary ventilation 
VO2max   
    maximal oxygen consumption  
WHO-DDE           World Health Organization Drug Dictionary Enhanced 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 5/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
1.  Introduction 
Study VX15-809-112 (Study 112) is submitted as a stand-alone post-authorisation measure under 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 (the ‘Paediatric Regulation’).  
The study was a Phase IV, Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Parallel-design Study of the 
Effect of Lumacaftor/Ivacaftor Combination Therapy on Exercise Tolerance in Subjects Aged 12 Years 
and Older With Cystic Fibrosis, Homozygous for the F508del-CFTR Mutation 
The study was initiated 14 September 2016 (date first eligible subject signed the informed 
consent/assent form) and was completed 23 October 2017 (date last subject completed the last visit) 
CHMP comment 
The submission was received on 13th April, within 6 months of study completion, in accordance with 
the regulation.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
Study VX15-809-112 (Study 112) was designed to evaluate the effect of LUM/IVA on exercise 
tolerance in subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF). Exercise capacity, as measured by maximal oxygen 
consumption (VO2max) during cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET), has been demonstrated to be 
a significant predictor of mortality in patients with CF. A small randomised crossover study and 
published case series suggest that IVA may improve VO2max and other measures of exercise capacity. 
These findings may be independent of improvements in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) 
previously demonstrated with IVA. At the time the Study 112 protocol was developed, there had been 
no prospective randomised evaluation of LUM/IVA effects on exercise capacity as measured by CPET. 
Selected sites also participated in a body composition substudy, a glucose tolerance substudy, or both; 
exercise training is known to change body composition and increase glucose tolerance. 
2.1.  Clinical  aspects 
2.1.1.  Introduction 
LUM/IVA combination therapy is approved as Orkambi™ for the treatment of CF in patients 6 years of 
age and older, homozygous for F508del in the US, Canada, and EU and for CF patients 12 years of age 
and older, homozygous for F508del in Australia, Switzerland, and Israel (indication extension 
applications to include patients 6 through 11 years of age are pending in these regions). Applications 
to extend the indication to CF patients 2 through 5 years of age are also pending in the US, Canada, 
and EU. 
Vertex initiated a postmarketing study on exercise tolerance (Study 112) in CF subjects aged 12 years 
and older, homozygous for F508del. In Study 112, several measures of exercise tolerance and aerobic 
fitness were evaluated based on CPET. In addition, conventional CF endpoints were evaluated for the 
impact of exercise tolerance and training on manifestations of CF. Actigraphy-based evaluations of 
activity and sleep levels provided a further measure of health. Questionnaires were used to assess the 
presence of depression and anxiety symptoms. In a body composition substudy, body composition and 
bone mineral density changes were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). In a 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 6/23 
 
 
 
glucose tolerance substudy, the effect of CFTR modulation on the subjects’ pancreatic endocrine 
function, as measured by glucose levels in the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), was explored. 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Formulation and Composition 
•  200-mg LUM/125-mg IVA film-coated FDC tablets 
•  0-mg LUM/0-mg IVA placebo film-coated tablets 
Dose Regimen 
Approximately 66 subjects were planned to be randomized 1:1 to the following treatment arms: 
• 
• 
LUM 400 mg/IVA 250 mg q12h for 24 weeks 
Placebo q12h for 24 weeks 
2.1.2.  Clinical study  
Study VX15-809-112 (Study 112) 
Title: A Phase 4, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Parallel-design Study of the Effect of 
Lumacaftor/Ivacaftor Combination Therapy on Exercise Tolerance in Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older 
With Cystic Fibrosis, Homozygous for the F508del-CFTR Mutation 
Objectives 
Primary objective: 
The primary objective was to evaluate the effect of LUM/IVA on exercise tolerance in subjects with CF, 
homozygous for the F508del-CFTR mutation. 
Secondary objective: 
The secondary objective was to evaluate the effect of LUM/IVA on manifestations of CF affected by 
exercise tolerance and training.  
Study design 
Study 112 was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, Phase IV study in CF 
subjects aged 12 years and older, homozygous for F508del. Subjects were randomised 1:1 to the 
treatment arms and stratified by percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (ppFEV1) at 
baseline (<70% and ≥70% predicted). Subjects received study drug (LUM/IVA or placebo) for a 24-
week treatment period in addition to their current CF medication regimen. 
This study was designed to evaluate the effect of LUM/IVA on exercise tolerance. Subjects were 
reminded of the standard exercise recommendations for CF patients; their daily activity was tracked 
using an actigraphy device. 
A body composition substudy and a glucose tolerance substudy were conducted at selected sites. 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 7/23 
 
 
 
Schematic of study design: 
CHMP comment 
The overall study design is considered acceptable. The study was conducted over 24 weeks and was 
placebo controlled throughout. Patients were encouraged to exercise in line with standard 
recommendations for CF patients. Actigraphy was used to capture continuous activity level data.  
Study population 
Principal inclusion criteria 
•  Sweat chloride value ≥60 mmol/L by quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis, as documented in 
either of the following: 
i. 
ii. 
subject’s medical records 
sweat chloride test result obtained during screening (to be conducted only if the subject did 
not have a sweat chloride test result in the medical records) 
•  Homozygous for the F508del-CFTR mutation 
•  12 years of age or older 
• 
FEV1  at least 40% and not greater than 90% of predicted at the Screening Visit 
Principal exclusion criteria 
•  Subjects with a history of any comorbidity reviewed at the Screening Visit that could confound 
the results of the study, interfere with the use of CPET as an assessment, or pose an additional 
risk in administering study drug to the subject 
•  Any previous exposure to LUM or IVA 
•  Colonization with organisms associated with a more rapid decline in pulmonary status 
•  Subjects with protocol-defined laboratory values indicative of abnormal liver function or 
abnormal renal function 
CHMP’s comment 
The subjects are Orkambi naïve. The threshold for sweat chloride specified as an  inclusion criterion is 
more conservative than recently issued (2017) consensus recommendations (≥30 mmol/L). 
The study was initiated before extension of the indication to patients 6 years and older homozygous for 
F508del-CFTR 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 8/23 
 
 
 
 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria are considered appropriate.  
Efficacy assessments 
Efficacy assessments were conducted  at the Week 12 and Week 24 visit and included:  
Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET) 
Maximal cardiopulmonary testing was conducted using a cycle that ramps resistance over time, 
according to the modified Godfrey protocol. Data on a range of measures of gas exchange were 
collected including oxygen consumption (VO2), functional VO2 gain, carbon dioxide production (VCO2), 
anerobic threshold (AT) and pulmonary ventilation (VT),  
CHMP’s comment 
The measures are reflective of cardiopulmonary reserve, ventilatory efficiency and exercise intensity.  
Spirometry 
Spirometry was conducted post-bronchodilator and before study drug administration and CPET. 
Spirometry included FEV1, FVC, and FEF (forced expiratory flow in mid-expiration).  
Actigraphy 
Subjects were provided with a non-invasive, wrist-worn actigraphy device to be worn on their non-
dominant hand 24 hours a day. The device continuously collected data on daily activity levels  and 
sleep duration and quality. Actigraphy data were centrally read.  
Patient questionnaires relating to depression and anxiety – PHQ-8 and GAD-7 
Questionnaires (not specific to CF) relating to depression and anxiety were used given high rates of 
these symptoms in CF patients 
Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)  
DEXA scans were used in a body composition substudy to measure bone mineral density.  
Glucose tolerance substudy 
An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)  and HBA1c measurement was used at screening and for 
monitoring of glucose tolerance in case of change due to altered exercise tolerance, conducted in a 
substudy. 
Primary efficacy variable  
Relative change in VO2max during CPET at Week 24 
CHMP’s comment 
The pre-specified primary endpoint was between group (active versus placebo) difference in change 
from baseline VO2max  (mL/kg/min) during CPET at 24 weeks.  
VO2max reflects maximum oxygen consumption during maximal exercise testing.  
An increase in VO2max reflects improvement in exercise tolerance.  
 Secondary efficacy variables 
Key secondary efficacy variable:  
•  Relative Change From Baseline in Exercise Duration During CPET at Week 24 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 9/23 
 
 
 
Additional secondary efficacy variables:  
•  Absolute Change From Baseline in Exercise Duration During CPET at Week 24 
•  Absolute Change From Baseline in VO2max During CPET at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in VO2 at AT at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in Functional VO2 Gain at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in VE Versus VCO2 Slope at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in ppFEV1 at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in BMI at Week 24 
•  Change From Baseline in CFQ-R Respiratory Domain Score at Week 24  
•  Change From Baseline in Total Daily Physical Activity as Determined by Actigraphy at Week 24 
Statistical Methods 
The primary efficacy analysis was conducted using mixed effects model for repeated measures 
(MMRM). The model included percentage change from baseline in VO2max as the dependent variable, 
subject as random effect and treatment, visit, treatment-by-visit interaction as fixed effects, with 
adjustment for gender, age and ppFEV1 at baseline and VO2max at baseline.  
The model was used to test the difference between LUM/IVA and placebo, and the primary result 
obtained from the model was the treatment effect at week 24.  
With an MMRM based on an RML (restricted maximum likelihood) estimation and assuming that data 
were missing at random, no imputation of missing data was performed.  
Results  
Study population 
66 subjects were planned to be randomised (33 per treatment group).  
The final number of patients in each analysis set is provided below:  
All 70 randomised subjects received at least one dose of study treatment and 67 (95.7%)  subjects 
completed both study treatment and study. One subjects discontinued treatment due to study drug 
non-compliance and 2 subjects discontinued due to AEs: 1 with pulmonary exacerbation and 1 with 
multiple AEs, primarily in the SOC of GI disorders. No subjects were excluded from any analysis set.  
Each substudy was planned to include approximately 5 to 10 subjects from the main study. The final 
number of subjects was 24 in the body composition study and 7 in the glucose tolerance.  
All subjects were White. 55.7% were male and the median age was 25.0 years. The median BMI was 
21.2 kg/m2.  
CHMP’s comment 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 10/23 
 
 
 
 
Subject demographics were overall balanced between treatment arms. However, there were more 
males than females (61.8% versus 38.2%) in the active treatment arm whereas the genders were 
balanced in the placebo arm. Females tend to have a more severe disease course than males and the 
higher proportion of males in the LUM/IVA arm could have  benefited overall exercise tolerance in the 
active treatment arm.   
Median BMI was in the normal range. However, the baseline median BMI z-score was less than zero (-
0.03) in the age group under 20 years suggesting the younger patients were under-nourished. BMI 
was balanced between treatment arms at all ages.   
Median ppFEV1 at baseline was 64.1 and 64.5 in the respective treatment arms.  
The common medical history conditions and prior and concomitant medications used were consistent 
with those of a CF population. 
Efficacy results 
Primary analysis 
MMRM analysis of relative change from baseline in VO2max (ml/kg/min) 
during CPET through  Week 24, FAS  
CHMP’s comment 
The primary endpoint was the between group treatment difference in change from baseline VO2max 
through to week 24 . The LS mean treatment difference (95% CI) between active and placebo was -
3.2 (-9.2, 2.9). In both treatment arms there was a worsening of exercise tolerance from baseline 
which was more apparent  in the  LUM/IVA arm (LS mean -6.6 vs -3.5, LUM/IVA vs placebo) and the 
entire CI for mean change from baseline was below zero  for the within LUM/IVA -treatment group 
(95% CI of LS mean -11.3, -2.0, p=0.0061).  
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 11/23 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint for the treatment difference was not met (p=0.3021).  
Relative change from baseline in VO2max (ml/kg/min) during CPET at each 
visit, FAS  
CHMP’s comment 
Three sensitivity analyses (MMRM analysis that included only on-treatment measurements; rank of 
relative change in VO2max during CPET from baseline at week 2 analysed using ANCOVA; MMRM 
analysis of VO2max in ml/min) all demonstrated a consistent trend in favour of placebo i.e. more 
evident  deterioration in exercise tolerance with LUM/IVA.  
Pre-specified subgroup analyses 
Subgroups by age 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 12/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup MMRM analyses of relative change from baseline in VO2max 
(ml/kg/min) during CPET at week 24, FAS 
CHMP’s comment 
The deterioration in exercise tolerance was demonstrated in both treatment arms and both age groups 
although the treatment difference was greater in the under 18 years age group (LUM/IVA vs placebo, 
LS mean; 95% CI:  -5.0; -16.2, 6.2 versus -0.2; -8.0, 7.5). The MAH asserts that the greater 
treatment difference in younger patients (LS mean difference -5.0 versus -0.2) is due to the challenge 
of conducting CPET in this age group, leading to greater variability. It is acknowledged that maximal 
exercise testing  - as performed – will require greater cooperation and motivation that could be more 
challenging with younger patients. However, the same challenge will be faced in both treatment arms 
and the confidence intervals are wide in both age groups. Moreover, the subgroup analysis is 
consistent with the primary analysis, and the sensitivity analyses,  which demonstrate a consistent 
trend to greater deterioration in maximal oxygen consumption (exercise tolerance under maximal 
testing conditions)  from baseline in LUM/IVA treated subjects compared with placebo treated subjects. 
This is also despite the higher proportion of males in the LUM/IVA arm which could have  benefited 
exercise tolerance outcomes on active treatment given that females tend to have a worse disease 
course.  
The results of the primary analysis are therefore of concern as the data do not support meaningful 
benefit on cardiopulmonary function after 6 months of treatment despite the previous pivotal study 
evidence of improvement in ppFEV1 with Orkambi. It is acknowledged that the data are not conclusive 
given the small size of the study and the challenges of conducting exercise testing under maximal 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 13/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conditions in the paediatric population. It may also be challenging to demonstrate meaningful 
improvement in cardiorespiratory function, sufficient to reveal difference in maximal exercise 
tolerance,  in patients with the most severe manifestation of CF at a 6 month time point. Nonetheless, 
further clarification is required including consideration of how more definitive data may be obtained.  
The MAH is requested to provide additional randomised controlled trial data, if  available,  from 
alternative measures of exercise tolerance such as the 6MWT (6  minute walk test) or modified shuttle 
walk test, or using alternative measures of exercise tolerance that do not require maximum effort.  
In addition, given that CF guidelines recommend that exercise tolerance,  using CPET or the like, is 
monitored on an annual basis in CF patients, CF registry data relevant to exercise tolerance in F508del 
homozygous patients treated with Orkambi  compared with F508del homozygous patients receiving 
standard of care is also sought. The MAH is furthermore requested to discuss more generally  how 
exercise tolerance is being captured in the ongoing registry studies, and whether this could be 
intensified in view of the inconclusive data from this study.  
Key Secondary Endpoint 
Exercise Duration During CPET  
The key secondary endpoint was not met. The LS mean treatment difference in the relative change in 
exercise duration during CPET from baseline at Week 24 was -3.2 percentage points (P = 0.1894); the 
within-group LS mean change in exercise duration was -2.8% in the LUM/IVA group and 0.4% in the 
placebo group. Results were similar in the analysis based on the absolute change from baseline.  
CHMP’s comment 
The key secondary endpoint was not met and was consistent with the primary analysis in suggesting a 
greater deterioration in exercise tolerance from baseline in the LUM/IVA treated patients.  
Additional Secondary Endpoints 
Exercise tolerance endpoints 
Additional secondary endpoints related to exercise tolerance were not met. These endpoints were 
evaluated using CPET and included absolute changes from baseline in oxygen consumption (VO2) at 
anaerobic threshold (AT), in VO2 functional gain, and in the pulmonary ventilation (VE) versus carbon 
dioxide production (VCO2) slope. 
VO2 at AT  
At Week 24, the LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change from baseline in VO2 at AT was 
-149.6 mL/min (P = 0.0439). The within-group LS mean change in VO2 at AT was -55.1 mL/min in the 
LUM/IVA group and 94.6 mL/min in the placebo group. 
Functional VO2 Gain  
At Week 24, the LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change from baseline in functional VO2 
gain was -0.60 mL/min/watt (P = 0.0226). The within-group LS mean change in functional VO2 gain 
was -0.53 mL/min/watt in the LUM/IVA group and 0.07 mL/min/watt in the placebo group. 
VE Versus VCO2: 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 14/23 
 
 
 
 
 
At Week 24, the LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change from baseline in VE versus VCO2 
slope was 0.3. The within-group LS mean change in VE versus VCO2 slope was 0.8 in the LUM/IVA 
group and 0.5 in the placebo group. 
CHMP’s comment 
Additional secondary endpoints reflective of exercise tolerance were not met and were consistent with 
the primary analysis in suggesting a trend in favour of  placebo i.e. greater worsening of exercise 
tolerance in patients treated with LUM/IVA compared  to placebo.  
There is nothing in the baseline data to suggest that the analysis has been biased in favour of placebo 
and if anything, the gender imbalance would have favoured active treatment.  
Conventional CF endpoints 
Secondary endpoints related to standard assessments of CF were also evaluated. These included 
absolute changes from baseline in ppFEV1, body mass index (BMI), and the Cystic Fibrosis 
Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) respiratory domain score (pooled). 
Spirometry: 
The LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change in ppFEV1 from baseline at Week 24 was 3.4 
percentage points (P = 0.1460); the within-group LS mean change in ppFEV1 was -0.6 percentage 
points in the LUM/IVA group (P = 0.7438) and -4.0 percentage points in the placebo group (P = 
0.0189). 
MMRM analysis of absolute change from baseline in ppFEV1 at Week 24 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 15/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP’s comment 
The results for  ppFEV1 were inconsistent with the exercise tolerance outcomes in demonstrating a 
greater decline from baseline in ppFEV1 in the placebo treated arm (LS mean -4.0, 95% CI -7.3, -0.7) 
compared with the LUM/IVA arm (LS mean -0.6, 95% CI -4.0, 2.9) suggesting a more favourable 
outcome on respiratory function in LUM/IVA treated patients. However, improvement in ppFEV1 might 
have been expected from the pivotal registration studies and this was not demonstrated. The MAH 
attributes this to non-standard procedures for spirometric assessment which is difficult to understand 
when specialist centres were involved in the study. A discrepancy between ppFEV1 and exercise 
tolerance has been reported by previous investigators and questions the robustness of spirometric 
outcomes for pivotal efficacy assessment although exercise tolerance may also present challenges to 
interpretation. Discussion of the discrepancy between spirometry and exercise tolerance is invited.  
BMI: 
The LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change in BMI from baseline at Week 24 was 0.2 
kg/m2 (P = 0.3961); the within-group LS mean change in BMI was 0.5 kg/m2 in the LUM/IVA group (P 
= 0.0054) and 0.3 kg/m2 in the placebo group (P = 0.0760) 
 CFQ-R  
The LS mean treatment difference in the absolute change in CFQ-R respiratory domain score from 
baseline at Week 24 was 6.2 (P = 0.1257); the within-group LS mean change in CFQ-R respiratory 
domain score was 0.1 in the LUM/IVA group and -6.1 in the placebo group. 
CHMP’s comment 
BMI and CFQ-R did not reveal any meaningful treatment difference 
Depression and anxiety endpoints 
Several recent studies have documented the high rates of symptoms of depression and anxiety in 
patients with CF. 
PHQ-8 and GAD-7 
No clinically meaningful trends between groups or within-group were observed in the endpoints of 
Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-8) and Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7). 
Actigraphy-based endpoints 
Exercise tolerance can be affected by a number of factors, including activity level. Activity levels were 
thus monitored using actigraphy, along with sleep/wake data that could reflect both functional and 
physiological health of subjects. 
Total Daily Physical Activity, Sleep Time During the Night, and Time Above Sedentary Duration 
No clinically meaningful trends were observed between groups or within-group in the endpoints of 
physical activity, sleep duration, or time above sedentary duration.  
Correlation analyses 
No clinically meaningful correlations were observed between the CPET endpoints compared with the 
conventional CF endpoint of ppFEV1 (VX15-809-112 CSR/Section 11.2.1.3.13). 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 16/23 
 
 
 
 
Sub-studies  
Twenty-four subjects (9 in the placebo group and 15 in the LUM/IVA group) participated in the body 
composition substudy, which evaluated changes in body composition and bone mineral density by 
DEXA. Exercise training has been shown to increase bone mineral density and change body 
composition. 
Seven subjects participated in the glucose tolerance substudy, which evaluated changes in blood 
glucose levels during OGTT. The OGTT is the most sensitive and the recommended screening tool for 
CF-related diabetes. 
No clinically meaningful trends between groups or within-group were observed in the body composition 
and glucose tolerance substudies, each of which had limited population sizes. 
Discussion on efficacy 
Study 112 was a small study conducted in 70 patients over 24 weeks, designed to investigate exercise 
tolerance  in CF patients aged 12 years and above, homozygous for F508 del, randomised to receive 
either Orkambi or placebo.  
Efficacy assessments were conducted at Week 12 and Week 24. The primary efficacy variable was 
change from baseline in maximal oxygen consumption VO2max , measured during cardiopulmonary 
exercise testing using a ramped cycle ergometer requiring maximum effort. The primary endpoint 
evaluated the between group treatment difference (LUM/IVA versus placebo) analysed using  MMRM 
through to Week 24.  
A range of  additional secondary endpoints that evaluated exercise tolerance including gas exchange 
and exercise duration were evaluated.  
Conventional CF endpoints (ppFEV1 by spirometry, BMI and CFQ-R) were also evaluated as well as 
depression and anxiety endpoints.  
Activity levels were assessed by continuous actigraphy.  
Substudies of bone mineral density and glucose tolerance were also conducted.  
Results 
The primary endpoint for the treatment difference in change baseline VO2max through to week 24 was 
not met (p=0.3021). The LS mean treatment difference (95% CI) between active and placebo was -
3.2 (-9.2, 2.9). In both treatment arms there was a worsening of exercise tolerance from baseline 
which was more apparent  in the  LUM/IVA arm (LS mean -6.6 vs -3.5, LUM/IVA vs placebo) and the 
entire CI for mean change from baseline was below zero  for the within LUM/IVA -treatment group 
(95% CI of LS mean -11.3, -2.0, p=0.0061).  
Sensitivity analyses also demonstrated a trend in favour of placebo.  
Subgroup analysis by age (≥12 yrs to < 18  yrs and ≥ 18 yrs) demonstrated deterioration in exercise 
tolerance  in both treatment arms and both age groups although the treatment difference was greater 
in the under 18 years age group (LUM/IVA vs placebo, LS mean; 95% CI:  -5.0; -16.2, 6.2 versus -
0.2; -8.0, 7.5). 
The MAH asserts that the greater treatment difference in younger patients (LS mean difference -5.0 
versus -0.2) is due to the challenge of conducting CPET in this age group, leading to greater variability. 
It is acknowledged that maximal exercise testing  - as performed – will require greater cooperation and 
motivation that could be more challenging with younger patients. However, the same challenge will be 
faced in both treatment arms and the confidence intervals are wide in both age groups. Moreover, the 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 17/23 
 
 
 
subgroup analysis is consistent with the primary analysis, and the sensitivity analyses,  which 
demonstrate a consistent trend to greater deterioration in maximal oxygen consumption (exercise 
tolerance under maximal testing conditions)  from baseline in LUM/IVA treated subjects compared with 
placebo treated subjects. This is also despite the higher proportion of males in the LUM/IVA arm which 
could have  benefited exercise tolerance outcomes on active treatment given that females tend to have 
a worse disease course.  
The results of the primary analysis are therefore of concern as the data do not support meaningful 
benefit on cardiopulmonary function after 6 months of treatment despite the previous pivotal study 
evidence of improvement in ppFEV1 with Orkambi. It is acknowledged that the data are not conclusive 
given the small size of the study and the challenges of conducting exercise testing under maximal 
conditions in the paediatric population. It may also be challenging to demonstrate meaningful 
improvement in cardiorespiratory function, sufficient to reveal difference in maximal exercise 
tolerance,  in patients with the most severe manifestation of CF at a 6 month time point. Nonetheless, 
further clarification is required including consideration of how more definitive data may be obtained.  
The secondary endpoints do not provide reassurance. None of the secondary endpoints reflective of 
exercise tolerance were met, and as with the primary efficacy analysis, there was a trend in favour of 
placebo i.e. greater worsening of exercise tolerance in patients treated with LUM/IVA compared  to 
placebo.  
The results for  ppFEV1 were inconsistent with the exercise tolerance outcomes in demonstrating a 
greater decline from baseline in ppFEV1 in the placebo treated arm (LS mean -4.0, 95% CI -7.3, -0.7) 
compared with the LUM/IVA arm (LS mean -0.6, 95% CI -4.0, 2.9) suggesting a more favourable 
outcome on respiratory function in LUM/IVA treated patients. However, improvement in ppFEV1 might 
have been expected from the pivotal registration studies and this was not demonstrated. The MAH 
attributes this to non-standard procedures for spirometric assessment which is difficult to understand 
when specialist centres were involved in the study. A discrepancy between ppFEV1 and exercise 
tolerance has been reported by previous investigators and questions the robustness of spirometric 
outcomes for pivotal efficacy assessment although exercise tolerance may also present challenges to 
interpretation. Discussion of the discrepancy between spirometry and exercise tolerance is invited. 
BMI and CFQ-R, or depression and anxiety scores, did not reveal any meaningful treatment difference.  
No clinically meaningful trends in activity levels were observed from actigraphy.  
 No clinically meaningful trends between groups or within-group were observed in the body 
composition and glucose tolerance substudies, although very small numbers of patients were studied 
(24 and 7 respectively).   
Safety  
Administration of LUM 400 mg/IVA 250 mg q12h for approximately 24 weeks was generally safe and 
well tolerated in subjects aged 12 years and older with CF. The majority of subjects had AEs that were 
considered mild or moderate in severity; there were no deaths or life-threatening AEs. The most 
common serious adverse event (≥10% in any treatment group) was infective PEx of CF, which is a 
typical background event in subjects with CF. The most common AEs (≥15% in any treatment group) 
were infective PEx of CF, respiration abnormal, and cough. Two (5.9%) subjects in the LUM/IVA group 
had AEs that led to treatment discontinuation: 1 subject had an infective PEx of CF, and 1 subject had 
several AEs, primarily gastrointestinal in nature. One subject in the LUM/IVA group had AEs that led to 
study drug interruption. No subjects had treatment discontinuations or interruptions in the placebo 
group. No important trends attributable to LUM/IVA were identified from chemistry, hematology, 
urinalysis, pulse oximetry, vital signs, or ophthalmologic examinations. No subjects in the LUM/IVA 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 18/23 
 
 
 
group had elevations above the predefined thresholds in alanine transaminase, aspartate 
transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, or total bilirubin.  
Overall, the safety results were generally consistent with the known safety profile of LUM/IVA; no new 
safety concerns were identified. 
3.  Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation  
A deterioration in exercise tolerance was observed in both Orkambi and placebo treated patients over a 
24 week period. Although the results can be considered inconclusive due in part due to the small size 
of the study and the challenges posed by exercise testing requiring maximum effort in a paediatric 
population, there is concern over a trend to consistently greater deterioration from baseline in exercise 
tolerance outcomes in the Orkambi arm compared to the placebo arm. There is nothing in the baseline 
data to suggest bias in favour of placebo and if anything, a gender imbalance could have biased in 
favour of active treatment. A number of clarifications are therefore sought and in particular, 
consideration of how more definitive data may be obtained. 
4.  Clarifications requested 
1.  The MAH is requested to provide additional randomised controlled trial data, if  available,  from 
alternative measures of exercise tolerance such as the 6MWT (6  minute walk test) or modified 
shuttle walk test, or using alternative measures of exercise tolerance that do not require 
maximum effort.  
2.  Given that CF guidelines recommend that exercise tolerance,  using CPET or similar, is 
monitored on an annual basis in CF patients, CF registry data relevant to exercise tolerance in 
F508del homozygous patients treated with Orkambi  compared with F508del homozygous 
patients receiving standard of care is sought. The MAH is furthermore requested to discuss 
more generally  how exercise tolerance is being captured in the ongoing CF registry studies, 
and whether this could be intensified in view of the inconclusive data from this study.  
3.  Discussion of the discrepancy between spirometry and exercise tolerance is sought.  
4.  Discussion of the discrepancy between lack of improvement in ppFEV1 with Orkambi in the 
Phase IV study, compared with the improvement in spirometry demonstrated in the pivotal 
registration studies for Orkambi, is also sought. A comparison with spirometric data obtained 
with Orkambi from registry data, is also sought. Similar to the Phase IV study, registry data  
will have been collected under real world conditions.  
5.  Assessment of responses to the points for clarification  
Question 1 
The MAH is requested to provide additional randomised controlled trial data, if  available,  
from alternative measures of exercise tolerance such as the 6MWT (6  minute walk test) or 
modified shuttle walk test, or using alternative measures of exercise tolerance that do not 
require maximum effort.  
MAH response 
No additional data are available from Vertex-sponsored, randomized, placebo-controlled trials of the 
effect of LUM/IVA on maximal or submaximal exercise tolerance. After searching the literature, Vertex 
has not found any additional published, randomized, placebo-controlled trials of LUM/IVA’s effects on 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 19/23 
 
 
 
exercise tolerance, including alternative measures of tolerance, such as the 6-minute walk test or the 
shuttle walk test. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
No additional RCT data are available.  
Point unresolved.  
Question 2 
Given that CF guidelines recommend that exercise tolerance,  using CPET or similar, is 
monitored on an annual basis in CF patients, CF registry data relevant to exercise tolerance 
in F508del homozygous patients treated with Orkambi  compared with F508del homozygous 
patients receiving standard of care is sought. The MAH is furthermore requested to discuss 
more generally  how exercise tolerance is being captured in the ongoing CF registry studies, 
and whether this could be intensified in view of the inconclusive data from this study. 
MAH response 
It is Vertex’s understanding that the data captured in the CF patient registries are limited to tests that 
are performed routinely in CF clinics (decisions regarding registry data collection are made by the 
registry governing bodies). Although annual exercise tolerance testing is recommended for patients 
with CF, it is our understanding that this is not routinely implemented in CF clinics in the US, EU, or 
Australia at present. Consequently, based on evaluation of the data collection forms and/or published 
data reports from the US, European, and Australian CF registries, data on exercise tolerance are either 
not collected by the registries, or data are very limited and insufficient for robust evaluation of this 
endpoint. 
Vertex, as a manufacturer, cannot influence clinics’ adherence to the recommendation to perform 
exercise testing. We do not believe that the outcome of this small, exploratory study would merit 
registry-wide efforts to intensify collection of exercise tolerance data. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
The MAH asserts that in routine clinical practice, exercise tolerance is not monitored and therefore CF 
registry data are not available.  
Point unresolved. 
Question 3 
Discussion of the discrepancy between spirometry and exercise tolerance is sought.  
MAH response  
Given the limitations of the spirometry and exercise tolerance data in this small exploratory study, it is 
not possible to draw meaningful conclusions about the potential discrepancy between these endpoints. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
No discussion has been provided.  
Point unresolved.  
Question 4  
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 20/23 
 
 
 
Discussion of the discrepancy between lack of improvement in ppFEV1 with Orkambi in the 
Phase IV study, compared with the improvement in spirometry demonstrated in the pivotal 
registration studies for Orkambi, is also sought. A comparison with spirometric data 
obtained with Orkambi from registry data, is also sought. Similar to the Phase IV study, 
registry data  will have been collected under real world conditions. 
MAH response 
Comparison to Phase 3 Studies 
The pivotal Phase 3 studies (Study 103 and 104) were powered for ppFEV1 and demonstrated a 
statistically significant benefit of LUM/IVA on multiple clinical endpoints, including ppFEV1. In contrast, 
evaluation of ppFEV1 was not the primary objective of Study 112; the study was not powered to detect 
a treatment effect in this endpoint. The expected effect on lung function was not observed, which limits 
the ability to draw any conclusions from this study. As described above, differences in the spirometry 
equipment used in Study 112 compared to the pivotal Phase 3 studies may also have impacted the 
variability of the spirometry results, further limiting the ability to interpret these data. 
Comparison to Real-World Registry Data 
Limited real-world spirometry data are available at this time. Data from the CFF patient registry were 
evaluated in the first annual interim analysis report of the LUM/IVA Post-Authorization Safety Study 
(PASS). This registry study was not designed to evaluate short-term improvements in spirometry and 
focused instead on evaluation of long-term patterns. Furthermore, the first interim report was limited 
by the fact that many subjects were treated with LUM/IVA for less than a year at the time of data 
analysis. 
Despite this limitation, the results of this report were favourable with respect to clinically important 
outcomes in LUM/IVA-treated patients. Patients who were treated with LUM/IVA (N = 5,508) 
demonstrated numerically lower lung function (ppFEV1) decline from pre-treatment baseline year 
(2014) through 2016, as compared to the comparator cohort of F508del heterozygous patients with a 
similar baseline disease state who had never received marketed LUM/IVA or IVA monotherapy (N = 
3,990). No new safety concerns were identified. These findings are consistent with the current 
understanding of LUM/IVA’s safety profile and clinical benefits. 
Conclusion 
The Phase 3 pivotal data provide robust evidence of LUM/IVA’s safety and efficacy. Ongoing clinical 
experience continues to support a positive benefit-risk profile for LUM/IVA. Study 112 was a small, 
exploratory study that cannot be used to draw meaningful conclusions about efficacy. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
Although study 112 did not replicate the improvement in ppFEV1 demonstrated in the pivotal 103/104 
studies of LUM/IVA in homozygous F508del patients,  there was a lesser decline from baseline in mean 
ppFEV1 in patients receiving LUM/IVA, compared  with  those receiving placebo. This  is consistent with 
the first annual interim analysis report from the PASS of LUM/IVA treated F508del homozygous 
patients compared to a cohort of untreated patients where a lessening of decline but no improvement 
in ppFEV1 was observed in LUM/IVA treated patients. A lessening of decline in ppFEV1 is therefore 
likely to represent the efficacy benefit in the real world.  
Point resolved.  
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 21/23 
 
 
 
 
6.  Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation 
following the Assessment of MAH responses 
Three of the above clarification points remain unresolved.  
Study VX15-809-112 (Study 112) was submitted as a stand-alone post-authorisation measure under 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 (the ‘Paediatric Regulation’). The intention of Study 
112was to obtain  data based on exercise tolerance to support  clinical relevance of the benefit on 
pulmonary function with Orkambi  in F508del patients from the age of 12 years, that had been 
demonstrated  in the pivotal registration studies.  
Study 112 demonstrates a concerning trend to consistently greater deterioration from baseline in 
exercise tolerance outcomes in the LUM/IVA arm compared to the placebo arm. The MAH asserts in the 
responses that no conclusions can be drawn from the data given that study 112 was small and 
exploratory in nature and that RCT or registry data on exercise tolerance in CF patients are not 
available to help address the concern in relation to the trend to worse exercise performance with 
LUM/IVA.  
There is also concern at the inconsistency between the exercise tolerance outcomes and change from 
baseline in ppFEV1 where there was a lesser deterioration from baseline with LUM/IVA compared to 
placebo, in contrast to the exercise tolerance endpoints.  
A further discrepancy was noted in the failure of study 112 to replicate improvement in ppFEV1, that 
had previously been demonstrated in the pivotal studies 103 and 104. The MAH reports that this is 
consistent with the  first annual interim analysis  from the PASS of LUM/IVA treated F508del 
homozygous patients compared to a cohort of untreated patients where a lessening of decline but no 
improvement in ppFEV1 was observed in LUM/IVA treated patients. A lessening of decline in ppFEV1 is 
therefore likely to represent the efficacy benefit in the real world. This point is considered resolved.  
However, the points in relation to exercise tolerance have not been adequately addressed. It is not 
sufficient for the MAH to dismiss study 112 as being exploratory without proposing an alternative way 
in which to address the objective of the PAM. It is acknowledged that the study may have been 
inadequately powered to demonstrate a treatment difference for LUM/IVA from placebo. However, at 
least a trend to benefit could have been reasonably expected, particularly given the trend to benefit in 
respiratory function, albeit not of the same order as that in the pivotal registration studies. Instead,  
the results from study 112 suggest a consistent trend to worsening of exercise tolerance in Orkambi 
treated patients, compared to placebo, which was not expected.  
The MAH dismisses the study 112 results as inconclusive due to the small size and exploratory nature 
of the study. However, this precludes adequate discussion around the clinical implications of any  
effects of LUM/IVA on exercise performance, be these favourable or unfavourable,  in the context of 
overall benefit-risk for the product. A more reliable dataset would therefore be required to inform this 
discussion, in which regard the MAH may wish to consider conducting a further Phase IV study to 
investigate maximal and submaximal exercise tolerance in F508del homozygous CF patients from the 
age of 12 years.  
In conclusion, as requested by the legal requirements of Art. 46 of Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006, the results of Study 112 were submitted to EMA within six months of study 
completion. 
The MAH asserts that additional RCT data, or registry data, on exercise tolerance in CF 
patients are not available. These were sought as potential alternative ways of satisfying the 
PAM. In the absence of alternative sources of information, study 112, submitted as a stand-
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
alone post-authorisation measure, is considered to have failed in its objective to evaluate 
the effect of LUM/IVA on exercise tolerance in patients with cystic fibrosis, homozygous for 
the F508del-CFTR mutation.  
7.  Outstanding issues 
Not applicable 
Final assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/695038/2018  
Page 23/23 
 
 
 
