EMA/214254/2023  
EMEA/H/C/003954 
Orkambi (lumacaftor / ivacaftor) 
An overview of Orkambi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Orkambi and what is it used for? 
Orkambi is a medicine used to treat cystic fibrosis in patients aged 1 year and above. Cystic fibrosis is 
an inherited disease that has severe effects on the lungs, the digestive system (gut) and other organs. 
Orkambi is used in patients who have a genetic mutation (change) called the F508del mutation. This 
mutation affects the gene for a protein called cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator 
(CFTR). Orkambi is used in patients who have inherited the mutation from both parents. 
Orkambi contains the active substances lumacaftor and ivacaftor. 
How is Orkambi used? 
Orkambi can only be prescribed by a doctor with experience in the treatment of cystic fibrosis.  
Orkambi is available as tablets and granules to be taken by mouth. It is taken every 12 hours with fat-
containing foods. 
For more information about using Orkambi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Orkambi work? 
Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene. This gene makes the CFTR protein, which is 
involved in regulating the production of mucus and digestive juices. The mutations reduce the amount 
of CFTR protein on the cell surface or affect the way the protein works. 
One of the active substances in Orkambi, lumacaftor, increases the amount of CFTR protein on the cell 
and the other, ivacaftor, increases the activity of the defective CFTR protein. These actions make 
mucus and digestive juices less thick. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Orkambi have been shown in studies? 
Orkambi improved lung function in two main studies involving 1,108 cystic fibrosis patients aged 12 
years and above, and one study involving 204 children aged 6 to 11 years. All patients had the 
F508del mutation in the CFTR gene. In these three studies, Orkambi was compared with placebo (a 
dummy treatment), both added to patients’ usual therapy.  
In the two studies in patients aged 12 years and above, the main measure of effectiveness was based 
on improvement in patients’ predicted FEV1 which is a measure of how well the lungs work. Results 
from the first study showed that after 24 weeks of treatment patients who took Orkambi had an 
average improvement in FEV1 of 2.41 percentage points more than those who took placebo; this figure 
was 2.65 in the second study. Treatment with Orkambi also reduced the number of exacerbations 
(flare-ups) requiring hospital admission or antibiotic therapy. Overall the number of exacerbations was 
reduced by 39% when compared with placebo. 
In the study in children aged 6 to 11 years, the main measure of effectiveness was a decrease in the 
lung clearance index (LCI2.5), which indicates an improvement in lung ventilation. After 24 weeks of 
treatment, LCI2.5 decreased by 1.01 in patients treated with Orkambi compared with an increase of 
0.08 in patients treated with placebo. 
Additional studies have investigated the effects of Orkambi in children aged 1 to 5 years. 
One study involved 60 children aged 2 to 5 years with cystic fibrosis who had the F508del mutation in 
both copies of the CFTR gene. All children were treated with Orkambi. There was improvement in CFTR 
protein activity, as measured by a decrease in the amount of chloride in sweat after 24 weeks of 
treatment. Patients with cystic fibrosis have high levels of chloride in sweat due to CFTR not working 
properly. Stopping treatment with Orkambi caused chloride levels to rise again. The children's growth 
(measured in terms of the body mass index, weight and height) also improved. 
A second study involved 46 children aged 12 to 23 months with cystic fibrosis who had the F508del 
mutation in both copies of the CFTR gene. All children were treated with Orkambi. The study showed a 
decrease in the amount of chloride in sweat after 24 weeks of treatment, which was comparable to 
that seen in older children treated with Orkambi in separate studies.  
What are the risks associated with Orkambi? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Orkambi, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Orkambi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
dyspnoea (shortness of breath), diarrhoea and nausea (feeling sick). Serious side effects (which may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people) include liver problems such as raised liver enzymes, cholestatic hepatitis 
(build-up of bile leading to inflammation of the liver) and hepatic encephalopathy (a brain disease 
caused by liver problems).  
Why is Orkambi authorised in the EU? 
Orkambi has been shown to improve lung function and lung ventilation in patients with cystic fibrosis 
from 6 years of age. The effects of Orkambi in children aged 1 to 5 years were considered to be similar 
to those in older children and a long-term study will be carried out to confirm this. 
The beneficial effects of Orkambi were smaller than expected for a medicine that treats the mechanism 
of the disease rather than its symptoms. However, as cystic fibrosis caused by F508del mutation is 
particularly severe, the observed effects were considered clinically relevant for patients with no other 
Orkambi  
EMA/214254/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment options. Orkambi’s side effects mainly affected the gut and breathing and were generally 
considered mild to moderate and manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Orkambi’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Orkambi? 
The company that markets Orkambi is required to conduct a long-term study in children aged 1 to 5 
years with cystic fibrosis who have the F508del mutation in both copies of the CFTR gene. The study is 
to evaluate how the disease progresses in children who are treated with Orkambi compared to children 
who are not treated with Orkambi. As part of this study, the long-term safety of Orkambi in children 
aged 12 to 23 months will be further assessed. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Orkambi have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Orkambi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Orkambi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Orkambi 
Orkambi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 November 2015. 
Further information on Orkambi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Orkambi.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Orkambi  
EMA/214254/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
