PART VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Orphacol (cholic 
acid) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Orphacol. The RMP details important risks 
of Orphacol, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Orphacol’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Orphacol’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Orphacol should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Orphacol should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to  the current ones will be included in updates of  Orphacol’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Orphacol  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  inborn  errors  in  primary  bile  acid  synthesis  due  to 
3β-Hydroxy-Δ5-C27-steroid  oxidoreductase  deficiency  or  Δ4-3-Oxosteroid-5β-reductase  deficiency 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains cholic acid as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Orphacol’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Orphacol’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Orphacol, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Orphacol’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
−  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
− 
−  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
−  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied to  the  patient  (e.g.  with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Orphacol,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Orphacol  is  not  yet  available,  it  is  listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Orphacol  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Orphacol. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Prescription of a supratherapeutic dose 
Gallstones 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term data in large patient population 
Medication error in infants and children 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Identified risk: Prescription of a supratherapeutic dose 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
This identified risk is based on reported cases of cholic 
acid  use  in  supratherapeutic  doses  in  clinical  practice 
[1-3]. 
Besides the lower weight paediatric patients, there are 
currently  no  other  established  risk  factors  or  risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2 
PL section 3 
Monitoring of liver parameters, serum and/or urine bile 
acid  levels  in  SmPC  section  4.2  Restricted  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational  material  through  Orphacol  Educational 
Web Site 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Potential risk: Gallstones 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
This  potential  risk  is  based  on  non-clinical  data  and 
reported  cases  of  gallstone  development  associated 
with cholic acid use in clinical practice [3-7]. 
There are no currently established risk factors and risk 
groups, although patients with 3β-HSD deficiency have 
higher prevalence  of  gallstones which  may be related 
 
 
Potential risk: Gallstones 
to  the  disease,  e.g.  through  lack  of  bile  flux,  super-
saturation of bile, or a lithogenic effect of the abnormal 
3,7-dihydroxy- 
3,7,12-trihydroxy-5-
cholenoic acids. 
and 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.8 
PL section 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational  material  through  Orphacol  Educational 
Web Site 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Potential risk: Carcinogenicity 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
This  potential  risk 
is  based  on  the  short-  or 
medium-term  non-clinical  carcinogenicity  studies 
available in the literature. In animal studies, bile acids 
such as cholic acid have shown to increase the risk of 
certain  cancers.  In  humans,  a  high  concentration  of 
intestinal bile acid correlates with an increased risk for 
colon  cancer.  However,  a  causal  link  has  not  been 
confirmed. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not yet established. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Missing information: Long-term data in large patient population 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 5.1 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database  
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Medication error in infants and children 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 6.6 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Explore the development of formulation appropriate for 
use in infants and children. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database  
Purpose of the study:  
Orphacol Patient Surveillance Database has been developed by the MAH to monitor the safety and 
efficacy in patients treated with Orphacol.  
The main objective of the database is to increase the amount of available data on the treatment of 
inborn errors in primary bile acid synthesis due to 3β-HSD and Δ4-3-oxoR deficiency with Orphacol 
in infants, children, adolescents and adults, and especially of data on efficacy and safety of treatment 
with cholic acid. 
This  database  serves  as  a  tool  for  all  healthcare  professionals  treating  patients  with  Orphacol  to 
record and access clinical information regarding patients, including demographic and familial data, 
diagnostic information, data on treatment and adverse events/reactions. Such data are in principle 
available from the regular (at least annual) clinical and laboratory investigations in patients, and the 
database  will  serve  to  capture  this  information.  These  data  will  be  used  to  further  increase  the 
available safety and efficacy information and refine the therapeutic recommendations as required.  
In addition, through the publication of educational material, which is available on the same website 
that serves as portal to the patients’ database, it is planned that the patient database will provide 
information on: 
• 
The actual level of risk of gallstones 
The effectiveness of the proposed Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) intended to 
• 
minimise or eliminate the risk of prescription of a supratherapeutic dose.  
All educational material on website is prepared in accordance with the approved product information, 
national  competent  authority  requirements,  and  monitored  by  MAH’s  Scientific  Service.  Approved 
educational material is available in a PDF format for the countries where they are approved by local 
authorities. 
List of addressed safety concerns:   
Prescription of a supratherapeutic dose 
Gallstones 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term data in large patient population 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Orphacol. 
 
 
 
Reference list 
1. 
Jacquemin  E,  Gerhardt  MF,  et  al.  Long-term  effects  of  bile  acid  therapy  in  children  with 
defects  of  primary  bile  acid  synthesis:  3  beta-hydroxy-C27-steroid-dehydrogenase/isomerase  and 
delta-4-3-oxosteroid 5 beta-reductase deficiencies. G. P. van Berge Henegouwen DK, U. Leuschner, 
G. Paumgartner and A. Stiehl., Dordrecht, Boston, London, Kluwer Academic Publishers; 2000. 278-
82. 
2. 
Potin S, Desroches MC, Casaurang M, Jacquemin E, Vincent I, Furlan V, et al. Evaluation du 
traitement des déficits de synthèse des acides biliaires primaires par l'acide cholique et/ou l'acide 
ursodésoxycholique dans le cadre  d'un essai  clinique en pédiatrie.  Journal de Pharmacie Clinique. 
2001; 20:193-6. 
3. 
Gonzales E, Gerhardt MF, Fabre M, Setchell KD, Davit-Spraul A, Vincent I, et al. Oral cholic 
acid for hereditary  defects  of  primary bile  acid synthesis: a safe and effective long-term therapy. 
Gastroenterology. 2009;137(4):1310-20. 
Tepperman  J,  Caldwell  FT,  Tepperman  HM.  Induction  of  gallstones  in  mice  by  feeding  a 
4. 
cholesterol-cholic acid containing diet. The American Journal of Physiology 1964; 206:628-34. 
Besancon F, Marche C, Parrot J. [Experimental lithiasis due to excess cholic acid in mice]. 
5. 
Biologie et Gastro-enterologie. 1970; 2:147-60. 
Wang DQ, Lammert  F, Cohen DE, Paigen B, Carey MC.  Cholic acid  aids absorption, biliary 
6. 
secretion, and phase transitions of cholesterol in murine cholelithogenesis. The American Journal of 
Physiology. 1999;276(3): G751-60. 
Acalovschi M. Cholesterol gallstones: from epidemiology to prevention. Postgraduate Medical 
7. 
Journal. 2001;77(906):221-9. 
 
