EMA/342493/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005898 
Orserdu (elacestrant) 
An overview of Orserdu and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Orserdu and what is it used for? 
Orserdu is a cancer medicine used to treat postmenopausal women and men with breast cancer that is 
locally advanced or metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body). 
Orserdu can only be used when the cancer cells have receptors (targets) for the hormone oestrogen on 
their surface (oestrogen receptor-positive; ER-positive) and do not have large quantities of a receptor 
for human epidermal growth factor called HER2 (HER2-negative). The cancer cells must also have been 
shown to have a specific mutation (change) in the gene called ESR1. Orserdu is used in patients whose 
cancer has not responded to or has progressed further following at least one hormone treatment, 
including a medicine belonging to the class of CDK 4/6 inhibitors.  
Orserdu contains the active substance elacestrant.  
How is Orserdu used? 
Orserdu can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the use of cancer medicines. 
Orserdu is available as tablets to be taken by mouth once a day. Treatment should continue for as long 
as the patient benefits from it or side effects become unmanageable.  
For more information about using Orserdu, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Orserdu work? 
ER-positive breast cancer is stimulated to grow when the hormone oestrogen attaches to receptors on 
cancer cells. The active substance in Orserdu, elacestrant, blocks and destroys these receptors; as a 
result, oestrogen no longer stimulates these cancer cells to grow and this slows down the growth of the 
cancer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Orserdu have been shown in studies? 
Orserdu was investigated in one main study involving 478 patients with ER-positive, HER2-negative 
breast cancer that had started to spread, and whose cancer had come back or did not respond to at 
least one previous treatment. The study showed that, among patients whose cancer cells had an ESR1 
mutation, those treated with Orserdu lived on average for 3.8 months without their disease getting 
worse, compared with 1.9 months for patients who received standard therapy.  
What are the risks associated with Orserdu? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Orserdu, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Orserdu (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
nausea (feeling sick), decreased appetite, increased levels of fats and cholesterol in the blood, 
vomiting, tiredness, dyspepsia (indigestion), diarrhoea, back pain, joint pain, constipation, headache, 
hot flush, abdominal (belly) pain, anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), increased blood levels of 
alanine and aspartate aminotransferase (a sign of liver problems) or creatinine (a sign of kidney 
problems), and decreased blood levels of calcium, sodium and potassium. 
Why is Orserdu authorised in the EU? 
Orserdu was shown to be effective at increasing the time before the disease got worse in patients with 
ER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer that is advanced or has spread and who have an ESR1 
mutation. Orserdu’s safety is in line with other medicines of the same class and its side effects are 
considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Orserdu’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Orserdu? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Orserdu have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Orserdu are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Orserdu are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Orserdu 
Orserdu received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023. 
Further information on Orserdu can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/orserdu. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2023. 
Orserdu (elacestrant)  
EMA/342493/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
