EMA/530633/2017  
EMEA/H/C/0001210 
EPAR summary for the public 
Oslif Breezhaler 
indacaterol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Oslif Breezhaler. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Oslif Breezhaler. 
For practical information about using Oslif Breezhaler, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Oslif Breezhaler and what is it used for? 
Oslif Breezhaler is a medicine that is used to keep the airways open in adults with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the 
lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Oslif Breezhaler is used for 
maintenance (regular) treatment. 
The medicine contains the active substance indacaterol. 
How is Oslif Breezhaler used? 
Oslif Breezhaler capsules, which contain a powder for inhalation, are only used with a Oslif Breezhaler 
inhaler and must not be swallowed. To receive a dose, the patient places a capsule into the inhaler and 
breathes the powder in through the mouth. 
The recommended dose is one 150 microgram capsule, once a day at the same time each day. The 
doctor may increase the dose to one 300 microgram capsule once a day in cases of severe COPD.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Oslif Breezhaler work? 
The active substance in Oslif Breezhaler, indacaterol, is a beta-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. It works 
by attaching to beta-2 receptors that are found in the muscle cells of many organs and that cause the 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
muscles to relax. When Oslif Breezhaler is inhaled, indacaterol reaches the receptors in the airways 
and activates them. This causes the muscles of the airways to relax, helping to keep the airways open 
and allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Oslif Breezhaler have been shown in studies? 
In three main studies involving over 4,000 patients with COPD, Oslif Breezhaler was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment), tiotropium or formoterol (other inhaled medicines used to treat COPD). 
The main measure of effectiveness was based on changes in the patients’ forced expiratory volumes 
(FEV1, the maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second) after 12 weeks.  
Oslif Breezhaler was more effective than placebo at improving how well the lungs work in patients with 
COPD. On average, the increase in FEV1 in patients who received Oslif Breezhaler was between 150 to 
190 ml, while for patients who received placebo the change in FEV1 ranged from a decrease of 10 ml to 
an increase of 20 ml. Overall, the effects of the 150 and 300 microgram doses of Oslif Breezhaler were 
similar, but the results showed that the 300 microgram dose may provide better relief in patients with 
more severe disease. The increase in FEV1 was 130 ml with tiotropium, and 80 ml with formoterol. 
What are the risks associated with Oslif Breezhaler? 
The most common side effects with Oslif Breezhaler (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat) and upper respiratory tract infection (infection 
of the nose and throat). Other common side effects include chest pain, cough and muscle cramps.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Oslif Breezhaler, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Oslif Breezhaler approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Oslif Breezhaler was shown to be effective at 
improving the lung function in COPD. The Agency also noted that there were no major safety concerns 
with Oslif Breezhaler, with side effects being manageable and similar to other beta-2 adrenergic 
receptor agonist medicines. Therefore, the Agency decided that Oslif Breezhaler’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of Oslif 
Breezhaler? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Oslif Breezhaler have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.  
Other information about Oslif Breezhaler 
European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for Oslif 
Breezhaler on 30 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Oslif Breezhaler can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Oslif Breezhaler  
EMA/530633/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment with Oslif Breezhaler, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Oslif Breezhaler  
EMA/530633/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
