SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Ovitrelle. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 August 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Choriogonadotropin  alfa  is  a  recombinant  version  of  the  naturally  occurring  endogenous  hCG.  It  is 
produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology  using  genetically  engineered  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary 
(CHO)  cells  that  contain  the  gene  coding  for  the  α-  and  the  ß-subunits  of  human  chorionic 
gonadotrophin  hormone.  Choriogonadotropin  alfa  is  isolated  from  the  cell  culture  medium  by 
conventional techniques applied to the purification of proteins. Ovitrelle is the first hCG preparation 
that  is  produced  by  recombinant  techniques.  Current  hCG  products  contain  hCG  extracted  from  the 
urine  of  pregnant  women.  The  production  of  hCG  extracted  from  urine  involves  the  collection  and 
processing of large amounts of urine from post-menopausal women.  
hCG  is  used  to  stimulate  the  final  stage  of  ovarian  follicular  maturation  and  to  provide  hormonal 
support  for  the  early  corpus  luteum  in  the  treatment  of  female  infertility.  r-hCG  is  administered  to 
trigger  final  follicular  maturation  and  luteinisation  after  pharmacological  stimulation  of  follicular 
growth.  
One vial of Ovitrelle contains 285 µg of choriogonadotropin alfa. The reconstituted solution contains 
285  µg  per  ml,  claimed  to  ensure  delivery  of  a  250  µg  dose.  Ovitrelle  is  intended  for  subcutaneous 
injection. Ovitrelle is indicated in the treatment of: 
•  Women  undergoing  superovulation  prior  to  assisted  reproductive  techniques  such  as  in  vitro 
fertilisation (IVF): Ovitrelle is administered to trigger final follicular maturation and luteinisation 
after stimulation of follicular growth. 
•  Anovulatory  or  oligo-ovulatory  women:  Ovitrelle  is  administered  to  trigger  ovulation  and 
luteinisation in anovulatory or oligo-ovulatory patients after stimulation of follicular growth. 
For both indications, the dose recommendation is one vial of Ovitrelle 250 µg (equivalent to 6500 IU) 
to  be  administered  24  to  48  hours  after  optimal  stimulation  of  follicular  growth  is  achieved.  The 
recommended dose for urinary preparations registered is one subcutaneous or intramuscular injection 
of  maximally  10,000  IU  at  24  to  48  hours  after  the  last  administration  of  hMG  or  FSH  in  assisted 
reproduction.  The  recommended  dose  in  female  sterility  due  to  absence  or  infrequent  ovulation  is 
5000-10,000 IU in 1-3 days following a treatment with hMG or FSH. 
List of abbreviations 
AEs 
AUC   
B.P. 
CHO   
ELISA 
EPDB  
FBS 
FSH 
GMP   
GnRH 
hCG   
HH 
hMG   
IM 
IUI 
IV 
LH 
MCB   
: adverse events 
: area under the curve 
: British Pharmacopoeia 
: chinese hamster ovary 
: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
: extended population doubling banks 
: foetal bovine serum 
: follicle stimulating hormone 
: Good Manufacturing Practice 
: gonadotrophin releasing hormone 
: chorionic gonadotrophin 
: hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism 
: human menopausal gonadotrophins 
: intravenous, muscular 
: intrauterine insemination 
: intravenous 
: luteinising hormone 
: master cell bank 
1/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OHSS  
r-hCG  
RP-HPLC 
SC 
SDS-PAGE   
SE-HPLC 
TSH   
u-hCG 
USP 
WCB  
: ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 
: recombinant human chorionic gonadotrophin 
: reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography  
: subcutaneous 
: sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
: side exclusion high performance liquid chromatography 
: thyroid stimulating hormone 
: urinary human chorionic gonadotrophin 
: United States Pharmacopoeia 
: working cell banks 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Ovitrelle is a sterile and freeze-dried powder for solution for subcutaneous injection presented in glass 
vials  with  rubber  stoppers.  It  is  available  in  one  dosage  strength:  250  micrograms  per  vial  of 
choriogonadotropin alfa (equivalent to a delivered dose of 6500 IU). The powder is to be reconstituted 
with  the  accompanying  solvent  (1.0  ml  water  for  injections)  presented  either  in  ampoule  or  in  vial. 
The finished product contains the following excipients: sucrose as a bulking agent, sodium hydroxide 
and phosphoric acid (concentrated), both as pH stabilisers. The pH of the reconstituted solution is 6.5-
7.5. Nitrogen is used as an inert gas to fill the head space of the vial. 
Except  for  the  active  substance,  all  the  other  components  used  in  the  composition  of  the  medicinal 
product as well as the solvent comply with specific European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) and/or United 
States  Pharmacopoeia  (USP)  monographs.  No  human  or  animal  derived  components  are  used  as 
excipients.  
The primary container is a colourless glass vial sealed with a bromobutyl rubber stopper, aluminium 
seal ring and flip off cap. The stoppers are siliconised before use. 
A ready to use liquid formulation in a pre-filled syringe was developed to facilitate administration of 
the product by the patient. Ovitrelle solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe contains 250 
micrograms of choriogonadotropin alfa per 0.5 ml solution. The composition of the solution for 
injection dosage form differ from the powder in the excipients added to the thawed drug substance 
solution. Sucrose used as a bulking agent in the freeze-dried preparation is replaced by mannitol, while 
methionine and poloxamer 188 were selected as constituents for the liquid formulation due to their 
protective (towards oxidation) and stabilizing effect on the drug substance in solution. The primary 
container is a type I glass syringe with a halobutyl rubber plunger stopper and plastic plunger, and 
with a stainless needle. 
Active substance 
The active substance of Ovitrelle is human chorionic gonadotrophin (r-hCG) produced in genetically 
engineered  Chinese  hamster  ovary  cells  (CHO).  Recombinant  hCG  is  composed  of  two  dissimilar 
non-covalently  linked  subunits,  named  alfa  and  beta.  The  α-hCG  subunit,  common  to  all  the 
gonadotropin  hormones  (FSH,  TSH,  LH,  hCG),  is  92  amino  acid  residues  in  length  and  the  β-hCG 
subunit, which dictates the hormone specificity, is 145 amino acid residues in length.  
The  active  substance  has  been  extensively  characterised  using  physico-chemical,  biological  and 
immunological assays. State-of-the-art analytical procedures have been  used to elucidate the protein 
sequence  and  the  oligosaccharide  structures.  For  Comparison,  the  company  has  used  hCG  extracted 
from urine. Based on the data presented, the conclusion has been drawn that rhCG is comparable with 
the urine-derived species in terms of primary structure and glycosylation. 
Development genetics and cell bank system 
The production process of choriogonadotropin alfa uses a transformed Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) 
host strain, which has been comprehensively described in the application. This strain was prepared by 
co-transfection into the genome of the parent CHO cell line of two genes of interest coding for the α- 
and  β-subunits.  After  transfection  and  selection,  one  subclone  was  chosen  for  further  process 
development and was used to establish the Master Cell Bank (MCB). The methods used to establish 
2/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  MCB  have  been  well  described  and  involved  standard  techniques  widely  used  in  DNA 
recombinant technology. 
Both  expression  constructs  were  used  to  co-transfect  a  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  (CHO)  cell  line.  A 
detailed  overview  of  the  procedure  was  enclosed  in  the  MAA.  The  procedure  used  for  the 
amplification  of  the  expression  plasmids,  cloning  and  selection  procedures  can  be  considered  as  a 
standard method and were sufficiently described.  
The  preparation  as  well  as  maintenance  (location  and  storage  conditions)  of  the  Master  Cell  Bank 
(MCB) and Working Cell Banks (WCB) are described in detail in the documentation. Characterisation 
studies  (phenotypic  as  well  as  genotypic  testing)  of  the  various  cell  banks  were  carried  out  using 
classical tests. All vials tested from each cell bank were found to be free of microbial contamination 
(bacteria/fungi  and  mycoplasma).  In  addition,  viral  safety  has  been  well  documented  and  is  not  a 
matter of concern. Genetic stability has been demonstrated. 
Fermentation and purification 
The fermentation process, from the cell culture inoculum expansion to the final cell harvest, has been 
adequately described in the application. The equipment and dedicated facilities as well as cleaning in 
place  and  sterilisation  procedures  are  satisfactorily  documented.  The  composition  of  the  various 
culture  media  (including  the  origin  of  the  various  components)  as  well  as  the  way  to  prepare  the 
culture  media  used  in  the  fermentation  process  have  been  thoroughly  documented.  The  various 
relevant  parameters  recorded  during  each  phase  of  the  bioreactor  cell  culture  process  have  been 
documented in detail. In-process controls assure appropriate cell growth and the absence of microbial 
contamination.  
The downstream purification process leading to the r-hCG bulk solution has been described in detail.  
The  purification  procedure  for  r-hCG  comprising  a  series  of  ultrafiltration  units,  chromatographic 
columns  and  viral  nanofiltration  unit  is  divided  into  five  steps  (step  I  to  V).  The  chromatographic 
columns  established  represent  a  wide  range  of  separation  effects  based  on  different  physical 
principles. All starting materials used for the preparation of buffers and sanitisation solutions comply 
with  the  Ph.  Eur.  or  are  of  analytical  grade.  Appropriate  in-process  controls  performed  after  each 
purification  step  allow  the  monitoring  of  the  performance  of  each  step  with  respect  to  yield,  purity, 
endotoxin,  bioburden  and  pH.  No  reprocessing  or  reworking  is  envisaged  throughout  the  entire 
purification process. 
The  production  process  of  the  active  substance,  which  complies  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practice 
(GMP) requirements, has been adequately validated. Validation studies are documented in detail in the 
dossier.  The  various  critical  steps  of  the  production  process,  from  the  cell  culture  to  purification  of 
choriogonadotropin  alfa  have  been  identified.  Based  on  the  results  obtained  regarding  the  upstream 
(cell  culture)  as  well  as  the  downstream  (purification)  processes,  the  capacity,  robustness  and 
reproducibility of the production process are satisfactory and lead to an active substance bulk solution 
with a reproducible good quality.  
Impurities 
As  regards  removal  of  impurities  during  the  purification  process,  detailed  investigations  have  been 
performed.  Particular  attention  has  been  paid  on  process  related  impurities  (residual  DNA,  host  cell 
protein  and  culture  medium  protein,  microbial/viral  contamination,  bacterial  endotoxins),  product 
related  impurities  (oxidation,  dissociated  subunits,  aggregates)  and  contaminants  (isopropyl  alcohol, 
ammonium  ion).  In  general,  satisfactory  in-process  control  results  were  reported.  Potential 
microbiological and viral contamination is considered adequately controlled. 
Batch analysis, routine tests and specifications of the active substance 
Batch analysis results for six consecutive batches of active substance, representing those intended for 
marketing has been presented. According to the expert, batches have been included that were purified 
from  early,  mid  and  late  harvests  and  between  harvests  from  two  different  bioreactor  runs.  Batch 
results are consistent and conform to specifications.  
3/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  current  analytical  methods  and  specifications  for  the  release  of  the  active  substance  ensure 
consistent  quality  of  the  recombinant  human  luteinising  hormone  with  respect  to  identity,  purity, 
potency, and safety. An in vivo cell assay is being used to determine the hCG bioactivity of the active 
substance. The tests selected to be performed on a routine basis are satisfactory; their proposed limits 
are also considered as acceptable.  
The  various  methods  used  for  quality  control  of  choriogonadotropin  alfa  have  been  described, 
justified,  and  validated  for  their  analytical  performances,  and  particularly  in  terms  of  accuracy, 
precision,  limit  of  quantification,  limit  of  detection,  specificity,  linearity/range  and  robustness.  The 
proposed routine quality control test methods and specifications were selected in order to assess, on a 
routine basis, the identified key features. 
Based on the physico-chemical and biological characterisation data provided, it can be concluded that 
sensitive and quantitative tests have been developed and validated for identity, purity, and potency of 
the active substance. 
Stability of active substance 
Long  term  stability  testing  was  performed  with  four  batches  produced  at  manufacturing  scale  and 
stored  at  the  recommended  storage  temperature.  Supportive  data  are  provided  for  several  pilot  scale 
batches. Based on the data submitted it is concluded that the proposed holding time of 24 months is 
sufficiently  justified.  A  stability  protocol  has  been  provided  for  a  test  period  of  60  months.  The 
company  committed  to  submit  the  results  of  this  study  on  an  ongoing  basis  to  further  justify  the 
holding time.  
Other ingredients / Packaging material 
All excipients used to formulate the medicinal product are described in the European Pharmacopoeia 
monograph  and  are  quality  controlled  accordingly.  The  immediate  packaging  of  the  powder  for 
injection is a 3 ml vial made from colourless borosilicate type I glass (Ph. Eur.), which is covered with 
a W1816 bromobutyl rubber stopper (Ph. Eur.), protected by an aluminium seal ring and a flip off cap. 
The integrity of the container/closure system has been appropriately validated. 
The solvent for reconstitution (sterile water for injections) is contained either in a 2 ml colourless vial 
with a siliconised bromobutyl rubber or in a 2 ml colourless glass ampoule.  
The primary container of the solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe is a type I glass syringe with 
a halobutyl rubber plunger stopper and plastic plunger, and with a stainless needle. 
Product development and finished product 
Various  formulations  have  been  tested  and  the  rationale  for  the  formulation  of  Ovitrelle  has  been 
justified. Accelerated  stability studies indicated that the product is  most stable  at pH 7, intermediate 
ionic  strength  and  low  di-electric  constant.  A  freeze-dried  preparation  was  selected  because  such  a 
preparation can be stored at room temperature. No significant adsorption to the rubber closures or to 
syringes used to inject the reconstituted fluid was found. It is felt that the choice of the formulation has 
been  sufficiently  justified  by  the  data  provided.  The  company  developed  later  on  a  ready  to  use 
solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe to facilitate administration of the product by the patient. 
This presentation requires storage in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Within its shelf-life, the solution may be 
stored at or below 25°C for up to 30 days without being refrigerated again during this period.  
Method of preparation 
The  standard  batch  size  can  range  from  16,000  to  52,500  vials.  The  manufacturing  process  is 
straightforward  and  is  typical  for  a  protein  parenteral  product.  The  manufacturing  process,  which 
complies with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described in sufficiently detail. It takes 
place in the manufacturing plant at Industria Farmaceutica Serono S.p.A., Bari, Italy or at Laboratoires 
Serono S.A. Aubonne, Switzerland.  The manufacturing process has been adequately validated and is 
monitored using satisfactory in-process controls. 
The manufacturing process of the water for injections, provided in vials or ampoules, is classical and 
has  been  described  in  detail.  The  manufacturing  process,  which  complies  with  GMP,  takes  place  at 
Hameln pharmaceuticals GmbH, Germany (for the ampoules) and Gensia Sicor Pharmaceuticals Inc., 
USA or Laboratoires Serono S.A., Switzerland (for the vials). 
4/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The  solution  for  injection  in  a  pre-filled  syringe  is  manufactured  and  released  at  Industria 
Farmaceutica  Serono  S.p.A,  Bari,  Italy;  packaging  may  also  take  place  at  Laboratoires  Serono  S.A. 
Aubonne, Coinsins, Switzerland.    
For  the  validation  of  the  manufacturing  process,  results  on  three  batches  of  the  finished  product 
manufactured at the intended commercial scale have been provided. The data showed that the finished 
product consistently met the proposed specifications and demonstrated that the manufacturing process 
is consistently reproducible.  
Control tests and Specifications of the finished product 
The  proposed  tests  and  limits  allow  to  check  each  batch  of  the  finished  product  for  identity,  purity, 
safety, and potency. The same in vivo cell assay as for the active substance is being used to determine 
the hCG bioactivity of finished product. All test methods intended to be used for routine testing, have 
been validated for accuracy and reliability. Standard tests for sterile freeze-dried products (appearance, 
moisture content, cake weight, reconstitution time) and reconstituted product (degree of opalescence, 
degree  of  coloration,  pH,  particulate  contamination,  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxin)  have  been 
appropriately included in the specifications. The presented tests are considered appropriate to test the 
finished product for pharmaceutical characteristics, identity, purity and r-hCG concentration.  
In general, the proposed specifications are acceptable and, although some limits should be tightened, 
the  limits  are  reasonable  and  based  on  the  experience  already  gained.  The  company  committed  to 
tighten some of the limits of the specifications of the finished product.  
5/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Stability of the finished product 
The  shelf-life  of  the  product  is  24  months  at  25  ±  2°C  and  protected  from  light.  Real  time,  real 
temperature stability data have been generated for nine batches produced at pilot scale during different 
stages of development. Three batches of finished product produced at full manufacturing scale in the 
final manufacturing site are also included in the stability program. For those batches, only six or, for 
some parameters, nine months results were initially available. Therefore the assessment of the stability 
of the finished product is mainly based on the results obtained with the pilot scale batches.  Updated 
results up to 36 months have been submitted on an on-going basis as follow-up measures. 
The  shelf_life  of  the  solution  for  injection  dosage  form  is  2  years  in  a  refrigerator.  The  pre-filled 
syringe  may be  stored  by  the  patient  at  or  below  25°C  for  up  to  30  days  without  being  refrigerated 
again  during  this  period.  Interim  results  at  18  months  on  3  batches  manufactured  at  Industria 
Farmaceutica  Serono  S.p.A.  have  been  provided.    All  results  complied  with  the  approved 
specifications. The stability studies are continuing in accordance to the protocol. 
Viral safety 
The  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB),  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  and  the  Extended  Population  Doubling 
Bank (EPDB) have been closely examined for contamination with viral agents. Using a battery of in 
vitro and in vivo tests no endogenous or adventitious viruses  were detected and therefore, the tested 
cell lines exhibit a satisfactory level of viral safety. It can be concluded that cell banks were validated 
in accordance with the CPMP/ICH note for guidance on quality of biotechnological products and can 
be used as safely as possible as cell substrate for r-hCG production. 
Choriogonadotropin  alfa  is  manufactured using a  serum free cell culture process. However, a small 
amount of Foetal Bovine Serum (FBS, which is of bovine origin), is used in the inoculation phase of 
the manufacturing process. 
FBS was derived from animals sourced in USA and Canada, which are BSE-free countries, and has 
been  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  “Note  for  Guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting 
animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via  medicinal  products”  (CPMP/BWP/1230/98).  A 
representative  certificate  of  suitability  from  each  FBS  supplier  was  submitted  and  the  Company 
committed to audit the supplier/manufacturer of FBS at regular intervals.  
Besides FBS, the manufacturing process of choriogonadotropin alfa involves the use of trypsin, which 
is of porcine origin. It is certified to be porcine parvovirus free, to comply with 9 CFR 113.53, and that 
its  production  involves  an  extended  extraction  at  acid  pH.  The  viral  safety  with  regard  to  trypsin  is 
therefore considered to be sufficiently ensured. 
The purification process as been appropriately validated and the capacity of the production process to 
remove /inactivate viruses has been adequately demonstrated. 
Overall, the viral safety of choriogonadotropin alfa is assured by, i) the satisfactory viral testing of cell 
banks, biological reagents, and unprocessed bulk, ii) the robustness of the production process and iii) 
the  satisfactory  cumulative  reduction  factors  achieved  by  the  purification  process.  The  production 
process is effective to clear potential viruses that could be present in the unpurified product.  
Discussion on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  the  requirements  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Production  and  Quality  Control  of  Medicinal 
Products  Derived  by  Recombinant  DNA  Technology  as  well  as  other  relevant  guidelines.  The 
information provided in the application demonstrated consistent production of choriogonadotropin alfa 
achieving  a  well-defined  quality  for  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  as  well  as  for  the 
solvent  for  reconstitution.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  active  substance  are  adequately 
controlled.  Choriogonadotropin  alfa  has  been  well  characterised  using  state-of  the-art  methods  with 
regard  to  its  physicochemical  characteristics.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product, 
which complies with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described in sufficient detail and 
product  specifications  are  adequate.  In  general,  methods  to  control  the  quality  of  the  product  are 
adequate.  Moreover,  this  is  a  product  of  biological  origin  for  which  all  the  virological  aspects  have 
been  satisfactorily  addressed.  Information  has  been  provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the 
medicinal product is made in compliance with the CPMP Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of 
6/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. Stability data support a 
shelf-life of 24 months for the finished product.  
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Ovitrelle is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  Viral 
safety  and  batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be  performed 
according to the agreed specifications. 
2. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  active  substance  of  Ovitrelle,  choriogonadotropin  alfa  (recombinant  human  chorionic 
gonadotrophin,  r-hCG),  is  structurally  similar  to  human  chorionic  gonadotrophin  (hCG).  hCG  is  a 
glycoprotein normally produced by trophoblast cells as early as 6 days post-conception, which helps to 
maintain  and  stimulate  the  corpus  luteum  and  early  placento-foetal  endocrine  function.  In  normal 
pregnancy  its  production  by  the  early  trophoblast  and  subsequently  by  the  organised  placenta  is 
essential  for  maintenance  of  the  early  stages  of  pregnancy.  Activation  of  the  LH/hCG  receptor 
regulates steroidogenesis in the ovary by theca and granulosa cells, and by Leydig cells in the testis; it 
affects  the  essential  early  stage  of  mitochondrial  conversion  of  cholesterol  to  pregnenolone.  The 
identity  of  the  actions  of  hLH  and  hCG  has  been  exploited  therapeutically  by  using  various 
preparations of hCG, notably u-hCG extracted from the urine of pregnant women, to mimic the normal 
late  surge in  LH secretion. This results  in  maturation of oocytes,  follicular rupture and  formation of 
normal hormonal secretion by the corpus luteum.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Investigations aimed to demonstrate identical pharmacological characteristics of r-hCG and u-
hCG. The in vivo and in vitro experiments have shown that:  
• 
• 
r-hCG has the same binding affinity to the LH/hCG receptor as u-hCG,  
it stimulates progesterone production by MA-10 cells with the same potency as u-hCG and several 
national and international reference standards,  
it had the same potency as several reference standards and u-hCG in Ph. Eur. and USP bioassays 
in the rat, and,  
in  a  detailed  test  in  the  primed  adult  female  rhesus  monkey,  r-hCG  and  u-hCG  stimulated  the 
production  of  oocytes  of  the  same  maturity,  and  exerted  the  same  hormonal  activities  on 
luteinisation of ovarian follicles.  
• 
• 
•  The time course of the actions of r-hCG and u-hCG were identical in the in vivo studies. 
Taken together, r-hCG induces ovulation and produces oocytes of sufficient maturity to be capable of 
being fertilized. 
No significant or consistent action of hCG (200 to 20,000 IU/kg) on blood pressure, heart rate, several 
measures  of  left  ventricular  function,  ECG  or  respiration  in  anaesthetised  rats  and  dogs  have  been 
observed. Interaction studies were not performed. 
in 
laboratory  animals  was 
information  on  pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  available 
limited. 
Pharmacokinetics  were  only  extensively  investigated  in  monkeys  after  single  dose  and 
repeated  dose  administration.    Bioavailability  of  r-hCG  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  was  high  after 
single  intramuscular  (100%)  and  subcutaneous  (85%)  administration.  Terminal  half–life  was  in  the 
range  20  –  30  hours.  Distribution  volume  at  steady  state  was  about  0.1  –  0.2  l/kg  after  intravenous 
administration,  0.3  l/kg  after  intramuscular  administration  and  0.5  l/kg  after  subcutaneous 
administration.  After  single  subcutaneous  administration  Tmax  was  about  6  hrs.  After  intravenous 
administration  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  u-hCG  and  c-hCG  in  monkeys  were  similar.  The 
kinetics  of  r-hCG,  after  single  IV  injection  at  20,  100  and  500  IU/kg  was  dose  linear.  The  repeated 
dose study, where r-hCG 100 IU/kg SC was injected daily for 7 days, showed that the AUC (d
)/AUC 
7
) ratio ranged from 1.1-1.5 (1.3 ± 0.2) indicating the possibility of a slight accumulation of r-hCG. 
(d
1
7/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  steady  state  was  attained  after  the  third  dose,  i.e.  within  72  hours  after  the  first  administration, 
which is in agreement with the calculated elimination half-life of about 23.7 ± 2.5 hours. Exposure in 
the toxicity studies increased more or less linearly with dose.  
Repeated  administration  in  monkeys  and  rats  induced  formation  of  neutralising  antibodies,  in  some 
animals  this  resulted  in  accelerated  elimination  of  the  compound  and  decrease  (down  to  zero)  of 
circulating concentrations in the course of the toxicity experiments.  
Toxicokinetic  data  in  monkeys  and  rats  showed  that  in  the  toxicity  experiments  exposure  was  high 
enough  (at  the  maximum  examined  doses  systemic  exposure  was  more  than  50  times  the  expected 
human exposure). 
No specific pre-clinical  distribution, metabolism and elimination studies were performed. However, 
considering the nature of the molecule, further information on pharmacokinetics in laboratory 
animals is not deemed necessary. 
In conclusion, there is sufficient information available to understand the kinetics of r-hCG in animals 
and  to  show  its  comparability  in  the  monkey  to  that  in  man,  that  its  kinetics  is  simple,  that  slight 
accumulation may occur on daily dosing to reach steady state after 3 days, that the bioavailability of a 
SC or IM dose is high, and that it is indistinguishable from the established u-hCG. 
Toxicology 
A  limited  toxicological  testing  programme  was  conducted  which  albeit  met  the  regulatory 
requirements  with  respect  to  the  intended  use  only  once  or  on  a  few  occasions  in  the  life  of  a  non-
pregnant  young  woman.  Due  to  the  uniquely  high  specific  content  of  the  r-hCG  preparations,  very 
large doses could be employed in toxicological studies. 
The  maximum dose in humans could be estimated to correspond to approximately 200 IU/kg/day in 
monkeys and rats when administered subcutaneously. 
All the studies conformed to GLP (Good Laboratory Practice). 
Single dose toxicity 
Acute toxicity studies were conducted with r-hCG in rats and cynomolgus monkeys treated by IV and 
SC  routes.  r-hCG  had  almost  no  effect  in  the  single  dose  studies  apart  from  the  anticipated  slight 
reduction in testicular weight and increase in ovarian weight, associated with pharmacological changes 
in  spermatogenesis  and  in  the  appearance  of  a  number  of  corpora  lutea  and  ovarian  follicles.  The 
highest dose level tested of 200,000 IU/kg represents a 1000-fold multiple of the human dose (up to 
200 IU/kg/day).  
Repeated dose toxicity 
The repeated dose toxicity was tested in male and female rats and Cynomolgus monkeys receiving up 
to 20,000 IU/kg/day for 4-weeks of r-hCG by intravenous or subcutaneous injection. Additionally, r-
hCG was tested up to 5,000 IU/kg/day in a 26 weeks SC study in male Cynomolgus monkeys. In the 
latter study u-hCG (500 IU/kg/day) was used as a comparator. 
In  rats,  there  was  no  severe  toxic  action  but  there  were  many  features  of  induced  hormonal 
disturbances  attributed  to  the  known  actions  of  hCGs  in  any  responsive  species.  They  included 
enlargement  of  the  seminal  vesicles  and  prostate  and  smaller  testes,  associated  with  degeneration  of 
germinal epithelium and hyperplasia of interstitial cells, enlargement of the ovaries with many corpora 
lutea, and hyperplasia of the vaginal mucosa. These actions were considered to be due to the LH-like 
action  of  hCG  in  the  rodent  as  well  as  to  the  stimulation  of  steroid  levels,  that  also  caused  some 
haemodilution, hepatocellular hypertrophy and thymus atrophy. The effects largely disappeared during 
the recovery period. Serum antibodies to r-hCG developed in about half of the animals in the IV study, 
and virtually all animals in the SC study, which in individual rats resulted in an apparently very low 
level  of  circulating  r-hCG  in  the  latter  half  of  the  experiment.  As  expected,  plasma  oestradiol  and 
testosterone levels were very high. 
In  monkeys,  the  treatments  were  well  tolerated  and  no  toxic  actions  were  found.  The  top-  and  mid-
dose males showed increased rate of weight gain. In the males there was interstitial cell hyperplasia in 
8/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
the testes and secondary effects in the prostate. Females showed an increased number of corpora lutea. 
There  were  corresponding  changes  in  serum  testosterone  (increased)  in  males.  No  changes  in 
oestradiol were noted in females. There was slight inflammatory cell infiltration at the injection sites. 
In the IV study, antibodies to r-hCG were found in all top-dose animals, all mid-dose males and in a 
few  mid-dose  females,  and  serum  levels  of  r-hCG  were  maintained  but  did  tend  to  fall  in  those 
animals with antibodies. In the SC study, antibody formation occurred in all dose groups and the titre 
was  dose-related.  The  pathological  effects  lessened  during  the  4-week  recovery  period.  In  the  26-
weeks  test,  there  was  an  increased  rate  of  weight  gain  and  enlargement  of  the  testes  and  seminal 
vesicles  and  histologically  appreciable  hyperplasia  of  mammary  acinar  epithelium.  Enlargement  and 
hypercellularity of the anterior pituitary was also noted. All these actions were attributed to the effects 
of increased production of testosterone due to the well known pharmacological actions of r-hCG or u-
hCG. The production, morphology and functionality of sperm were normal. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Reproduction studies were not performed. Given the nature of the active substance and the therapeutic 
indication,  reproductive  studies  in  female  test  animals  are  not  required.  r-hCG  is  intended  for  the 
treatment of infertile women, who are most unlikely to be pregnant. r-hCG is substantially identical to 
the native human molecule, and the well known u-hCG has been extensively administered to humans 
for  many  years  under  clinical  circumstances.  In  rats,  r-hCG  is  abortifacient  and  can  affect  fetal 
survival and growth.  
Mutagenic potential 
Four  mutagenicity  studies  were  submitted,  although  according  to  the  recommendations  of  ICH3 
studies  to  the  mutagenic  potential  are  not  necessary.  r-hCG  was  negative  in  well  performed  in  vitro 
gene mutation tests in bacteria (Ames test) and mammalian cells (HGPRT test in V79 cells), in an in 
vitro  chromosome  aberration  test  with  human  lymphocytes,  and  an  in  vivo  mouse  bone  marrow 
micronucleus test. These studies demonstrated that r-hCG is not a potential mutagen. 
Oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
No studies were conducted. Since the intended clinical use is a single dose on a few occasions, since 
no  genotoxicty  was  detected,  and  no  other  observations  have  given  rise  for  a  special  concern,  it  is 
considered that there is no need for testing for carcinogenic potential of Ovitrelle. 
Local tolerance 
In  a  local  tolerance  study,  conducted  in  New  Zealand  rabbits  using  a  single  intramuscular  injection, 
half  of  the  clinical  volume  (same  concentration)  did  not  cause  local  irritation.  However,  r-hCG  is 
intended to be used by subcutaneous route. Skin sensitisation was not tested and a justification was not 
provided. 
In  repeated  dose  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys  no  reactions  at  the  injection  sites  were  clinically 
observed  after  subcutanous  and  intravenous  administration.  Slight  perivascular  mononuclear  cell 
cuffling  was  observed  in  some  animals,  indicative  for  a  delayed  hypersensitivity  reaction.  Clinical 
experience  do  not  give  indications  for  hypersensitivity  reactions.  The  Company  does  not  justify  the 
absence of a local tolerance study with subcutaneous administration and a skin sensitisation study, but 
based on the results of the repeated dose studies it is concluded that subcutaneous administration of r-
hCG does not induce irritation, but hypersensitivity might occur. 
Impurities, excipients and degradation products 
Due to the use of the same purification process the impurity levels in the drug substance were 
very  consistent  over  the  development  process.  The  batches  were  monitored  for  DNA,  serum 
derived proteins, oxidised forms, free subunits as well as fragments and aggregates in routine 
testing. All results were well within the preliminary specification.  
Environmental risk assessment 
Both  r-hCG  and  native  hCG  are  simple  glycoproteins  and  will  be  readily  catabolised  by 
organisms throughout the environment. There is no foreseeable environmental risk associated 
with the use of r-hCG. 
9/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Recombinant  human  chorionic  gonadotropin,  r-hCG,  induces  ovulation  and  produces  oocytes  of 
sufficient maturity to be capable of being fertilized. 
The available information on pharmacokinetics and toxicokinetics in laboratory animals was limited. 
Pharmacokinetics  was  only  extensively  investigated  in  monkeys.  Distribution,  metabolism  and 
excretion were not examined. However, considering the nature of the molecule, further information on 
pharmacokinetics in laboratory animals is not deemed necessary.  
Based  on  the  available  preclinical  information  there  is  no  concern  about  the  safety  for  patients 
receiving a single subcutaneous administration of 500 µg r-hCG. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies in monkeys and rats have shown only the anticipated endocrine effects 
of  high  doses  of  this  gonadotrophin,  including  some  of  the  known  oestrogenic  actions  in  the  rat. 
Antibodies  were  formed  after  a  few  weeks  both  in  the  rat  and  monkey,  which  greatly  accelerated 
clearance of the injected r-hCG but did not completely reverse the endocrine actions during continued 
dosing. The effects all disappeared completely, or almost, during the 4-week recovery period. There 
was a slight inflammatory reaction at the injection sites. 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  were  not  performed.  Given  the  nature  of  the  drug  and  the  therapeutic 
indication,  the  performance  of  reproductive  studies  in  female  test  animals  is  not  necessary.  The 
substance was not genotoxic. Local tolerance problems, in the form of irritation at the injection site, is 
not an issue. Hypersensitivity is not expected based on clinical experience. 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
choriogonadotropin  alfa  to  induce  ovulation.  Results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise 
particular concerns for the safe use of choriogonadotropin alfa. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  properties  of  recombinant  hCG  (r-hCG)  administered  at  a  dose  of  2,500  IU  (125 
µg)  by  three  different  routes  [intravenous  (IV),  intramuscular  (IM),  and  subcutaneous  (SC)]  were 
evaluated  in  12  healthy  volunteers  (6  men  and  6  women)  (GF  7013).  The  6  male  volunteers  were 
previously  pituitary  down-regulated  (testosterone  ≤  1.5  nmol.l-1  and  LH  ≤2.5  IU.L-1)  with  a 
subcutaneous (SC) injection of a depot preparation of a GnRH-agonist (Zoladex® 3.6 mg) and the 6 
female  volunteers  used  an  oral  contraceptive  for  ovarian  suppression.  Pharmacodymamics  of  r-hCG 
were determined by measuring testosterone (T), luteinising hormone (LH), estradiol (E2), and inhibin 
in males and by measuring androstenedione in females during repeated dosing. The various markers 
were analysed as a function of time. 
The  chosen  pharmacodynamic  evaluations  indicate  that  exogenous  administration  of  r-hCG 
250  µg  after  pituitary/ovarian  down-regulation  is  capable  of  initiating  the  aimed  effect  of 
stimulation  of  the  testes/ovaries,  as  shown  by  the  increase  in  testosterone,  inhibin  and 
estradiol  in  male  volunteers  and  increase  in  androstenedione  and  testosterone  in  female 
volunteers.  The  obtained  effects  are  comparable  with  those  observed  with  the  reference 
product Profasi 5,000 IU. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Clinical  pharmacokinetics  were  adequately  investigated  in  four  phase  I  studies  and  a 
population  pharmacokinetic  study.  After  a  5,000  IU  SC  administration,  Profasi  (u-hCG)  and 
Ovitrelle  (r-hCG)  were  bioequivalent  on  AUC  and  Cmax.  Absolute  bioavailability  is  about 
40%.  There  are  no  indications  that  r-hCG  is  metabolised  differently  than  endogenous  hCG. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters in patients, obtained by population pharmacokinetic analysis, are 
in  range  with  those  seen  in  the  healthy  volunteers.  A  correlation  was  observed  between  V/F 
and BMI, resulting in a 20% difference in predicted drug exposure between treatments with u-
hCG  and  r-hCG.  Further  discussion  on  the  consequences  of  this  correlation  is  necessary. 
Pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies  and  studies  in  special  patient  groups  are  not  necessary 
10/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considering  the  indication,  the  dosing  scheme  of  a  single  dose,  and  the  metabolic/excretion 
profile of r-hCG. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  analysis  showed  that  a  delay  was  present  between  the 
hCG  concentration  profile  and  the  pharmacodynamic  response.  Maximum  hCG  levels  are 
observed 12 h after SC injection, while the maximum testosterone and androstenedione effect 
appears  to  occur  at  around  day  3.  From  graphical  presentation  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
pharmacodynamic  effects  produced  by  both  r-hCG  and  u-hCG  were  similar  and  this  further 
supports the pharmacokinetic bioequivalence. 
A  liquid  formulation  was  used  in  early  clinical  trials.  Bioequivalence  between  the  liquid  and  the 
freeze-dried formulation has been demonstrated in a human pharmacology trial. 
Clinical Experience 
The  clinical  documentation  consists  of  8  clinical  studies,  of  which  5  are  related  to  the  indications 
requested.  All  studies  were  conducted  according  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GLP).  Signed  audit 
certificates  are  present  in  the  dossier.  An  overview  of  all  studies  is  given  in  table  1.  Table  2 
summarises the design, key efficacy, and secondary efficacy and safety endpoints for the three clinical 
studies: GF 7648, GF 7927 and GF 9073. Table 3 summarises the objectives of these studies. 
11/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 1 : clinical efficacy studies 
Report n° 
- Design 
- Status 
of 
Number* 
subjects  with  age 
and sex 
Diagnosis 
Duration 
treatment 
Test product 
of 
Dosage regimen 
Route 
administration 
of 
Placebo Controlled Studies 
GF 8936 
DB,  randomized, 
multicenter, parallel group, 
dose-finding 
Ongoing 
GF 9250 
DB, randomized, 
multicenter, parallel group 
Ongoing 
Controlled Studies with Reference Therapies 
DB, double-dummy, 
randomised, multicenter, 
parallel group Phase III 
OL, randomised, 
comparative, multicenter, 
parallel group, Phase III  
GF 7648 
Completed 
GF 7927 
Completed 
GF 8209 
Completed 
GF 9073 
Completed 
DB, double-dummy, 
randomised, comparative, 
multicenter, parallel group, 
Phase III 
234,  
20-39, 
female 
DB, double-dummy, 
randomised, comparative, 
multicenter, parallel group, 
Phase III 
GF 9779 
Completed 
OL, randomised, 
comparative, parallel group 
39, 
≥ 18*,  
male 
26* 
47-90 
female 
190**,  
20-35,  
female 
275**, 
18-38, 
female 
84**, 
20-38, 
female 
7* 
29-39, 
female 
HIV-related 
hypogonado-
trophic 
hypogonadism 
3 months 
Breast cancer  
2 weeks 
r-hCG,125 µg, SC, BIW 
 r-hCG,250 µg, SC, BIW 
 r-hCG,500 µg, SC, BIW 
Placebo, SC, BIW 
r-hCG, 500 µg, IM, TIW 
Placebo, IM, TIW 
Infertility with 
regular ovulatory 
menstrual cycles 
single dose 
Infertility with 
regular, 
spontaneous 
ovulatory 
menstrual cycles 
single dose 
Infertility due to 
ovulatory 
dysfunction 
single dose 
r-hCG 250 µg, SC 
u-hCG 5000 IU, SC 
r-hCG, 250 µg, SC 
r-hCG, 500 µg, SC 
 u-hCG, 10000 U, IM 
r-hCG, 250 µg, SC 
 u-hCG, 5000 IU, SC 
Infertility with 
regular 
spontaneous 
ovulatory 
menstrual cycles 
Infertility due to 
tubal disease, 
male factor 
r-hCG, 250 µg, SC 
 u-hCG, 5000 IU, IM 
Single dose 
u-hCG, 5000 IU, IM 
r-hCG, 250 µg, SC 
Single dose 
Non-controlled Studies 
IMP 20570 
OL 
Ongoing 
24 months 
8  
bone age >13 
male 
Hypogonado-
trophic 
hypogonadism 
r-hCG, 100 µg, SC, BIW 
FSH, 75-225 IU, SC, 
TIW, per response 
*Patient numbers for ongoing protocols were taken from the protocol; **No. of patients treated with 
hCG, TIW: thrice weekly; BIW: twice weekly, TIW: thrice weekly 
12/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2: Design, key efficacy and safety endpoints of GF 7648, GF 7927, GF 9073 
Study GF 7648 
Study GF 7927 
Study GF 9073 
Study Title 
A  Phase  III,  double-blind,  double-
dummy, 
randomised,  multicentre 
study  to  compare  the  safety  and 
efficacy of r-hCG SC with that of u-
hCG (Profasi SC), for inducing final 
follicular  maturation  and  early 
luteinisation  in  women  undergoing 
superovulation  with 
recombinant 
human  FSH  (Gonal-F)  prior  to 
IVF/ET 
A  phase  III,  open,  comparative, 
randomised,  multicentre  study  to 
compare the safety and efficacy of 
r-hCG  SC,  with  that  of  u-hCG 
(Profasi  IM),  for  inducing  final 
follicular  maturation  and  early 
luteinisation 
women 
undergoing  superovulation  with 
(Metrodin 
highly-purified  FSH 
XP) prior to IVF/ET 
in 
A Phase III, double-blind, double-
dummy,  randomised,  multicentre 
study  to  compare  the  safety  and 
efficacy  of  r-hCG  with  that  of  u-
hCG  (Profasi  IM)  for  inducing 
final  follicular  maturation  and 
early 
in  women 
undergoing  superovulation  with 
FSH 
recombinant 
(Gonal-F)  prior  to  IVF/ET  and 
ICSI/ET 
luteinisation 
human 
of 
9 
20 
2 
France,  Germany,  The  Netherlands, 
Sweden, Italy, UK, Israel 
USA 
Australia, New Zealand 
300 
296 
275 
80 
90 
84 
No. 
Centres 
Countries 
No. 
Subjects 
Planned 
of 
No 
Subjects 
Treated  with 
FSH 
of 
No. 
Subjects 
Treated  with 
hCG 
Design 
of 
200 
205 
190 
Randomised, 
double-dummy 
double-blind, 
Randomised, open, comparative 
Randomised, 
double-dummy 
double-blind, 
13/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table  3: Objectives of studies GF 7648, GF 7927 and GF 9073 
Study GF 7648 
Study GF 7927 
Study GF 9073 
Efficacy 
• 
To determine equivalence on 
the number of oocytes 
retrieved per patient between 
the patient groups treated with 
250 µg r-hCG SC and Profasi 
5 000 IU SC. 
• 
Secondary end points: 
No. of oocytes retrieved 
No. of mature oocytes 
2 PN fertilised oocytes 
No. of 2PN or cleaved 
embryos 
Implantation rate per ET 
Mid-luteal endometrial 
thickness 
Overal pregnancy rate 
Clinical pregnancy rate 
Serum Progesterone 
Serum hCG 
Safety 
• 
To determine the safety and 
local tolerance of r-hCG, 
250 µg, administered SC. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To determine equivalence on 
the number oocytes retrieved 
per patient between the patient 
groups treated with 500 µg 
r-hCG SC and Profasi 
10 000 U USP IM. 
To determine equivalence in 
the primary endpoint between 
the two doses of r-hCG, 250 
and 500 µg. 
Seondary end points similar to 
those of study 7648 
• 
To determine equivalence on 
the number oocytes retrieved 
per patient between the patient 
groups treated with 250 µg 
r-hCG SC and Profasi 
5 000 IU SC. 
• 
Secondary end points: 
No. of oocytes retrieved 
No. of mature oocytes 
No of 2PN fertilised oocytes 
No. of 2PN or cleaved 
embryos 
Implantation rate per ET 
Overal pregnancy rate 
Clinical pregnancy rate 
Serum progesterone 
Serum hCG 
To determine the safety and 
local tolerance of r-hCG 
250 µg and 500 µg 
administered SC. 
• 
To determine the safety and 
local tolerance of r-hCG, 
250 µg, administered SC. 
The major difference between the clinical studies is that the US study was conducted as an open-label 
study, whereas the other two studies engaged a double-blind, double-dummy design. The choice of an 
open  design  was  due  to  the  fact  that  in  Australia  and  the  USA  Profasi  is  indicated  for  IM 
administration  only,  whereas  in  Europe  and  Israel  Profasi  is  indicated  for  IM  and  SC  injection. 
Because  Ovitrelle  is  to  be  administered  SC,  blinding  of  the  US  study  would  have  required  an  SC 
placebo  for  Ovitrelle  and  an  IM  placebo  for  Profasi.  This  would  have  been  a  significant  logistical 
problem, as the Company does not manufacture Profasi in the US. As a protection against the potential 
bias  inherent  to  an  open-label  study,  patients  were  not  to  be  randomised  until  the  day  of  hCG 
administration,  after  adequate  follicular  development  was  documented.  In  the  other  studies,  patients 
were  randomised  at  the  start  of  FSH  treatment,  after  confirmation  of  down-regulation.  Additionally, 
the  US  study  included  third  treatment  arms,  500  µg  Ovitrelle,  10,000  IU  Profasi  (the  standard  dose 
used in the US), and 250 µg Ovitrelle, to include the dose-range currently approved in the USA.  
Major inclusion criteria 
1.  Infertility defined as a woman desiring a pregnancy and having failed to conceive after at least 2 
years  of  unprotected  coitus.  The  couple’s  infertility  could  attributable  to  any  of  the  following 
causes:  tubal  factor,  mild  endometriosis  (American  Fertility  Society  classification  I-II), 
unexplained causes (in this case infertility had to be at least 3 years. Amendment I allowed severe 
male factor as an additional cause of infertility, but only if ICSI was to be performed in this study 
2.  A male partner with semen analysis within 6 the past months showing acceptable values of semen 
3.  Age of 20-38 years 
4.  Regular spontaneous ovulatory menstrual cycles of 25-35 days 
5.  During follicular phase (day 2-4) serum levels were to be in the following range: FSH ≤ 12 IU/l, 
LH ≤ 13.5 IU/l, prolactin (PRL) ≤ 800 mIU/l, T ≤ 3.5 nmol/l 
14/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Presence of both ovaries 
7.  No more than 3 previous assisted conception cycles. 
Major exclusion criteria 
1.  Clinical  significant  systemic  disease  (e.g.  insulin-dependent  diabetes,  epilepsy,  severe  migraine, 
intermittent  porphyria,  hepatic,  renal  or  cardiovascular  disease,  severe  corticoid-dependent 
asthma) 
2.  Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) 
3.  Previous history of severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) 
4.  Previous IVF or GIFT failure due to either sperm fertilisation, or poor response to gonadotrophin 
therapy (poor responders) Poor responders were defined as women who matured ≤ 2 follicles in a 
previous attempt. 
Treatment scheme 
The general treatment plan was similar in all studies. Once eligibility was established, patients were 
pituitary down-regulated with a gonadotrophin releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-agonists leuprolide 
acetate or nafarelin). When down-regulation was confirmed by E2 determination, patients underwent 
ovarian stimulation with FSH. In studies 7648 and 9073, Gonal-F (= r-hFSH) was used, whereas in the 
US study MetrodinXP (= purified u-hFSH) was used since Gonal-F was not registered in the USA at 
the time of study initiation. FSH starting dose was in accordance with each centre’s normal practice in 
two of the three studies. When a dominant follicle of ≥ 18 mm with at least two other follicles of ≥ 16 
mm was present and the level of E2 was deemed acceptable for the number of follicles present (around 
150 pg/follicle), hCG was administered. Oocytes were retrieved 34-38 hours after hCG injection and 
fertilised in vitro. No more than 3 embryos were replaced. A dose of 200 mg/day of progesterone by 
the vaginal route was used for luteal phase support from the day of ovum pick up (OPU) for at least 
two weeks or until menstruation occurred. Patients were allowed to participate in one cycle only per 
study. 
Clinical efficacy 
The number of oocytes retrieved was considered the primary parameter in all three studies. Secondary 
efficacy  parameters  included,  among  others,  oocyte  maturity  and  quality,  fertilisation,  implantation 
and  pregnancy.  In  previous  studies  using  u-hCG  in  similar  patients,  the  mean  number  of  oocytes 
retrieved  was  9.0  with  a  standard  deviation  of  5.0.  It  was  assumed  that  to  demonstrate  equivalence 
with a probability of 95% and 97.5%, respectively, that the limits of the 90% CI of the difference (∆) 
in  the  mean  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  between  the  u-hCG  and  r-hCG  treatment  groups  would  be 
within the acceptable clinically relevant range of ± 3 oocytes.  
Given  that  subjects  who  withdraw  or  drop  out  of  the  treatment  group  or  the  comparator  group  will 
tend to have a lack of response and, hence, the results using the full analysis set may be biased toward 
demonstrating equivalence, the main analyses were based on evaluable patients. Analyses based on all 
patients  were  considered  supportive  analyses  and  the  results  of  both  analyses  were  to  be  compared 
(study  GF  7648).  In  study  GF  7648,  172  evaluable  patients  (86  per  group)  were  required  to 
demonstrate equivalence with a probability of 97.5%. Based on earlier study results, it was assumed 
that  20%  of  patients  might  be  non-evaluable,  so  a  total  number  of  200  patients  was  randomised.  In 
study GF 7927, it was determined that 300 patients would be required to demonstrate equivalence with 
a probability of 95% between treatment groups (Ovitrelle 250 versus Ovitrelle 500 and Ovitrelle 500 
versus  Profasi  10000).  Study  GF  9073  was  conducted  to  provide  supporting  data  for  the  larger 
multicentre studies that were powered to show equivalence of Profasi and Ovitrelle. With the sample 
size of this study, the power to declare the two treatments equivalent, according the assumption made 
in both pivotal studies, was about 68%. 
Results and conclusion on efficacy 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the same in all three studies: the number of oocytes retrieved per 
patient at ovum pick-up (OPU). The mean number of oocytes was similar across the hCG treatment 
groups  within  each  study.  Results  of  the  statistical  testing  chosen  as  discussed  in  the  several  study 
protocols indicated equivalence according to the predefined delta. In all studies, indifferent from the 
15/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
data set used for analysis, the limits of the 90% CI’s fell within the acceptable clinically relevant range 
of ± 3 oocytes. 
A large number of secondary endpoints were analysed in all three studies. No statistically significant 
differences  regarding  secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  observed  between  Ovitrelle  250  µg  and 
Profasi  5000  IU,  except  for  2PN  fertilised  embryo’s.  Additionally,  in  the  US-study,  a  statistically 
significant  higher  number  of  2  PN  fertilised  oocytes  was  observed  in  the  500  µg  Ovitrelle  group  in 
comparison with the 250 µg group. 
Women undergoing superovulation prior to assisted reproduction techniques such as IVF 
The  aim  of  both  pivotal  studies  was  to  demonstrate  equivalence  between  a  single  dose  of 
Ovitrelle 250 µg and Profasi 5000 IU in one study and Profasi 10,000 IU in a second study in 
this  indication  with  a  probability  of  95%  and  97.5%,  respectively,  that  the  limits  of  the  90% 
CI  of  the  difference  (∆)  in  the  mean  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  between  the  u-hCG  and  r-
hCG treatment groups would be within the range of ±3. This difference of up to 3 oocytes as 
the clinical relevant range in both equivalence studies can be considered clinically acceptable.  
As this aim of equivalence between Ovitrelle 250 µg and Profasi 5000 IU was reached in  one  
study and between  Ovitrelle  250  µg and  Profasi 10,000 IU in a second study,  it is concluded 
that  the  efficacy  of  Ovitrelle  250  µg  in  this  indication  is  sufficiently  proven  by  the  clinical 
documentation  presented.  This  conclusion  is  additionally  supported  by  the  outcome  on 
secondary  efficacy  parameters  in  which,  except  for  serum  hCG  in  one  of  the  studies,  no 
significant differences between treatment groups were noted. 
Clinical data obtained in the US study, that investigated the clinical performance of both 250 
µg and the 500 µg of Ovitrelle, indicated no significant dose-dependent effects regarding the 
primary  efficacy  parameter.  Except  for  2PN  fertilised  embryo’s  and  mid-luteal  progesterone 
serum  levels,  no  statistically  significant  differences  were  noted  between  250  µg  and  500  µg 
regarding  secondary  efficacy  parameters 
tested.  The  presented  clinical  data  do  not 
demonstrate  that  these  differences  can  lead  to  a  clinically  relevant  additional  efficacy  with 
this higher dose in comparison with the 250 µg dose that supports approval of 500 µg dose of 
Ovitrelle.  Furthermore,  this  conclusion  is  supported  by  the  outcome  on  the  second  primary 
efficacy  parameter  in  this  study,  determination  of  equivalence  between  Ovitrelle  250  µg  and 
Ovitrelle 500 µg, which according to the predefined delta in the study plan (± 3 oocytes), was 
achieved.  Therefore  the  Company  dropped  their  initially  proposed dose recommendation of one 
or two vials of Ovitrelle (250 µg or 500 µg) to be administered 24 to 48 hours after optimal stimulation 
of  follicular  growth  is  achieved.  At  present,  only  the  administration  of  a  dose  of  one  vial  Ovitrelle 
(250 µg) is recommended. 
Anovulatory or oligo-ovulatory women 
No data on Ovitrelle regarding this indication was available in the initial application and  one 
study which  investigating  the efficacy and safety of Ovitrelle 250 µg versus Profasi  5000 IU 
in this indication was ongoing at the time of submission. Following CPMP’s objection to this 
indication, the Company completed a non-inferiority trial in the indication of anovulatory or  oligo 
ovulatory  women,  (Study  GF  8209).  This  study  was  a  double-blind,  double-dummy,  randomised, 
multicentre study to compare the safety and efficacy of recombinant human Chorionic Gonadotrophin 
(Ovitrelle)  with  that  of  urinary  human  Chorionic  Gonadotrophin  (Profasi)  in  inducing  ovulation  in 
anovulatory  infertile  women  undergoing  stimulation  of  follicular  development  with  recombinant 
human  Follicle  Stimulating  Hormone  (Gonal-F).  In  this  study  a  dose  of  250  µg  of  r-hCG  was 
compared  to  5000  IU  u-hCG.  Clinical  non-inferiority  was  pre-specified  as  the  difference  in  the 
proportions of the patients who achieved ovulation in the u-hCG and r-hCG treatments should not be 
lower  than  –20%  in  favour  of  u-hCG.  The  argumentation  for  the  delta  chosen  was  that  in  previous 
studies using u-hCG after stimulation with r-hCG in similar patients, the  proportion of patients who 
achieved  ovulation  after  receiving  hCG  was  about  80%.  This  clinical  relevant  range  in  this  non-
inferiority  trial  can  be  considered  clinically  acceptable  also  in  view  of  the  outcome,  although  the 
provided justification of the delta chosen is only minimally as any reference is absent. 
Efficacy of r-hCG (Ovitrelle) was demonstrated to be non-inferior to that of r-hCG with regard to the 
primary efficacy endpoint of ovulation, defined by mid luteal phase serum progesterone 30 nmol/l or 
clinical  pregnancy  whether  or  not  mid-luteal  P4  was  ≥  30  mmol/l.  The  proportion  of  patients  who 
16/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
ovulated (analysis performed on all patients data set) was 91.9% for the r-hCG group and 85.9% in the 
u-hCG group. The lower limit of the one-sided 95% confidence interval for the treatment effect is –
3.7%,  which  is  above  the  predefined  limit  of  –20%.  The  secondary  efficacy  parameters  regarding 
pregnancy showed no statistically significant differences between groups. 
It is concluded that the currently submitted data in support of the indication of anovulatory or oligo-
ovulatory  women  are  considered  sufficient  clinical  evidence  to  grant  this  indication  for  the  250  µg 
dose of Ovitrelle.  
Clinical safety 
Safety parameters 
Safety assessments were focused on monitoring of adverse events, including OHSS, and assessment of 
local  reactions  to  r-hCG  and  u-hCG  injections  by  using  a  patient  diary  card.  Safety  laboratory 
evaluations  and  measurements  of  antibodies  to  the  study  drugs  were  performed  before  and  after 
treatment.  
A post-treatment visit including general physical examination, routine haematology, clinical chemistry 
and  urinalysis  testing,  and  blood  sampling  for  assessment  of  potential  antibodies  to  the  study  drug 
would occur 15 to 17 days following administration of hCG. 
Patient exposure 
As of March  31, 1999, the data cut-off date for this marketing authorisation application, the clinical 
file of Ovitrelle included data on 535 patients. The overall extent of exposure to Ovitrelle by gender 
and by indication for which safety data are available is summarised in the following table. 
Table: Number of patients exposed to individual dosage regimens of Ovitrelle 
by indication and gender 
Total dose/subject 
Indication 
Female Male  Total 
Female infertility 
334 
Phase I 
Female infertility 
Hypo 
0 
250 µg (1x) SC 
500 µg (2x 250) 
500 µg (1x) SC 
1,000  µg  (3x  125  SC,  IM,  IV  +  5x  125 
SC) 
Phase I 
1,200 µg (2x 100/week, 6 weeks SC) 
1,275 µg (25, 250, 1,000 IV) 
2,200 µg (1x) IV 
Male 
Hypo** 
Phase I 
Phase I 
<  3,000  µg  (2x  125/week  for  12  weeks 
SC) 
HIV-
hypogonadism 
< 3,500 µg (2x 500/day for 14 days SC) 
Breast cancer 
<  6,000  µg  (2x  250/week  for  12  weeks 
SC) 
HIV-
hypogonadism 
< 12,000 µg (2x 500/week for 12 weeks 
SC) 
HIV-
hypogonadism 
0 
12 
0 
6 
8 
6 
0 
10 
0 
10 
334 
24 
89 
12 
8 
12 
6 
10 
21 
10 
9 
9 
12 
89 
6 
6 
6 
0 
21 
0 
0 
TOTAL 
474 
61 
535 
*Categories of “total dose/subject” are mutually exclusive., **: hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism 
Adverse events and serious adverse events (AEs) 
Pharmacology studies (Phase I no.  GF 7012, GF 7013, GF 7014, GF 8927) 
17/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No serious adverse events that could be attributed to the study drug were reported. The most common 
adverse events were headache and nausea/gastric-intestinal disturbance. One unrelated serious adverse 
event was reported (accident). One subject reported feeling faint, which was considered due to fasting. 
No  clinical  significant  abnormalities  in  biochemistry  and  haematology  profiles  were  reported.  No 
antibodies to the medicinal products were found in any of the volunteers at the end of each study. In 
one of the studies, antibodies were not assessed (GF 8927). 
Clinical phase III fertility studies (GF 7648, GF 7927, GF 9073) 
No patient died in any of the Ovitrelle studies. Two serious adverse events in patients treated with 500 
µg Ovitrelle, both consisting of OHSS, were reported that led to discontinuation of the study. 
The  most  frequently  reported  treatment-associated  AEs  were  injection  site  reactions  (pain,  bruising, 
injection  site  inflammation,  injection  site  reaction),  OHSS  (3.6%),  post-operative  pain,  abdominal 
pain, headache, and vomiting.  
The  applicant  has  performed  an  analysis  of  adverse  event  dose-response  information.  No  dose-
response  related  pattern  of  adverse  events  was  noted  in  the  phase  I  studies,  that  used  doses  ranging 
from 25 µg to 1,000 µg. In study GF 7927, both 250 µg and 500 µg Ovitrelle were administered as a 
single dose. Adverse events possibly or probably related to Ovitrelle were reported by 31/95 and 32/89 
patients, respectively. Regarding most commonly reported adverse events, the percentage of patients 
reporting  nausea,  abdominal  pain  and  cases  of  OHSS  were  higher  in  the  500  µg  Ovitrelle  group. 
Severe or life-threatening events were more common in the 500 µg group, mainly due to the higher 
number of OHSS cases.   
OHSS 
The  main  serious  safety  concern  is  the  incidence  of  OHSS.  Regarding  the  occurrence  and 
severity of OHSS, no clear differences were noted between Ovitrelle 250 µg and Profasi 5,000 
IU.  In  the  one  clinical  phase  III  study  (GF  7927)  that  compared  Ovitrelle  250  µg  with 
Ovitrelle  500  µg  and  Ovitrelle  500  µg  with  Profasi  10,000  IU,  OHSS  was  recorded  in  3 
(3.2%)  patients  in  the  250  µg  r-hCG  group,  in  8  (9.0%)  patients  in  the  500  µg  which  was 
judged  as  severe  in  two  cases  with  discontinuation  of  treatment,  and  in  3  (3.1%)  patients  in 
the  Profasi  10,000  IU  group.  These  results  indicate  a  dose-related  increase  in  OHSS,  which 
was not in the same range as noted in the Profasi 10,000 group. These results suggest a higher 
potency  of  r-hCG  versus  u-hCG.  This  suggestion  might  be  supported  by  the  statistically 
significant  higher  serum  hCG  levels  observed  under  treatment  with  Ovitrelle  in  two  of  the 
three clinical phase III studies, although the values obtained differed between studies and the 
use of different entities (IU and µg) additionally made comparisons difficult. 
local  tolerance,  specifically  investigated  in 
Local tolerance 
Regarding 
the  one  study  that  compared 
subcutaneous  administration  of  Ovitrelle  with  subcutaneous  administration  of  Profasi  (GF 
7648),  significantly  better  tolerance  of  Ovitrelle  was  demonstrated,  compared  to  the  Profasi 
(u-hCG).  These  results  can  be  explained  to  the  higher  purity  of  the  recombinant  protein  in 
Ovitrelle.  
Immunogenic reactions 
Regarding  immunogenic  reactions,  all  patients  tested  for  anti-hCG  antibodies  after  a  single 
dose  of  Ovitrelle  were  negative.  Therefore,  it  can  be  concluded  that  Ovitrelle  is  not 
immunogenic. 
Laboratory findings 
No  clinically  significant  changes  from  baseline  in  routine  laboratory  tests  (haematology,  clinical 
chemistry and urinalysis) were noted in the three fertility studies. However, in those women suffering 
from OHSS several laboratory abnormalities were recorded that were considered to be consistent with 
the presence of OHSS and therefore evaluated by the investigator as probably related to study drug.  
18/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug-drug interactions 
Regarding drug-drug interactions, no evidence for a clinical significant drug interaction was found in 
any of the fertility studies. More than 90% of participants used concomitant medication in study GF 
7927 and GF 7648, whereas in study GF 9073 concomitant medication was less than 16%. The most 
commonly  used  concomitant  medication 
included  antibiotics,  analgesics/anaesthetics,  and 
benzodiazepines.   
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Ovitrelle is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  Viral 
safety and batch to batch consistency has been  documented and the relevant tests will be performed 
according to the agreed specifications. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
choriogonadotropin  alfa  to  induce  ovulation.  Results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise 
particular concerns for the safe use of choriogonadotropin alfa. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The results from clinical studies support the use of choriogonadotropin alfa in the intended indications 
for  which  the  dose  recommendation  is  one  vial  of  Ovitrelle  250  µg  (equivalent  to  6500  IU)  to  be 
administered  24  to  48  hours  after  optimal  stimulation  of  follicular  growth  is  achieved.  The  clinical 
data provided did not support a dose recommendation of 500 µg in these indications. 
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  choriogonadotropin  alfa  is  safe.  The  adverse  events  reported 
revealed no unexpected adverse events attributable to choriogonadotropin alfa.  
The  most  common  side  effects  are:  application  site  disorders  (local  reaction/pain  at  injection  site), 
general  disorders  (headache, 
tiredness),  gastro-intestinal  system  disorders  (vomiting/nausea, 
abdominal pain),  and reproductive disorders (mild or moderate ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome). 
Uncommon  side  effects  are:  psychiatric  disorders  (depression,  irritability,  restlessness),  gastro-
intestinal  system  disorders  (diarrhoea),  and  reproductive  disorders  (severe  ovarian  hyperstimulation 
syndrome, breast pain). 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit 
Clinical  studies  have  demonstrated  the  efficacy  of  choriogonadotropin  alfa  in  the  two  proposed 
indications,  i.e.  treatement  of  women  undergoing  superovulation  prior  to  assisted  reproductive 
techniques  such  as  in  vitro  fertilisation  (IVF)  and  anovulatory  or  oligo-ovulatory  women.  Current 
treatment in these indications consists of urine derived human hCG.  
For marketing authorisation of the r-hCG liquid formulation, the MAH submitted a new study on the 
local tolerability of this formulation in male New Zealand White rabbits. This study showed that local 
toxicity  of  the  r-hCG  liquid  formulation  and  the  r-hCG  freeze-dried  formulation  was  comparable, 
when injected by subcutaneous and intramuscular routes. A bioequivalence study was also submitted. 
In this study safety data were also gathered. Based on the pharmacokinetic variables of r-hCG it was 
shown  that  the  calculated  90%  confidence  intervals  were  within  the  acceptance  range  for 
bioequivalence. The other pharmacokinetic variables were also comparable between the test product 
and the reference product. 
19/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Ovitrelle is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Viral safety has been documented.  
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  choriogonadotropin  alfa  is  safe.  The  adverse  events  reported 
revealed no unexpected adverse events attributable to choriogonadotropin alfa. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Ovitrelle was favourable in the treatement of : 
•  Women  undergoing  superovulation  prior  to  assisted  reproductive  techniques  such  as  in  vitro 
fertilisation (IVF): Ovitrelle is administered to trigger final follicular maturation and luteinisation 
after stimulation of follicular growth. 
•  Anovulatory  or  oligo-ovulatory  women:  Ovitrelle  is  administered  to  trigger  ovulation  and 
luteinisation in anovulatory or oligo-ovulatory patients after stimulation of follicular growth. 
The  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  recommended  the  granting  of  a  marketing 
authorisation for Ovitrelle, subject to the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological follow-up measures 
being undertaken by theMAH. 
20/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
