EMA/131392/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004869 
Oxbryta (voxelotor) 
An overview of Oxbryta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Oxbryta and what is it used for? 
Oxbryta is a medicine used to treat haemolytic anaemia (excess breakdown of red blood cells) in 
patients aged 12 years and older who have sickle cell disease. Oxbryta can be given on its own or 
together with another medicine for sickle cell disease called hydroxycarbamide. 
Sickle cell disease is a genetic disease where individuals produce an abnormal form of haemoglobin 
(the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen). The red blood cells become rigid and sticky, and 
change from being disc-shaped to being crescent-shaped (like a sickle). Sickle cell disease is rare, and 
Oxbryta was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 18 November 
2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-3-16-1769. 
Oxbryta contains the active substance voxelotor. 
How is Oxbryta used? 
Oxbryta can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the treatment of sickle cell disease. 
The medicine is available as tablets to be taken by mouth and the usual recommended dose is 
1,500 mg taken once daily.  
For more information about using Oxbryta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Oxbryta work? 
In sickle cell disease, sickling of the red blood cells occurs when the abnormal haemoglobin releases its 
oxygen and then clumps together to form rigid chains that make the cells change shape and cause 
them to break down more quickly. As well as potentially blocking blood vessels, this leads to lower 
numbers of red blood cells and less working haemoglobin able to carry oxygen around the body. The 
active substance in Oxbryta, voxelotor, works by improving the ability of the haemoglobin to hold on to 
oxygen, and preventing it from forming chains. This helps the red blood cells to maintain normal shape 
and flexibility, reducing their excess breakdown and improving their lifespan. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Oxbryta have been shown in studies? 
Oxbryta has been shown to improve haemolytic anaemia in a main study involving 247 patients aged 
12 to 64 years with sickle cell disease. Patients were given Oxbryta or placebo (a dummy treatment) 
as well as continuing hydroxycarbamide treatment if they were already receiving it. At the start of 
treatment, the average haemoglobin level was 8.5 g per dL of blood. After treatment for 24 weeks, the 
haemoglobin level had improved by at least 1 g per dL in around 51% of the group given Oxbryta 
1,500 mg daily (46 of 90 patients) versus 6.5% of those taking placebo (6 of 92). Other measures also 
showed reductions in red blood cell breakdown with Oxbryta. 
What are the risks associated with Oxbryta? 
The most common side effects with Oxbryta (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, diarrhoea and abdominal (belly) pain. The most serious side effects, affecting around 1 in 
100 people, include headache and hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Oxbryta, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Oxbryta authorised in the EU? 
Current treatments for sickle cell disease already include medicines to prevent the painful crises 
caused when sickle cells block blood supply to vital organs. However, there is an unmet medical need 
for treatments to manage the anaemia associated with the condition, which leads to tiredness and 
chronic pain as well as contributing to other complications. Oxbryta has been shown to improve 
anaemia by increasing haemoglobin levels and reducing red cell breakdown. It is not yet clear to what 
extent this will improve clinical symptoms and quality of life in the longer term, since the medicine’s 
action may also reduce the ability of haemoglobin to release oxygen to the body’s tissues. 
Nonetheless, since the side effects seem to be limited and manageable, the European Medicines 
Agency decided that Oxbryta’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the 
EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Oxbryta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Oxbryta have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Oxbryta are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Oxbryta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Oxbryta 
Oxbryta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 February 2022. 
Further information on Oxbryta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/oxbryta.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2022. 
Oxbryta (voxelotor)  
EMA/131392/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
