EMA/330858/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004209 
EPAR summary for the public 
Oxervate 
cenegermin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Oxervate. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Oxervate. 
For practical information about using Oxervate, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Oxervate and what is it used for? 
Oxervate is a medicine used to treat neurotrophic keratitis, an eye condition in which damage to the 
trigeminal nerve supplying the surface of the eye causes loss of sensation and defects that do not heal 
naturally. 
The medicine is only used in adults with moderate or severe disease. 
Because the number of patients with neurotrophic keratitis is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Oxervate was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 14 December 
2015. 
Oxervate contains the active substance cenegermin. 
How is Oxervate used? 
Oxervate is available as eye drops. The recommended dose is 1 drop in the affected eye every 2 hours, 
6 times per day. Treatment should continue for 8 weeks. 
Oxervate can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
an eye specialist. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Oxervate work? 
Patients with neurotrophic keratitis have lower than normal levels of substances including growth 
factors that are normally supplied by the trigeminal nerve and which play an important role in the 
growth and survival of the cells of the eye’s surface. The active substance in Oxervate, cenegermin, is 
a copy of a human growth factor called nerve growth factor. When given as eye drops to patients with 
neurotrophic keratitis, cenegermin helps restore some of the normal healing processes in the eye and 
repair damage to the eye’s surface associated with the condition. 
What benefits of Oxervate have been shown in studies? 
Oxervate has been shown to help heal damage to the eye’s surface in 2 main studies involving a total 
of 204 adults with moderate or severe neurotrophic keratitis. In the first study, 74% (37 out of 50) of 
patients treated with Oxervate for 8 weeks achieved complete healing of the eye’s surface compared 
with 43% (22 out of 51) of patients treated with a dummy treatment containing the same eye drop 
formula but no active substance. In the second study, figures were 70% (16 out of 23) with Oxervate 
and 29% (7 out of 24) with the dummy treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Oxervate? 
The most common side effects with Oxervate (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are eye 
pain and inflammation, increased lacrimation (watery eyes), pain in the eyelid and sensation of a 
foreign body in the eye. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Oxervate, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Oxervate approved? 
Oxervate has been shown to increase by around 30-40% the number of patients who achieve complete 
healing of the eye’s surface when compared with eye drops containing no active substance. Side 
effects with Oxervate are mainly related to the eye, are mild or moderate in severity and resolve over 
time. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Oxervate’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Oxervate? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Oxervate have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Oxervate 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Oxervate on 06 July 2017. 
The full EPAR for Oxervate can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Oxervate, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Oxervate  
EMA/330858/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Oxervate can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Oxervate  
EMA/330858/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
