EMA/561348/2020  
EMEA/H/C/5040 
Oxlumo (lumasiran) 
An overview of Oxlumo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Oxlumo and what is it used for? 
Oxlumo is a medicine used for treating primary hyperoxaluria type 1, an inherited disease in which a 
substance called oxalate builds up in the body, causing damage to the kidneys and other organs. 
Oxlumo contains the active substance lumasiran. 
Primary hyperoxaluria is rare, and Oxlumo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 21 March 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu/3/16/1637. 
How is Oxlumo used? 
Oxlumo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
physician experienced in the management of hyperoxaluria. 
Oxlumo is given by injection under the skin. It is given once a month for the first 3 months and then 
either once monthly or once every 3 months. The dose and frequency depend on the patient’s weight. 
For more information about using Oxlumo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Oxlumo work? 
Patients with primary hyperoxaluria type 1 have high levels of glyoxylate which is converted into 
oxalate. High levels of oxalate can cause stones in the kidney as well as injury to certain organs. 
The active substance in Oxlumo, lumasiran, blocks the production of an enzyme called hydroxyacid 
oxidase (also known as glycolate oxidase), which is involved in the production of glyoxylate. Oxlumo is 
a ‘small interfering RNA’ (siRNA), a very short piece of synthetic genetic material, which has been 
designed to attach and block the genetic material in the cell that is responsible for the production of 
the enzyme. This blocks the production of the enzyme, thereby reducing the amount of glyoxylate and 
oxalate, helping to relieve the symptoms of the disease. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Oxlumo have been shown in studies? 
Oxlumo has been shown to reduce the formation of oxalate compared to placebo (a dummy treatment) 
in a main study with 39 patients aged between 6 and 60 years with primary hyperoxaluria type 1. 
After 6 months of treatment, the level of oxalate in urine was reduced by 65% on average in patients 
on Oxlumo compared with 12% in patients from 6 years of age who received placebo. Among the 
patients who received Oxlumo, 21 out of 25 (84%) achieved normal or near normal levels of oxalate 
after 6 months, compared to none in the placebo group. Similar effects were seen in a study with 18 
children aged under 6 years with hyperoxaluria type 1. 
What are the risks associated with Oxlumo? 
The most common side effects with Oxlumo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are reactions 
at the injection site such as reddening of the skin, pain, itching and swelling.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Oxlumo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Oxlumo authorised in the EU? 
Oxlumo can significantly reduce the levels of oxalate in the body in patients with primary hyperoxaluria 
type 1. Although the number of patients recruited was small due to the rarity of the disease, the 
effectiveness of the medicine was shown consistently across all age groups. The side effects of Oxlumo 
are mild or moderate. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Oxlumo’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Oxlumo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Oxlumo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Oxlumo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Oxlumo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Oxlumo 
Oxlumo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 November 2020. 
Further information on Oxlumo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/oxlumo.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2020. 
Oxlumo (lumasiran)  
EMA/561348/2020 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
