EMA/371398/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005117 
Ozawade (pitolisant) 
An overview of Ozawade and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ozawade and what is it used for? 
Ozawade is a medicine used to improve wakefulness and reduce excessive daytime sleepiness in adults 
with obstructive sleep apnoea.  
Obstructive sleep apnoea is the repeated interruption of breathing during sleep due to airways 
becoming blocked. Ozawade is used when other treatments, such as continuous positive airway 
pressure (CPAP, use of a ventilator to keep the airways open) have not satisfactorily improved 
excessive daytime sleepiness or cannot be tolerated by the patient.   
Ozawade contains the active substance pitolisant. 
How is Ozawade used? 
Ozawade can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started by a healthcare 
professional experienced in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnoea and in the management of risks 
associated with cardiovascular disease (affecting the heart and blood circulation). 
Ozawade is available as tablets to be taken once a day in the morning with food. The starting dose is 
4.5 mg once a day. Depending on how well the medicine works, the dose may be increased weekly, up 
to a maximum of 18 mg once a day by week three. Ozawade should always be used at the lowest 
effective dose.  
For more information about using Ozawade, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ozawade work? 
The active substance in Ozawade, pitolisant, works by attaching to receptors (targets) in the brain 
called ‘histamine H3 receptors’. This increases the activity of certain brain cells called ‘histamine 
neurons’, which are important for keeping the body awake. Pitolisant also increases levels of the 
neurotransmitters acetylcholine, dopamine and noradrenaline in the brain. Neurotransmitters are 
chemical messengers that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. Since these 
neurotransmitters are involved in maintaining alertness and arousal, increasing their levels may 
improve wakefulness. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Ozawade have been shown in studies? 
Ozawade has been found to improve excessive daytime sleepiness in adults with obstructive sleep 
apnoea in two main studies.  
The first study involved 244 patients with obstructive sleep apnoea who were receiving CPAP therapy, 
but whose excessive daytime sleepiness had not improved satisfactorily. Patients received either 
Ozawade or placebo (a dummy treatment) in addition to CPAP therapy and excessive daytime 
sleepiness was measured using a standard daytime sleepiness scale called the Epworth sleepiness 
scale. After 12 weeks of treatment, daytime sleepiness was reduced by an average of 5.5 points on the 
Epworth sleepiness scale in patients receiving Ozawade and 2.8 points in those receiving placebo.  
The second study, involving 268 patients who could not tolerate or refused CPAP therapy, found that 
patients receiving Ozawade had an average reduction in daytime sleepiness of 6.3 points on the 
Epworth sleepiness scale after 12 weeks, compared with 3.6 points in those receiving placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Ozawade? 
The most common side effect with Ozawade (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is headache. 
Common side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are insomnia (difficulty sleeping), nausea 
(feeling sick), anxiety, abdominal (belly) pain, vertigo (a spinning sensation) and diarrhoea.  
For the full list of side effects of Ozawade, see the package leaflet.  
Ozawade must not be used by people who have severely reduced liver function or by women who are 
breastfeeding. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ozawade authorised in the EU? 
Ozawade was shown to improve excessive daytime sleepiness in people with obstructive sleep apnoea, 
both in those receiving CPAP and in those in whom CPAP did not work well enough or was not 
tolerated. The side effects of the medicine were mostly mild or moderate. The European Medicines 
Agency therefore decided that Ozawade’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ozawade? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ozawade have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ozawade are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Ozawade are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ozawade 
Ozawade received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 1 September 2021. 
Further information on Ozawade can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ozawade. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2021. 
Ozawade (pitolisant)  
EMA/371398/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
