EMA/849609/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004174 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ozempic 
semaglutide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ozempic. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ozempic. 
For practical information about using Ozempic, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ozempic and what is it used for? 
Ozempic is a diabetes medicine used with diet and exercise to treat adults whose type 2 diabetes is not 
satisfactorily controlled. 
Ozempic can be used on its own in patients who cannot take metformin (another diabetes medicine). It 
can also be used as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
Ozempic contains the active substance semaglutide.  
How is Ozempic used? 
Ozempic is available as a solution for injection in prefilled pens and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. It is injected under the skin of the belly, the thigh or the upper arm. 
The starting dose of Ozempic is 0.25 mg once a week. After four weeks, this dose should be increased 
to 0.5 mg. If needed, the dose can be further increased up to a maximum of 1 mg once a week. For 
further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Ozempic work? 
The active substance in Ozempic, semaglutide, is a ‘GLP-1 receptor agonist’. It acts in the same way as 
GLP-1 (a hormone produced in the gut) by increasing the amount of insulin that the pancreas releases 
in response to food. This helps with the control of blood glucose levels. 
What benefits of Ozempic have been shown in studies? 
Studies showed that Ozempic is effective at lowering blood glucose levels and reducing the risk of 
health complications in patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Five studies in over 4,000 patients showed that Ozempic lowered levels of HbA1c (a measure of blood 
glucose) by between 1.2 and 1.8 percentage points over 10 to 13 months. Ozempic in these studies 
compared favourably with other treatments, sitagliptin, exenatide and insulin glargine (which led to 
reductions of 0.55, 0.92, 0.83 percentage points respectively) and placebo (reductions of up to 0.09 
percentage points). In addition, the results indicated that treatment with Ozempic was associated with 
a beneficial fall in body weight. 
A further study in over 3,000 diabetes patients at high risk of heart problems showed that overall, 
heart attack, stroke or death occurred less frequently in patients treated with Ozempic (6.6%) than 
with placebo (8.9%). When looking at the three ‘events’ separately, fewer patients taking Ozempic had 
a heart attack or stroke, but rates of death from heart problems were similar in the two groups.  
What are the risks associated with Ozempic? 
The most common side effects with Ozempic (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
problems with the digestive system, such as diarrhoea, vomiting and nausea (feeling sick). These are 
mild or moderate in severity and of short duration. Serious worsening of diabetic retinopathy (damage 
to the retina, the light sensitive membrane at the back of the eye) is common (it may affect up to 1 in 
10 people). 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Ozempic, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ozempic approved? 
Ozempic was shown to be effective at controlling blood glucose levels. Treatment with Ozempic also 
led to weight loss, which is considered beneficial in patients with diabetes. Ozempic was also shown to 
be effective at reducing the occurrence of serious health complications associated with diabetes such 
as heart attack and stroke.  
Regarding safety, this was considered in line with that of other medicines of the same class. Side 
effects affecting the digestive system are considered to be manageable. Worsening of diabetic 
retinopathy has also been observed and will be further investigated. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that the benefits of Ozempic seen in studies outweighed its 
risk and recommended it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ozempic? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ozempic have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Ozempic  
EMA/849609/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Ozempic 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ozempic on 8 February 2018. 
The full EPAR for Ozempic can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ozempic, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2018. 
Ozempic  
EMA/849609/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
