Summary of risk management plan for Ozempic 
(semaglutide s.c. for T2D)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ozempic. The RMP details important risks of 
Ozempic, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Ozempic’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ozempic’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ozempic should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ozempic should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the EPAR.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ozempic’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for  
Ozempic is authorised for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains semaglutide as the active 
substance and it is injected by subcutaneous route.  
Further information about the evaluation of Ozempic’s benefits can be found in Ozempic’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: EPAR link. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ozempic, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Ozempic’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
 
 
 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly 
The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A  List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Ozempic are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of Ozempic. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  Diabetic retinopathy complications 
  Pancreatic cancer 
  Medullary thyroid cancer 
  Pregnancy and lactation 
  Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
II.B  Summary of important risks  
Diabetic retinopathy complications 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
The risk of diabetic retinopathy complications was identified based on 
findings in the cardiovascular outcomes trial (CVOT; SUSTAIN 6), where 
a total of 3,297 subjects with T2D and high cardiovascular risk were 
included. In the CVOT (SUSTAIN 6), subjects with known proliferative 
retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment were not 
excluded. 
Risk factors and risk groups  Patient risk factors include increasing age, long duration of diabetes, 
poor glycaemic control, prior history of diabetic retinopathy and rapid 
decline in HbA1c. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8and PL Sections 2 and 4. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study NN9535-4352 (Long-term effects of semaglutide on diabetic 
retinopathy in subjects with T2D [FOCUS]) 
See section below of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Abbreviations: CVOT = cardiovascular outcomes trial; PL = package leaflet; SmPC = Summary of 
Product Characteristics; T2D = type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Pancreatic cancer  
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Patients with T2D, as well as patients being overweight or with obesity, 
have an increased risk of certain types of cancer such as pancreatic 
cancer. There is no evidence from clinical trials, that GLP-1-based 
therapies increase the risk of pancreatic cancer. However, pancreatic 
cancer is included as an important potential risk, based on the EC 
regulation 726/2004 Article 5(3) referral procedure in 2013 (EMEA/H/A-
5(3)/1369) 
Patient risk factors for neoplasms include diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, 
obesity, physical inactivity, advanced age, smoking, alcohol abuse, 
environmental factors, history of neoplasms and family history of 
pancreatic cancer and other genetic predispositions. 
No risk minimisation measures  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study NN9535-4447 (Epidemiological assessment of the risk for 
pancreatic cancer associated with the use of semaglutide in patients with 
T2D) 
Abbreviations: GLP-1 = glucagon-like peptide-1; T2D = type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
See section below of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
Medullary thyroid cancer  
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
This potential class risk is based on findings in mice and rats for all 
currently approved long–acting GLP-1 RAs. Data from the monitoring of 
calcitonin (a marker for MTC) in plasma in the semaglutide s.c. and oral 
semaglutide clinical development programmes did not support a 
semaglutide effect on calcitonin in humans.   
Patient risk factors for MTC include previous family history or personal 
medical history of multiple endocrine neoplasia 2 (MEN2), a group of 
medical disorders associated with tumours of the endocrine system. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 5.3. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study MTC-22341 (Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma Surveillance Study: a 
Case-Series Registry) 
See section below of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Abbreviations: MEN2 = multiple endocrine neoplasia 2; MTC = medullary thyroid cancer; s.c. = 
subcutaneous(-ly); SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2. 
Abbreviations: PL = package leaflet; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Patients with severe hepatic impairment  
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2 and 5.2. 
Abbreviations: SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ozempic. 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
NN9535-4352 (FOCUS) 
Purpose of the study: The aim of this randomised clinical trial is to establish the long-term effects of 
semaglutide on diabetic retinopathy in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) using validated and 
standardised ophthalmic assessments. 
NN9535-4447 
Purpose of the study: The aim of this study is to evaluate whether exposure to semaglutide increases the 
risk of pancreatic cancer in patients with T2D.  
MTC-22341  
Purpose of the study: This active surveillance programme for MTC has been established to evaluate 
further a potential association between treatment with long-acting GLP-1 RAs and the occurrence of MTC 
in humans. The MTC registry is an FDA post-marketing requirement for long-acting GLP-1 RA products.  
 
