19 May 2011 
EMA/439447/2011  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
OZURDEX 
International non-proprietary name: dexamethasone 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/001140/II/0001 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
All information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Executive summary ................................................................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Information on Paediatric requirements ................................................................. 3 
1.3. Marketing Protection........................................................................................... 3 
1.4. Orphan Medicinal Products................................................................................... 3 
1.5. Scientific Advice................................................................................................. 3 
1.6. Licensing status ................................................................................................. 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 6 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 6 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics & Pharmacodynamics .............................................................. 6 
2.4.3. Clinical efficacy ............................................................................................... 7 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 19 
2.4.5. Clinical safety ............................................................................................... 20 
2.4.6. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 24 
2.4.7. Benefit/Risk balance ...................................................................................... 26 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 29 
2.5.1. Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system ......................................... 29 
2.5.2. Risk management plan................................................................................... 29 
2.6. Product Information.......................................................................................... 32 
3. Conclusion ............................................................................................. 33 
4. ATTACHMENT......................................................................................... 34 
Assessment report on the novelty of the indication/significant clinical benefit in comparison 
with existing therapies for Ozurdex 700 micrograms intravitreal implant in applicator....... 34 
4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 35 
4.2. Justification of significant clinical benefit as presented by the MAH .......................... 40 
4.3. CHMP assessment of the MAH’s justification of significant clinical benefit .................. 42 
4.4. CHMP conclusion .............................................................................................. 43 
4.5. Outcome......................................................................................................... 43 
2/44 
 
1.  Executive summary 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
With  this  application  for  a  type  II  variation  the  MAH  proposed  to  add  the  following  indication 
“OZURDEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment 
of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis” to section 4.1 of the SmPC, with consequential changes 
to sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
1.2.  Information on Paediatric requirements 
N.A. 
1.3.  Marketing Protection 
With  this  variation  application  the  MAH  claimed  that  an  additional  1  year  of  marketing  protection 
should  be  warranted  based  on  the  novelty  of  the  indication/significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison 
with  existing  therapies.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the  MAH’s  justification  for  one  additional  year  of 
marketing  protection  based  on  the  new  therapeutic  indication  for  Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  adult 
patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis is 
sufficient and an additional year of marketing protection can be granted. 
The  full CHMP’s  assessment  on  the  novelty  of  the indication/  significant  clinical  benefit in  comparison 
with  existing  therapies  for  Ozurdex  700  micrograms  intravitreal  implant  in  applicator  is  provided  in 
Attachment No. 9 to the CHMP assessment report.  
1.4.  Orphan Medicinal Products 
On  6  May  2010  the  COMP  issued  a  positive  opinion  on  the  application  for  orphan  designation  for 
Ozurdex, dexamethasone (intravitreal implant) for the treatment of non-infectious uveitis affecting the 
posterior segment of the eye (EMA/OD/018/10). The MAH formally requested to be withdrawn from the 
list of orphan designations based on the fact that it was likely that the indication was going to be filed 
as  a  variation  to  the  approved  product  “Ozurdex”  rather  than  as  a  new  marketing  authorisation 
application. 
1.5.  Scientific Advice 
The MAH received Scientific Advice from the CHMP in July 2005. The Scientific Advice pertained to the 
use  of  the  dexamethasone  intravitreal  implant  in  an  applicator  for  patients  with  anterior  and 
intermediate  uveitis  (EMEA/342179/2005).  The  main  points  in  the  Scientific  Advice  relating  to 
intermediate uveitis were as follow:  
the primary efficacy variable of vitreous haze graded on a standard 5-unit scale (0 to 4+) was 
the  only  validated  measure  to  assess  disease  activity,  and  that  BCVA  was  an  appropriate 
secondary efficacy variable 
that a comparison to placebo (Sham needle-less DDS applicator without study medication) was 
acceptable 
that a single injection trial was acceptable to show short-term efficacy of the implant 
that  the  sample  size  and  6  month  study  duration  were  considered  to  be  sufficient  for  safety 
purposes since longer term safety information will be provided from the completed RVO studies 
and the ongoing, masked, repeat-dose studies in diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
 
 
 
 
3/44 
The CHMP also: 
  confirmed  the  principle  that  an  application  based  on  2  single  trials,  each  in  a  well-defined 
subpopulation, would be acceptable provided that the results of both trials showed similar effect 
sizes in the overall population and in both groups of interest 
  commented  that  6  weeks  as  an  endpoint  might  be  rather  long  for  a  placebo  group,  and 
therefore a 4-week endpoint was preferred 
  outlined  clinically  relevant  target  populations  as  patients  with  severe  non-infectious  posterior 
uveitis  (acute  or  chronic),  patients  with  chronic  anterior  uveitis  resistant  to  locally  applied 
steroids, and patients with complicated intermediate uveitis 
1.6.  Licensing status 
Ozurdex  was  granted  positive  opinion  by  the  European  Medicine  Agency  (EMA)  and  approved  by  the 
European  Commission  on  27  July  2010  for  the  treatment  of  adults  with  macular  oedema  following 
either BRVO or CRVO; with this application the MAH applied to extend the indications to patients with 
non-infectious uveitis.  
4/44 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This  submission  is  an  extension  of  the  current  OZURDEX  700 micrograms  intravitreal  implant  in 
applicator  marketing  authorisation  to  include  the  indication:  “treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis.” 
Background on the disease: 
Uveitis is a term referring to inflammation affecting structures in the eye including the iris, ciliary body 
and  choroid.  The  inflammation  may  affect  only  one  structure  or  multiple  structures.  In  many  cases, 
both eyes are involved and symptoms may include decreased vision, eye pain, ocular redness, tearing, 
strabismus  and/or  leukocorea.  Uveitis  and  complications  arising  from  the  disease  are  the  5th  most 
common  cause  of  visual  loss  in  the  developed  world,  accounting  for  about  10%  of  all  cases  of  total 
blindness. While the cause of the inflammation can sometimes be associated with underlying systemic 
diseases or reactions to systemic medications, the cause of uveitis is unknown in about 35% to 57% of 
all cases of uveitis.  
The  International  Uveitis  Study  Group  (IUSG)  classified  uveitis  into  4  major  categories  based  on  the 
anatomic location of the inflammation: anterior (iris and ciliary body), intermediate (peripheral retina 
and pars plana of the ciliary body), posterior (choroid and retina) and panuveitis. The IUSG anatomic 
classification  scheme  was  endorsed  by  the  First  International  Workshop  on  Standardization  of  Uveitis 
Nomenclature  (SUN)  that  was  held in 2004  in  the  USA.  In  2008,  the  IUSG updated  this classification 
system to include aetiological criteria (Deschenes et al, 2008). It includes 3 main categories of uveitis: 
infectious, noninfectious (including unknown etiology, as well as systemic autoimmune disorders) and 
masquerade syndromes (neoplastic, drug-induced).  
Uveitis Affecting the Posterior Segment of the Eye 
Inflammation  localised  to  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  encompasses  the  terms  intermediate  and 
posterior  uveitis  described  above.  The  clinical  course  of  posterior  uveitis  is  similar  to  intermediate 
uveitis.  Uveitis  affecting  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  is  not  a  life  threatening  disease  but  is  a 
chronic debilitating condition, with a high risk of permanent visual loss. 
Posterior  segment  uveitis  is  generally  not  responsive  to  topical  treatment.  Initial  management  of 
uveitis  posterior  to  the  lens  is  usually  by  observation  or  by  periocular  and  occasionally  intraocular 
glucocorticoid  injections.    Oral  glucocorticoids  are  frequently  recommended  for  patients  with  uveitis 
that  is  resistant  to  topical  therapy.  Other  immunomodulatory  agents  are  suggested  in  patients  who 
have  active  inflammation  that  interferes  with  activities  of  daily  living  and  have  refractory  uveitis  or 
drug-related  adverse  effects  from  systemic  glucocorticoids  or  persistent  requirement  for  a  dose  of 
prednisone greater than 10 mg/day or equivalent. 
About the product:  
The  Dexamethasone  Posterior  Segment  Drug  Delivery  System  (DEX  PS  DDS®)  contains  an  extruded 
dosage form of 700 microgram dexamethasone, in an inactive biodegradable polymer matrix of PLGA. 
The  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  is  a  sterile,  single-use  system  intended  to  deliver  one 
biodegradable  implant  into  the  vitreous.  The  DEX  PS  DDS  is  injected  into  the  eye  via  the  pars  plana 
using a specially designed applicator. The active ingredient (dexamethasone), is a potent corticosteroid 
with  marked  antiinflammatory  activity.  The  mechanism  of  administration  is  designed  to  prolong  the 
duration of the dexamethasone effect in the eye. The dexamethasone is slowly and gradually released 
5/44 
over time to provide a total dose of approximately 700 microgram and the polymer gradually degrades 
over time so that there is no need to remove the implant. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
No new quality data were submitted as part of this variation application. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
No additional non-clinical data have been submitted in support of the new indication. Considering that 
Ozurdex was initially covered by an orphan designation for uveitis and therefore a limited increase in 
exposure would not be expected, the CHMP agreed to the MAH´s justification that environmental risk 
assessment (ERA) evaluation does not change for the product in the context of the new indication.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted the results of the pivotal phase III study 206207-014 in intermediate or posterior 
uveitis  to  support  the  indication:  “treatment  of  adult  patients  with  inflammation  of  the  posterior 
segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis.” 
In addition, data from two supportive clinical studies were provided: 
 
Phase  2  dose-ranging  study  with  tableted  DEX  PS  DDS  in  patients  with  persistent  macular 
oedema  associated  with  diabetic  retinopathy,  uveitis,  retinal  vein  occlusion  or  Irvine-Gass 
syndrome (DC103-06). A subgroup of 14 patients with uveitis was included in this study. 
 
Phase  3  study  with  DEX  PS  DDS  applicator  system  in  patients  with  anterior  uveitis  (206207-
015). This study was terminated due to slow enrolment (only 5 patients). 
Due  to  the  small  number  of  patients  with  uveitis  included  in  the  Study  DC103-06  (n=14)  and  the 
different  condition  of  patients  involved  in  Study  015  (anterior  uveitis)  neither  of  the  two  supportive 
studies  was  considered  by  the  CHMP  to  contribute  to  the  efficacy  assessment  of  the  intended 
indication. Hence, the latter studies are not discussed further in the efficacy part of this report. 
The MAH did not perform any systemic PK/PD study in patients because plasma drug concentration of 
dexamethasone  was  extremely  low  following  DEX  PS  DDS  700  microgram  administration  to  the  eye. 
No ocular PK/PD studies in patients were conducted. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. 
The MAH provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the Community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics & Pharmacodynamics 
No additional PK or PD data have been submitted by the MAH in support of the new indication. 
6/44 
 
  
 
 
2.4.3.  Clinical efficacy  
2.4.3.1.  Main study 
One  main  pivotal  study  supports  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  DEX  PS  DDS  in  the  treatment  of  non-
infectious inflammation of the posterior segment with intermediate or posterior uveitis: study 206207-
014 (Study 014).  
It  was  an  8-week,  multicenter,  masked,  randomized,  sham-controlled,  parallel-group,  safety  and 
efficacy study with an 18-week masked extension. Patients were randomized to receive 700 microgram 
DEX PS DDS Applicator System (DEX 700), 350 microgram DEX PS DDS Applicator System (DEX 350), 
or  Sham  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (needleless  applicator,  Sham).  Patients  were  stratified  at 
randomization according to their baseline scores for vitreous haze.  
Patients  underwent  the  study  treatment  procedure  at  the  treatment  visit.  The  site  (study  coordinator 
or the treating investigator) contacted the patient on day 1 for a post-procedure telephone follow-up. A 
post-procedure  safety  visit  occurred  on  day  7;  masked  outcome  assessment  visits  occurred  at  weeks 
3, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 26. 
An overview of the study is provided in the table below. 
Methods 
The study was an 8 week multicenter, masked, randomized trial (with an 18-week masked extension) 
to  assess  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  700  microgram  and  350  microgram  Dexamethasone  Posterior 
Segment  Drug  Delivery  System  (DEX  PS  DDS)  Applicator  System  compared  with  sham  DEX  PS  DDS 
Applicator  System  in  the  treatment  of  non-infectious  ocular  inflammation  of  the  posterior  segment  in 
patients with intermediate or posterior uveitis. 
Patients  were  randomized  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  to  receive  700  microgram  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System 
(DEX 700), 350 microgram DEX PS DDS Applicator System (DEX 350) or Sham DEX PS DDS Applicator 
System  (needleless  applicator,  Sham).  Patients  were  stratified  at  randomization  according  to  their 
baseline scores for vitreous haze into 2 strata: patients with baseline scores of +1.5 or +2 and patients 
with  baseline  scores  of  either  +3  or  +4.  Approximately  231  patients  were  to  be  randomized  to  the  3 
7/44 
 
treatment groups in order to have 219 patients complete the study at week 8 based on an anticipated 
dropout rate of 5%. 
After the screening visit, the baseline visit occurred within 4 to 14 days. Patients underwent the study 
treatment procedure at the treatment (day 0) visit. The treatment visit occurred on the same day as 
the  baseline  visit  or  up  to  4  days  later.  A  post-procedure  safety  visit  occurred  on  day  7;  masked 
outcome assessment visits occurred at weeks 3, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 26. 
Efficacy variables included vitreous haze, best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central retinal thickness 
(optical  coherence  tomography  [OCT]  at  selected  sites  only),  time  to  early  and  late  treatment  failure 
and use of escape medications. Safety variables were adverse  events, BCVA, IOP, biomicroscopy and 
ophthalmoscopy. 
Study Participants 
The key inclusion criteria were: 
  male or female at least 18 years of age;  
 
 
 
vitreous haze (VH) ≥ +1.5 at both the screening and baseline visits in the study eye, otherwise 
media clarity;  
best  corrected  visual  acuity  (BCVA)  in  the  study  eye  of  10  to  75  letters  using  the  Early 
Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) method;  
allowable  treatments  were  topical  corticosteroids,  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs 
(NSAIDs),  systemic  immunosuppression,  systemic  corticosteroids  (≤  20  mg/day  prednisone 
equivalents), or topical cycloplegia if doses were stable 
The key exclusion criteria were: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uncontrolled systemic disease;  
use of warfarin/heparin/enoxaparin anticoagulant ≤ 2 weeks of day 0;  
intraocular pressure (IOP) > 21 mm Hg;  
history  of  clinically  significant  IOP  elevation  in  response  to  corticosteroids,  or  ocular 
hypertension/glaucoma;  
use of antiglaucoma medications;  
active ocular infection; 
periocular corticosteroid ≤ 8 weeks of day 0 or intravitreal drug injections ≤ 26 weeks of day 0 
to study eye; 
intravitreal  corticosteroid  injections  except  for  triamcinolone  >  26  weeks  prior  to  Day  0  at 
doses ≤ 4 mg; use of Retisert;  
intraocular surgery or lens in study eye;  
history of pars plana vitrectomy or herpetic infection in study eye;  
  BCVA in the non-study eye < 34 letters using the ETDRS method;  
 
 
uveitis unresponsive to corticosteroids; 
hypotony 
Of note, patients with glaucoma and those with no strict control of ocular hypertension were excluded 
from  participation,  as  a  safety  measure.  Considering  that  glaucoma  is  one  of  the  most  important 
adverse  events  related  to  the  use  of  intraocular  steroids,  this  was  considered  well  justified  by  the 
CHMP.  
Treatments 
Patients received DEX 700, DEX 350, or Sham on the randomisation day 0 visit. The study treatment 
procedure  was  performed  by  the  treating  investigator  in  a  surgical  suite  or  office  setting  using  a 
8/44 
 
 
standard,  sterile  technique.  A  combination  of  topical  and  subconjunctival  anaesthetics  was  used. 
Patients randomized to active treatment had the study drug placed into the vitreous through the pars 
plana  using  the  DEX  PS  DDS  applicator  system.  Patients  randomized  to  Sham  treatment  had  the 
needle-less applicator pressed against the conjunctiva. 
At the visit preceding the study treatment procedure, the patient was given a bottle of gatifloxacin or 
ofloxacin  ophthalmic  solution  (where  available);  otherwise  an  ophthalmic  fluoroquinolone  (such  as 
ciprofloxacin) or an ophthalmic aminoglycoside (such as gentamicin or tobramycin) was used. Patients 
were  to  administer  a  drop  in  the  study  eye  4  times  per  day  (QID)  for  3  days  prior  to  the  study 
treatment procedure, up to QID on the day of the procedure and QID for 3 days post-operatively. 
Objectives 
To  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  700  microgram  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (700 
microgram  dexamethasone)  and  350  microgram  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (350  microgram 
dexamethasone)  compared  with  Sham  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (needleless  applicator)  in  the 
treatment of non-infectious ocular inflammation of the posterior segment in patients with intermediate 
or posterior uveitis. 
To  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  700  microgram  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (700 
microgram  dexamethasone)  compared  with  the  350  microgram  DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System  (350 
microgram  dexamethasone)  in  the  treatment  of  non-infectious  ocular  inflammation  of  the  posterior 
segment in patients with intermediate or posterior uveitis. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  the  proportion  of  patients  with  vitreous  haze  score  of  0  in  the  ITT 
population.  The  primary  efficacy  assessment  was  based  on  ocular  inflammation  in  the  study  eye  as 
measured by vitreous haze on a standardized 0 to +4 scale (0, +0.5, +1, +1.5, +2, +3, +4). 
The  primary  time  point  was  week  8.  In  the  phase  2  study  DC103-06  of  patients  with  persistent 
macular  oedema  associated  with  diabetic  retinopathy,  uveitis,  retinal  vein  occlusion,  and  Irvine-Gass 
syndrome,  the  greatest  gain  in  visual  acuity  with  DEX  was  at  day  60.  Even  if  a  patient  was 
experiencing  visual  benefit  with  DEX  at  day  30,  it  takes  some  time  for  the  vitreous  cells  to  clear. 
Therefore week 8 was selected as the likely time point for maximal clearing of vitreous haze. 
Secondary efficacy analyses (performed on the ITT population): 
 
 
time to vitreous haze score 0 
vitreous haze score at least 1-unit improvement from baseline   
Other efficacy analyses (performed on the ITT population): 
the proportion of patients with ≥ 1-unit improvement in vitreous haze 
the proportion of patients with ≥ 2-unit improvement in vitreous haze  
vitreous haze raw score  
the mean change from baseline vitreous haze score  
1-Unit Deterioration from Baseline in Vitreous Haze Scores  
2-Unit Deterioration from Baseline in Vitreous Haze Scores 
time to Early or Late Treatment Failure 
use of escape medications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement in BCVA (i.e. the proportion of patients with at least 15 letters improvement from 
baseline  BCVA  and  the  proportion  of  patients  with  at  least  10  letters  improvement  from 
baseline BCVA) 
central macular thickness using OCT 
health  outcomes  using  the  National  Eye  Institute  Visual  Functioning  Questionnaire-25  (NEI-
VFQ-25) 
The endpoints were in general considered appropriate by the CHMP; improvement in BCVA is a clinical 
endpoint of major significance to the patient. It is acceptable to demonstrate statistical significance on 
the primary endpoint, but the results must also be clinically relevant; this prerequisite was met, both 
the  primary  endpoint  and  improvement  in  BCVA  by  15  letters  or  more  were  considered  clinically 
relevant.  
The  main  variable  of  the  study  initially  chosen  was  the  change  of  vitreous  haze  score  from  baseline. 
During the conduct of the trial it was substituted by a responder rate (the proportion of patients with 
vitreous haze score of zero) as the main outcome.  Several other definitions of responders have been 
used  as  secondary  endpoints.  Complementary  information  regarding  patient’s  visual  acuity,  retinal 
thickness  and  impact  of  the  change  in  the  quality  of  life  was  also  assessed  through  the  secondary 
outcomes.  The  selected  endpoints  are  validated  standard  methods  for  evaluation  of  uveitis  and  have 
been  previously  used  in  the  clinical  development  of  other  medicinal  products  for  the  intended 
indication. 
The  CHMP  did  not  question  the  acceptability  of  VH  as  cut-off  entry  criterion  for  the  study  and  as  a 
primary  endpoint,  and  it  was  acknowledged  that  it  was  in  line  with  the  Scientific  Advice  provided. 
Nevertheless, it was noted that VH is not necessarily the main criterion guiding therapeutic decisions; 
it  is  rather  the  BCVA  and  the  presence  or  not  of  relevant  macular  oedema,  which  determine  the 
therapeutic approach.  
Sample size 
Based on an anticipated dropout rate of 5%, approximately 231 patients were to be randomised to the 
3 treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio to have 219 patients complete the study at week 8. 
Randomisation 
At the screening visit, each patient who qualified for entry was assigned a study patient number that 
was  used  on  patient  documentation.  At  randomization  on  day  0,  the  site  used  the  IVRS  (interactive 
voice response system) to receive the treatment assignment for each qualified patient.  
Patient  randomization  was  stratified  according  to  their  baseline  vitreous  haze  scores  into  2  groups. 
Patients  with  baseline  scores  of  +1.5  or  +2  vitreous  haze  were  randomized  into  one  stratum,  and 
patients  with  baseline  scores  of  either  +3  or  +4  were  randomized  into  another  stratum.  Within  each 
stratum,  the  patient  was  randomly  assigned  to  1  of  the  3  treatment  arms  (DEX  700,  DEX  350,  or 
Sham)  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  according  to  the  randomization  schedule  generated  by  using  procedures 
developed and validated by the MAH. 
Blinding (masking) 
Patients remained masked to the study treatment assignment for the duration of the trial. 
Study treatment procedures and post procedure safety evaluations (except BCVA) were performed by 
the  treating  investigator.  The  treating  investigator  had  overall  responsibility  for  the  safety  of  the 
10/44 
 
patient  and  did  not  participate  in  the  efficacy  procedures.  For  each  patient,  the  treating  investigator 
was not the same individual as the uveitis specialist assigned as the follow-up investigator. 
Statistical methods 
The  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  consisting  of  all  randomized  patients  was  used  for  efficacy 
analyses  and  data  other  than  safety  variables.  The  per  protocol  (PP)  population  consisting  of  all  ITT 
patients  who  had  no  major  protocol  deviations  (determined  prior  to  database  lock)  was  also  used  for 
efficacy analyses. The safety population consisting of all randomized and treated patients was used for 
safety analyses. 
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of patients with vitreous haze score 0. Missing data at 
weeks  2  through  6,  8,  12,  16,  20,  and  26  were  imputed  using  the  last  observation  (scheduled  or 
unscheduled)  carried  forward  (LOCF)  method.  All  available  data  were  used  for  imputation.  For  any 
patients who had received an escape medication, their vitreous haze score was set as missing at visits 
after  the  administration  of  escape  medication,  and  thus  imputed  by  LOCF.  The  primary  analysis  was 
performed using Pearson’s chi-square test, with week 8 being the primary time point. A gate-keeping 
procedure was used to control the overall type I error rate at 5% for the 2 primary between-treatment 
comparisons (i.e., DEX 700 versus Sham and DEX 350 versus Sham). 
The 2 secondary efficacy variables were time to vitreous haze score 0 and at least 1-unit improvement 
from baseline in vitreous haze score. 
All  data  were  summarized  with  descriptive  statistics  and/or  frequency  tables.  In  general,  categorical 
variables  were  analysed  using  Pearson's  chi-square  test,  Fisher's  exact  test,  or  the  Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel  (CMH)  method.  Continuous  variables  were  analyzed  using  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  for 
between-group  comparisons  and  paired  t-test  for  within-group  analyses  of  change  from  baseline.  For 
time to event analyses, treatment group comparisons were analyzed by log-rank test. 
The  proposed  analysis  methods  were  considered  acceptable  by  the  CHMP.  The  method  for  handling 
missing data is not conservative. For example, if patients dropped out from the study with a score of 0, 
they  should  still  be  considered  as  failures,  even  though  the  primary  analysis  would  count  them  as 
successes. However, as only few patients dropped out, this was not considered to be a concern.  
Changes in the Conduct of the Study or Planned Analyses 
Several  changes  were  implemented  on  the  study;  the  majority  of  them  took  place  after  the  study 
initiation on 10 May 2006 (first patient enrolment).  
The CHMP considered the following amendments to be the main changes to the protocol:  
a)  with  respect  to  the  population,    posterior  uveitis  patients  were  also  included  and  patients  of 
milder affection were allowed. 
b) a secondary measure of efficacy was transformed into the primary measure (and the sample 
size accordingly increased) and the effect was evaluated later than initially planned 
c) the SAP was modified after study termination  
11/44 
 
 
Results  
Participant flow 
Of the 331 patients screened for the study, 102 (30.8%) failed to meet the entry criteria: 21.1% due 
to inclusion criteria, 6.6% due to exclusion criteria and 4.8% due to Other. A total of 229 patients were 
randomized  and  enrolled  in  the  study  as  shown  in  the  Figure  below.  Over  97%  of  patients  in  each 
treatment group completed the week 8 visit and nearly 95% of patients completed the 26-week study 
with the proportion of patients completing the study similar across the treatment groups. 
The  PP  population  included  90.4%  (207/229)  of  the  ITT  population  who  had  no  major  protocol 
violations,  as  determined  prior  to  the  26-week  database  lock.  Twenty-two  patients  were  excluded:  7 
patients in the DEX 700  group, 10  patients in the DEX 350 group and 5  patients in the Sham group. 
Eighteen  patients  were  excluded  from  the  PP  population  at  all  visits  due  to  use  of  prohibited 
medication. Four patients were randomized but did not receive treatment. 
The  protocol  deviations  (a  total  of  68  patients,  including  52  patients  receiving  prohibited  medication) 
were  duly  documented  and  the  MAH  provided  a  list  of  criteria  used  as  a  guide  in  determining  the 
exclusion of patients/ data from the PP analysis.  
12/44 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and other Baseline Characteristics 
In  the  ITT  population,  the  mean  (range)  age  was  44.8  (18  to  82)  years,  63.3%  of  patients  were 
female,  and  60.7%  were  Caucasian.  The  disease  diagnosis  was  intermediate  uveitis  for  80.8%  of 
patients, and posterior uveitis for 19.2%. There were no statistically significant differences among the 
treatment  groups  in  the  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  in  the  ITT  population,  as 
summarised in the table below: 
The  studied  population  was  considered  by  the  CHMP  to  be  representative  of  the  population  suffering 
from non-infectious posterior segment uveitis.  
Prior Medications and Procedures 
Prior to enrolling in study 014, over 40% of patients in each treatment group had received medications 
for the treatment of ocular inflammation in the study eye. 
Concomitant and Escape Medications 
Concomitant Medications 
Patients  were  allowed  to  use  the  following  medications  (concomitant  medications)  under  specified 
conditions: 
(1) topical corticosteroid and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents if doses were stable for at least 2 
weeks prior to screening and remained stable through the treatment on day 0  
13/44 
 
 
(2)  systemic  corticosteroids  if  doses  were  20  mg/day  or  less  for  oral  prednisone  (or  equivalent  for 
other corticosteroids), were stable for at least 1 moth prior to screening, remained stable through the 
treatment on day 0, and were expected to remain stable through to week 8 
(3) systemic immunosuppressors (eg. cyclosporine and methotrexate) if doses were stable for at least 
3 months prior to screening, remained stable through the treatment on day 0, and were expected to 
remain stable through to week 8 
The  use  of  these  allowed  concomitant  medications  for  uveitis  in  the  study  was  similar  among  the  3 
treatment  groups  at  each  visit.  Overall,  75.3%  (58/77)  of  patients  in  the  DEX  700  group,  71.1% 
(54/76)  in  the  DEX  350  group  and  67.1%  (51/76)  in  the  Sham  group  used  concomitant  medications 
for uveitis in the study eye during the trial. 
Escape Medications 
Escape medications were defined as intravitreal/periocular injections of corticosteroids in the study eye 
or systemic medications taken for uveitis or ocular inflammation which were newly started or increased 
dose from treatment day 0.  
Throughout  the  study,  use  of  escape  medications  was  higher  for  patients  receiving  Sham  than  for 
those  treated  with  DEX.  As  shown  in  the  table  below,  the  proportion  of  patients  receiving  escape 
medications from baseline to each visit remained significantly higher in the Sham group compared to 
DEX 700 (except week 16) and DEX 350 (except week 26). 
Overall,  use  of  escape  medications  was  more  common  in  the  control  group  than  active  treatments: 
22.1%  (17/77)  of  patients  in  the  DEX  700  group,  25.0%  (19/76)  in  the  DEX  350  group  and  38.2% 
(29/76) in the Sham group. 
Numbers analysed 
The  ITT  population  included  all  randomised  patients:  77  in  the  DEX  700  group,  76  in  the  DEX  350 
group and 76 in the Sham group. The PP population included all randomised and treated patients with 
no major protocol deviations: 70 in the DEX 700 group, 66 in the DEX 350 group, and 71 in the Sham 
group. The safety population included all randomised patients who received at least one dose of study 
medication: 76 in the DEX 700 group, 74 in the DEX 350 group and 75 in the Sham group.  
14/44 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  there  were  very  few  missing  data,  with  some  occurring  between 
randomisation and treatment. It was acceptable to exclude patients who were randomised but did not 
receive treatment from the ITT analysis, but the MAH decided to include them, which was acceptable 
to the CHMP.  
With  respect  to  the  uveitis  subgroups,  the  study  was  amended  in  order  for  patients  with  posterior 
uveitis  to  be  involved.  Only  46  out  of  229  patients  (approximately  20%)  suffered  from  posterior 
uveitis.  Since  therapeutic  approaches  are  similar  and  response  to  treatment  was  not  expected  to  be 
different, this was accepted by the CHMP.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy endpoint (Vitreous Haze Score of Zero) 
The  proportion  of  patients  whose  vitreous  haze  score  decreased  to  0  in  the  study  eye  at  week  8 
(primary time point) was statistically significantly higher with DEX 700 compared to Sham (p < 0.001).  
The proportion at week 8 was likewise statistically significantly higher with DEX 350 compared to Sham 
(p < 0.001) Improvements with DEX compared to Sham are clinically relevant, and can be seen from 
week 6 through the end of the study (table below). 
Response  rates  were  numerically  superior  with  the  700  microgram  dose  compared  to  350  microgram 
at  each  visit  (except  week  20).  At  the  end  of  study  (week  26),  the  difference  between  DEX  700  and 
Sham  was  16.7%  (p  =  0.014)  compared  to  a  14.5%  difference  between  DEX  350  and  Sham  (p  = 
0.030). 
Similar results were observed in the per protocol population. 
The CHMP acknowledged that eight weeks after being treated more subjects receiving dexamethasone 
(700 or 350 microgram) than those treated with sham achieved complete vitreal transparency,  i.e. VH 
scoring  of  0  (46%  vs.  35.5%  vs.  11.8%).  This  effect  was  already  seen  as  early  as  by  week  3  and 
remained  stable  during  the  remainder  of  the  study  (31.2%  vs.  28.9%  vs.  14.4%  at  Week  26). 
15/44 
 
 
Although  a  numerically  greater  proportion  of  responders  was  observed  with  the  higher  dose,  no 
significant differences were observed between the two dexamethasone doses.  
Secondary Endpoints 
Time to Vitreous Haze Score of Zero  
As a secondary efficacy variable, the time to vitreous haze score of 0 was calculated from day 0 to the 
first occurrence of vitreous haze score 0 using the 3 common scheduled visits of weeks 3, 6 and 8 or 
unscheduled or early exit visits occurring before week 8. For patients who did not achieve a score of 0, 
the time to event was censored at the last exam performed among these visits. Patients receiving DEX 
demonstrated an earlier onset and greater response as shown in the Kaplan-Meier plot below: 
Overall, cumulative response rate curves were significantly different in the DEX 700 group compared to 
the  Sham  group  (p  <  0.001)  and  in  the  DEX  350  group  compared  to  the  Sham  group  (p  =  0.026). 
Cumulative response rates were consistently higher following DEX treatment compared to Sham, with 
separation of the curves from around week 3 and no crossover during the initial 8 weeks of the study. 
The results provided by the MAH on the PP population showed to be consistent with those obtained in 
the ITT population. 
16/44 
 
 
 
 
 
At Least 1-Unit Improvement in Vitreous Haze Score 
The effect primarily observed on vitreous haze was considered by the CHMP to be consistently shown 
in  the  secondary  parameters.  In  general,  both  dexamethasone  groups  were  significantly  superior  to 
sham  treatment.  When  active  groups  were  compared,  the  700  microgram  dose  was  numerically 
superior to the 350 microgram dose.  
The results provided by the MAH on the PP population showed to be consistent with those obtained in 
the ITT population. 
Improvement in BCVA 
At each visit, the proportion of patients with at least 15 letters improvement from baseline BCVA was 
significantly  higher  with  DEX  700  compared  to  Sham  (p  <  0.001),  and  with  DEX  350  compared  to 
Sham (p ≤ 0.027). 
17/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that visual acuity is one of the most relevant outcomes in uveitis. Patients with a 
wide range of impairment were allowed to enter the study (BCVA from 10 to 75 letters), although also 
patients with higher values (up to 89) were finally recruited. This fact suggested that the indication of 
intravitreal  therapy  in  a  proportion  of  patients  included  in  the  pivotal  study  may  be  questionable. 
However,  the  data  strongly  supported  a  positive  effect  of  Ozurdex  in  a  relevant  clinical  endpoint,  as 
BCVA is. 
Central Macular Thickness Using OCT 
Central  macular  thickness  using  OCT  was  assessed  at  selected  study  sites.  At  baseline,  the  mean 
thickness was 344.0 microns in the DEX 700 group, 338.9 microns in the DEX 350 group, and 324.6 
microns in the Sham group. At week 8, there was a significantly greater mean decrease with DEX 700 
(-99.4  microns)  compared  to  Sham  (-12.4  microns),  p=0.004.  Likewise,  there  was  a  significantly 
greater mean decrease with DEX 350 (-91.0 microns) compared to Sham, p=0.007. At week 26, there 
were no statistically significant between-group differences. 
The central macular thickness changes as measured by OCT were considered by the CHMP to be fully 
consistent with BCVA findings. 
Other secondary endpoints 
Results were also statistically significant in favour of DEX 700 for the secondary endpoints: proportion 
of patients with ≥ 2-unit improvement in vitreous haze, mean vitreous haze raw score, mean change 
from baseline vitreous haze score.  
18/44 
 
 
 
 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  body  of  evidence  supporting  the  efficacy  of  Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  non-infectious  uveitis  is 
based on a single pivotal study, which was modified during its conduct. The MAH provided a  detailed 
background  and  chronology  of  the  amendments  made  to  the  pivotal  study.  Considering  that  the 
majority  of  patients  (87%)  were  recruited  only  after  implementation  of  the  most  significant 
modifications, the CHMP agreed that it was unlikely that the changes could have a relevant impact on 
the study results. In conclusion, although initially raised as an issue, a GCP inspection was not finally 
considered necessary by the CHMP. 
The results of the phase III study demonstrated that the 700 microgram implant was efficacious in the 
treatment of uveitis of the posterior segment of the eye. Both the 700 microgram and 350 microgram 
implant groups were statistically significantly superior to the sham group in the ITT and PP populations 
for  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints.  The  results  for  the  700  microgram  group  were 
numerically  superior  to  the  350  microgram  group  on  most  endpoints,  but  this  comparison  was  not 
statistically siginificant. 
The pivotal study included patients suffering from non-infectious inflammation of the posterior segment 
with  intermediate  or  posterior  uveitis  in  at  least  one  eye.  Patients  with  intermediate  uveitis  were 
selected  initially.  The  MAH  subsequently  expanded  the  014  study  population  to  include  posterior 
uveitis, and focused on non-infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye. It was noted 
that  the  majority  of  patients  included  in  the  study  (81%)  were  diagnosed  with  intermediate  uveitis. 
Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  agreed  that,  even  though  the  study  was  not  powered  to  detect  differences 
between the intermediate and posterior forms of the disease, the results indicated no differences in the 
efficacy  or  safety  profiles  in  the  these  subgroups.  Both  terms  “intermediate”  and  “posterior”  refer  to 
ocular  structures  posterior  to  the  lens  and  dexamethasone  released  from  the  vitreous  is  equally 
available  to  the  structures.  Furthermore,  although  the  aetiologies  may  differ,  the  inflammatory 
mechanisms in both conditions are the same. Taken together, the proposed indication “inflammation of 
the posterior segment of the eye” was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Ozurdex can be regarded as an invasive therapy with the potential risks associated to the intravitreal 
administration of the drug, in addition to the safety issues related to local corticosteroid action. In this 
regard, the MAH’s approach to include a wide range of patients with VH scoring ranging from 1.5 to 4 
and  BCVA  from  10  to  75  was  questioned.  The  MAH  argued  that  patients  with  any  inflammation 
posterior  to  the  lens  are  candidates  for  this  treatment,  since  systemic  steroid,  immunosuppressive 
drugs  or  peri-ocular  injections,  which  are  currently  used  in  clinical  practice,  do  not  provide  optimal 
results and can also be considered aggressive therapeutic approaches. The CHMP agreed that an effect 
of the proposed 700 microgram dose  was observed independently of the severity of the disease and, 
considering the context of current clinical practice, accepted the appropriateness of the invasive nature 
of the therapeutic approach (intravitreal administration) in the target patient population.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  an  effect  on  all  relevant  parameters  assessed,  and  most  particularly  VH, 
BCVA  and  OCT  was  observed.  The  results  were  expectable,  since  treatment  with  Ozurdex 
(dexamethasone)  constitutes  administration  of  standard  of  care,  given  in  a  depot  intravitreal 
formulation. In this regard, efficacy results were considered as clinically relevant and not questionable.  
The CHMP noted that according to the data in severe patients and the known course of the disease in 
many instances, repeated use of Ozurdex would be reasonably expected in severe cases of uveitis. It 
was observed that efficacy appears to diminish around 6 months and therefore, patients may need re-
implantation.  In  terms  of  efficacy,  as  Ozurdex  is  a  corticosteroid  treatment,  it  is  expected  that  the 
efficacy  observed  with  a  second  implant  would  be  similar  as  the  one  observed  with  the  first  implant. 
Although  data  on  re-implantation  are  not  available  for  Ozurdex  in  uveitis  patients,  from  the  RVO 
19/44 
studies  where  patients  entered  a  second  open  label  extension  after  6  months,  patients  achieved  a 
similar  treatment  benefit  to  that  of  the  first.  Given  that  in  both  conditions  the  inflammatory  process 
has a common mechanism, a second injection in uveitis patients is expected to have a similar effect to 
the  one  in  RVO  patients.  Furthermore,  repeated  intravitreal  injections  of  triamcinolone  for  the 
treatment of uveitis are well documented in the literature.  
The MAH proposed to modify section 4.2 of the SmPC as follows:  
Current SmPC 
There is only very limited information on repeat dosing intervals less than 6 months (see section 5.1). 
There is currently no experience of repeat administrations beyond 2 implants in Retinal Vein Occlusion. 
Proposed SmPC 
There is only very limited information on repeat dosing intervals less than 6 months (see section 5.1). 
There  is  currently  no  experience  of  repeat  administrations  in  posterior  segment  non-infectious 
uveitis or beyond 2 implants in Retinal Vein Occlusion. 
This proposal for the SmPC was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
The  safety  aspects  of  redosing  of  Ozurdex  are  discussed  separately  in  section  4.4.6  and  in  terms  of 
benefit/ risk in section 4.4.7.  
The  CHMP  discussed  the  most  suitable  dose  in  less  severely  affected  patients,  but  who  would  be 
nonetheless  candidates  for  intravitreal  treatment,  and  asked  for  a  justification  of  the  700  microgram 
dose. The MAH concluded that both doses were shown to be safe and effective in patients with baseline 
VH scores of +1.5 or 2; however, the response to the 700 microgram dose was numerically superior in 
efficacy  across  a  broad  range  of  endpoints  and  at almost  all  timepoints  and  had  an  earlier  onset  and 
longer duration of action. In this context, the MAH chose to apply only for the higher dose. The CHMP 
considered that the risk benefit balance was sufficiently substantiated with the current data and that it 
is positive for the 700 microgram dose in the proposed indication.  
The safety aspects of the lower dose of Ozurdex are discussed separately in section 4.4.6 and in terms 
of benefit/ risk in section 4.4.7. 
The  use  of  concomitant  and  rescue  medication  during  the  trial  was  sufficiently  justified  by  the  MAH. 
More  than  70%  of  patients  included  in  the  study  were  on  treatment  for  uveitis  at  recruitment  and, 
according  to  the  data  provided,  the  treatment  was  not  modified  during  the  study,  which  was 
considered reassuring from the efficacy point of view. Several patients required additional medication 
as rescue therapy, more patients on sham (38%) than on Ozurdex arms (700 microgram dose – 22%; 
350 microgram dose – 25%). The CHMP considered that this data suggested there may be a need for 
treating  some  patients  again  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period.  The  SmPC  (section  4.2)  provides 
guidance  to  the  health-care  professionals  (qualified  ophtalmologists  experienced  in  intravitreal 
injections) on repeat administrations according to the response exhibited. Nevertheless, as mentioned 
above,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  text  in  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  needs  to  clearly  state  that 
currently there is no information on repeat administration in patients with uveitis. 
2.4.5.  Clinical safety 
In this section, only new information from the study in patients with uveitis is discussed. 
20/44 
Patient exposure 
The 77 patients randomised to the DEX 700 group were to receive dexamethasone 700 microgram; 1 
patient  was  randomized  but  not  treated.  The  76  patients  randomized  to  the  DEX  350  group  were  to 
receive dexamethasone 350 microgram; 2 patients were randomized but not treated. The 76 patients 
randomized to the Sham group were to receive no active treatment; 1 patient was randomised but not 
treated.  The  safety  analyses  are  based  on  a  total of  225  patients  who  received  treatment  of  the  229 
patients randomized. 
Exposure  was  similar  across  the  3  treatment  groups.  The  mean  (range)  duration  was  181.3  (49  to 
225)  days  for  patients  in  the  DEX  700  group,  183.1  (140  to  216)  days  in  the  DEX  350  group,  and 
181.0 (22 to 262) days in the Sham group. 
Adverse events 
Commonly reported adverse events (greater than 2%) are presented in the tables below: 
21/44 
 
Overall, the incidence of adverse events was significantly higher in the DEX groups compared to Sham. 
Ocular adverse events were also more commonly reported with DEX 700 and DEX 350 than with Sham.  
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  adverse  events  were  IOP  increased,  conjunctival  haemorrhage, 
eye  pain,  iridocyclitis,  uveitis,  ocular  discomfort  and  cataract.  With  the  exception  of  eye  pain  and 
uveitis, all adverse events were more commonly reported in DEX700 as compared to sham. Although 
these  differences  were  not  significant  for  any  of  the  adverse  events  when  a  formal  comparison  was 
made, this trend was consistent for most events. 
The incidence of non-ocular systemic adverse events was low and no specific pattern indicating safety 
risks with the active treatment was revealed. 
22/44 
 
 
Treatment-Related Ocular Adverse Events in the Study Eye 
The  incidence  of  treatment-related  ocular  adverse  events  in  the  study  eye  was  significantly  higher  in 
the  DEX  700  group  (59.2%)  and  DEX  350  group  (45.9%)  compared  to  Sham  (28.0%),  p  ≤  0.035. 
There was no significant difference between the 700 microgram and 350 microgram doses of DEX. No 
treatment-related  ocular  adverse  events  were  reported  in  the  non-study  eye.  The  most  frequently 
reported  (>  2%  in  any  treatment  group)  treatment  related  ocular  events  in  the  study  eye  are 
summarised in the following table. 
Treatment-related ocular adverse events reported in patients with uveitis were qualitatively similar to 
those  reported  in  patients  with  macular  oedema  following  a  RVO  (as  already  included  in  the  product 
information for Ozurdex). Quantitatively, the incidence of treatment-related ocular adverse events for 
DEX700 are similar in both indications with the following exceptions: conjunctival haemorrhage (25% 
uveitis vs. 14.7% macular oedema RVO) and cataract (10.5% uveitis vs. 2.1% macular oedema) that 
occurred with higher incidence in patients with uveitis than in macular oedema.  
Serious adverse events 
In the study eye, there were 4 retinal detachments (2 DEX 700 and 2 Sham), 2 cataracts (1 DEX 350 
and  1  Sham),  1  necrotizing  retinitis  (DEX  350)  in  a  patient  who  was  HIV  positive,  and  1 
endophthalmitis (DEX 700) with negative vitreous tap.  
23/44 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Three  patients  in  the  DEX  700  group  discontinued  the  study  due  to  adverse  events  (retinal 
detachment, cerebellar infarction, vitreous opacities), and none in the DEX 350 or Sham groups. 
Post marketing experience 
Case  reports  for  Ozurdex  in  the  MAH´s  postmarketing  database  were  recorded  from  17  June  2009 
(IBD; approval by the US FDA). Of note, review of the post-marketing experience revealed there were 
six  cases  reported  as  endophtalmitis,  four  of  which  were  very  well  defined  and  all  of  which  occurred 
within a short time frame since the Ozurdex implantation. Where information was available, resolution 
was complete.  
2.4.6.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  integrated  safety  database  of  study  014  formed  the  basis  for  the  assessment  of  the  safety  of 
dexamethasone implant in the treatment of the posterior segment uveitis. Safety data from the retinal 
vein  occlusion  studies  were  also  presented  by  the  MAH.  The  latter  studies  included  a  very  different 
population  in  demographics,  disease  and  co-morbidity  characteristics  as  well  as  in  the  concomitant 
24/44 
 
medications  used.  Thus,  the  CHMP  assessment  of  the  safety  data  relies  on  the  pivotal  phase  III  trial 
(Study 014) and data from the macular oedema studies were considered supportive. 
A total of 153 patients were treated with dexamethasone implant for intermediate and posterior uveitis 
and followed-up for 6 months. The studied population was considered representative of the population 
suffering from non-infectious posterior segment uveitis.  
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  adverse  events  were  IOP  increased,  conjunctival  haemorrhage, 
eye  pain,  iridocyclitis,  uveitis,  ocular  discomfort  and  cataract.  With  the  exception  of  eye  pain  and 
uveitis,  all  adverse  events  were  more  commonly  reported  in  DEX  700  as  compared  to  sham.  In 
general,  comparing  the  two  tested  doses,  DEX  350  showed  a  slightly  more  favourable  safety  profile, 
with a lower incidence of the most frequently reported adverse events, than the high dose (DEX 700). 
On  the  other  hand,  a  lower  incidence  of  visual  acuity  reduced  and  macular  oedema  AEs,  common 
complications of uveitis, were seen in DEX 700 compared to DEX 350 and Sham.  
The overall incidence and profile of treatment related ocular adverse events for DEX 700 were similar 
in  both  indications  with  the  following  exceptions:  conjunctival  haemorrhage  (25%  uveitis  vs.  14.7% 
macular oedema RVO) and cataract (10.5% uveitis vs. 2.1% macular oedema RVO) that appeared with 
higher  incidence  in  patients  with  uveitis  than  in  macular  oedema.  The  prevalence  of  conjunctival 
haemorrhage  was  unexpectedly  high  in  the  group  of  patients  with  uveitis  treated  with  DEX  700.  The 
MAH  argued  that  topical  corticosteroids,  NSAIDs  and  systemic  corticosteroid  allowed  during  the 
therapy,  together  with  the  intravitreous  injection procedure  itself,  could  have  increased  the  incidence 
of  conjunctival  haemorrhage.  This  was  considered  acceptable  by  the  CHMP.  Therefore,  the  following 
text was added in the SmPC in Section 4.4: “The prevalence of conjunctival haemorrhage in patients 
with non-infectious uveitis of the posterior segment appears to be higher compared with BRVO/CRVO.   
This  could  be  attributable  to  the  intravitreous  injection  procedure  or  to  concomitant  use  of  topical 
and/or  systemic  corticosteroid  or  Non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  medications.    No  treatment  is 
required since spontaneous resolution occurs.” 
In  the  case  of  cataracts,  several  factors  were  considered  as  contributing  to this  higher  incidence,  i.e. 
the  disease  itself,  previous  and  concomitant  exposure  to  systemic/local  CS.  Despite  not  being 
unexpected, this high increment in the incidence of cataracts was a matter of concern, particularly in 
the younger population (< 45 years) for whom the need for additional doses is foreseen. As this issue 
was considered a key aspect for prescribers when considering this treatment option for a given patient, 
the CHMP requested that an adequate warning should be reflected in the SPC. Thus, the following text 
was  added  in  the  SmPC  in  Section  4.4:  “After  the  first  injection  the  incidence  of  cataract  appears 
higher  in  patients  with  non-infectious  uveitis  of  the  posterior  segment  compared  with  BRVO/CRVO 
patients.”  
The CHMP considered the MAH´s justification regarding observations on conjuctival haemorrhage and 
cataracts as acceptable, but was of the opinion that further monitoring of these adverse events in the 
post-authorisation  setting  was  warranted.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  that  a  sub-population  of 
patients with uveitis be included in the long-term PASS study already planned for the RVO population. 
Of concern was the one case of endophthalmitis observed in the main study. Endophtalmitis is a very 
serious adverse event that can lead to vision loss. Even though the case of endophtalmitis reported in 
the  uveitis  study  was  not  definitive  as  bacterial  or  fungal  growth  was  not  revealed,  there  have  been 
also six reports of endophtalmitis during the post-marketing experience with Ozurdex. In this context, 
the MAH agreed to include the adverse reaction in the SmPC (in section 4.8), in addition to the current 
warning in section 4.4. Measures such as emphasis on an aseptic technique and educational materials 
outlining the symptoms of endophtalmitis are already in place. Endophtalmitis was also re-classified in 
the RMP from a potential to an identified risk. 
25/44 
Four cases of retinal detachment were also reported (2 in the DEX 700 and 2 in the sham group). The 
retinal detachments were assessed as causally related to the study treatment in the DEX700 group and 
in  the  Sham  group  to  the  underlying  disease.  The  MAH  agreed  with  the  CHMP  to  include  retinal 
detachment in the SmPC (in Section 4.8) and re-classify the event in the RMP from a potential to an 
identified risk. 
An  important  risk  related  with  the  local  use  of  corticosteroids  is  the  development  of  IOP 
increases/glaucoma. A similar pattern to that seen in macular oedema studies was seen in uveitis. As 
already  observed  in  macular  oedema  studies,  the  younger  group  (<  45  years)  of  patients  showed  a 
higher  incidence  of  intraocular  pressure  compared  to  the  mid-age  patients  and  elderly.  Considering 
that  young  adults  are  the  target  population  for  this  new  indication,  the  CHMP  requested  that  the 
increased risk should be adequately reflected in the SmPC. The MAH agreed to include the new patient 
population (uveitis patients) in the warning regarding patients of less than 45 years (in Section 4.4). 
The  CHMP  noted  that  only  six  month  safety  data  are  available  in  patients  with  posterior  uveitis.  The 
long-term  safety  data  provided  were  based  on  the  studies  presented  to  support  the  currently 
authorised  indication,  i.e.  macular  oedema  following  RVO,  and  on  the  ongoing  studies  in  diabetic 
macular oedema. The CHMP concurred with the MAH that the safety profile of repeated steroid use is 
likely to be consistent across the uveitis, RVO and DME indications, as each of the conditions contains 
an element of inflammation.  As described above, the safety profile from the six month study in uveitis 
was,  with  the  exception  of  cataracts  and  conjunctival  haemorrhage,  in  line  with  that  of  the  RVO 
studies. Taken together, the data presented by the MAH were considered relevant to support safe use 
of Ozurdex in the uveitis patients. 
Overall,  as  a  high  percentage  of  patients  may  require  a  second  implant  (64%  of  patients  with  non-
infectious intermediate uveitis and 67% with posterior uveitis were classified as quiescent (Nguyen et 
al,  2011),  it  was  considered  relevant  to  further  monitor  the  long-term    safety  profile  in  patients 
requiring  more  than  1  implant.  In  particular,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  AEs  most  commonly 
reported  during  the  first  six  months  (e.g.  increased  IOP,  cataract,  conjunctival  haemorrhage)  should 
be  analysed  within  repeated  administration  of  Ozurdex  in  the  post-marketing  setting.  As  the  MAH  is 
planning a long-term safety/repeat dosing study of Ozurdex in patients with RVO, the CHMP requested 
that a subgroup of patients with uveitis be included. 
2.4.7.  Benefit/Risk balance 
Benefit 
To support the extension of indication for Ozurdex in the treatment of adult patients with inflammation 
of  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  presenting  as  non-infectious  uveitis,  the  MAH  submitted  a  single 
phase  III  pivotal  trial:  An  8-Week,  Multicenter,  Masked,  Randomized  Trial  (with  an  18-Week  Masked 
Extension)  to  Assess  the  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  700  microgram  and  350  microgram  Dexamethasone 
Posterior Segment Drug Delivery System (DEX PS DDS) Applicator System Compared with Sham DEX 
PS  DDS  Applicator  System  in  the  Treatment  of  Non-Infectious  Ocular  Inflammation  of  the  Posterior 
Segment  in  Patients  with  Intermediate  or  Posterior  Uveitis.  Assessment  of  efficacy  and  safety  of 
Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  non-infectious  uveitis  was  based  on  this  pivotal  study,  with  safety  data 
from  the  retinal  vein  occlusion  and  macular  oedema  studies  being  considered  supportive.  The  initial 
concerns  regarding  the  number  of  amendments  to  the  pivotal  trial  were  resolved  and  the  CHMP 
considered that they did not have a relevant impact on the study results.  
The results of the phase III study demonstrated that the 700 microgram implant was efficacious in the 
treatment of uveitis of the posterior segment of the eye. Both the 700 microgram and 350 microgram 
implant groups were statistically significantly superior to the sham group in the ITT and PP populations 
26/44 
for  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints.  The  results  for  the  700  microgram  group  were 
numerically  superior  to  the  350  microgram  group  on  most  endpoints,  but  this  comparison  was  not 
statistically siginificant. 
Uncertainties about the benefit 
The CHMP noted that according to the data in severe patients and the known course of the disease in 
many instances, re-dosing of Ozurdex would be reasonably expected in severe cases of uveitis. It was 
observed  that  efficacy  appears  to  decrease  after  around  6  months  and  therefore,  patients  may  need 
re-implantation. In terms of efficacy, as Ozurdex is a corticosteroid treatment, it is expected that the 
efficacy  observed  with  a  second  implant  would  be  similar  to  the  one  observed  with  the  first  implant. 
Although data on re-implantation are not available for Ozurdex in uveitis patients, in the RVO studies 
where  patients  entered  a  second  open  label  extension  after  6  months,  patients  achieved  a  similar 
treatment  benefit  to  that  of  the  first.  Given  that  in  both  conditions  the  inflammatory  process  has  a 
common  mechanism,  a  second  injection  in  uveitis patients  was  considered  to  have  a  similar  effect  to 
RVO patients.  
Risks 
The  adverse  event  profile  for  Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  posterior  uveitis  was  in  line 
with that seen in the RVO studies.  
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  adverse  events  were  IOP  increased,  conjunctival  haemorrhage, 
eye pain, iridocyclitis, uveitis, ocular discomfort and cataract, being all except for eye pain and uveitis 
more  commonly  reported  in  DEX  700  as  compared  to  sham.  In  general,  comparing  the  two  tested 
doses,  DEX  350  showed  a  slightly  more  favourable  safety  profile,  with  a  lower  incidence  of  the  most 
frequently  reported  adverse  events,  than  the  high  dose  (DEX  700).  On  the  other  hand,  a  lower 
incidence  of  visual  acuity  reduced  and  macular  oedema  AEs,  common  complications  of  uveitis,  were 
seen in DEX 700 compared to DEX 350 and Sham. 
Uncertainties about the risks 
The uncertainty regarding repeated use of Ozurdex was also discussed in terms of limited safety data. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  only  six-month  safety  data  are  available  in  patients  with  posterior  uveitis.  The 
long-term  safety  data  provided  were  based  on  the  studies  presented  to  support  the  currently 
authorised  indication,  i.e.  macular  oedema  following  RVO,  and  on  the  ongoing  studies  in  diabetic 
macular  oedema.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the  safety  profile  of  repeated  steroid  use  is  likely  to  be 
consistent  across  the  uveitis,  RVO  and  DME  indications,  as  each  condition  contains  an  element  of 
inflammation.    As  described  above  in  section  4.4.6,  the  safety  profile  from  the  six  month  study  in 
uveitis was, with the exception of cataracts and conjunctival haemorrhage, in line with that of the RVO 
studies. Overall, the data presented by the MAH were considered relevant to support a positive benefit 
risk balance of Ozurdex in the uveitis patients. 
As  a  high  percentage  of  patients  may  require  a  second  implant  (64%  of  patients  with  non-infectious 
intermediate uveitis and 67% with posterior uveitis were classified as quiescent (Nguyen et al, 2011), 
it  was  considered  relevant  to  further  monitor  the  long-term    safety  profile  in  patients  requiring  more 
than  1  implant.  In  particular,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  AEs  most  commonly  reported  during  the 
first  six  months  (e.g.  increased  IOP,  cataract,  conjunctival  haemorrhage)  should  be  analysed  within 
repeated administration of Ozurdex in the post-marketing setting. As the MAH is planning a long-term 
safety/repeat  dosing  study  of  Ozurdex  in  patients  with  RVO  the  CHMP  requested  that  at  least  a 
subgroup of patients with uveitis be included. 
The  CHMP  also  discussed  the  most  suitable  dose  in  less  severely  affected  patients,  who  would  be 
nonetheless  candidates  for  intravitreal  treatment,  and  asked  the  MAH  for  a  justification  of  the  700 
27/44 
microgram dose. The MAH concluded that both doses were shown to be safe and effective in patients 
with  baseline  VH  scores  of  +1.5  or  2;  nevertheless,  the  response  to  the  700  microgram  dose  was 
numerically superior in efficacy across a broad range of endpoints and at almost all timepoints, had an 
earlier  onset  and  longer  duration  of  action  and  no  significant  difference  in  overall  safety  profile  was 
observed between the two doses. Furthermore the incidence of adverse events such as cataracts and 
increased  IOP  which  would  be  expected  to  increase  with  increasing  corticosteroid  dose  was  not 
significantly  different  between  the  two  doses.  In  this  context,  the  MAH  chose  to  apply  only  for  the 
higher dose. The CHMP considered that the risk benefit balance was sufficiently substantiated with the 
current data and that it is positive for the 700 microgram dose in the proposed indication.  
Conclusion 
Overall,  the  CHMP  concluded  on  a  positive  benefit-risk  balance  for  the  700  microgram  dose  in  the 
treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-
infectious uveitis. 
28/44 
 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.5.1.  Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the MAH fulfils the legislative 
requirements.  
2.5.2.  Risk management plan 
With this type II variation of Ozurdex, the MAH has submitted an update of the EU-RMP, version 1.5, 
dated 14 April 2011.  
Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) is currently indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with  macular  oedema  following  either  Branch  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (BRVO)  or  Central  Retinal  Vein 
Occlusion (CRVO). With this application the MAH proposed to extend the indication of Ozurdex for the 
treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-
infectious uveitis.  
The RMP submitted with this extension of indication application for the treatment of patients with non-
infectious  uveitis  presents  all  the  important  identified  and  potential  risks  for  Ozurdex  alongside  the 
routine  and  enhanced  pharmacovigilance  activities  and  risk  minimisation  measures.  Besides  the 
previous  identified  and  potential  risks  associated  with  Ozurdex  therapy,  no  new  significant  safety 
issues  were identified,  except  for  endopthalmitis  and  retinal  detachment  which were  reclassified  from 
potential risks to identified risks. No new areas of missing information were identified. The educational 
materials were updated accordingly in line with the new indication. 
The main areas of concern with the new indication, as with the current indication, are the lack of long 
term safety data and data on repeat use. The MAH is conducting two phase 3, 3-year studies (206207-
010 and 206207-011) in diabetic macular oedema patients that will provide additional long term safety 
data on the identified and potential risks of Ozurdex. Furthermore, the MAH agreed with the CHMP that 
the observational study on repeat administration, already planned in the RVO setting to help address 
the  use  of  multiple  implants,  will  also  include  a  sub-population  of  uveitis  patients.  The  updated 
synopsis of the protocol is attached to the RMP and the extended protocol of this observational study 
will be submitted to the CHMP as a follow-up measure. 
29/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The summary of the RMP is provided in the table below: 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Important 
Identified risks 
Increased IOP, 
Glaucoma and 
Ocular 
Hypertension 
Increases in intraocular pressure (IOP) is 
described in Section 4.4 of the SmPC    
Increased IOP is included as “very common” 
adverse reaction in Section 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects). 
Educational material to instruct prescribers on 
the recommended injection technique and 
important risks associated with OZURDEX®, 
including increased intraocular pressure and 
ocular hypertension. 
Allergan has created educational materials 
relating to uveitis (separate from RVO). There 
is a great deal of overlap in the information 
between the two indications, but these 
materials will describe the mechanism of action 
in uveitis and summarise the efficacy and 
safety pertinent to this indication. The 
material/ programmes will be relevant to all 
licensed indications. Educational materials 
covering both indications are provided in Annex 
8 of the RMP. 
Occurrence of cataract, including observed in 
clinical studies is described in Section 4.4 of 
the SmPC 
Included as “common” adverse reaction” in 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects. 
Educational material (see description above)   
Included as “common” adverse reaction” in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC.  
Educational material (see description above)   
Section 4.4 of the SmPC warns that any 
intravitreous injection can be associated with 
endophthalmitis 
Patients must be instructed to report any 
symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or 
any of the above mentioned events without 
delay (see section 4.8). 
Antimicrobial therapy is recommended in  
Section 4.2 of the SmPC  
Endophthalmitis (injection related) will be 
included in Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC, 
under Post-Marketing Experience. 
Educational material (see description above) 
Retinal detachment is described in Section 4.4 
and is included as “common” adverse reaction” 
in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 to 
provide long-term safety data with repeated 
dosing (dosing of up to 6 injections in 3 years). 
Phase 3, multicenter, repeat dose, masked, 
randomized, sham-controlled trials to assess the 
safety and efficacy of 700 μg and 350 μg 
OZURDEX® applicator system in the treatment of 
patients with diabetic macular edema.   
Observational study conducted in adult 
patients with macular oedema following either 
Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central 
Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO) to gain experience 
with repeat administration. This study will recruit 
patients requiring a 2nd or subsequent implant 
due to deteriorating visual acuity with the aim of 
collecting long term outcome and safety data. 
The study design will ensure that sufficient 
patients requiring more than 2 implants are 
recruited to provide additional useful information 
on this patient group. The study will include 
patients with inflammation of the posterior 
segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious 
uveitis (as requested by CMHP). 
Cataracts 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Vitreous 
Detachment/hae
morrhage 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above)  
Endophthalmitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
Retinal 
tear/detachment 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
30/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important 
potential risks 
Retinitis 
secondary to 
reactivation of  
latent viral or 
other ophthalmic 
infections 
Significant 
vitreous leak or 
hypotony  
Systemic 
corticosteroid 
effects 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
OZURDEX® is contraindicated in active or 
suspected ocular or periocular infection 
(section 4.3 of the SmPC). 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC warns that use of 
corticosteroids may result in secondary ocular 
infections and that corticosteroids should be 
used cautiously in patients with a history of 
ocular herpes simplex and not be used in active 
ocular herpes simplex. 
Section 4.2: Posology and method of 
administration of the SmPC provides clear 
instruction on the proper injection procedure. 
Educational material (see description above) 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC indicates that bilateral 
administration could potentially lead to 
increased systemic absorption of the steroid  
Mechanical failure 
of device and 
implant 
misplacement 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
Section 4.2: Posology and method of 
administration of the SmPC has clear 
instruction on the proper injection procedure.  
Educational material (see description above) 
  Observational study (see above) 
Missing 
information 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Paediatric Use 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Pregnancy and 
lactation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Long-term safety, 
repeat dosing 
data 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see 
above)  
  Observational study (see above) 
Concurrent use of 
anticoagulants 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see above)  
Patients with 
significant retinal 
ischaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
Studies 206207-010 and 206207-011 (see above)  
Section 4.2 of the SmPC indicates that 
safety and efficacy of OZURDEX in uveitis in 
the paediatric population has not been 
established.   
There is no relevant use of OZURDEX in the 
paediatric population in macular oedema 
following either BRVO or CRVO.  
Section 4.6 of the SmPC indicates 
OZURDEX® is not recommended during 
pregnancy and during breast feeding unless 
the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk to the foetus or clearly necessary. 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC describes use of  
OZURDEX® during anticoagulant therapy, 
including the prevalence of conjunctival 
haemorrhage in patients with non-infectious 
uveitis observed in clinical studies 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC indicates that 
OZURDEX® has not been studied in 
patients with macular oedema secondary to 
RVO with significant retinal ischemia. 
31/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Product Information 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) 
Product Information with changes tracked was attached to the CHMP assessment report. 
Labelling  
Not applicable 
Annex II  
Product Information with changes tracked was attached to the CHMP assessment report. 
Package Leaflet (PL) 
Product Information with changes tracked was attached to the CHMP assessment report. 
The MAH included a justification for not submitting a full user testing report together with the variation 
dossier  and  submitted  a  bridging  study  report  for  the  new  indication.  The  CHMP  considered  the  MAH 
approach acceptable and concluded that the outcome of the bridging study was sufficient. 
32/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Conclusion 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  the  data  on  efficacy  and  safety,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  overall 
benefit-risk balance of Ozurdex in the treatment of adults patients with inflammation of the posterior 
segment  of  the  eye  presenting  as  non-infectious  uveitis  is  positive  and  the  variation  application 
EMEA/H/C/001140/II/01 for the proposed change to extend the indication to include treatment adults 
patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis is 
approvable.  
On  14  April  2011  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Package  Leaflet 
and  Annex  127a.  In  parallel,  the  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  taking  into 
account  the  provisions  of  Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004  and  provisions  of  the 
“Guidance  on  elements  required  to  support  the  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing 
therapies  of  a  new  therapeutic  indication  in  order  to  benefit  from  an  extended  (11-year)  marketing 
protection  period  (November  2007)”  and  considered  that  the  new  therapeutic  indication  brings 
significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the marketing authorisation holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (Letter of Undertaking attached to the CHMP assessment report): 
Area1 
Description 
Due date2 
Clinical/ Pharmacovigilance 
The MAH should commit to submitting a 
draft protocol of a PASS for Ozurdex: a 
prospective  observational  study 
to 
evaluate  long-term  safety  in  real-world 
clinical  practice  (currently  under  FUM 
003), updated to include a sub-group of 
uveitis patients  
The draft updated protocol should be 
submitted by 30 June 2011. 
Pharmacovigilance 
The  MAH  should  commit  to  providing 
The updated RMP should be 
evaluation  of  the  criteria  used  to  verify 
the success of the educational materials 
submitted with the next PSUR, i.e. 
by 27 September 2011. 
with  a  review  period,  in  line  with  the 
EU-RMP template section 4. 
1 Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance. 
2 Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be committed to. 
33/44 
 
 
 
 
4.  ATTACHMENT 
Assessment report on the novelty of the indication/significant clinical benefit in comparison with 
existing therapies for Ozurdex 700 micrograms intravitreal implant in applicator 
34/44 
4.1. Introduction 
DEX  PS  DDS  applicator  system  (under  the  trade  name  OZURDEX)  contains  dexamethasone,  a 
corticosteroid  that  has  been  shown  to  suppress  inflammation  by  inhibiting  oedema,  fibrin  deposition, 
capillary  leakage,  phagocytic  migration  of  the  inflammatory,  inhibit  the  expression  of  VEGF  and 
additionally, prevent the release of prostaglandins response. 
Ozurdex  was  first  granted  positive  opinion  by  the European  Medicine  Agency  (EMA)  and  approved  by 
the  European  Commission  on  27  July  2010  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  macular  oedema 
following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO). 
On 9 September 2010 the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) submitted an application for a Type II 
variation to include a new indication for Ozurdex, “treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the 
posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis” (EMA/H/C/001140/II/0001).  
In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  726/2004,  the  MAH  also  applied for 
an  additional  one  year  marketing  protection  period  for  Ozurdex  in  the  context  of  the  current  Type  II 
variation  (EMEA/H/C/799/II/01)  to  include  a  new  indication  for  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis. 
The request was based on the MAH’s position that Ozurdex represents a ‘significant clinical benefit’ in 
the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  inflammation  of  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  presenting  as 
non-infectious uveitis based on improved efficacy in comparison with existing therapies.   
The  evidence  supporting  an  extended  marketing  protection  period  based  on  a  new  therapeutic 
indication  held  to  bring  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing  therapies  was 
presented  in  accordance  with  the  “Guidance  on  Elements  Required  to  Support  the  Significant  Clinical 
Benefit in Comparison with Existing Therapies of a New Therapeutic Indication in Order to Benefit from 
an  Extended  (11-year)  Marketing  Protection  Period,  November  2007”  and  included  a  justification  for 
the  new  therapeutic  indication  'uveitis'  as  well  as  a  justification  for  significant  clinical  benefit  for  the 
intended population. 
The submission was made within the first 8 years of the 10 year marketing protection period granted 
to OZURDEX following initial approval on 27 July 2010.  
Comparison  of  the  proposed  indication  compared  to  the  therapeutic  indications  already 
authorised: 
The additional indication claimed within this application is a new target disease: 
“OZURDEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment 
of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis.” 
The therapeutic indication already authorized is: 
“OZURDEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with macular oedema following either Branch 
Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO)” 
Uveitis  of  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye is  a  distinct  disease  from  the indication  already  approved 
for OZURDEX (macular oedema following either branch or central vein occlusion). 
35/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  distinguishing  characteristics  of  each  disease  are  summarised  in  the  following  points  and  further 
discussed in the sections below: 
  Both diseases might lead to blindness, but their prevalence strongly differs. Intermediate and 
posterior uveitis may be considered as rare conditions whereas RVO occurs more often in the 
general population. 
 
Inflammation is the major pathophysiological component of uveitis whereas systemic vascular 
factors  such  as  hypertension  are  important  in  RVO,  in  turn  leading  to  inflammation  and 
macular oedema. 
  The aetiology of uveitis is often linked to systemic autoimmune disorders. The aetiology of vein 
occlusions is commonly linked to systemic cardiovascular disease processes. 
  Uveitis may occur at any age although the majority of patients are of working age (20 to 60). 
RVO may occur in younger patients however it occurs predominantly in those over 65 years. 
  Uveitis is often bilateral whereas RVO is uncommonly bilateral at any one time. 
  Clinical manifestations of uveitis and RVO are easily distinguished. 
  The  management  and  treatment  for  posterior  and  intermediate  uveitis  have  only  a  few 
similarities with RVO 
Prevalence of non-infectious intermediate and posterior uveitis compared to macular oedema following 
branch or central vein occlusion 
“Non-infectious  uveitis  affecting  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye”  is  listed  as  a  rare  disease  by 
Orhpanet (http://www.orpha.net) and “posterior uveitis” is listed as rare by the National Organisation 
for  Rare  Disorders  (NORD)  (http://www.rarediseases.org).  The  combined  prevalence  of  Intermediate 
and  posterior  uveitis  is  approximately  0.006%.  On  the  other  hand  the  prevalence  of  retinal  vein 
occlusion  is  between  0.7  and  1.6%  and  is  the  second  most  common  sight-threatening  vascular 
disorder after diabetic retinopathy. 
Patho-physiology  of  non  infectious  intermediate  and  posterior  uveitis  compared  to  macular  oedema 
following branch or central vein occlusion 
Uveitis  refers  to  inflammation  affecting  structures  in  the  eye  including  the  iris,  ciliary  body,  and 
choroid.  The  inflammation  may  affect  only  one  or  multiple  structures.  In  many  cases,  both  eyes  are 
involved and symptoms may include decreased vision, blurry vision, floaters, and distortion of central 
vision  and/or  leukocorea  (BenEzra  et  al,  2005).  Pain,  redness,  or  photophobia  are  not  common.  The 
major causes of blindness in patients with uveitis are cystoid macular oedema, secondary cataract, and 
secondary glaucoma as well as sequelae of a potential combined choroiditis or retinitis (BenEzra et al, 
2005; Rothova et al, 1996). 
Non-infectious  uveitis  is  a  complex  set  of  diseases  associated  with  auto-immune  responses  of  an 
idiopathic  nature,  or  following  auto-immune  disease,  e.g.  sarcoidosis,  inflammatory  bowel  disease, 
multiple  sclerosis,  sympathetic  ophthalmia,  serpiginous  choroidopathy,  birdshot  choroidopathy,  Vogt-
Koyanagi-Harada or Behçet disease (Whitcup, 2004). 
Whereas retinal vein occlusive disease is thought to occur as a consequence of thrombus formation at 
the lamina cribrosa or by compression of the venous wall by an overlying arteriole leading to macular 
36/44 
 
 
 
oedema  at  an  arteriovenous  intersection.  Depending  on  the  location  of  the  venous  blockage,  retinal 
vein  occlusion  is  classified  as  branch  retinal  vein  occlusion  (BRVO)  or  central  retinal  vein  occlusion 
(CRVO).  This  blockade  can  be  favoured  by  cardiovascular  disorders,  ocular  hypertension  or  blood 
hyperviscosity. 
Aetiology  of  non-infectious  uveitis  compared  to  macular  oedema  following  branch  or  central  vein 
occlusion. 
Non-infectious  intermediate  uveitis  is  usually  idiopathic  but  may  occasionally  be  associated  with 
underlying medical conditions including sarcoidosis, chronic vitritis, retinal phlebitis, or associated with 
multiple sclerosis (Boyd et al, 2001). 
The primary site of inflammation in posterior uveitis is the choroid or the overlying retina, and it may 
secondarily  be  associated  with  a  vitritis  (Jabs  et  al,  2005).  In  many  cases  the  aetiology  of  non-
infectious uveitis is unknown while some cases may either be associated with systemic diseases such 
as  sarcoidosis,  Behçet’s  disease,  systemic  lupus  erythematosus,  Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada  syndrome 
(Durrani et al, 2004). 
Retinal vein occlusive disease is associated with those factors causing cardiovascular disorders such as 
hyperlipidaemia,  hypertension,  diabetes  and  smoking.  (Jackson  TL.  Moorfields  Manual  of 
Ophthalmology,  Mosby  (2008)).  In  an  Australian  study  the  factors  predicting  the  incidence  of  RVO 
included  arterial  blood  pressure,  ocular  perfusion  pressure,  obesity  and  presence  of  retinal  arteriolar 
wall signs (Cugati, 2006). RVO is also known to occur more often in patient with ocular hypertension 
and glaucoma (Barnett, 2010) as well as in hypercoagulable states in patients (Lahey, 2002). 
Age distribution of non-infectious uveitis compared to macular oedema following branch or central vein 
occlusion. 
The  incidence  of  uveitis  increases  with  age  and  is  the  highest  in  the  40-49  years  age  group.  The 
incidence  of  uveitis  declines  significantly  after  70  years  of  age.  In  contrast,  the  prevalence  and 
incidence of BRVO and CRVO increases with age and is the highest in those aged 65 years and above 
(Klein et al., 2000). 
Bilateral nature of non infectious uveitis compared to macular oedema following branch or central vein 
occlusion. 
In  approximately  half  of  the  cases  uveitis  may  occur  concurrently  in  both  eyes.  Bodaghi  and  al 
reported  that  41.3%  of  severe  cases  of  chronic  uveitis  were  bilateral in  a  case  series  of  927  patients 
(Bodaghi,  2005).  Markomichelakis  et  al.  described  the  morphologic  characteristics  of  uveitic  macular 
oedema  in  consecutive  patients  with  uveitis  (Markomichelakis,  2004).  Twenty-four  out  of  60  patients 
presented  with  a  bilateral  uveitis.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  bilateral  uveitis  may  affect 
approximately 80% of patients with intermediate uveitis (Bonfioli, 2005) and about one third of those 
who present unilaterally eventually develop disease in both eyes (Lai, 2002). 
37/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unlike uveitis, RVO occurrence commonly affects only one eye at a time. The cumulative probability of 
developing any type of retinal vein occlusion in the fellow eye within 4 years has been estimated to be 
11.9% (Christoffersen, 2007). 
Clinical manifestations of uveitis and RVO are easily distinguished 
Inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis includes: 
  Non  infectious  intermediate  uveitis  is  described  as  inflammation  of  the  anterior  vitreous, 
although inflammation of the ciliary body and the peripheral retina may also be seen (Jabs, 
2005). 
  Non  infectious  posterior  uveitis  inflammation  principally  involves  the  retina  or  choroid, 
however it may also involve adjacent structures such as the vitreous or optic nerve head. 
Typically  clinicians  can  easily  differentiate  the  above  clinical  aspects  from  the  signs  of  RVO  such  as 
retina and/or optic nerve oedema, dilated retinal veins, and retinal hemorrhages located on the retinal 
region drained by the occluded vessels. 
In conclusion, the above discussion of a number of parameters shows that non-infectious uveitis of the 
posterior segment of the eye is a distinct indication from that currently approved for OZURDEX. 
Details of existing therapies relating to the proposed new indication 
  Corticosteroids:  highly  effective  anti-inflammatory  agents  that  inhibit  many  aspects  of  the 
immune response: 
  Corticosteroid  eye  drops  are  available  for  uveitis,  however  the  low  bioavailability  of  topical 
corticosteroids within posterior ocular tissues limits their utility. 
 
Immunosuppressive drugs: In patients with intolerance to systemic steroids or recalcitrant to 
therapy, immunosuppressives can be added with/without systemic steroids. 
  Periocular and intravitreal injections of triamcinolone acetonide suspensions (Kenalog) have 
been used to treat uveitis (not an approved indication). Fluocinolone acetonide (Retisert) is 
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and indicated for the treatment of 
chronic  non-infectious  uveitis  affecting  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  (Lim  et  al,  2005) 
but is not approved in the European Community. 
  OZURDEX has been developed to specifically focus on delivering the required steroid dosage 
into the inflammation site. OZURDEX, the dexamethasone intravitreal implant in applicator, 
addresses  many  of  the  problems  associated  with  conventional  therapies  for  uveitis  of  the 
posterior  segment  such  as  fluctuating  drug  levels,  short  intraocular  half-life,  and  prolonged 
systemic  exposure  to  high  levels  of  corticosteroids.  The  introduction  of  OZURDEX  for  the 
treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting 
as  non-infectious  uveitis  would  offer  a  longer  acting  corticosteroid  treatment  with  a  well 
characterised, reassuring safety profile. 
Medicinal products are available in the EU for treatment of non-infectious uveitis: 
38/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although  corticosteroid  eye  drops  are  available  for  uveitis,  the  low  bioavailability  of  topical 
corticosteroids within posterior ocular tissues limits their utility (Kearns and Williams, 2009; Lee et al, 
1989). 
A  stepwise  approach  to  treatment  is  undertaken  which  may  include  topical  corticosteroids,  periocular 
corticosteroid  injections,  systemic  and  topical  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  agents,  systemic 
corticosteroids,  peripheral  cryotherapy,  immunosuppressive  drugs,  and  pars  plana  vitrectomy 
(Nussenblatt  and  Whitcup,  2004).  The  treatment  protocol  for  posterior  uveitis  is  similar  to  that  of 
intermediate  uveitis.  Considering  that  the  threat  of  vision  loss  is  very  serious  in  posterior  uveitis, 
aggressive treatment with corticosteroids is recommended and systemic immunosuppressants may be 
required (Jabs and Akpek, 2005; Menzo et al, 2005). 
Thus, treatment of the underlying inflammatory disease should play a central role in the management 
of  uveitic  cystoid  macular  oedema  (CMO),  choroidal  neovascularization  (CNV)  and  retinal 
neovascularisation (RNV). 
The  MAH  has  developed  OZURDEX,  the  dexamethasone  intravitreal  implant  in  applicator,  as  a  novel, 
applicator  drug  delivery  system  that  addresses  many  of  the  problems  associated  with  conventional 
therapies for uveitis of the posterior segment such as fluctuating drug levels, short intraocular half-life, 
and prolonged systemic exposure to high levels of corticosteroids. The introduction of OZURDEX for the 
treatment of adult patients with inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-
infectious  uveitis  would  offer  a  longer  acting  corticosteroid  treatment  with  a  well  characterised, 
reassuring safety profile (Gulati et al, 2010). 
39/44 
 
 
4.2. Justification of significant clinical benefit as presented by the MAH 
4.2.1 Justification of significant clinical benefit based on improved efficacy 
In  order  to  demonstrate  the  effectiveness  of  OZURDEX  in  the  proposed  indication  a  Phase  III  study 
(014)  with  the  relevant  primary  endpoint  for  inflammation  of  vitreous  haze  was  undertaken  by  the 
MAH. The 014 study was an appropriately designed clinical trial, and included elements necessary for a 
valid assessment of the effectiveness of treatment: 
The results of this study are summarised below: 
  The study demonstrated that OZURDEX can reduce inflammation and substantially improve vision 
in  patients  with  non-infectious  uveitis  of  the  posterior  segment.  Almost  one  quarter  (23.4%)  of 
patients in the OZURDEX group achieved a vitreous haze score of 0 (no inflammation) as early as 3 
weeks after a single treatment. At week 8 (primary time point), 46.8% of patients in the OZURDEX 
group  had  a  vitreous  haze  score  of  0.  This  response  was  maintained,  with  significantly  higher 
response rates for OZURDEX compared to Sham out to week 26. 
 
Importantly,  improvements  in  inflammation  were  accompanied  by  substantial  improvement  in 
vision  as  measured  by  the  proportion  of  patients  with  15  or  more  letters  gain  in  BCVA.  The 
improvement from baseline BCVA in the study eye was already apparent at week 3. The statistical 
superiority  compared  with  sham  was  seen  as  early  as  week  3  and  persisted  throughout  the  26 
week  study  period  (p  <  0.001).  At  week  8  this  difference  was  more  than  6-fold  greater  with 
OZURDEX (42.9%) compared to Sham (6.6%). 
  Throughout  the  study,  the  percentage  of  Sham  patients  requiring  other  additional  therapies  to 
treat  their  uveitis  was  almost  double  that  in  the  OZURDEX  group  (38.2%  versus  22.1%  at  week 
26, p = 0.030). After 8 weeks the percentage of sham patients requiring additional therapies was 
almost three times that of the OZURDEX group (22.4% versus 7.8% at week 8, p=0.012). Fewer 
patients in the OZURDEX groups received escape medications, indicating that OZURDEX delivered 
optimal treatment effects. 
  The study shows highly convincing statistical superiority, compared with sham treated patients, for 
the  major  efficacy  parameters  throughout  the  evaluation  period.  Furthermore,  the  study  shows 
strong  internal  consistency  with  similar  conclusions  drawn  across  the  different  subgroups  and 
different  endpoints.  In  addition,  the  prespecified  alternative  analyses  demonstrate  consistency  of 
all measures. This further supports the exceptional benefit of OZURDEX. 
  Shifts  in  the  severity  distributions  towards  milder  ratings  for  anterior  chamber  cells,  anterior 
chamber flare, and vitreal cells during the course of the study favoured OZURDEX. This benefit of 
OZURDEX over Sham was observed despite the substantially greater proportion of patients in the 
Sham group who had received escape medications. Furthermore, the higher proportion of patients 
in  the  Sham  group  with  anterior  segment  inflammatory  signs  on  biomiocroscopy,  clearly 
demonstrates  that  OZURDEX  provides  a  sound  anti-inflammatory  effect  which,  not  only  offers 
treatment, but is also instrumental in preventing deterioration of the inflammatory process. 
  The phase 3 study 014 demonstrated rapid, marked, sustained, and definitive efficacy of DEX 700 
compared to Sham over a broad range of efficacy variables throughout the 26 week study period, 
with approximately one third of patients still considered to be a responder at study end.  
40/44 
 
 
 
4.2.2 Justification of significant clinical benefit based on improved safety  
OZURDEX allows for a sustained release of substantially lower daily levels of steroid than are currently 
used in topical or systemic, or off-label periocular therapies. Furthermore, this mode of administration 
ensures  that  treatment  is  provided  directly  to  the  area  needed.  This  minimizes  many  potential  side 
effects  typically  observed  with  steroid  administration  through  other  routes  of  delivery.  Moreover,  the 
polymer  gradually  dissolves  over  time  as  it  releases  its  dexamethasone  so  that  there  is  no  need  to 
remove the implant. 
In  order  to  evaluate  the  significance  of  the  role  of  OZURDEX  in  the  treatment  of  inflammation  of  the 
posterior  segment  of  the  eye  presenting  as  non-infectious  uveitis,  it  is  important  to  appreciate  the 
safety concerns which have been described with the alternative modes of steroid administration. 
  Topical  ocular  steroid  administration  does  not  allow  the  delivery  of  adequate  concentrations  of 
steroid to the site of action in the treatment of uveitis of the posterior segment of the eye. 
  Periocular  steroid  administration,  which  only  provides  short  term  effect,  poses  the  risk  of  local 
complications  including  globe  perforation,  conjunctival  or  corneoscleral  melting,  strabismus, 
proptosis or fat atrophy and fibrosis of the extraocular muscles 
  Systemic  steroid  administration 
is  associated  with  the  risks  of  systemic  hypertension, 
hyperglycaemia,  increased  susceptibility  to  infection  and  peptic  ulcers.  Furthermore,  ocular  side-
effects  include  ocular  hypertension,  glaucoma,  posterior  subcapsular  cataract  formation  and 
secondary ocular infection. 
It  must  be  noted  that  the  OZURDEX  intravitreal  implant  is  also  associated  with  ocular  side  effects. 
However: 
  Unlike  systemic  administration,  OZURDEX  intravitreal  implant  guarantees  an  adequate  steroid 
concentration  at  the  required  site  of  action  and  only  a  small  proportion  of  patients  experienced 
increases in IOP which either did not require treatment or were managed with topical IOP-lowering 
medications  and  resolved  by  the  end  of  the  study.  No  patients  required  incisional  surgery  for 
glaucoma. 
  Cataracts, a known risk associated with ophthalmic steroid use, were reported at low rates which 
were  similar  rates  in  the  uveitis  patients  and  the  already  approved  indication  of  macular  oedema 
following  retinal  vein  occlusion  during  the  6-month  follow-up.  Moreover,  the  need  for  cataract 
surgery is infrequent.  
There  are  no  other  intravitreal  steroids  approved  in  the  European  Union.  However,  OZURDEX  has 
advantages when compared to unapproved intravitreal steroid treatments:  
  Triamcinolone:  Although  data  from  controlled  clinical  trials  are  not  available,  review  of  the 
literature  suggests  that  the  incidence  of  both  increased  intra  ocular  pressure  and  cataract 
formation is significantly in excess of that seen with OZURDEX. 
 
Fluocinolone  acetonide  (Retisert):  Requires  an  incision  over  the  pars  plana  and  suturing  of  the 
device  to  the  sclera.  Although  the  device  delivers  fluocinolone  acetonide  for  up  to  2.5  years, 
41/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  can  therefore  be  concluded  that  the  safety  advantage  offered  by  OZURDEX,  along  with  its  marked 
sustained  efficacy,  have  a  significant  positive  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  steroids  in  the 
management  of  non-infectious  uveitis.  It  is  considered  that  OZURDEX  represents  a  breakthrough  in 
patient  care  and  offers  clear  advantages  to  the  intravitreal  steroid  implants  being  currently  used  off 
label. The overall benefit risk evaluation is highly beneficial in this condition where currently available 
therapy  is  clearly  inadequate.  Therefore  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  applicant  that  this  significant  new 
indication meets the criteria for the granting of one year’s additional marketing protection. 
4.2.3 Justification of significant clinical benefit based on major contribution to patient care 
Currently available therapies are not always fully effective for uveitis affecting the posterior segment of 
the  eye,  and  are  known  to  have  treatment-limiting  adverse  effects.  In  general,  topical  therapy  is 
ineffective for posterior uveitis and only has limited applicability to treat intermediate uveitis since drug 
levels  achievable  by  the  topical  route  are  below  the  therapeutic  range  needed  to  treat  vitreous  and 
posterior segment inflammation. 
Compared  to  topical  therapies,  patients  respond  better  to  periocular  injections  or  systemic  therapy. 
However, periocular injections are not without recognised complications and systemic toxic effects are 
a  significant problem  with  most  existing  maintenance  therapies.  Unlike  most  therapies  that  are  given 
daily  or  intravitreal  injections  which  are  usually  given  monthly,  OZURDEX  is  a  sustained-release 
implant with an extended duration of action, thus avoiding the need for repeated intravitreal injections 
which is a clear advantage for the patient. 
4.3. CHMP assessment of the MAH’s justification of significant clinical 
benefit   
Significant clinical benefit based on improved efficacy 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the current data provided, generated in a controlled clinical trial with 
clinically relevant endpoints, have shown that Ozurdex is effective in treatment of adult patients with 
inflammation of the posterior segment of the eye presenting as non-infectious uveitis. The clinical trial 
demonstrated  sustained  efficacy  of  the  proposed  product  in  a  group  of  patients  with  posterior  uveitis 
throughout the 26-week study period.  
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  periocular  and  intravitreal  injections  of  triamcinolone  acetonide 
suspensions  are  used  to  treat  uveitis, but  not in  an  approved  indication  and considered  that  Ozurdex 
will  be  the  only  available  intravitreal  corticosteroid  implant  for  patients  with  inflammation  of  the 
posterior  segment  of  the  eye  presenting  as  non-infectious  uveitis,  offering  sustained  efficacy  with 
evidence based on a well conducted controlled clinical trial. 
Significant clinical benefit based on improved safety 
The  safety  profile  of  Ozurdex  was  as  expected  from  an  intravitreal  implant  with  the  most  commonly 
observed  adverse  events  being  increase  in  intraocular  pressure  and  cataracts.  These  adverse  events 
42/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  easily  managed.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the  intravitreal  route  presents  clinical  benefit  for 
patients  in  terms  of  safety,  as  it  reduces  the  need  for  systemic  corticosteroids,  the  use  of  which  is 
associated  with  a  number  of  safety  concerns  including  systemic  hypertension,  hyperglycaemia, 
increased  susceptibility  to  infection  and  peptic  ulcers.  Furthermore,  topical  ocular  corticosteroid 
administration  has  limitations,  as  delivery  to  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  is  very  limited. 
Periocular corticosteroid injections are used regularly in clinical practice; this however is an unlicensed 
indication and the effect is short-term compared to Ozurdex. This leads to the need of more frequent 
administration  and  complications  associated  with  that  –  such  as  globe  perforation,  conjunctival  or 
corneo-scleral  melting,  strabismus,  proptosis,  fibrosis  of  extraocular  muscles,  increased  risk  of 
endophthalmitis.  Overall,  considering  the  safety  concerns  of  other  alternative  modes  of  steroid 
administration, the CHMP was of the opinion that significant clinical benefit based on improved safety 
was shown. 
Significant clinical benefit based on major contribution to patient care 
The CHMP considered that unlike most therapies that are given daily or intravitreal injections which are 
usually given in monthly intervals, OZURDEX is a sustained-release implant with an extended duration 
of  action,  thus  avoiding  the  need  for  repeated  intravitreal  injections  which  are  associated  with  a 
significant number of potentially serious complications. Furthermore, alternative intravitreal injections 
are  not  licensed  for  the  treatment  of  uveitis  affecting  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye.  Topical  (eye 
drops) corticosteroids are not effective in posterior uveitis due to the limitations of reaching the target 
area.  The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  there  are  currently  no  approved  intravitreal  delivery  methods  for 
any drug in Europe for the treatment of uveitis and there remains an unmet medical need to provide a 
relatively  safe  and  effective  sustained-release  corticosteroid  formulation  for  treating  non-infectious 
uveitis  affecting  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye.  Thus,  the  CHMP  considered  that  Ozurdex  showed 
significant clinical benefit based on major contribution to patient care.  
4.4. CHMP conclusion 
The evaluation of the data submitted allows concluding on a significant clinical benefit.  
Following the overall assessment of the efficacy and safety data provided, the CHMP concluded that the 
benefit/risk  ratio  of  Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  non-infectious  posterior  uveitis  is 
positive. 
Taking  into  account  the  significant  clinical  benefit  based  on  a  major  contribution  to  patient  care  in 
comparison to existing therapies, the CHMP considered that the justification for one additional year of 
marketing protection is sufficient and the additional year of marketing protection can be granted.  
4.5. Outcome 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  taking  into  account  the  provisions  of  Article 
14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004  and  provisions  of  the  “Guidance  on  elements  required  to 
support  the  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing  therapies  of  a  new  therapeutic 
43/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indication  in  order  to  benefit  from  an  extended  (11-year)  marketing  protection  period  (November 
2007)”  and  considered  that  the  new  therapeutic  indication  brings  significant  clinical  benefit  in 
comparison with existing therapies. 
44/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
