EMA/545304/2019 
EMEA/H/C/001140 
Ozurdex (dexamethasone) 
An overview of Ozurdex and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ozurdex and what is it used for? 
Ozurdex is an implant that is injected into the eye. 
It is used to treat adults with impaired vision due to macular oedema associated with: 
• 
• 
blockage of the veins carrying blood from the back of the eye; 
damage to blood vessels caused by diabetes in patients who have an artificial lens in their eye or in 
whom other treatment did not work or was unsuitable. 
Macular oedema is swelling in the macula, the central part of the retina (the light-sensing layer at the 
back of the eye), which can reduce the central part of a person’s vision and affect tasks such as 
reading and driving. 
Ozurdex is also used to treat adults with non-infectious uveitis at the back of the eye. Uveitis is 
inflammation of the uvea, the middle layer of the eye. 
How is Ozurdex used? 
Ozurdex can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given by an ophthalmologist (eye 
specialist) who has experience in giving intravitreal injections (injections into the vitreous humour, the 
jelly-like fluid in the eye).  
Each implant is in an applicator and contains 700 micrograms of the active substance, dexamethasone. 
Patients receive one Ozurdex implant at a time, injected directly into the vitreous humour. Further 
treatments can be given if the patient’s condition improves but then gets worse and if the doctor 
believes that the patient will benefit from further treatment. Patients whose vision gets better and 
stays better should not receive any more implants. Patients whose vision is getting worse and is not 
improved by Ozurdex should also not receive any more implants. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
For more information about using Ozurdex, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ozurdex work? 
The active substance in Ozurdex, dexamethasone, belongs to a group of anti-inflammatory medicines 
known as corticosteroids. It works by entering cells and blocking the production of vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF) and prostaglandins, substances that are involved in inflammation. 
Ozurdex implants are injected directly into the vitreous humour of the eye. This ensures that adequate 
amounts of dexamethasone reach the area inside the eye where the inflammation in macular oedema 
and uveitis occurs. The implant is made of a material that dissolves over several months while 
gradually releasing the dexamethasone. 
What benefits of Ozurdex have been shown in studies? 
Because dexamethasone is a well-known anti-inflammatory medicine, the company presented studies 
from the published literature where Ozurdex was compared with a ‘sham’ treatment (where an 
applicator was pressed against their eye but nothing was actually injected). 
Macular oedema related to blocked veins of the retina  
In two main studies involving a total of 1,267 adults Ozurdex was more effective than the sham 
treatment at improving patients’ eyesight. Eyesight was measured using the ‘best corrected visual 
acuity’ (BCVA) indicating how well a person can see (after they have been given corrective lenses). In 
the first study, around 23% of the patients receiving Ozurdex had increased BCVA of at least 15 letters 
after 180 days compared with 17% of the patients receiving the sham treatment. In the second study, 
the figures were around 22% for Ozurdex after 90 days and 12% for the sham treatment. 
Macular oedema related to diabetes 
Two main studies involving 1,048 patients compared the effects of a 700 microgram or a 
350 microgram implant of Ozurdex. Patients were followed up for 3 years and could be given repeat 
treatment if appropriate. In patients whose lens had already been surgically replaced, there was an 
average improvement in BCVA over both studies of 6.5 letters after Ozurdex 700 micrograms, 
compared with 1.7 letters after sham treatment. In patients in whom other types of treatment had not 
worked or were unsuitable, there was an average improvement in BCVA over both studies of 3.2 
letters after Ozurdex 700 micrograms, compared with 1.5 letters after sham treatment.  
Uveitis 
Ozurdex was more effective than sham treatment at reducing inflammation in patients with uveitis 
measured by an improvement in patients’ vitreous haze score which gives an indication of 
inflammation, with zero indicating no inflammation. In one main study involving 229 adults with 
uveitis, 8 weeks after injection, around 47% of patients treated with 700 micrograms of Ozurdex 
achieved a vitreous haze score of zero, compared with 36% of patients treated with 350 micrograms of 
Ozurdex and 12% of patients who received the sham treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Ozurdex? 
The most common side effects with Ozurdex (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
increased intraocular pressure (the pressure inside the eye), conjunctival haemorrhage (bleeding from 
Ozurdex (dexamethasone)  
EMA/545304/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
the membrane over the white of the eye) and cataract (clouding of the lens – in patients with uveitis 
and with diabetes). The bleeding is thought to be caused by the injection procedure and not by the 
medicine itself. For the full list of side effects of Ozurdex, see the package leaflet. 
Ozurdex must not be used in patients who have or are thought to have ocular or periocular infections 
(infections in or around the eyes) and in patients with advanced glaucoma (damage to the nerve of the 
eye usually caused by high pressure inside the eye) that is not adequately controlled with medicines 
alone. It must also not be used in certain cases where the back of the membrane that surrounds the 
lens (the lens capsule) is torn. For the full list of restrictions with Ozurdex, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ozurdex authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Ozurdex’s benefits are greater than its risks in patients 
with uveitis or macular oedema related to blocked veins, and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Ozurdex injection causes only minor trauma to the eyeball and the increase in intraocular pressure is 
considered to be manageable. In addition, injections do not need to be given frequently because the 
implant stays in the eye for several months.  
In the overall group of patients with macular oedema related to diabetes the Agency noted that the 
benefit was modest and was outweighed by the risks, including the development of cataracts. 
However, in those with an artificial lens in the affected eye or who previously have not responded to or 
are unsuitable for other non-corticosteroid treatments, the benefits of Ozurdex were considered to 
outweigh the risks. Therefore the use of Ozurdex in patients with macular oedema related to diabetes 
was restricted to these two groups. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ozurdex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ozurdex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ozurdex are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Ozurdex are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
In addition, the company that makes Ozurdex will ensure that patients are provided an information 
pack, including a booklet and an audio CD. 
Other information about Ozurdex 
Ozurdex received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 27 July 2010. 
Further information on Ozurdex can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ozurdex.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2019.  
Ozurdex (dexamethasone)  
EMA/545304/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
