EMA/457364/2010  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
CHMP Assessment report 
Ozurdex 
International Nonproprietary Name: dexamethasone 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001140 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents  
Page 
1.Background information on the procedure ............................................... 3 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier ................................................................................. 3 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product ..................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1.  Introduction .................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.  Quality aspects................................................................................................ 6 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects........................................................................................ 11 
2.4.  Clinical aspects.............................................................................................. 19 
2.5.  Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 47 
2.6.  Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 48 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance ......................................................................................... 48 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 2/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Allergan  Pharmaceuticals  Ireland  submitted  on  24  February  2009  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  for  Ozurdex,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  Agency/CHMP  on  24  April  2008.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of 
significant therapeutic innovation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / Known active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  OZURDEX  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult 
patients with macular oedema following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal 
Vein Occlusion (CRVO). 
1.1.1.  Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7,  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006  the  application  included  an  Agency  Decision 
(P/68/2008) for the following condition: Other retinal vascular occlusion on the granting of a (product-
specific) waiver.  
1.1.2.  Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: United States of America. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur:      Gonzalo Calvo Rojas 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 3/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the Agency on 24 February 2009. 
The procedure started on 25 March 2009.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  12 June 2009. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 17 June 2009.  
•  During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on 
24 July 2009. 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
18 December 2009. 
• 
The summary report of the inspection carried out at the following site Allergan Inc, California, USA 
between 9-12 November 2009 was issued on 8 December 2009. 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 January 2010. 
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  15-18 February 2010,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 9 April 2010. 
•  During the meeting on 17-20 May 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Ozurdex on 20 May 2010. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 18 May 2010. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 4/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Macular oedema is a nonspecific response of the retina to a variety of insults, and is associated with a 
number  of  diseases,  including  uveitis,  retinal  vascular  abnormalities,  sequela  of  cataract  surgery, 
macular  epiretinal  membranes,  and  inherited  or  acquired  retinal  degeneration.  Macular  oedema 
involves  the  breakdown  of  the  inner  blood-retinal  barrier  at  the  level  of  the  capillary  endothelium, 
resulting  in  abnormal  retinal  vascular  permeability  and  leakage  into  the  adjacent  retinal  tissues.  The 
macula  becomes  thickened  due  to  fluid  accumulation  resulting  in  significant  disturbances  in  visual 
acuity. Prolonged oedema can cause irreversible damage resulting in permanent visual loss. 
Depending on the location of the venous blockage, retinal vein occlusion is classified as branch retinal 
vein  occlusion  (BRVO)  or  central  retinal  vein  occlusion  (CRVO).  Retinal  vein  occlusive  disease  is 
thought to occur as a consequence of thrombus formation at the lamina cribrosa or by compression of 
the  venous  wall  by  an  overlying  arteriole.  Although  the  prevalence  of  retinal  vein  occlusion  is  only 
between  0.7  and  1.6 %,  it  is  the  second  most  common  sight-threatening  vascular  disorder  after 
diabetic retinopathy. 
Therapeutic choices for macular oedema depend on the cause and severity of the condition. Currently 
there  are  no  approved  pharmacologic  therapies  for  macular  oedema.  Argon  laser  photocoagulation 
increased the likelihood of vision improvement in patients with macular oedema due to BRVO, but not 
in patients with macular oedema due to CRVO.  
Focal/grid  laser  photocoagulation  has  been  shown  to  be  efficacious  in  the  prevention  of  moderate 
visual loss for macular oedema due to diabetic retinopathy. For central retinal vein occlusion, there are 
no known effective therapies.  
Greater understanding of the pathophysiology of macular oedema has provided a scientific rationale for 
the  use  of  steroids  as  a  potential  treatment.  Vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  (VEGF)  is  a  cytokine 
which  is  expressed  at  increased  concentrations  in  the  setting  of  macular  oedema.  It  is  a  potent 
promoter of vascular permeability. 
Corticosteroids have been shown to inhibit the expression of VEGF. Additionally, corticosteroids prevent 
the  release  of  prostaglandins,  some  of  which  have  been  identified  as  mediators  of  cystoid  macular 
oedema. There is a growing body of clinical evidence supporting the efficacy of intraocular steroids for 
the treatment of macular oedema.  
Dexamethasone,  a  potent  corticosteroid,  has  been  shown  to  suppress  inflammation  by  inhibiting 
oedema,  fibrin  deposition,  capillary  leakage,  and  phagocytic  migration  of  the  inflammatory  response. 
The  use  of  dexamethasone  has  had  limited  success  in  treating  retinal  disorders  including  macular 
oedema,  largely  due  to  the  inability  to  deliver  and  maintain  adequate  quantities  of  the  drug  to  the 
posterior segment. After topical administration of dexamethasone, only about 1% reaches the anterior 
segment,  and  only  a  fraction  of  that  amount  moves  into  the  posterior  segment.  Although  intravitreal 
injections of dexamethasone have been used, the exposure of the drug is very brief as the half-life of 
the  drug  within  the  eye  is  approximately  3  hours.  Periocular  and  posterior  sub-Tenon's  injections  of 
dexamethasone also have a short-term treatment effect. 
Ozurdex is a sterile, single-use system intended to deliver one biodegradable implant into the vitreous 
for the treatment of macular oedema. The rationale of the design is to overcome ocular drug delivery 
barriers  and  prolong  the  duration  of  dexamethasone  effect  in  the  eye.  This  biodegradable  implant 
delivers a 700 micrograms total dose of dexamethasone to the vitreous with gradual release over time 
allowing  for  sustained  levels  of  dexamethasone  in  the  target  areas.  Ozurdex  may  offer  a  new 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 5/58
 
 
 
therapeutic  option  in  the  treatment  of  macular  oedema  while  reducing  the  potential  for  side  effects 
typically observed from steroid administration through other routes of delivery (e.g. systemic). 
The  claimed  indication  reads  as  follows:  Ozurdex  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
macular  oedema  following  either  Branch  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (BRVO)  or  Central  Retinal  Vein 
Occlusion (CRVO). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Ozurdex 
is  presented  as  a  prolonged  release 
intravitreal 
implant 
in  applicator  containing 
700 micrograms  of  dexamethasone  as  the  active  substance.  It  is  a  medicinal  product-device 
combination product for implantation into the vitreal chamber of the eye.  
The  implant  is  formed  into  rods  (diameter  0.46 mm  x  6 mm  long).  Matrix  of  the  implant  is 
biodegradable, slowly degrading to lactic acid and glycolic acid through simple hydrolysis, then further 
degrades  into  carbon  dioxide  and  water.  It  consists  of  two  different  poly  (D,  L  lactide-co-glycolide) 
polymers  (PLGAs).  The  only  difference  between  the  polymers  is  that  one  is  terminated  with  an  ester 
group (50:50 PLGA ester) and the other is terminated with an acid end group (50:50 PLGA acid).  
The implant is contained within its own specific applicator, located in the needle (stainless steel) of the 
disposable  device.  The  applicator  consists  of  a  plunger  (stainless  steel)  within  a  needle  where  the 
implant is held in place by a sleeve (silicone). The  plunger is controlled by a lever on the side of the 
applicator  body.  The  needle  is  protected  by  a  cap  and  the  lever  by  a  safety  tab.  The  applicator 
containing the implant is packaged in a sealed foil pouch containing desiccant. 
Administration is by needle injection. At the time of use, the patient is typically under a topical or local 
anaesthetic. The implant is delivered in a controlled manner by depressing the actuator button with the 
index  finger.  The  needle  is  subsequently  withdrawn  as  the  puncture  site  self  seals.  To  prevent 
applicator  reuse  the  actuation  lever  latches  after  the  dispensing  stroke  has  been  completed  and  the 
implant has been deployed. 
To ensure that air is not introduced into the eye, the applicator has been designed to vent air through 
a small gap between the implant and the inner needle wall. This allows air to move back through and 
out  of  the  needle  as  the  implant  is  being  delivered.  The  small  size  of  this  gap  prevents  fluid  from 
flowing out of the eye through the needle. 
The  needle  is  a  22-gauge  thin-wall  hypodermic  needle  and  is  externally  lubricated  with  silicone  oil. A 
silicone rubber sleeve is placed over the needle from the hub to a cut-out in the needle. The sleeve is 
designed with a small ring at the distal end that fits into a cut-out in the needle to hold the implant in 
place. The sleeve remains outside the eye and contacts the conjunctiva during insertion. 
Active substance 
Dexamethasone 
is  chemically  designated  as  pregna-1,4-diene-3,20-dione-9-fluoro-11,17,21-
trihydroxy-16-methyl-,(11β,16α)  or  9α-Fluoro-11β,17,21-trihydroxy-16β-methylpregna-1,4-diene-
3,20-dione  (IUPAC)  or  (11β,  16α)-9-Fluoro-11,17,21-trihydroxy-16-methylpregna-1,4-diene-3,20-
dione (CAS) and has the following structure: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 6/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  is  white  or  almost  white,  crystalline  powder,  practically  insoluble  in  water,  sparingly  soluble  in 
anhydrous ethanol, slightly soluble in methylene chloride. Dexamethasone has 8 chiral centers and is 
optically active, specific rotation values are +75° and +80° (dried substance). 
Two polymorphs (form A and form B) and a chloroform solvate are described in the literature. Although 
form A and form B have equivalent solubility in water, the proposed manufacturing process leads to a 
single polymorphic form. Chloroform is not used in the manufacturing process utilised by the proposed 
manufacturer. 
•  Manufacture 
The manufacturer of dexamethasone obtained a Certificate of suitability with requirements of European 
Pharmacopoeia  (CEP).  The  detailed  information  on  manufacturing  process,  starting  materials, 
justification  of  critical  steps,  process  controls  and  their  evaluation,  critical  process  intermediates  and 
acceptance criteria were provided to the EDQM and assessed before granting the CEP. 
Since  particle  size  may  be  considered  a  critical  attribute  and  because  the  particle  size  grade  is  not 
within  the  scope  of  the  CEP  the  applicant  provided satisfactory information  concerning  the  method  of 
micronisation and demonstrated that this process is adequately controlled. 
It  has  been  confirmed  that  no  changes  in  the  manufacturing  process,  specifications  and  analytical 
methods, were introduced since the granting of the CEP. 
•  Specification 
Dexamethasone is described in the European Pharmacopoeia and its manufacturer has confirmed that 
the  active  substance  complies  with  these  requirements.  Additional  tests  for  particle  size,  bacterial 
endotoxin, microbial contamination and residual solvents have been added to the specification for the 
active substance. A copy of the CEP has been provided. The CEP includes a test for residual solvents 
used during the synthesis. 
The tests methods are according to the Ph Eur except for the assay and related substances tests were 
an in-house HPLC method is used. Satisfactory details for this method have been provided. It includes 
a satisfactory system suitability test.  
Satisfactory  validation  data  are  provided  for  the  HPLC  assay  for  the  active  substance  and  related 
substances (including demonstration of equivalence with the Ph Eur monograph methods). 
The microbiological contamination and endotoxin tests have also been satisfactorily validated. 
Batch  analysis  data  were  provided  for  5  batches  of  the  active  substance.  All  results  were  consistent 
from batch to batch and complied with the requirements in the active substance specification. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 7/58
 
 
 
 
•  Stability 
A retest period and storing conditions of the active substance are not mentioned in the CEP. To support 
the claimed shelf-life and storing conditions stability data from a study in formal conditions (ICH) have 
been provided.  
Results indicate that the active substance is stable when stored according to proposed conditions and 
confirmed the claimed re-test period.  
Finished Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  goal  of  the  formulation  development  was  to  obtain  a  sustained  release  polymer  implant  that 
delivers dexamethasone to posterior segment of the eye.  
An  extensive  formulation  development  program  has  been  conducted.  The  implant  formulation 
development proceeded through two major formulation changes that were in response to three process 
changes,  as  the  implant  form  changed  from  a  compressed  tablet  to  an  extruded  filament.  The 
formulation  was  initially  developed  as  a  solid,  tablet-shaped  implant  delivered  surgically  to  the 
posterior  segment  of  the  eye.  Since  the  tablet  implant  required  surgical  insertion  and  the 
manufacturing  process  was  no  viable  for  large  scale  manufacturing  a  hot-melt  extruded  implant  has 
been  developed.  The  extrusion  process  is  an  efficient  and  accurate  method  to  produce  homogeneous 
dexamethasone-polymer matrices assuring that the consistency and the diameter of the filament could 
be more precisely controlled, allowing placing inside a 22G hypodermic needle. A single-use applicator 
was designed with the needle for injecting the implant into the vitreous.  
The change from a tablet to an extruded filament required: 
 1.  Change of polymers as the extruded implant needed to be mechanically stronger than the tablet 
(which was surgically inserted). The polymeric matrix was also changed in order to achieve drug 
release  profile  for  the  extruded  filament,  equivalent  to  that  observed  for  the  tablet.  Many 
different  PLA  and  PLGA  polymer  combinations  were  tested  and  a  combination  of  two  PLGA 
polymers was selected. 
2. 
Evidence  that  the  extrusion  and  the  sterilization  process  did  not  adversely  affect  the  safety, 
quality  or  performance  of  the  implant.  The  effects  of  extrusion  on  the  active  substance  were 
studied. The effect of extrusion on the drug substance was studied comparing the crystallinity, 
melting point, melting enthalpy and IR spectra of dexamethasone in the implant with the same 
properties of the pure dexamethasone.  
The  effects  of  gamma  sterilization  were  studied  in  relation  to  the  polymer  matrix.  Gamma 
radiation reduces the molecular weight of PLGA polymers by cleaving the backbone chains, and 
this  could  potentially  result  in  faster  drug  release  from  gamma  irradiated  implants  than  from 
non-irradiated  implants.  The  studies  showed  that  the  drug  release  rate  with  the  gamma 
radiation dose selected was not affected. 
3. 
Improve dimensional tolerance and content uniformity to facilitate placement of the implant in a 
22 gauge needle, the delivery of the implant from the needle and a guarantee that cut filaments 
provide a consistent dose of dexamethasone.  
The final formulation was established as a combination of two poly D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) polymers 
to  produce  a  suitable  matrix  that  controls  the  sustained  release  of  dexamethasone,  and  ensure  a 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 8/58
 
 
 
 
mechanical  strength  suitable  for  use  in  the  applicator.  This  formulation  was  established  in  Phase  2b 
clinical study and has remained unchanged since then. 
•  Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients used in the medicinal product, including the active substance, is of the animal 
origin.  
•  Manufacture of the product 
During the development program of the manufacturing process a number of studies were undertaken. 
Development program included (1) development an extrusion process to assure content uniformity of 
the  drug  in  the  implant,  the  dimensional  tolerances  and  physical  characteristics  that  would  facilitate 
the  reliable  delivery  of  the  implant  from  the  applicator,  (2)  development  a  cutting  process  to  assure 
accurate  dosing  in  the  implants,  (3)  development  a  loading  process  and  vision  system  to  detect  the 
loaded implant in the applicator system and (4) development a sterilization process to assure that the 
implant with the applicator was not adversely affected by gamma sterilization. 
Based  on  these  development  studies  and  manufacturing  experience  gained  during  development  all 
critical  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  identified  and  adequately  studied,  and 
appropriate in-process control parameters have been established. 
Manufacturing  process  developed  for  Phase  3  is  essentially  the  same  as  the  one  proposed  for 
commercial  product.  The  Phase  3  equipment  is  also  the  same  as  proposed  for  commercial  product 
except for improvements that have subsequently been introduced to the commercial process.  
The product is terminally sterilised by gamma irradiation. The specified dose is 25 - 40kGy which is in 
compliance with the Ph Eur standard requirements. 
The majority of steps in the Manufacturing process of the medicinal product are performed in a Grade 
C  environment    resulting  in  sealed  applicator  pouches  which  are  than  terminally  sterilised  by  gamma 
irradiation and packed in its outer carton. 
Validation data on three process validation batches manufactured in the proposed manufacturing site 
have been submitted. Validation reports were provided for all critical steps of the process and 
considered satisfactory. 
•  Product specification 
The drug product specifications include tests for appearance, identification of dexamethasone (HPLC 
and TLC), assay of dexamethasone (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), Insoluble Particulate Matter, Actuation 
Force, Dexamethasone Release, sterility, Bacterial Endotoxin (implant and the device), content 
uniformity. 
The  analytical  methods  have  been  sufficiently  described,  some  of  them  are  compendial  methods 
described in the Ph Eur.  
Single  HPLC  method  is  used  for  dexamethasone  content,  content  uniformity  and  related  substances. 
The method is specific for dexamethasone, separates dexamethasone from its impurities, and there is 
no placebo interference. Satisfactory validation data, according to ICH validation guidelines, have been 
provided. Suitability of the method for routine control and stability has been demonstrated. 
The dexamethasone release profile from the implant is determined by using a non-standard dissolution 
apparatus  and  HPLC  method.This  method  is  intended  to  determine  the  amount  of  dexamethasone 
released  from  the  polymer  matrix  over  a  21  day  period  for  quality  control  purposes  only.  Combined 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 9/58
 
 
 
with  the  outer  and  inner  blood-retinal  barriers  as  well  as  a  host  of  retinal  pigmented  epithelial  drug 
transport  mechanisms  this  makes  an  a  priori  in  vitro-in  vivo  correlation  in  humans  impossible. 
Therefore, for the intravitreal implant, the quality control drug release method is not intended to fully 
represent  the  human  in-vivo  performance  of  the  drug  product,  but  rather  to  ensure  that  the  implant 
manufacturing process is reproducible. 
Batch  analysis  results  on  5  commercial  scale  batches  of  the  drug  product  demonstrated  compliance 
with  the  proposed  specification  and  confirmed  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  product.  The  results 
were  consistent  from  batch  to  batch  and  proved  that  the  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according to the agreed finished product specification. 
•  Stability of the product 
Stability studies according to the ICH guidelines have been performed on 3 primary stability batches of 
Ozurdex  700  micrograms.  Additional  data  were  generated  for  3  primary  batches  of  350  micrograms 
implants. This data is considered representative of the 700 micrograms product.  
Stability  data  were  generated  using  the  storage  conditions  listed  in  the  ICH  Guidance  and  contained 
results  for  24 months  from  long  term  storage  at  25°C/60% RH,  12 months  from  storage  under 
intermediate conditions at 30°C/65%RH, and 6 months from accelerated conditions at 40°C/75% RH.  
Test  methods  used  in  “Stability  studies”  are  the  same  as  the  one  used  at  release  except  the  test  for 
content uniformity, which is performed only at release.  
The  container/closure  system  used  in  the  primary  stability  study  utilizes  the  same  materials  as  the 
proposed commercial package. 
Photo-stress  studies  were  not  conducted  as  there  is  brief  exposure  to  light  during  manufacture  and 
dosing.  Additionally,  the  implant  is  packaged  in  an  applicator  system  with  an  aluminium  foil  pouch 
which protects the product from exposure to light until just prior to administration 
A package leachable study was performed to evaluate potential volatile leachables which might migrate 
and  adsorb  into  the  implant  matrix.  The  product  was  monitored  after  three  months  of  storage  at 
40°C/75% RH  and  compared  to  cut  bulk  filament  stored  in  glass  vials.  No  leachables  were  observed, 
which indicates that the proposed container closure system is suitable for use with implant. 
The  results  generated  during  the  stability  studies  and  statistical  analyses  support  the  proposed  shelf 
life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  drug  substance,  dexamethasone,  is  a  well-known  and  well-characterized  ingredient 
described in the Ph Eur. The manufacturer is holder of EDQM Chemical Certificate of Suitability (CEP). 
A  copy  of  this  CEP  was  presented,  therefore  minimal  information  on  the  synthesis  and  control  of  the 
active substance was included in the dossier. 
Finished product is a sterile medicinal product-device combination product comprising the drug product 
that  is  a  biodegradable  sustained  delivery  intravitreal  implant  and  the  device  component  that  is  a 
single-use  applicator  is  designed  specifically  to  deliver  the  rod-shaped  implant  directly  into  the 
posterior  segment  of  eye.  The  implant  is  composed  of  micronized  dexamethasone  homogeneously 
dispersed in two biodegradable poly (lactide-co-glycolide) PLGA polymers, and extruded as a filament 
(0.46 mm diameter/6 mm length) that delivers 700 micrograms of dexamethasone to the vitreous with 
gradual  release  over  time  allowing  for  sustained  drug  levels  to  the  target  areas  despite  lower  total 
daily  dose,  and  does  not  need  to  be  removed  since  the  copolymer  dissolves  and  biodegrades  into 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 10/58
 
 
 
carbon dioxide and water over time. The implant is placed in the applicator during the manufacture of 
the finished product and retained within the needle of the applicator.  
The  description  and  composition  of  the  product  are  properly  documented.  The  application  system  is 
packaged in a peelable laminated foil pouch with one packet of desiccant and heat sealed.  
The  pharmaceutical  development  of  the  drug  product  is  adequately  and  sufficiently  described.  The 
information  given  is  very  extensive  and  supports  the  formula  and  the  pharmaceutical  form  selected. 
The final sterilization by gamma radiation is justified 
The characteristics and the quality of the applicator are adequately documented. 
The  method  of  manufacture  is  non-standard.  Description  of  the  manufacturing  process,  in-process 
controls,  critical  steps  and  their  controls  and  methods  applied  are  satisfactory.  All  critical  in-process 
controls parameters are well established and justified. 
The control of excipients is satisfactory. 
The drug product specification has been correctly discussed and the limits proposed for each test have 
been  established  taking  into  account  the  data  of  clinical  and  stability  batches.  In  general,  the 
specifications are acceptable.  
Analytical methods used to control the quality of the finished product are well described and validated 
according ICH.  
The  stability  studies  have  been  performed  in  accordance  with  ICHQ1A  guideline  on  three  scale 
commercial  batches.  Data  from  accelerated  (6  months),  intermediate  (12  months)  and  long-term 
conditions  (24  months)  have  been  submitted.  The  proposed  shelf-life  and  storage  condition  are 
justified. 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  drug  substances  and  the  drug  product  have  been  appropriately  characterised  and  generally 
satisfactory  documentation  has  been  provided.  The  results  indicate  that  the  drug  substances  and  the 
drug  product  can  be  reproducibly  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory 
and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1 Introduction 
The  applicant  conducted  a  partial  non-clinical  development  program.  This  program  is  in  general 
agreement with the applicable guidelines.  
All definitive toxicology studies were carried out in full compliance with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) 
regulations.  Investigations  undertaken  to  establish  suitable  doses  for  use  in  the  toxicity  and 
pharmacokinetic studies were performed in accordance with the general principles of GLP.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The  applicant  provided  data  from  published  literature  (Nakada,  1987)  regarding  dexamethasone 
binding affinity to glucocorticoid receptors in fibroblasts. Data from saturation analysis yielded a Kd of 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 11/58
 
 
 
 
3.47 ± 0.38 nM and a Bmax of 50,100 ± 2,200 sites/cell (n=3).  The Kd value for [3H] dexamethasone 
binding correlated very well with the 2.77 nM EC50 value for dexamethasone regulation of β-adrenergic 
receptor  subtype.  The  relevance  of  these  data  was  initially  unclear  to  the  CHMP,  but  the  applicant 
provided an acceptable justification arguing that the provided references could be extrapolated to the 
claimed  indication  as  there  were  no  available  specific  dexamethasone  pharmacology  data  on  tissue 
explants  or  cell  culture  models  for  the  blood-retinal  barrier  at  the  time  of  initial  submission.  In 
addition,  a  new  reference  was  submitted  by  the  applicant  during  the  procedure  that  showed 
dexamethasone  cytokine  induction  inhibition  in  human  retinal  microvascular  pericytes  in  the  same 
range of concentrations (2 nM). 
The  applicant  also  provided  the  results  of  a  10  week  study  in  the  rabbit  eye  to  evaluate  the  primary 
pharmacodynamics of the 350 µg and 700 µg DEX PS DDS. The rabbit model used for this study was 
designed  to  mimic  the  pathologies  associated  with  retinal  vein  occlusion  (RVO),  demonstrating  a 
breakdown  of  the  blood-retinal  and  blood-aqueous  barriers,  and  an  accumulation  of  retinal  fluid.  An 
intravitreal  injection  of  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  (rHu-VEGF)  was  used  to  activate  specific 
endothelial  receptors  that  signal  the  breakdown  of  the  blood-retinal  and  blood-aqueous  barriers. 
Glucocorticoids  such  as  dexamethasone  and  triamcinolone  acetonide  were  previously  shown  to 
suppress the expression of VEGF protein and to block nearly all pathological retinal responses elicited 
by  intravitreal  VEGF  injection.  In  the  study,  the  350  µg  dose  completely  blocks  VEGF-induced  blood-
retinal  barrier  (BRB)  breakdown  in  rabbits  two  weeks  after  intravitreal  drug  injection.  This  dose  also 
partially  inhibits  blood-aqueous  barrier  (BAB;  iris)  breakdown.    Six  weeks  after  injection,  the  350  µg 
dose partially inhibits BRB breakdown but has no effect on BAB breakdown. For the higher 700 µg dose, 
the efficacy was similar to that of the 350 µg dose, with more pronounced inhibition, and this was still 
significant six weeks after the injection unlike in the lower dose. There was no pharmacological effect 
on VEGF-induced responses measured ten weeks after intravitreal injection of either formulation. The 
doses  chosen  for  this  study  are  the  therapeutic  doses  considered  for  humans,  and  it  is  important  to 
note  the  relative  difference  in  eye  size  from  the  rabbit  eye  administered  intravitreally  in  this  study 
compared  to  the  larger  human  eyes.  In  general,  CHMP  considered  that  Ozurdex  was  effective  in  the 
study relevant to the proposed indication.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacodynamics studies were performed by the applicant with the 350 µg or 700 µg 
DEX PS DDS formulations. Considering the low dexamethasone systemic exposure following intravitreal 
administration  of  350  µg  or  700  µg  DEX  PS  DDS,  systemic  effects  on  glucocorticoid  receptors  is  not 
expected.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No safety pharmacology studies were conducted with the intravitreal DEX DDS formulations. 
The  applicant  provided  literature  references  regarding  peribulbar,  intravitreal  and  anterior  chamber 
injections  of  dexamethasone  (5  mg  [peribulbar]  and  400  μg  [intravitreal  and  anterior  chamber] 
respectively), as well as topical and oral administration for treatment of different ocular pathologies in 
humans (endophthalmitis and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids). 
No ocular adverse effects were reported in any of these publications. According to CHMP Guideline on 
Safety pharmacology studies for human pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/539/00), considering that DEX PS 
DDS is administered locally (i.e. ocular, intravitreal), and the systemic exposure is demonstrated to be 
low, the absence of specific safety pharmacology studies for Ozurdex was acceptable to the CHMP. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 12/58
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were performed by the applicant with the 350 or 700 µg 
DEX PS DDS. 
However,  as  reflected  in  section  4.2  “Posology  and  method  of  administration”  of  the  SPC,  adequate 
anaesthesia and a broad spectrum topical antimicrobial should be given prior to Ozurdex injection. The 
applicant  was  therefore  requested  to  discuss  potential  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  between 
Ozurdex  and  ophthalmic  anaesthetic  and  antimicrobial  agents.  The  applicant  responded  by  reviewing 
the  results  of  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  rabbit  and  primate  where  gentamicin,  tropicamide, 
proparacaine and benzylalkonium chloride eye drops were administered prior to Ozurdex injection. The 
applicant highlighted that no increase of infection rates, lack of anaesthetic strength or abnormal pupil 
dilation were noted. Although the agents included in the repeat-dose toxicity studies are not the same 
agents  that  are  foreseen  to  be  administered  in  humans,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  potential 
pharmacodynamic  interactions  do  not  seem  to  be  likely  and  that  the  lack  of  pharmacodynamic 
interaction studies between Ozurdex and recommended co-medication has been adequately justified by 
the applicant. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
To  support  the  safety  of  Ozurdex  (DEX  PS  DDS  Applicator  System)  in  man,  the  posterior  segment 
pharmacokinetics  of  dexamethasone  has  been  evaluated  in  five  single-dose  ocular  absorption  and 
distribution  studies  in  rabbits  and  in  one  single-dose  study  in  monkeys.  All  pivotal  single  dose 
pharmacokinetic studies and two repeat dose toxicokinetic studies were conducted in compliance with 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations, using validated analytical methods. 
Due to the limited availability of monkey vitreous humour, aqueous humour, retina and iris-ciliary body, 
rabbit samples were used as a proxy matrix, and the same analytical methods were thus employed for 
both species. For biological matrices that are difficult to obtain, the use of a physiologically appropriate 
proxy  matrix  is  scientifically  acceptable.  For  aqueous  humour,  a  cross-validation  as  described  by 
Bressolle  was  performed.  The  applicant  considered  the  results  acceptable,  although  precision  results 
did  not  satisfy  previously  established  acceptance  criteria  (<  15%).  In  addition,  for  dexamethasone 
determinations in vitreous humour, retina and iris-ciliary body in monkey samples, no cross-validation 
was performed to demonstrate the adequacy of the rabbit proxy matrices. The applicant was therefore 
requested  by  the  CHMP  to  apply  the  cross  validation  criteria  to  all  the  analytical  methods  for  the 
different  matrices  in  rabbit,  to  warrant  the  adequacy  of  the  methods  validated  for  rabbit  matrices  to 
monkey matrices. 
According 
to 
the  Draft 
EMEA  Guideline 
on  Validation 
of  Bioanalytical  Methods 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009) more flexible approaches are admitted when validating methods for 
rare matrices. In addition, the applicant submitted the summaries of two new cross-validation studies 
for  monkey  vitreous  humour  and  retina  using  rabbit  proxy  matrices.  According  to  these  results, 
analytical  methods  for  monkey  VH  and  retina  appear  to  be  adequately  validated.  However,  these 
reports  were  not  considered  fully  adequate  as  final  study  validation  reports  since  original  raw  data 
were  not  included  to  allow  an  accurate  assessment  of  the  results  presented.  The  applicant  was 
therefore  requested  to  submit  complete  study  reports  including  original  raw  data  to  the  CHMP  as  a 
follow-up measure (see section 2.7 of this report). 
Absorption 
The  ocular  absorption  of  DEX  PS  DDS  was  studied  in  New  Zealand  White  (NZW)  rabbits  and 
cynomolgus  monkeys  following  a  single  dose  administration  for  different  observation  periods.  Tablet, 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 13/58
 
 
 
 
single  and  double  extruded  dosage  forms  were  tested,  and  two  different  implantation  methods  were 
used,  sclerotomy  and  implantation  via  Ozurdex  applicator.  The  extruded  implants  generally  released 
dexamethasone  more  gradually  and  with  less  variability  than  the  tablet  implants,  and  the  extruded 
form showed greater uniformity of dexamethasone release compared to the tablet implant.  
In  the  repeat-dose  toxicology  studies,  the  plasma  Cmax  in  rabbit  and  monkey  at  the  highest  DEX  PS 
DDS  dose  (1400  µg)  administered  were  1.60  and  0.555  ng/ml,  respectively.  The  repeat-dose 
toxicokinetic  profiles  were  similar  to  the  single-dose,  and  this  suggests  that  there  is  no  potential  for 
ocular or systemic drug accumulation following repeat dosing of DEX PS DDS.  Based on body weight 
differences between human (~60 kg) and monkey (~3 kg) the systemic exposure of dexamethasone in 
human is expected to be ~20-fold lower than in monkey. 
The  applicant  also  provided  literature  references  regarding  the  mean  peak  plasma  concentration 
following  a  single  (IV  or  oral)  or  multiple  (topical  ocular)  administration  of  dexamethasone  or 
dexamethasone disodium in humans. These plasma concentration varies from 10.5 ± 2.8 (IV), 8.4 ± 
3.6  (oral)  and  0.7  ±  0.4 mg/ml  (topical  ocular).  The  oral  and  IV  doses  range  from  6 mg  up  to  8  mg 
more than ocular administration, leading to subsequently higher human exposure. 
Distribution 
Following intravitreal implantation, both radiolabel solution and non-radiolabel implant studies showed 
a similar pattern of distribution and indicate that ocular distribution does not change. There is delivery 
to  the  posterior  of  the  eye  and  distribution  to  the  retina  following  implantation  of  DEX  PS  DDS.  As  a 
result  of  the observations in  the  6-month  pharmacokinetic  study in  rabbits, CHMP  concluded  that  the 
location  of  the  implant  in  the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye  has  a  direct  effect  in  the  duration  of  the 
drug  release.  The  applicant  was  further  requested  by  the  CHMP  to  discuss  the  relevance  for  the 
healthy/untreated  eye  of  the  dexamethasone  exposure  via  contralateral  diffusion  observed  in  the  6 
months  study  in  rabbits.  Taking  into  account  the  low  systemic  levels  of  dexamethasone  following 
intravenous administration, exposure in the untreated eye due to systemic exposure does not seem to 
be likely. In addition, as stated by Sigurdsson et al, 2007, the contribution of systemic drug return to 
the ocular tissues would probably be lower in humans as the apparent volume of distribution is much 
greater  in  70  kg  humans  than  in  2  kg  rabbit.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  acknowledged  that  minimal 
biological effect of DEX PS DDS on the contralateral eye in humans would be expected. However, the 
route of exposure in the untreated eye following administration of DEX PS DDS in the contralateral eye 
has  not  been  fully  clarified.  Section  5.3  of  the  SPC  therefore  includes  information  to  reflect  the 
potential contralateral exposure in the untreated eye, as observed in rabbits, as a warning for eventual 
findings in clinical practice. 
No new studies regarding the systemic distribution of dexamethasone have been submitted. The data 
provided  by  the  applicant  from  literature  references  included  data  from  dexamethasone  binding  to 
plasma protein. This study revealed that 85, 73, 74 and 77% was bound in rat, dog, cow and human 
plasma, respectively. Results submitted also suggest that the binding of dexamethasone is linear and 
occurs  primarily  to  albumin,  with  little  or  no  binding  to  corticosteroid-binding  globulin  (transcortin); 
endogenous  cortisol  does  not  compete  with  dexamethasone  for  protein  binding  sites. Considering  the 
low  systemic  dexamethasone  concentrations  following  intravitreal  administration  of  DEX  PS  DDS,  no 
relevant systemic effects are expected in renally impaired patients.  
The  applicant  was  requested  by  the  CHMP  in  the  Scientific  Advice  (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/340437/2005) 
to  provide  in  the  MAA  data  on  melanin  binding  (especially  intraocular)  in  a  specific  study  in  a 
pigmented  species  or  from  literature.  The  in  vivo  results  submitted  by  the  applicant  instead, 
adequately  reflect  the  absence  of  dexamethasone  binding  to  melanin  in  Dutch-Belted  rabbits.  In 
addition,  dexamethasone  showed  rapid  clearance  from  all  ocular  tissues  in  NZW  rabbits  and 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 14/58
 
 
 
 
Cynomolgus  monkeys.  Dexamethasone  is  therefore  not  expected  to  accumulate  in  human  pigmented 
ocular tissue.  
Metabolism 
The  applicant  provided  literature  references  regarding  dexamethasone  metabolism.  Dexamethasone 
metabolism  has  been  extensively  examined.  Liver  metabolism  via  CYP3A4  enzymes  has  been  shown 
previously.  Ocular  metabolism  studies  were  conducted  by  the  applicant  and  both  in  vitro  and  in-vivo 
studies  have  shown  no  or  minimal  evidence  of  metabolism  in  the  rabbit,  monkey  or  human  ocular 
tissue.  The  use  of  poly  (D,L-lactide-co-glycolide)  biodegradable  polymer  (PLGA)  has  also  been 
examined  previously  with  humanised  monoclonal  antibody,  rhuMAb  HER2  in  rabbits,  and  has  been 
shown to be well tolerated and with slow vitreous clearance. Though the metabolism of the poly (D,L-
lactide) polymer (PLA) and PLGA vehicle of the implant is well established and recognised in other drug 
formulations,  this  is  not  established  for  intravitreal  administration,  although  it  can  be  assumed  that 
they are degraded in a similar way. 
Excretion 
The elimination of dexamethasone from the systemic circulation following administration of Ozurdex is 
considered to be similar to that of oral, intravenous or topical ocular administration. Following a single 
intravitreal injection of dexamethasone in rabbit and monkey, dexamethasone was rapidly cleared from 
the  vitreous  humour.  Estimation  of  human  vitreal  clearance  can  further  be  made  from  the  literature 
(Gan et al, 2005). This study suggests that vitreal clearance in humans to be approximately 12 ml/day, 
and this is in line with both the rabbit and monkey, implying a similarity in elimination. Influence of a 
disease  state  may  however  have  an  effect  on  dexamethasone  clearance,  but  this  has  not  been 
explored.   
Dexamethasone is known to cross the placenta and be excreted in milk. This information is accurately 
reflected in section 4.6 of the SPC. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No  ocular  drug-drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted  for  DEX  PS  DDS  and  no  systemic 
pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions  are  expected  following  intravitreal  administration  of  Ozurdex  since 
only very low dexamethasone concentrations will be reached at systemic level. 
Regarding potential pharmacokinetic interactions, the CHMP initially highlighted, as stated above in the 
section  on  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions,  that  adequate  anaesthesia  and  a  broad  spectrum 
topical antimicrobial will be given prior to Ozurdex injection. Following assessment of further data from 
the applicant the CHMP agreed that systemic pharmacokinetic interactions between Ozurdex and other 
co-administered  medication  are  not  expected  due  to  the  low  systemic  exposure  to  dexamethasone 
following Ozurdex intravitreal administration, not high enough to induce hepatic enzymes. 
Local  interactions  were  not  observed  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  rabbits  and 
monkeys. No abnormal or unexpected pharmacokinetic findings were noted. Potential pharmacokinetic 
interactions do not seem to be likely. However, it should be noted that co-administered medication in 
these studies was not exactly the same that is foreseen to be administered in clinical practice. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Toxicity studies were conducted  to evaluate the ocular and systemic effects of DEX PS DDS following 
administration in NZW rabbits. Repeat-dose intravitreal ocular toxicity studies were also conducted in 
NZW rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys using the DEX PS DDS and the Ozurdex applicator system. No 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 15/58
 
  
 
 
 
 
new  studies  were  performed  to  investigate  the  mutagenicity,  carcinogenicity,  or  reproductive  effects 
due  to  the  well  established  clinical  use  of  dexamethasone  and  the  low  systemic  exposure  following 
intravitreal  administration.  All  toxicology  studies  with  the  DEX  PS  DDS  were  conducted  according  to 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) guidelines and procedures. 
Table 1 - Ozurdex Toxicology Program 
•  Single dose toxicity 
A number of single-dose toxicity studies in rabbits were conducted to evaluate the ocular and systemic 
effects  of  DEX  PS  DDS  following  sclerotomy  implantation  of  the  implant.  Rabbits  were  surgically 
(sclerotomy)  implanted  with  700  µg  (1  implant),  1400  µg  (2  implants),  or  2100  µg  (3  implants) 
dexamethasone  into  the  posterior  segment  of  the  right  and  left  eyes.  Unlike  standard  single-dose 
toxicity studies, animals in DEX PS DDS studies were not sacrificed 14 days post-dosing, as the single-
dose  effects  extend  beyond  this  time  period  and  ocular  effects  were  observed  up  to  23  weeks  post-
implantation.  This  was  considered  as  an  acceptable  approach  by  the  CHMP,  in  the  context  of  the 
treatment and administration of the implant. 
Sclerotomy  implantation  to  the  posterior  segment  of  both  eyes  showed  no  evidence  of  intravitreal 
ocular  toxicity.  A  number  of  surgical-related  effects  were  observed,  including  cataract  formation, 
squinting, decreases in intraocular pressure (IOP), focal granulomatous or chronic inflammation in the 
sclera and/or conjunctiva associated with silk sutures. These ocular changes were observed in both the 
test and placebo groups and was believed to be attributed to the surgical procedure and the reduced 
amount of vitreous volume for the rabbit eye (1.5 ml rabbit compared to 3.6 ml in human). By using 
relative  vitreous  volumes  to  normalise  doses  between  species  the  applicant  demonstrated  that  it  is 
possible to overcome the effects due to differences in vitreous volume between species.   
Lymphotoxicity and decreased body weight was observed, this was most evident up to 30 days post-
implantation and considered a dexamethasone-related systemic effect. These effects were reduced at 
two months and disappeared thereafter. The intravitreal dose of dexamethasone administered in each 
700 µg DEX PS DDS implant is equivalent to approximately 0.2 mg/kg body weight in rabbits, which is 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 16/58
 
 
 
 
 
roughly 20 times higher than the expected therapeutic dose for man (assuming 60 kg body weight). In 
more detail, the safety margins relating to the exposure to dexamethasone range from 3.8 to 17 fold 
in animal studies with use of the applicator, and from 7 to 100 fold following topical and intravenous 
dexamethasone. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity  
Two repeated-dose toxicity studies were conducted in rabbits and monkeys using the clinical Ozurdex 
applicator  system.  In  both  studies,  two  intravitreal  injections  were  followed  by  an  observation  period 
up  to  9  months  post  the  second  injection.  Both  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GLP 
standards. 
Parameters  evaluated  in  the  studies  included  detailed  observations,  body  weights  and  food 
consumption. Serum chemistry and haematology evaluations, urianalysis, organ weights, macroscopic 
and microscopic pathologic evaluations, gross ocular observations, ophthalmology, electroretinography 
and tonometry were also conducted in these studies.  
As  stated  earlier,  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rabbits  and  monkeys.  The 
Ozurdex implants were tolerated adequately in both species following two intravitreal implantations. In 
the  rabbit  there  was  evidence  of  cortical  lens  opacity  following  the  second  dose.  Of  these  three 
incidences, one showed opacity regression after 12 months, which is in line with what has been shown 
previously to occur following topical administration of corticosteroids. 
The duration of the repeat-dose studies was considered adequate by the CHMP. There were expected 
procedure-related  effects  of  transient  conjunctival  irritation,  vitreal  implant  remnants,  and  fibrosis 
(foreign body reaction) that was localised to the implant (injection) sites and this was observed in both 
species  and  in  all  treated  animals  and  controls.  The  doses  these  animals  were  administered  are  the 
human therapeutic doses of 350 µg or 700 µg DEX PS DDS. Considering the relatively small size of the 
rabbit/monkey eye compared to the human, the doses administered in these repeat-dose studies are 
higher than would be expected to be exposed to human. 
The applicant has, as described earlier, developed an applicator to deliver the DEX PS DDS implant to 
the  posterior  segment  of  the  eye,  and  following  administration  in  the  repeat-dose  studies,  there  was 
no incidence of injection-related cataract observed. 
The  applicant  also  provided  literature  references  regarding  the  lack  of  toxicity  of  PLGA  microspheres, 
administered  intravitreally,  to  the  ocular  tissues.  Whereas  the  implantation  of  PLGA  fibres  in  a  rabbit 
cornea  pouch  (cornea  micropocket  assay)  resulted  in  vascular  invasion  into  the  cornea,  although  it 
could  be  caused  by  leachables  from  the  implanted  materials.  This  bibliographic  data  was  considered 
sufficient  by  the  CHMP  to  satisfy  the  requirements  given  in  the  CHMP  Scientific  Advice 
(EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/340437/2005) of providing appropriate toxicological studies or other justifications 
to demonstrate the safety of PLGA by the intravitreal route of administration. In addition, there were 
no  observable  findings  in  the  two  studies  referenced  that  could  be  attributable  to  PLGA  in  placebo 
treated animals (i.e. PLGA implant). 
The studies into repeated-dose toxicity of DEX PS DDS are considered to be generally acceptable to the 
CHMP. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Previous  studies  to  evaluate  the  mutagenic  potential  of  dexamethasone  in  bacteria  and  mammalian 
cells  in  vitro  have  been  negative.  Given  the  long  history  of  safe  use  of  dexamethasone  and  with  the 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 17/58
 
 
 
low levels of patient exposure, genotoxicity studies have not been performed and this was considered 
acceptable to the CHMP. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Given  the  long  history  of  safe  use  of  dexamethasone  and  with the  low levels  of  patient  exposure,  no 
carcinogenicity studies on dexamethasone or DEX PS DDS have been performed. Inactive components 
of  DEX  PS  DDS  have  been  shown  to  metabolise  into  substances  normally  found  in  the  body  and 
therefore are not considered to increase the risk of carcinogenicity. This was considered acceptable to 
the CHMP.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No  new  studies  on  fertility  and  general  reproduction,  embryo-fetal  development,  or  pre-/post-natal 
development  have  been  performed  for  Ozurdex.  However,  there  are  published  data  on  the 
teratogenicity of dexamethasone in mice, rabbits and rhesus monkeys following topical ophthalmic and 
intramuscular administration. The teratogenic dose in rhesus monkeys (1.0 mg/kg/day dose) is 85-fold 
higher than a 700 µg DEX PS DDS implant in humans. It should also be considered the low systemic 
exposures  observed  following  intravitreal  implantation  of  DEX  PS  DDS  in  absorption  studies  (7.40 
ng.day/mL  and  16.8  ng.day/mL,  in  rabbits  and  cynomolgus  monkeys,  respectively).  However, 
adequate  warnings  regarding  the  potential  risk  in  pregnant  or  nursing  women  is  included  in  sections 
4.6 and 5.3 of the SPC. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Mean plasma Cmax values increased with dose in monkeys between 350 and 700 μg DEX PS DDS, and 
similarly between 700 and 1400 μg DEX PS DDS treatment groups in rabbits. The extent of systemic 
exposure  appeared  to  be  dose  proportional  in  rabbits  and  more  than  dose  proportional  in  monkeys. 
Duration of plasma drug concentrations was longer for the high dose group compared to the low dose 
group in both species. No gender-related differences were observed in monkeys where animals of both 
sexes were included. 
•  Local Tolerance  
The applicant has not performed specific local tolerance studies, but considered based on the Note for 
guidance  on  non-clinical  local  tolerance  testing  of  medicinal  products  (CPMP/SWP/2145/00)  that  local 
tolerance was assessed in the ocular single and repeat dose toxicity studies in rabbits and monkeys. 
The  CHMP  accepted  the  applicant’s  strategy,  but  requested  the  applicant  to  discussion  in  detail  the 
histopathology  of  the  eye  in  those  studies.  It  should  be  highlighted  that  retina  and  choroid  are  the 
target  tissues  for  DEX  PS  DDS  action.  In  response  the  applicant  provided  a  discussion  on 
histopathology data from repeat dose toxicity studies, including local tolerance endpoints and based on 
the conclusion that there were no abnormal findings on the retina or choroids outside the injection site 
in either rabbit or monkey repeated dose studies, the CHMP subsequently considered that there are no 
safety concerns regarding the local tolerance of Ozurdex. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Ozurdex applicator system safety and performance 
To  evaluate  the  performance  of  the  DEX  PS  DDS  applicator,  a  special  study  in  NZW  rabbits  was 
conducted.  The  Ozurdex  applicator  system  was  used  to  implant  DEX  PS  DDS  into  the  posterior 
segment  of  rabbit  eyes.  The  study  found  that  the  applicator  system  was  easy  to  use.  Traumatic 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 18/58
 
 
 
cataracts and other reactions were observed in this study, but these are thought to be likely related to 
the dimensions of the rabbit eye and not a problem associated with the Ozurdex applicator. 
Phototoxicity 
As dexamethasone absorbs outside the visible and UVA/B light spectrum (290-700 nm), phototoxicity 
testing  was  not  performed.  Dexamethasone  has  a  long  history  of  safe  use  following  topical  ocular 
administration. 
Studies on impurities 
All  starting  materials  were  USP  grade  and  met  USP  specifications.  According  to  the  applicant, 
impurities in the drug product were tested at levels that exceeded current specifications and exceeded 
what will be used clinically. 
Dexamethasone  ketone,  degradation  product,  was  tested  up  to  1%  in  batches  used  in  non-clinical 
studies  according  to  drug  product  specifications  provided.  However,  proposed  release  and  shelf-life 
specification for dexamethasone ketone was NMT 1.4%. The CHMP highlighted that this specification is 
above the qualification threshold for degradation products in new drug products (Maximum daily dose: 
< 1 mg; threshold: 1.0% or 5 µg TDI, whichever is lower) according to Note for guidance on impurities 
in  new  drug  products  (CPMP/ICH/2738/99).  Therefore,  this  impurity  (degradation  product), 
dexamethasone ketone, was not initially considered by the CHMP as qualified.   
In response the applicant argued that as DEX PS DDS is a slow release delivery system, patients are 
not  expected  to  be  exposed  to  daily  amounts  of  dexamethasone  ketone  exceeding  the  qualification 
threshold, in this case: 1.0% or 5 μg TDI, whichever is lower, for a Maximum daily dose: < 1 mg (Note 
for  guidance  on  impurities  in  new  drug  products  (CPMP/ICH/2738/99)).  Therefore,  as  qualification  of 
dexamethasone  ketone  was  considered  by  the  applicant  to  be  required.  The  CHMP  acknowledged  the 
applicants  argument  and  considered  that  further  qualification  of  the  degradation  product  was  not 
needed.  
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environment risk assessment for dexamethasone was performed. The dexamethasone PECsurface water 
value is 0.007 μg/L, below the action limit of 0.01 μg/L and dexamethasone is not a PBT substance as 
log Kow does not exceed 4.5 (2.06 ± 0.58). It is concluded that Ozurdex intravitreal implant is unlikely 
to represent a risk for the environment following its prescribed usage in patients.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The applicant has conducted several studies (phase I-III) to evaluate the use of DEX PS DDS. Two of 
those  studies  (206207-008  and  206207-009)  have  utilised  the  formulation  intended  for  marketing  in 
the  proposed  indication.  The  dose  ranging  study  DC103-06  included  patients  with  the  intended 
indication  (macular  oedema),  however,  this  study  was  performed  with  the  tableted  formulation.  The 
release  characteristics  of  the  tablet  appear  to  be  very  different  to  the  final  product,  therefore  all 
studies performed with the tablet could only be considered as supportive. 
2.4.2.  GCP 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  The  applicant 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 19/58
 
 
 
 
has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
A routine GCP inspection has been performed on the request from the CHMP In the GCP inspection no 
critical findings were identified by the GCP inspectors.  
Table 2 - Overview of clinical studies 
2.4.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies were conducted. Systemic exposure was however measured within 
the two pivotal phase III studies (206207-009 and 206207-008).  
The results indicated that exposure is low. No ocular pharmacokinetic evaluations were conducted. In 
both  studies,  the  majority  of  plasma  dexamethasone  concentrations  were  below  the  level  of 
quantitation  (BLQ).  In  the  pooled  studies,  plasma  dexamethasone  concentrations  from  10  of  73 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 20/58
 
 
 
 
 
samples in the DEX 700 group and from 2 of 42 samples in the DEX 350 group were above the LLOQ, 
and  ranged  from  0.0521  ng/mL  to  0.0940  ng/mL.  There  were  no  apparent  correlations  between 
plasma  dexamethasone  concentration  and  age,  body  weight,  or  sex.  The  single  highest  plasma 
dexamethasone concentration observed in the phase 3 studies was 0.0940 ng/mL which is only 13.4% 
of that reported following multiple ocular applications of 1 drop of dexamethasone disodium phosphate 
(0.1%) to one eye every 1.5 hours. 
2.4.4.  Pharmacodynamics 
No  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  conducted  and  therefore  PK/PD  relationships  could  not  be 
ascertained.  Pharmacodynamic  data  were  collected  from  a  phase  II  dose-ranging  exploratory  study 
(DC103-06) in which a dose-response improvement in visual acuity was observed. The maintenance of 
the effect over time was studied in the two confirmatory trials.  
2.4.5.  Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study 
One dose-finding phase II study (DC103-06) was conducted. 
Study DC103-06 
This dose-ranging study was a randomised, examiner blinded, parallel group, three arms comparative 
trial  (DEX  350  tablets,  DEX  700  tablets,  both  inserted  through  the  pars  plana  vs.  observation)  in 
patients  with  persistent  macular  oedema  (PME)  following  treatment  and  associated  with  diabetic 
retinopathy,  uveitis,  retinal  vein  occlusion,  and  Irvine-Gass  syndrome.  Safety  was  evaluated  for  6 
months and efficacy through day 90.  
Eligible  patients  were  aged  12  years  and  older  with  persistent  macular  oedema  defined  as  clinically 
observable  macular  oedema  persisting  at  least  90  days  after  laser  treatment  or  after  90  days  of 
medical  management.  Macular  oedema  was  defined  as  retinal  thickening  at  the  centre  of  the  fovea, 
visual acuity equal to or worse than 20/40 attributable to PME and angiographic evidence of leakage in 
the perifoveal capillary net.  
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  patients  with  ≥  2  lines  improvement  in  best-corrected 
visual acuity (BCVA) at day 90.  
Statistical  significance  for  the  primary  endpoint,  an  improvement  of  2  or  more  lines  in  the  last 
observation  carried  forward  (LOCF)  analysis  of  best-corrected  visual  acuity  (BCVA)  at  day  90,  was 
observed  for  the  DEX  PS  DDS  700  μg  group  (36.7%)  versus  the  Observation  group  (19.0%),  p  = 
0.005. The improvement rate was likewise numerically higher with DEX PS DDS 350 μg (26.1%) than 
with  Observation,  although  the  difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  improvement  was  with 
DEX  PS  DDS  350  μg  was  also  lower  than  with  DEX  PS  DDS  700  μg  thus  indicating  a  dose-response 
effect. 
•  Main studies 
This application is based on two pivotal phase III studies to support the efficacy and safety of DEX PS 
DDS  in  the  treatment  of  macular  oedema:  Study  206207-009  and  Study  206207-008.  The  studies 
which  were  identical  in  design,  were  six-month  randomised,  sham-controlled  studies  with  a  6-month 
open label extension, assessing the safety and efficacy of 700 μg and 350 μg dexamethasone posterior 
segment drug delivery system, in patients with macular oedema due to Branch or Central Retinal Vein 
Occlusion.  Results  of  the  open  label  extension  were  provided  during  the  procedure.  In  the  extension 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 21/58
 
 
 
 
phase,  patients  in  all  three  groups  received  a  second  DEX  700  implant  and  were  followed  up  for  a 
further  6  months  (re-treated  population).  A  number  of  patients  who  received  only  one  treatment  at 
baseline were followed up to 12 months (single treatment population). 
STUDY 206207-009 and STUDY 206207-008 
•  Methods 
•  Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria  
Key inclusion criteria were male or female, at least 18 years of age, macular oedema due to CRVO at 
least 6 weeks to 9 months prior to study entry; and macular oedema due to BRVO at least 6 weeks to 
12  months  prior  to  study  entry,  best-corrected  visual  acuity  (BCVA)  score  between  34  and  68  letters 
by  Early  Treatment  of  Diabetic  Retinopathy  Study  (ETDRS),  retinal  thickness  of  ≥  300  μm  by  optical 
coherence tomography (OCT). If both eyes were eligible for the study, the eligible eye with the shorter 
duration of disease was used as the study eye. 
Exclusion criteria 
Key  exclusion  criteria  were  ocular  condition  that  would  prevent  a  15-letter  improvement  in  VA, 
epiretinal  membrane,  ocular  hypertension,  aphakia  or  anterior  chamber  intraocular  lens,  diabetic 
retinopathy,  retinal  or  disc  or  choroidal  neovascularization,  rubeosis  iridis,  active  ocular  infection, 
toxoplasmosis,  visible  scleral  thinning  or  ectasia,  media  opacity,  intraocular  surgery,  need  for  ocular 
surgery  or  laser,  hemodilution,  periocular  depot  or  systemic  steroids,  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitors, 
immunosuppressants/modulators,  antimetabolites,  alkylating  agents,  topical  ophthalmic  steroids  or 
topical  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs),  warfarin,  heparin,  enoxaparin,  history  of 
intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation in response to steroids. 
Therapy  considered  necessary  for  the  patient’s  welfare  could  be  given  at  the  discretion  of  the 
investigator. Dosages were to remain constant throughout the course of the trial for those concurrent 
medications  that  may  have  affected  the  study  outcomes  (e.g.  treatment  of  elevated  IOP,  if  systemic 
NSAIDs  were  regularly  used  prior  to  enrolment,  these  medications  may  have  continued  during  the 
study,  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitors  were  not  prohibited  if  they  needed  to  be  used  to  treat  elevated 
IOP that developed during the course of the study. 
•  Treatments 
Patients received DEX 700, DEX 350, or Sham on the randomisation day 0 visit. In addition, qualified 
patients received open-label DEX 700 at the initial treatment day 180 visit. Only one eye was treated 
with study drug. 
The study treatment procedure was performed by the treating investigator in a surgical suite or office 
setting  using  a  standard,  sterile  technique.  A  combination  of  topical  and  subconjunctival  anesthetics 
was used. Patients randomized to active treatment had the study drug placed into the vitreous through 
the pars plana using the DEX PS DDS applicator system. Patients randomised to Sham treatment had 
the needleless applicator pressed against the conjunctiva. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 22/58
 
 
 
 
 
•  Objectives 
The  study  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  700  μg  DEX  PS  DDS  applicator 
system (700 μg dexamethasone) and 350 μg DEX PS DDS applicator system (350 μg dexamethasone) 
compared with a Sham DEX PS DDS applicator system (needleless applicator).  
Secondary objectives were to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the 700 μg compared with the 350 μg 
DEX PS DDS applicator systems in patients with macular oedema due to BRVO or CRVO as well as to 
assess the safety of the 700 μg DEX PS DDS applicator system for an additional 6 months in patients 
who qualify for treatment in an open-label extension. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint  
o  Efficacy was evaluated by the proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more 
letters from baseline at D180 (Study -009) and D90 (Study -008), using the Early Treatment of 
Diabetic  Retinopathy  Study  (ETDRS)  method.  Visual  acuity  testing  was  to  be  performed  at  4 
meters, and for participants with sufficiently reduced vision, at 1 meter.  
The primary efficacy variable was considered appropriate by the CHMP as improvement in visual acuity 
is  paramount  for  the  patient  and  improvement  by  more  that  15  letters  is  considered  a  clinically 
relevant outcome. 
Secondary key endpoints of efficacy 
Secondary analyses include comparisons of DEX 700 versus Sham or DEX 350 versus Sham for specific 
variables such as: 
o  Changes  from  baseline  in  contrast  sensitivity  using  the  Pelli-Robson  chart,  optical  coherence 
tomography  (OCT  is  a  laser-based  noninvasive,  diagnostic  system  providing  high-resolution 
images of the retina, which analyzes retinal cystoid spaces and  the thickness of the central 1 
mm  macular  subfield),  fundus  photography  (for  quality  assessment  of  OCT  images),  and 
fluorescein angiography (to analyze leakage improvement).  
o  Health  related  quality  of  life  questionnaires  (National  Eye  Institute  Visual  Functioning 
Questionnaire-25 (VFQ-25); SF-36™ Health Survey version 1 (SF-36v1); EuroQol5 Dimensions 
Health Questionnaire (EQ-5D)). 
o  Safety  measurements  (AEs,  BCVA,  IOP,  biomicroscopy  examination,  indirect  ophtalmoscopic 
examination  for  vitreous  and  fondus,  retroillumination  photography,  vital  signs  and  DEX  PS 
DDS residual assessment by indirect ophthalmoscopy with scleral depression).  
Blood sample(s) of approximately 15 patients were to be collected at selected sites to determine 
plasma dexamethasone concentrations at each of the following visits: predose, days 1, 7, 30, 60, and 
90, and early exit when applicable. 
•  Sample size 
The  sample  size  calculation  was  based  on  the  primary  efficacy  analyses  of  the  proportion  of  patients 
with BCVA improvement from baseline of 15 or more letters in the study eye, comparing between DEX 
700 and Sham and between DEX 350 and Sham. Assuming a 9% improvement rate for Sham and α = 
0.05, with 165 patients per group the power was 81% to detect a between-group absolute difference 
of 11 percentage points in the improvement rate.  
For  this  3-arm  study  with  a  1:1:1  ratio  for  treatment  allocation,  a  total  of  495  patients  was  needed. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 23/58
 
 
 
Accounting for approximately 10% dropout rate, approximately 550 patients were to be enrolled. 
•  Randomisation 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to DEX 700, DEX 350 and Sham. 
•  Blinding (masking) 
Masking was maintained through the use of a treating investigator who performed the study treatment 
procedure,  and  a  follow-up  investigator  who  did  not  participate  in  study  treatment  procedures. 
Individuals  collecting  efficacy  data  (BCVA,  contrast  sensitivity,  fluorescein  angiography,  OCT,  and 
fundus  photography)  and  the  central  reading  facility  remained  unaware  of  patient  treatment 
assignments. Patients remained masked from the initial study treatment assignment and for the whole 
duration of the trial. 
•  Statistical methods 
There  were  4  analysis  populations:  intent-to-treat  (ITT),  per  protocol  (PP),  safety,  and  re-treated 
populations. The  ITT  population  includes  all  randomized  patients.  The  PP  population includes  patients 
who had no major protocol violations determined prior to database lock. The safety population includes 
all randomized and treated patients. The retreated population includes all patients who enter the open-
label extension and receive the second treatment. 
The primary efficacy variable was the proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more 
letters from baseline in the study eye. This included a comparison between DEX 700 and Sham and a 
comparison between DEX 350 and Sham at initial treatment day 180 in the ITT population.  
However, for Study 008 the protocol was amended to update the definition and analysis of the primary 
endpoint after having analysed the results from Study 009: the comparison between DEX 700 versus 
Sham for the time to achieve a treatment response of BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters from 
baseline  in  the  study  eye  during  the  initial  treatment  period  was  designated  as  the  primary  efficacy 
analysis.  However,  for  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  submission,  the  comparison  between 
DEX 700 versus Sham in the proportion of patients with 15 or more letters improvement from baseline 
in BCVA at initial treatment day 90 was designated as the primary efficacy analysis. 
According to the information provided by the applicant (and later confirmed in a GCP inspection), the 
amendment of the primary endpoint for study 008 was made while the database remained masked.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 24/58
 
 
 
•  Results - Study 206207-009 
Participant flow 
•  Recruitment and numbers analysed 
There  had  been  996  patients  screened  for  the  study,  and  33%  (328/996)  failed  to  meet  the  entry 
criteria.  A  total  of  668  patients  were  randomized  and  enrolled  in  the  study.  Approximately  95%  of 
patients in each treatment group completed the initial 180 day treatment period.  
The  ITT  population included  all  randomized  patients:  226  in  the  DEX  700  group,  218  in  the  DEX  350 
group,  and  224  in  the  Sham  group.  Seven  patients  were  randomized  but  not  treated.  The  PP 
population included all randomized patients with no major protocol deviations (93%): 213 in the DEX 
700  group,  201  in  the  DEX  350  group,  and  209  in  the  Sham  group.  A  total  of  49  patients  were 
excluded from the PP population: 14 patients in the DEX 700 group, 18 patients in the DEX 350 group, 
and  17  patients  in  the  Sham  group.  The  safety  population  included  all  randomized  patients  who 
received at least one dose of study medication: 225 in the DEX 700 group, 215 in the DEX 350 group, 
and 221 in the Sham group. 
In the open label extension part of the study, patients in all three groups received a second DEX 700 
implant and were followed up for a further 6 months (re-treated population). A number of patients who 
received only one treatment at baseline were followed up to 12 months (single treatment population). 
•  Baseline data 
For  the  ITT  population,  overall,  the  mean  (range)  age  was  63.6  years  (31  to  96),  52.4%  (350/668) 
were  male,  67.2%  (449/668)  were  Caucasian.  The  diagnosis  was  CRVO  for  34.7%  (232/668)  and 
BRVO  for  65.3%  (436/668).  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  among  the  treatment 
groups  in  the  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  in  the  ITT  population,  as  summarised  in  the 
following table: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 25/58
  
 
 
 
Table 3- Demography  Study 206207-009 
Ophthalmic  history,  other  than  macular  oedema  in  the  study  eye,  was  reported  in  the  Eye  disorders 
class  by  99.9%  of  patients.  The  most  common  findings  were  retinal  vein  occlusion  99.1%,  cataract 
57.2%, retinal haemorrhage 17.5% , refraction disorder 12.0% , and vitreous detachment 10.5%. 
Overall, treatment groups were well balanced with respect to other than ophthalmic baseline disorders, 
among  which  the  most  common  were  vascular  disorders  65.4%,  musculoskeletal/connective  tissue 
disorders  35.6%,  metabolism/nutrition  disorders  33.8%,  gastrointestinal  disorders  25.1%,  and 
infections/infestations 22.2%.  
Prior  medication:  Overall,  8.5%  (57/668)  of  patients  reported  prior  procedures  for  the  treatment  of 
macular oedema in the study eye. All these patients had retinal laser coagulation, except one patient, 
who had intra-ocular injection.   
Ocular concomitant medications in the study eye were reported for 46.5% (105/226) of patients in the 
DEX 700 group, 44.0% (96/218) in the DEX 350 group, and 22.3% (50/224) in the Sham group. The 
most frequently reported drug classes (more than 10% in any treatment group) were: 
•  ophthalmic beta blocking agents (25.7% [58/226] in the DEX 700 group, 21.6% [47/218] in the 
DEX 350 group, and 2.7% [6/224] in the Sham group), 
• 
sympathomimetics in glaucoma therapy (12.8% [29/226] in the DEX 700 group, 12.8% [28/218] 
in the DEX 350 group, and 1.3% [3/224] group), 
•  ophthalmic prostaglandin analogues (9.7% [22/226] in the DEX 700 group, 11.5% [25/218] in 
the DEX 350 group, and 1.3% [3/224] in the Sham group), and 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 26/58
 
 
 
 
 
•  other ophthalmologicals (9.7% [22/226] in the DEX 700 group, 11.0% [24/218] in the DEX 350 
group, and 9.8% [22/224] in the Sham group). 
The higher incidence of IOP-lowering medications is to be expected in the patients receiving intravitreal 
steroid  injections.  Information  provided  show  that  antiglaucoma  medications  were  among  the  most 
prescribed concomitant medication.  
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoints 
BCVA 15 or More Letters Improvement in ITT Population 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more 
letters  from  baseline  at  day  180  in  the  study  eye  for  the  ITT  population,  as  summarised  in  the 
following table. The tables below also show the results following the open-label extension phase of the 
study for both the re-treated population and for the single treatment population.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 27/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of patients with 15 or more letters improvement from baseline was significantly higher 
with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 30, 60, and 90. At the primary 
time point initial treatment day 180, the difference (95% CI) between DEX 700 and Sham was 6.5% (-
0.9% to 13.9%), p = 0.087. The difference (95% CI) between DEX 350 and Sham was 5.1% (-2.3% 
to  12.4%),  p  =  0.180.  Neither  comparison  was  statistically  significant.  There  were  no  differences 
between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Secondary endpoints 
BRVO 
The proportion of BRVO patients in the ITT population with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters 
from baseline in the study eye was similar to the overall ITT population. The proportion of patients with 
BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters from baseline was significantly higher with DEX 700 and DEX 
350  compared  to  Sham  at  the  early  visits  but  not  at  initial  treatment  day  180.  There  were  no 
differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
CRVO 
The proportion of CRVO patients in the ITT population with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters 
from baseline in the study eye was similar to the overall ITT population for the DEX patients, but lower 
than the overall population for the Sham patients. The proportion of patients with BCVA improvement 
of  15  or  more  letters  from  baseline  was  significantly  higher  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to 
Sham at the early visits, and with DEX 700 compared to Sham at initial treatment day 180. There were 
no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
BCVA 15 or more letters improvement in patients with longer duration of macular oedema 
The analysis was repeated excluding patients with a duration of macular oedema less than 90 days in 
order  to  assess  the  impact  on  the  results  of  spontaneous  improvement  in  BCVA.  This  subgroup  was 
defined a posteriori and should therefore be read with caution. The proportion of patients with longer 
duration of macular oedema had similar BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters from baseline in the 
study eye as the ITT population. Excluding patients with acute macular oedema (<90days), the rate of 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 28/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responders  in  the  sham  groups  decreased  leading  to  statistical,  although  not  clinical,  significant 
differences between DX700 and sham.  
Time to 15 or more letters improvement in BCVA 
Treatment response was defined a posteriori as 15 or more letters improvement from baseline BCVA in 
the study eye at any time during the initial treatment period. Time to response was analysed using a 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis with the log-rank test for treatment differences. Overall, the cumulative 
response rate curves were significantly different for the DEX 700 and DEX 350 groups compared to the 
Sham group (p < 0.001). Cumulative response rates were consistently higher with DEX 700 and DEX 
350 than with Sham from day 30 to the end of the initial treatment period. There was a separation of 
curves  as  early  as  day  30  which  was  consistent  over  time  without  any  crossover  at  any  visit.  There 
were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Categorical change from baseline BCVA 
The  categorical  change  from  baseline  showed  statistically  significant  better  visual  acuity  in  the  study 
eye with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at each follow-up visit. From initial treatment day 
30 onward, the beneficial effects of DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham were shown, not only in 
terms of ≥ 15 letters improvement but also in the prevention of ≥ 15 letters worsening. There were no 
differences between the 2 doses of DEX.  
BCVA 10 or more letters improvement in ITT population 
The proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 10 or more letters from baseline in the study 
eye for the ITT population is summarised in the table below: 
Mean change from baseline BCVA 
In  the  ITT  population,  the  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the 
study. Changes from baseline peaked at day 60, and were significantly greater with DEX 700 and DEX 
350  compared  to  Sham  at  initial  treatment  days  30,  60,  90,  and  180  (p  ≤  0.016).  There  were  no 
differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 29/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  BRVO  patients,  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the  study 
eye were significantly greater with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 
30, 60, 90, and 180 (p ≤ 0.037). There were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
For  CRVO  patients,  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the  study 
eye were significantly greater with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 
30, 60, and 90 (p ≤ 0.044), and with DEX 350 compared to Sham at day 180 (p = 0.018). There were 
no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Contrast sensitivity 
At baseline, the mean number of letters read correctly in the study eye using contrast sensitivity was 
27.3 in the DEX 700 group, 27.3 in the DEX 350 group, and 27.4 in the Sham group. There were no 
statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  at  baseline  or  day  180.  At  day  180,  the 
mean change from baseline number of letters read correctly in the study eye using contrast sensitivity 
was 1.2 in the DEX 700 group, 1.5 in the DEX 350 group, and 1.1 in the Sham group. There were no 
statistically significant between-group differences. 
Retinal Thickness in ITT population and diagnostic subgroups 
Retinal thickness was significantly less with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at day 90 (p < 
0.001),  though  not  at  day  180.  There  were  no  differences  between  the  2  doses  of  DEX.  For  BRVO 
patients, mean central retinal thickness in the 1 mm subfield in the study eye measured by OCT was 
significantly less with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at day 90 (p < 0.001), though not at 
day  180.  There  were  no  differences  between  the  2  doses  of  DEX.  For  CRVO  patients,  mean  central 
retinal  thickness  in  the  1  mm  subfield  in  the  study  eye  measured  by  OCT  was  significantly  less  with 
DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at day 90 (p ≤ 0.003), though not at day 180. There were 
no  differences  between  the  2  doses  of  DEX  at  day  90,  however  the  mean  thickness  was  significantly 
less with DEX 350 compared to DEX 700 at day 180.  
Retinal volume measured by Optical Coherence Tomography 
Retinal  volume  was  significantly  less  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  at  day  90  (p  ≤ 
0.005), though not at day 180. There were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Fluorescein Leakage 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  distribution  of 
change from baseline fluorescein leakage. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 30/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Results - Study 206207-008 
Participant flow 
•  Recruitment and numbers analysed 
A  total  of  872  patients  were  screened.  Of  these  275  (32%)  failed  to  meet  the  entry  criteria  patients 
failed to fulfil selection criteria. Fifty ninety nine patients were randomised and 3 out of them did not 
receive treatment. 
The  ITT  population included  all  randomized  patients:  201  in  the  DEX  700  group,  196  in  the  DEX  350 
group,  and  202  in  the  Sham  group.  The  PP  population  included  all  randomized  and  treated  patients 
with no major protocol deviations: 189 in the DEX 700 group, 181 in the DEX 350 group, and 185 in 
the  Sham  group.  The  safety  population  included  all  randomized  patients  who  received  at  least  one 
dose of study medication: 196 in the DEX 700 group, 197 in the DEX 350 group, and 202 in the Sham 
group. Forty-four patients (12 patients in the DEX 700 group, 15 patients in the DEX 350 group, and 
17 patients in the Sham group) were excluded from the PP population and all by-visit analyses. These 
patients were excluded from the PP population due to one or more protocol violations at baseline. 
In the open label extension part of the study, patients in all three groups received a second DEX 700 
implant and were followed up for a further 6 months (re-treated population). A number of patients who 
received only one treatment at baseline were followed up to 12 months (single treatment population). 
•  Baseline data 
For  the  ITT  population,  overall,  the  mean  (range)  age  was  65.5  years  (32  to  91),  54.6%  (327/599) 
were  male,  83.8%  (502/599)  were  Caucasian.  The  diagnosis  was  CRVO  for  34.2%  (205/599)  and 
BRVO  for  65.8%  (394/599).  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  among  the  treatment 
groups  in  the  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  in  the  ITT  population,  as  summarised  in  the 
following table: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 31/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 - Demography  Study 206207-008 
Ophthalmic history, other than macular oedema in the study eye, was reported by 99.2% of patients 
with  eye  disorders.  The  most  common  findings  were  retinal  vein  occlusion  98.5%,  cataract  54.1%, 
retinal haemorrhage 12.7%, and cataract nuclear 10.5%. 
In relation to the baseline disease characteristics, the proportion CRVO/BRCO parallels that seen in the 
target  population.  However,  selection  criteria  reflect  a  population  likely  to  improve.  Only  11%  of  the 
studied  population  had  macular  oedema  of  more  than  270  days  (and  no  longer  than  365  days).  By 
contrary,  up  to  20%  of  patients  had  macular  oedema  of  less  than  90  days  duration,  for  which  a 
spontaneous improvement might be expected. 
Prior  medication:  In  BRVO  patients,  5.6%  (22/394)  used  medications  prior  to  study  entry  for  the 
treatment  of  macular  oedema  in  the  study  eye.  In  CRVO  patients,  8.8%  (18/205)  used  medications 
prior to study entry for the treatment of macular oedema in the study eye. Overall, 12.5% of patients 
reported  prior  procedures  for  the  treatment  of  macular  oedema  in  the  study  eye.  Most  of  these 
patients, 93.2%, had retinal laser coagulation, 5.4% had haemodilution, and 1 patient had intra-ocular 
injections.  Overall,  18.2%  of  patient  reported  medications  for  other  than  the  treatment  of  macular 
oedema  prior  to  study  entry.  The  most  common  prior  medications  (reported  by  greater  than  2%  of 
patients) were other ophthalmologicals 5.0%, other antiinfectives 3.3%, platelet aggregation inhibitors 
excluding heparin 2.7%, and beta blocking agents 2.7%. Antiglaucoma medication was reported for up 
to 4.5%, 7.6% and 4.5% in DEX 700, DEX 350 and Sham, respectively. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 32/58
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular concomitant medications in the study eye were reported for 40.8% (82/201) of patients in the 
DEX 700 group, 39.8% (78/196) in the DEX 350 group, and 19.8% (40/202) in the Sham group. The 
most frequently reported drug classes (more than 10% in any treatment group) were: 
•  ophthalmic beta blocking agents  
• 
sympathomimetics in glaucoma therapy  
•  ophthalmic prostaglandin analogues 
Retinal  laser  coagulation  and  eye  laser  surgery  were  the  most  commonly  performed  procedures. 
Similar  to  the  results  seen  in  Study  009,  the  use  of  IOP-lowering  medications  was  higher  in  the 
patients receiving intravitreal steroid injections. 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoints 
BCVA 15 or More Letters Improvement in ITT Population 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more 
letters from baseline in the study eye for the ITT population on day 90, as summarised in the following 
table. The tables below also show the results following the open-label extension phase of the study for 
both the re-treated population and for the single treatment population.   
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 33/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of patients with 15 or more letters improvement from baseline was significantly higher 
with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  at  initial  treatment  days  30,  60,  and  90.  The 
comparison of DEX 700 versus Sham at day 90 was the primary endpoint, p = 0.008. There were no 
differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Secondary endpoints 
The results for BCVA 15 or more letters improvement in PP population were similar to the ITT 
population. 
BRVO 
The proportion of BRVO patients in the ITT population with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters 
from baseline in the study eye was similar to the overall ITT population. The proportion of patients with 
BCVA  improvement  of  15  or  more  letters  from  baseline  was  significantly  higher  with  DEX  700 
compared to Sham at days 30, 60, and 90 (p ≤ 0.021) and with DEX 350 compared to Sham at day 60 
(p = 0.014). The response rates in the DEX 700 group were consistently higher than that in the DEX 
350  group,  with  a  statistically  significant  difference  at  day  60  (p  =  0.038).  The  results  were  not 
significant  on  day  180.  Findings  for  BRVO  patients  in  the  PP  population  were  similar  to  the  ITT 
population.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 34/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRVO 
The proportion of CRVO patients in the ITT population with a BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters 
from  baseline  in  the  study  eye  was  lower  than  the  overall  population  for  the  DEX  700  group  but 
generally higher than the overall ITT population for the DEX 350 group. The proportion of patients with 
BCVA  improvement  of  15  or  more  letters  from  baseline  was  significantly  higher  with  DEX  350 
compared to Sham at day 60 (p = 0.002) and day 90 (p = 0.025). There were no differences between 
the 2 doses of DEX. Findings for CRVO patients in the PP population were similar to the ITT population. 
BCVA 15 or more letters improvement in patients with longer duration of macular oedema 
The  analysis  was  repeated  excluding  patients  with  duration  of  macular  oedema  less  than  90  days  in 
order  to  assess  the  impact  on  the  results  of  spontaneous  improvement  in  BCVA.  The  proportion  of 
patients with longer duration of macular oedema had similar BCVA improvement of 15 or more letters 
from  baseline  in  the  study  eye  as  the  ITT  population.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  BCVA 
improvement of 15 or more letters from baseline was significantly higher with DEX 700 and DEX 350 
compared to Sham at initial treatment days 30, 60, and 90. The proportion was not significant for any 
of the groups at day 180. There were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. Overall, the results 
after  excluding  patients  with  shorter  disease  duration  (<90  days),  which  represent  less  than  20%  of 
patients, showed consistent results to those seen in the overall study population.  
Time to 15 or more letters improvement in BCVA 
The last amendment of the protocol establishes this as the primary endpoint for the FDA submission.  
Cumulative  response  rate  curves  were  significantly  different  for  the  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  groups 
compared to the Sham group (p ≤ 0.007). The response rates were consistently higher with DEX 700 
and  DEX  350  than  with  Sham,  starting  at  initial  treatment  day  30.  Rates  were  somewhat  lower  with 
DEX  350  compared  to  DEX  700,  although  the  difference  between  the  2  doses  was  not  statistically 
significant. 
Categorical change from baseline BCVA 
The  categorical  change  from  baseline  showed  statistically  significant  better  visual  acuity  in  the  study 
eye with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at days 30, 60 and 90. 
BCVA 10 or more letters improvement in ITT population 
The proportion of patients with a BCVA improvement of 10 or more letters from baseline in the study 
eye for the ITT population is summarised in the following table: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 35/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean change from baseline BCVA 
In  the  ITT  population,  the  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the 
study  eye  are  summarised  in  the  table  below.  Changes  were  significantly  greater  with  DEX  700  and 
DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 30, 60, and 90 (p ≤ 0.003), and peaked at day 
60 with a difference of 6.4 mm Hg between DEX 700 and Sham, and 5.9 mm Hg between DEX 350 and 
Sham.  Mean  changes  from  baseline  were  consistently  greater  with  DEX  700  than  with  DEX  350, 
however the difference was not statistically significant. 
For  BRVO  patients,  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the  study 
eye were significantly greater with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 
30,  60,  90  (p ≤  0.018).  Results  were  not  significant  on  day  180.  There  were  no  differences  between 
the 2 doses of DEX. 
For  CRVO  patients,  mean  changes  from  baseline  BCVA  number  of  letters  read  correctly  in  the  study 
eye were significantly greater with DEX 700 and DEX 350 compared to Sham at initial treatment days 
30,  60,  and  90  (p  ≤  0.046),  and  with  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  at  days  30  and  60  (p  <0.001). 
Results were not significant on day 180. There were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Contrast sensitivity 
At baseline, the mean number of letters read correctly in the study eye using contrast sensitivity was 
26.6 in the DEX 700 group, 27.0 in the DEX 350 group, and 27.0 in the Sham group. There were no 
statistically significant differences between treatment groups at baseline or day 180. 
Retinal Thickness in ITT population and diagnostic subgroups 
At day 90 in the ITT population, the mean decrease in retinal thickness was significantly greater with 
DEX  700  (-199.3  microns)  and  DEX  350  (-144.1  microns)  compared  to  Sham  (-78.2  microns),  p  < 
0.001, and with DEX 700 compared to DEX 350 (p = 0.002). There were no between-group differences 
at  day  180.  For  BRVO  patients,  mean  central  retinal  thickness  in  the  1  mm  subfield in  the  study  eye 
measured  by  OCT  was  significantly  less  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  at  day  90, 
though  not  at  day  180.  There  were  no  differences  between  the  2  doses  of  DEX.  For  CRVO  patients, 
mean  central  retinal  thickness  in  the  1  mm  subfield  in  the  study  eye  measured  by  OCT  was 
significantly  less  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  (p  ≤  0.020),  and  with  DEX  700 
compared to DEX 350 (p = 0.004) at day 90. There were no between-group differences at day 180.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 36/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retinal volume measured by Optical Coherence Tomography 
Retinal  volume  was  significantly  less  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  compared  to  Sham  at  day  90  (p  ≤ 
0.006), though not at day 180. There were no differences between the 2 doses of DEX. 
Fluorescein Leakage 
At initial treatment day 180, change from baseline in fluorescein leakage at the macula was improved 
from baseline for 50.8% (91/179) of patients in the DEX 700 group, 46.4% (85/183) in the DEX 350 
group,  and  40.2%  (74/184)  in  the  Sham  group.  The  difference  between  the  DEX  700  group  and  the 
Sham group was statistically significant, p = 0.023. 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected from a total of 33 patients in the two pivotal trials. This 
included  patients  who  received  DEX  350,  DEX  700  or  sham.  Overall,  systemic  exposure  of 
dexamethasone was minimal though dose dependent in patients who received DEX treatment. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A pooled analysis of both pivotal studies was presented by the applicant. Results of this analysis were 
consistent with the results of individual studies. 
A  subgroup  analysis  according  to  macular  oedema  duration  was  also  presented.  For  patients  with 
macular oedema of less than 90 days  duration, spontaneous improvement was seen in up to 30% of 
patients  after  6  months  follow  up,  showing  in  general  better  rates  of  response  the  in  the  overall  ITT 
population. However, differences over sham at D90 and D180 were neither statistically significant nor 
clinically relevant. In the subgroup of patients with >90 days duration, the overall benefit was lower to 
that  seen  in  acute  patients  and  differences  over  sham,  although  higher  than  those  seen  in  acute 
patients, were not clinically relevant after 2 months. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 37/58
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
The  applicant  did  not  submit  clinical  studies  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  dexamethasone  in  special 
populations. 
•  Supportive studies 
As  described  earlier  the  applicant  conducted  and  initially  submitted  the  results  from  several  studies 
(phase  I-III)  to  evaluate  the  use  of  DEX  PS  DDS.  The  pivotal  trials  including  the  dose-ranging  study 
have been discussed in detail in previous sections. The three studies listed below should therefore be 
seen as supportive.   
•  Study  DC103-07,  a  phase  2  study  to  test  the  safety  and  performance  of  the  DEX  PS  DDS 
applicator  system  compared  to  tableted  DEX  PS  DDS  in  patients  with  persistent  macular 
oedema. At baseline in study DC103-07, cataracts were reported for 78.9% of patients in the 
applicator group and 70% in the incision group. At day 180, cataracts were reported for 82.4% 
of  patients  in  the  applicator  group  and  80%  in  the  incision  group.  There  were  no  statistically 
significant between-group differences in the proportion of patients with cataracts at any visit. 
•  Studies  206207-010  and  206207-011  are  3-year,  phase  3,  multicentre,  masked,  randomized, 
sham-controlled  trials  to  assess  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  700  μg  and  350  μg  DEX  PS  DDS 
applicator system in the treatment of patients with diabetic macular oedema. These studies are 
currently ongoing, and when completed will provide long-term safety data on DEX PS DDS. The 
final  clinical study  report  for  the  2  studies  will  be  available in  Q4  2013.  During  the  procedure 
the  applicant  submitted  masked  interim  safety  results.  Although  the  DME  safety  data  at 
present are still masked, some observations could be made. From the masked results there is 
no  evidence  so  far,  that  the  incidence  of  increased  IOP  increases  with  the  second  or 
subsequent implantations. The incidence of increased IOP seems to peak after the first implant 
and  then  taper  off,  in  contrast  to  cataracts  where  the  incidence  appears  to  increase  with  the 
number  of  implants.  As  part  of  a  follow-up  measure  that  applicant  was  requested  to  provide 
the  final  study  reports  of  the  studies  in  order  to  provide  assurance  on  the  long-term  safety 
(see section 2.7 of this report).  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 38/58
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.6.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
As  discussed  earlier  the  applicant  has  conducted  two  pivotal  phase  III  studies  (008  and  009)  to 
determine  efficacy.  The  results  were  consistent  in  both  studies  and  showed  statistical  significance  on 
day 90, but not on day 180. Results of the open label extension were provided during the procedure. 
The initial view of the CHMP was that the applicant had failed to robustly demonstrate efficacy in the 
two  pivotal  studies.  Although  study  008  was  a  successful  study,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  primary 
endpoint (90 days) was unclear to the CHMP. In response to this the applicant argued that both pivotal 
studies demonstrated substantial and clinically relevant efficacy and that day 90 is a clinically relevant 
time point. In the view of the applicant the intentions of the studies were to confirm the reduction of  
oedema  as  early  and  as  much  as  possible  and  to  reduce  oedema  for  as  long  as  possible  to  minimise 
the  number  of  intravitreal  injections.  Therefore,  although  15  letter  improvement  in  visual  acuity  at  6 
months  was  the  development  goal,  it  was  not  regarded  by  the  applicant  as  the  only  definitive  time 
point  for  a  single  dose  of  a  product  intended  to  treat  macular  oedema  resulting  from  retinal  vein 
occlusion. Rather 6 months was considered the maximum duration of effect estimated from the studies 
used to predict human ocular pharmacokinetics and the design limitations of an ocular implant of this 
type.  The  applicant  further  argued  as  the  proportion  of  DEX  700  patients  with  15  or  more  letters 
improvement from baseline BCVA was similar at day 180 (21.5%) to that seen at day 90 (21.8%), this 
would  show  that  the  treatment  effect  was  maintained.  Based  on  the  submitted  12-month  data  the 
applicant also believed that the benefit of early treatment with DEX 700 was confirmed and although 
treatment  with  DEX  700  in  the  second  6  months  resulted  in  an  increased  response  in  the  Sham/DEX 
700  group,  the  rates  never  reached  the  improvements  shown  in  the  DEX  700/700  treatment  group. 
The  applicant  therefore  concluded  that  early  treatment  with  DEX  700  is  important  to  achieving 
improved visual acuity. The CHMP acknowledged the applicant’s view and agreed that it appears that 
patients  treated  with  a  second  implant  show  a  benefit  in  terms  of  improvement  in  visual  acuity  and 
prevention of visual acuity loss. However, as the applicant has not provided data on patients receiving 
more than 2 implants the CHMP requested that this was highlighted in the SPC and that, as part of a 
follow-up  measure,  the  applicant  should  perform  an  observational  study  to  provide  additional 
information on patients requiring more than 2 implants (see section 2.7 of this report).  
Although  efficacy  is  shown  at  early  time-points  such  as  60  and  90  days,  the  effect  appeared  to  be 
somewhat  less  pronounced  by  day  180.  The  results  at  12  months  after  re-implantation  at  6  months 
showed  a  similar  pattern.  However,  the  CHMP  had  some  concerns  following  assessment  of  the  data 
from  patients  who  were  followed-up  to  12  months  but  did  not  receive  a  second  implant.  Efficacy  for 
these patients seemed to be sustained, with patients in the Sham group reaching the same levels (or 
even  higher)  of  15  or  more  letters  improvement  from  baseline  BCVA.  The  applicant  was  therefore 
asked to comment on these results. The applicant provided a plausible explanation for the continuing 
response  in  patients  receiving  only  one  implant  even  after  the  initial  6  months.  These  were  patients 
with a good response after the first implant that did not fulfil the criteria for re-implantation (BCVA, 84 
letters or retinal thickness by OCT >250 um and in the investigator’s opinion the procedure would not 
put  the  patients  at  significant  risk).  The  SPC  therefore  includes  a  clarification  that  patients  who 
respond well should not be re-implanted until visual acuity starts to deteriorate. The impact of delaying 
treatment  on  visual  loss  was  further  discussed  by  the  applicant.  A  statistically  significant  number  of 
patients  who  initially  received  Sham  followed  by  DEX  700  showed  ≥15-letter  worsening  in  BCVA 
compared  to  patients  receiving  two  DEX  700  implants.  The  majority  of  patients  benefited  from 
treatment  with  DEX  700  in  terms  of  improvement  in  visual  acuity  or  prevention  of  visual  loss; 
furthermore  given  that it is impossible  to  identify  patients  who may  improve  spontaneously  deferring 
treatment may not be appropriate. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 39/58
 
 
 
The CHMP initially also had concerns regarding the fact that the 12 month efficacy data do not seam to 
offer reassurance that patients benefit from a second implant. There was limited evidence that patients 
benefit  from  a  second  or  further  implants  and  although  at  early  time-points  of  60  and  90  days  there 
was  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  primary  endpoint,  there  was  limited  evidence  that 
patients benefit from this treatment in the long term. Furthermore, given that the second implant lead 
to an increase in IOP and cataracts it was not clear to the Committee that the risk/benefit of additional 
implants  was  considered  positive.  The  applicant  was  therefore  requested  to  discuss  this  further.  In 
addition to the response that the applicant provided with regards to the CHMP question on the efficacy 
results  from  the  pivotal  studies,  the  applicant  further  explained  that  the  majority  of  patients  (80%) 
were  eligible  for  re-treatment  at  day  180.  These  patients  demonstrated  similar  response  to  the  first 
implantation  with  greater  changes  on  days  30,  60  and  90  as  seen  during  the  first  period.  As  far  as 
mean  change  from  baseline  in  IOP  was  concerned,  the  pattern  following  the  second  injection  was 
similar  to  that  of  the  first.  Increases  in  IOP  peaked  at  day  60  and  returned  to  baseline levels  by  day 
180.  There  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation  after  the  second  implantation.  Most  importantly  the 
majority of patients did not require treatment or were managed with topical IOP-lowering medications. 
In addition to the CHMP queries on the clinical relevance, the CHMP also requested the applicant to try 
to  more  clearly  identify  a  patient  population  that  could  clearly  benefit  from  the  treatment  (i.e. 
according  to  the  duration  of  macular  oedema).  From  the  re-analyses  provided  by  the  applicant  in 
response  to  this  CHMP  request,  it  appeared  to  the  CHMP  that  patients  with  a  duration  for  macular 
oedema  of  more  than  6  months  at  baseline,  benefit  more  from  treatment  and  results  for  this  group 
were  statistically  significant  at  day  90  and  day  180.  This  could  be  attributed  to  the  fact  that  patients 
with  macular  oedema  of  less  than  6  months  are  more  likely  to  improve  spontaneously.  The  CHMP 
therefore  requested  the  applicant  to  explain  whether  efficacy  is  sustained  for  these  patients  in  the 
open  label  extension.  The  applicant  was  also  requested  to  provide  data  for  patients  with  duration  of 
macular  oedema  at  baseline  of  more  than  6  months  at  the  end  of  the  open  label  extension  for  both 
patients  who  were  re-implanted  and  those  who  did  not  receive  a  second  implant.  In  response  the 
applicant provided analyses of BCVA stratified by duration of macular oedema at baseline (≤ 180 days 
and  >  180  days)  for  the  re-treated  and  single  treatment  populations.  In  the  re-treated  population, 
statistically significant treatment-group differences were observed at initial treatment days 30 and 60 
in  patients  with  duration  ≤  180  days  or  duration  >  180  days.  The  statistically  significant  difference 
seen at day 90 in the patients with duration > 180 days relates to a lower Sham response rather than 
an  improved  effect  in  patients  treated  with  DEX.  In  the  single  treatment  population,  statistically 
significant differences were (as for the re-treated population) driven by the Sham response rates, while 
the DEX response was similar among patients with duration ≤ 180 days or duration > 180 days. DEX 
response  rates  also  appeared  to  be  similar  at  all  time  points  in  the  open-label  extension  for  both 
patient  subgroups,  with  a  suggestion  of  a  higher  response  in  those  patients  with  duration  of  macular 
oedema  ≤  180  days.  Based  on  the  data  provided  by  the  applicant  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the 
patterns were similar for patients with long standing macular oedema and those with disease of shorter 
duration with regards to the mean change in BCVA from baseline and therefore it would not be possible 
to  characterise  a  subset  of  patient  that  would  be  benefiting  the  most  based  on  duration  of  existing 
macular oedema.  
In a further attempt to identify a patient population that could clearly benefit from the treatment with 
DEX  700  the  CHMP  highlighted  that  despite  not  being  authorised  for  the  claimed  indication,  these 
patients  are  not  left  untreated  and  some  other  therapeutic  alternatives  are  usually  tested  with  some 
degree  of  success.  The  possible  place  in  therapeutic  of  Ozurdex  was  therefore  somewhat  difficult  for 
the  CHMP  to  understand.  The  CHMP  therefore  requested  the  applicant  to  explore  whether  there  is  a 
subset of patients who could potentially benefit from Ozurdex in the light of the available treatments. 
The  applicant  argued  that  despite  the  burden  of  the  disease,  there  are  currently  no  licensed 
pharmacologic  therapies  and  no  agreed  standard  of  care  for  macular  oedema  caused  by  BRVO  and 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 40/58
 
 
 
CRVO. Treatment strategies used by ophthalmologists are based on clinical practices that have become 
established  over  time,  but  which  have  not  been  founded  on  level  1  evidence  (Parodi,  2004).  An 
evaluation of the 3 most commonly used therapeutic interventions, ie, laser photocoagulation, off-label 
use of VEGF inhibitors and corticosteroids, was included in the applicant’s response. The most relevant 
historical comparator for DEX 700 is triamcinolone acetonide, which is also the therapy for which most 
published data are available. Based on the applicant’s response, the CHMP concluded that comparable 
efficacy  of  DEX  700  to  triamcinolone  was  shown  from  the  comparison  of  the  pivotal  studies  008  and 
009 to the published results of the SCORE study, but with a more favourable safety profile for DEX 700. 
Although this comparison is limited by the differences in the designs of the trials, it offers some insight 
on  where  DEX  700  can  be  placed  in  the  therapeutic  regimen,  taking  also  into  account  the  fact  that 
there are currently no licensed treatments for the treatment of macular oedema secondary to BRVO or 
CRVO. 
In a follow-up question to this the applicant was requested by the CHMP to further characterise those 
patients  who  could  potentially  benefit  from  repeated  doses  and  translated  into  a  clinical 
recommendation  in  the  SPC.  The  applicant  subsequently  performed  further  analyses  to  help  predict 
which  patients  would  respond  following  re-treatment.  These  analyses  demonstrated  an  additional 
prognostic  characteristic  of  reduction  in  prior  BCVA  response  by  greater  than  5  letters.  This  was 
subsequently proposed by the applicant to be included in the SPC.  
Based on the applicant’s responses to the concerns discussed above, the CHMP concluded that the data 
presented  in  patients  treated  with  a  second  implant  -  even  those  initially  randomised  to  Sham  and 
subsequently  treated  with  a  DEX  700  implant  at  6  months  -  show  a  significant  benefit  to  patients  in 
terms  of  improvement  in  visual  acuity  and  prevention  of  visual  acuity  loss.  Furthermore,  increase  in 
IOP  was  easily  managed  and  there  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation.  Although,  the  applicant  has 
defined in the proposed SPC the criteria for re-implantation, the CHMP recommended that the criteria 
for re-treatment should be based on current clinical practice, as in clinical practice retinal thickness by 
OCT  assessment  is  not  routinely  used  to  guide  treatment,  and  reflect  the  re-treatment  criteria  in  the 
clinical  studies.  The  applicant’s  proposal  for  re-treatment  was  not  considered  to  be  based  on  clinical 
trial  requirements  or  on  clinical  practice  recommendations.  However,  the  proposal  to  include  the 
criteria as established in the clinical trials was not entirely supported. Instead, the CHMP proposed that 
the  criteria  for  retreatment  should  be  when  patients  have  responded  to  treatment  and  then 
experienced a loss in visual acuity and in the physician’s opinion may benefit from retreatment, which 
reflect the re-treatment criteria utilised in the clinical studies. With regards to the minimum interval of 
treatments,  the  CHMP  requested  that  this  should  be  in line  with  the  clinical  studies,  i.e.  that  there  is 
only  very  limited  experience  of  intervals  less  then  6  months.  In  conclusion  the  CHMP  recommended 
that section 4.2 of the SPC, in relation to repeat doses, should read as follows:  
“The recommended dose is one OZURDEX implant to be administered intra-vitreally to the affected eye. 
Administration to both eyes concurrently is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
Repeat doses should be considered when a patient experiences a response to treatment followed 
subsequently by a loss in visual acuity and in the physician’s opinion may benefit from retreatment without 
being exposed to significant risk (see section 5.1). 
Patients who experience and retain improved vision should not be retreated. Patients who experience a 
deterioration in vision, which is not slowed by OZURDEX, should not be retreated. 
There is only very limited information on repeat dosing intervals less than 6 months (see section 5.1). There 
is currently no experience of repeat administrations beyond 2 implants in Retinal Vein Occlusion.  
Patients should be monitored following the injection to permit early treatment if an infection or increased 
intraocular pressure occurs (see section 4.4).” 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 41/58
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.7.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  provided  data  indicate  that  there  is  a  maintained  effect  lasting  up  to  6  month  but  not  thereafter 
with  regards  to  improvement  in  visual  acuity  following  treatment  with  Ozurdex  in  adult  patients  with 
macular  oedema  following  either  Branch  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (BRVO)  or  Central  Retinal  Vein 
Occlusion (CRVO). These results were replicated following administration of a second implant. Patients 
with long standing macular oedema and those with disease of shorter duration have similar response 
patterns. As the criteria for re-implantation have been clearly defined in the SPC and the applicant has 
committed  to  provide  additional  efficacy  data  following  administration  of  more  then  2  implants,  the 
CHMP considered the efficacy of Ozurdex sufficiently established. 
2.4.8.  Clinical safety 
The focus of  the safety evaluation in this submission is based on data from  the two pivotal phase III 
trials  (008  and  009)  performed  in  the  claimed  indication.  Supportive  safety  data  from  other  Phase  I 
and  phase  II  studies  and  a  phase  III  study  in  uveitis  which  terminated  early  due  to  slow  enrolment, 
were also provided. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 42/58
 
 
 
•  Patient exposure 
Overall, safety data for DEX PS DDS were collected from nine clinical studies including 2114 patients. 
In the two main pivotal trials approximately 401 patients completed a 6-month initial treatment period 
under  the  dose  intended  for  MA  (DEX  PS  DDS  700).  In  addition,  data  from  477  patients  (re-treated 
population) who received a second administration of DEX PS DDS 700 in the open-label extension, and 
completed  1-year  of  follow-up  after  the  initial  treatment  and  from  118  who  received  only  one 
treatment at baseline (single treatment population) but were followed up to 12 months have also been 
provided. 
To  allow  for  a  relatively  straightforward  assessment  of  the  safety  data,  the  presentation  of  common 
AEs,  Ocular  AEs  and  SAEs  will  primarily  focus  on  the  pivotal  phase  III  trials,  mainly  showing  data 
reported for the final intended dose (DEX 700). 
•  Adverse events  
The overall incidence of adverse events during the initial treatment period was 72.4% for the patients 
receiving DEX 700. For the retreated patients the incidence of adverse events was between 80.1% and 
87.2% depending on the initial treatment. The detailed figures are provided in the tables below.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 43/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-ocular AEs 
The  most  common  non-ocular  events  reported  were  influenza  9  (2.1%)  DEX  700  vs  2  (0.5%)  Sham, 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 44/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
headache 14 (3.3%) DEX 700 vs 7 (1.7%) Sham and hypertension 17 (4.0%) DEX 700 vs 15 (3.5%) 
Sham. Thus, so far, for systemic adverse reactions, no specific pattern indicating safety risks with the 
active treatment was revealed. 
Ocular AEs 
Initial treatment 
The overall incidence of ocular adverse events in the study eye during the initial treatment was; 62.9% 
for DEX 700, 61.9% for DEX 350 and 42.8% for Sham treatment respectively.  
The most frequently reported events in patients who received  DEX 700 were increased IOP (25.2 %) 
and  conjunctival  haemorrhage  (20.2  %).  Ocular  adverse  events  related  to  the  insertion  procedure 
included  conjunctival  haemorrhage,  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  eye  pain,  vitreous  haemorrhage  and 
conjunctival oedema, which are reported generally occurring soon after the injection procedure.  
Specific  recommendations  have  been  included  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  regarding  monitoring  for 
elevation in intraocular pressure and for endophtalmitis after the intravitreal injection procedure. These 
include  monitoring  of  perfusion  of  the  optic  nerve  head  immediately  after  the  injection,  tonometry 
within 30 minutes following the injection, and biomicroscopy between two and seven days following the 
injection. 
Open-label extension 
During the open label extension, the adverse event profile was similar among the 3 treatment groups, 
each  of  whom  had  received  DEX  700  as  their  second  injection.  The  incidences  of  cataracts  and 
subcapsular  cataracts  however  were  higher  in  the  second  6  months  following  re-treatment.  The 
incidence  of  intraocular  pressure  increased  was  comparable  between  patients  receiving  either  1  or  2 
doses  of  DEX.  The  incidence  of  intraocular  pressure  increased  was  32.6%  in  the  DEX  700/700  group 
and 36.2% in the DEX 350/700 group compared to 28.1% in the Sham/DEX 700 group.  
The incidence of AEs did not differ in a meaningful way considering subgroups based on age (mid-age 
45  to  65  years  and  >  65  years),  sex,  race  (Caucasians,  non-Caucasians),  iris  colour  and  baseline 
diagnosis  (macular  oedema  due  to  CRVO  or  due  to  BRVO).  The  incidence  of  increased  intraocular 
pressure was however higher in younger patients <45 years. Although patients under 45 represented 
only a small number of patients included in the studies (5%) not enabling a firm conclusion to be made, 
CHMP recommended that this information should be included in the special warnings of section 4.4 of 
the SPC.  
•  Serious adverse event and deaths 
Deaths 
There  was  1  death  during  the  initial  treatment  period  in  study  009  and  3  deaths  during  the  initial 
treatment period in study 008. Two deaths were due to myocardial infarction, one due to cardiac arrest 
and one accidental drowning. There was also 1 death in study 009 and 1 death in study 008 in the re-
treated  population.  These  are  in  addition  to  the  deaths  reported  for  the  6-month  safety  population. 
There  were  no  additional  deaths  during  the  6-month  extension  for  the  12-month  single  treatment 
population.  None  of  the  deaths  were  considered  to  be  related  to  study  treatment.  6  patients  died 
during  study  DC103-06.  None  of  these  deaths  were  considered  to  be  related  to  study  treatment. 
Deaths  were  due  to  drowning,  brain  damage,  cerebrovascular  accidents,  metastatic  prostate  cancer, 
respiratory arrest, acute myeloid leukaemia.  
Serious adverse events in the phase III studies 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 45/58
 
 
 
The  overall incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  in the  initial  treatment  period  for  the  pooled  phase  3 
studies  was  5.0%  (21/421)  in  the  DEX  700  group,  6.6%  (27/412)  in  the  DEX  350  group,  and  5.9% 
(25/423) in the Sham group. One additional Sham patient developed a recurrence of melanoma in the 
right  axilla  which  met  the  criteria  for  a  serious  event  but  was  reported  as  non  serious.  The  rates  of 
ocular serious events and non-ocular serious events were similar among the 3 treatment groups. None 
of  the  serious  adverse  events  was  related  to  treatment  with  the  following  exceptions:  ocular 
hypertension in the study eye (1 DEX 700) and intraocular pressure increased in the study eye (1 DEX 
700 and 3 DEX 350). 
The overall cumulative incidence of serious adverse events during the 12-month treatment period for 
the pooled phase 3 studies (re-treated population) was 9.4% in the DEX 700/700 group, 8.2% in the 
DEX  350/700  group,  and  10.7%  in  the  Sham/DEX  700  group.  The  serious  adverse  event  profile  was 
similar between the 3 treatment groups. Four of the serious events in the re-treated population were 
considered by the investigator to be related to the study treatments. Three were intraocular pressure 
increased (one in each group) and one was retinal detachment (in DEX 700/700). 
 The  cumulative  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  during  the  12-month  treatment  period  for  the 
pooled phase 3 studies (single treated population) was 10.0% in the DEX 700 group, 10.8% in the DEX 
350  group,  and  10.4%  in  the  Sham  group.  Five  of  the  serious  events  in  the  single  treatment 
population  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  the  study  treatments.  Ocular 
hypertension  and  IOP  in  DEX  700  group,  two  cases  of  IOP  in  the  DEX  350  group  and  one  corneal 
disorder in the Sham group. 
•  Laboratory findings 
According  to  protocol,  standard  clinical  laboratory  data  were  not  collected  in  the  clinical  safety  and 
efficacy studies. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The  analyses  of  adverse  event  rates  did  not  identify  any  patient  characteristics  that  would  indicate  a 
need  to  individualise  therapy  or  patient  management  because  of  safety  considerations.  The  same 
pattern was seen in each demographic subgroup of higher incidences with DEX than Sham for selected 
events  (e.g.  increased  intraocular  pressure),  and  no  difference  between  the  700  and  350  μg  doses. 
There  were  no  demographic  patterns  among  the  serious  adverse  events  or  discontinuations  due  to 
adverse events. 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Safety for use in pregnancy and lactation has not been established. Dexamethasone has  been shown 
to  be  teratogenic  in  mice  and  rabbits  following  topical  ophthalmic  application.  There  was  1  live  birth 
without complications associated with the initial treatment period of the phase 3 study 009. There were 
no pregnancies associated with the initial treatment period of the phase 3 study 008. 
Overdose 
Overdose has not been reported in clinical trials. The applicant explains that overdose is unlikely as the 
DEX PS DDS applicator system is administered by a physician. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  interaction  studies  have  been  performed,  however  due  to  the  low  systemic  levels  of 
dexamethasone, drug interactions are not expected. In the analyses of the initial treatment period for 
the  pooled  phase  3  studies,  there  was  no  evidence  of  drug-drug  interactions.  However,  specific 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 46/58
 
 
 
analyses to identify such interactions were not conducted. As expected, many of the patients in these 
studies  were  using  multiple  concomitant  medications,  such  as  proton  pump  inhibitors,  systemic 
antihypertensives, anti-inflammatory and antirheumatic agents, lipid modifying agents, and analgesics. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Notable, less than 2% of patients in each treatment group, withdrew from the initial treatment period 
of the phase III studies due to adverse events. None of the events were considered to be related to the 
study treatment with the exception of 2 patients receiving DEX 350 who reported intraocular pressure 
increased in the study eye.  
Adverse events leading to discontinuation in the re-treated population for the pooled  phase 3 studies 
were reported for 1.2% (4/341) in the DEX 700/700 group, 0.9% (3/329) in the DEX 350/700 group, 
and  0.9%  (3/327)  in  the  Sham/DEX  700  group.  Adverse  events  led  to  discontinuation  in  the  single 
treatment population for 8.8% (7/80) of patients in the DEX 700 group, 9.6% (8/83) in the DEX 350 
group, and 9.4% (9/96) in the Sham group. In the single treatment group, all discontinuations due to 
adverse  events  occurred  in  the  initial 6-month  treatment  period,  with  the  exception  of  one  Patient  in 
the Sham group. 
•  Post marketing experience 
There are no post-marketing exposure data for DEX PS DDS 700 μg as the product has not been 
licensed for any indication.  
2.5.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In  both  pivotal  studies  during  the  first  6  months  of  treatment,  the  majority  of  patients  (72%)  in  the 
active treatment groups (both doses DEX PS DDS 700 and DEX PS DDS 350) experienced at least one 
AE.  Overall  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  significantly  higher  in  the  DEX  groups  compared  to 
Sham.  Ocular  adverse  events  were  more  commonly  reported  with  DEX  700  and  DEX  350  than  with 
Sham.  The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  were  Increased  Intraocular  Pressure  (IOP):  DEX 
106 (25.2%) vs. Sham 5 (1.2%), Conjunctival haemorrhage: DEX 85 (20.2%) vs. Sham 63 (14.9%), 
Eye pain: DEX 31 (7.4%) vs. Sham 16 (3.8%), Conjunctival hyperaemia: DEX 28 (6.7%) vs. Sham 20 
(4.7%)  ,  Ocular  Hypertension:  DEX  17  (4%)  vs.  Sham  3  (0.7%)  and  Cataract:  DEX  15  (3.6%)  vs. 
Sham 6 (1.4%). Most complications were reported as self-limited.  
The overall incidence of serious adverse events in the initial treatment period for the pooled phase III 
studies  was  5.0%  (21/421)  in  the  DEX  700  group,  6.6%  (27/412)  in  the  DEX  350  group,  and  5.9% 
(25/423)  in  the  Sham  group.  Discontinuations  in  the  study  eye  were  mainly  due  to  increased 
intraocular pressure. 
The  percentage  of  subjects  who  experienced  any  adverse  event  in  the  study  eye  generally  increased 
over time after the second DEX 700 device implantation (i.e. All AEs Initial treatment Period 79% vs. 
Open Label Extension 85%). As far as mean change from baseline in IOP was concerned, the pattern 
following  the  second  injection was  similar  to  that  of  the  first.  Increases  in  IOP  peaked  at  day  60  and 
returned  to  baseline  levels  by  day  180.  There  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation  after  the  second 
implantation.  Most  importantly  the  majority  of  patients  did  not  require  treatment  or  were  managed 
with topical IOP-lowering medications.  
The  safety  profile  of  DEX  PS  DDS  in  patients  with  macular  oedema  due  to  CRVO  and  BRVO  did  not 
show any unexpected signal related with the administration technique or the drug. With a few notable 
exceptions, the occurrence of non-serious ocular AEs following intravitreal DEX administration does not 
raise  any  major  concern.  One  such  exception  is  the  appearance  of  IOP  increases  reported  in  nearly 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 47/58
 
 
 
25%  of  actively  treated  participants  in  the  pivotal  programme.  It  is  emphasised  that  only  a  few  of 
these patients were in need of acute medical and surgical intervention and warnings are appropriately 
included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
2.6.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
As expected for an intravitreal corticosteroid implant, an increased incidence of ocular adverse events 
such  as  cataracts  and  increased  IOP  was  observed,  these  were  however  manageable  and  only  a  few 
patients were in need of acute interventions. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.7.1.  Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
2.7.2  Risk management plan 
The  MAA  submitted  a  risk  management  plan,  which  included  a  risk  minimisation  plan.  The  updated 
version of the Risk Management Plan has taken into account the comments and recommendations and 
was considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 48/58
 
 
 
Table 5 - Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
activities 
Important Identified risks 
Increased intraocular 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Included in section 4.4 of the SPC : 
pressure (IOP), 
Glaucoma and Ocular 
Hypertension 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
•  As expected with ocular steroid 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
treatment and intravitreal 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
injections, increases in 
reports  
Additional activities: 
intraocular pressure (IOP) may 
be seen.  Of the patients 
experiencing an increase of IOP 
• 
Long-term safety data 
of ≥ 10 mm Hg from baseline, 
studies 206207-010 and 
the greatest proportion showed 
206207-011 
•  Conduct of an observational 
study to gain experience 
with repeat administration. 
This study will recruit 
patients requiring a 2nd or 
subsequent implant due to 
deteriorating visual acuity 
with the aim of collecting 
this IOP increase at around 60 
days following an injection.  
Patients of less than 45 years of 
age are more likely to experience 
increases in IOP.  Therefore, 
regular monitoring of IOP is 
required and any elevation should 
be managed appropriately post 
injection as needed. 
long term outcome and 
Included as “very common” adverse 
safety data in such patients. 
reaction in Section 4.8; Undesirable 
The study design will ensure 
effects. 
that sufficient patients 
requiring more than 2 
implants are recruited to 
provide additional useful 
information on this patient 
Educational material to instruct 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique and important 
risks associated with OZURDEX. 
group. 
Educational material to instruct 
patients on important risks including 
increased intraocular pressure and 
ocular hypertension associated with 
OZURDEX. 
Cataracts including 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Included in section 4.4 of the SPC: 
traumatic cataracts 
related to injection 
techniques 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
•  Use of corticosteroids may 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
produce posterior subcapsular 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
cataracts, glaucoma and may 
reports  
Additional activities: 
Long-term safety data studies 
206207-010 and 206207-011 
result in secondary ocular 
infections.  In clinical studies, 
cataract was reported more 
frequently in patients with phakic 
lens receiving a second injection 
(see section 4.8) with only 1 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 49/58
 
 
 
 
patient out of 368 requiring 
cataract surgery during the first 
treatment and 3 patients out of  
302 during the second treatment. 
Included as “common” adverse 
reaction” in Section 4.8; Undesirable 
effects. 
Educational material to instruct 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique and important 
risks associated with OZURDEX. 
Vitreous 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Included as “common” adverse 
Detachment/haemorr
hage 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
reaction” in section 4.8 of the SPC  
added to the Sentinel Event List 
Educational material to instruct 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique and important 
risks associated with OZURDEX. 
reports  
Additional activities: 
• 
Long-term safety data 
studies 206207-010 and 
206207-011 
Important Potential Risks 
Endophthalmitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Included in section 4.4 of the SPC: 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
•  Any intravitreous injection can be 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
associated with endophthalmitis, 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
intraocular inflammation, 
reports  
Additional activities: 
increased intraocular pressure and 
retinal detachment. Proper aseptic 
injection techniques must always 
• 
Long-term safety data 
be used. 
studies 206207-010 and 
206207-011 
•  Patients must be instructed to 
report any symptoms suggestive 
of endophthalmitis or any of the 
above mentioned events without 
delay. 
Educational material to instruct 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique and important 
risks associated with OZURDEX. 
Retinitis secondary to 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.3- Contraindications; 
reactivation of  latent 
viral or other 
ophthalmic infections 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
OZURDEX is contraindicated in: 
Active or suspected ocular or 
periocular infection including most 
viral diseases of the cornea and 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 50/58
 
 
 
reports  
conjunctiva, including active epithelial 
Additional activities: 
herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic 
keratitis), vaccinia, varicella, 
• 
Long-term safety data 
mycobacterial infections, and fungal 
studies 206207-010 and 
diseases. 
206207-011 
Included in section 4.4 of the SPC: 
Use of corticosteroids may produce 
posterior subcapsular cataracts, 
glaucoma and may result in 
secondary ocular infections.  
Corticosteroids should be used 
cautiously in patients with a history 
of ocular herpes simplex and not be 
used in active ocular herpes simplex. 
Retinal 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Included as “uncommon” adverse 
reaction” in section 4.8 of the SPC  
tear/detachment 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
reports  
Additional activities: 
• 
Long-term safety data 
studies 206207-010 and 
206207-011 
Significant vitreous 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.2: Posology and method of 
leak or hypotony  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
administration of the SPC has clear 
instruction on the proper injection 
procedure. 
reports  
•  Hold the applicator in one hand 
Additional activities: 
and pull the safety tab straight off 
the applicator. Do not twist or flex 
• 
Long-term safety data 
the tab. With the bevel of the 
studies 206207-010 and 
needle up away from the sclera, 
206207-011 
advance the needle about 1 mm 
into the sclera then redirect 
toward the centre of the eye into 
the vitreous cavity until the 
silicone sleeve is against the 
conjunctiva. Slowly press the 
actuator button until an audible 
click is noted. Before withdrawing 
the applicator from the eye, make 
sure that the actuator button is 
fully pressed and has locked flush 
with the applicator surface. 
Remove the needle in the same 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 51/58
 
 
 
 
direction as used to enter the 
vitreous. 
Educational material to instruct 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique. 
Systemic 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Bilateral administration could 
corticosteroid effects 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
potentially lead to increased systemic 
absorption of the steroid.  Section 4.4 
addresses this as follows:  
reports  
The safety and efficacy of OZURDEX 
Additional activities: 
administered to both eyes 
concurrently have not been studied.  
• 
Long-term safety data 
Therefore administration to both eyes 
studies 206207-010 and 
concurrently is not recommended. 
206207-011 
Mechanical failure of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.2: Posology and method of 
device and implant 
misplacement 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance: 
added to the Sentinel Event List 
for intensive follow-up of safety 
reports  
Additional activities: 
administration of the SPC has clear 
instruction on the proper injection 
procedure.  
• 
Immediately after injecting 
OZURDEX, use indirect 
ophthalmoscopy in the quadrant 
• 
Long-term safety data 
of injection to confirm successful 
studies 206207-010 and 
implantation.  Visualization is 
206207-011 
possible in the large majority of 
cases.  In cases in which the 
implant cannot be visualized, 
take a sterile cotton bud and 
lightly depress over the injection 
site to bring the implant into 
view. 
Educational material to instruct 
prescribers on the recommended 
injection technique 
Missing Information 
Paediatric Use 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration:  
There is no relevant use of OZURDEX 
in the paediatric population in 
macular oedema following either 
Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) 
or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 52/58
  
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.6 Pregnancy and lactation:   
(CRVO). 
lactation 
Studies in animals have shown 
teratogenic effects following topical 
ophthalmic administration (see 
section 5.3).  There are no adequate 
data from the use of intravitreally 
administered dexamethasone in 
pregnant women.  Systemic levels of 
dexamethasone in humans have been 
shown to be low. OZURDEX is not 
recommended during pregnancy 
unless clearly necessary. 
Dexamethasone is excreted in breast 
milk.  However, no effects on the 
child are anticipated due to the route 
of administration and the resulting 
systemic levels. However OZURDEX is 
not recommended during breast 
feeding unless clearly necessary.  
Long-term safety, 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
repeat dosing data 
Additional activities: 
•  Long-term safety data 
studies 206207-010 and 
206207-011 
•  Conduct of an observational 
study to gain experience with 
repeat administration. This 
study will recruit patients 
requiring a 2nd or 
subsequent implant due to 
deteriorating visual acuity 
with the aim of collecting 
long term outcome and 
safety data in such patients. 
The study design will ensure 
that sufficient patients 
requiring more than 2 
implants are recruited to 
provide additional useful 
information on this patient 
group. 
Concurrent use of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.4:  
anticoagulants 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Additional activities: 
Anti-coagulant therapy was used in 
1.7% of patients receiving OZURDEX; 
Page 53/58
 
 
 
 
•  Long-term safety data 
there were no reports of hemorrhagic 
studies 206207-010 and 
adverse events in these patients. Anti 
206207-011 
platelet medicinal products, such as 
clopidogrel, were used at some stage 
during the clinical studies in over 
40% of patients.  In clinical trial 
patients receiving anti-platelet 
therapy, haemorrhagic adverse 
events were reported in a higher 
proportion of patients injected with 
OZURDEX (27%) compared with the 
control group (20%). The most 
common haemorrhagic adverse 
reaction reported was conjunctival 
haemorrhage (24%). OZURDEX 
should be used with caution in 
patients taking anti-coagulant or anti-
platelet medicinal products. 
Patients with 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Section 4.4: 
significant retinal 
ischaemia 
Additional activities: 
OZURDEX has not been studied in 
•  Long-term safety data 
studies 206207-010 and 
206207-011 
patients with macular oedema 
secondary to RVO with significant 
retinal ischemia.  Therefore 
OZURDEX is not recommended. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
Prior  to  launch  in  each  Member  State  the  MAH  shall  agree  the  final  educational  material  with  the 
National Competent Authority. 
The  MAH  shall  ensure  that,  at  launch,  all  physicians  who  are  expected  to  prescribe/use  Ozurdex  are 
provided with a physician information pack containing the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Physician information 
Intravitreal injection procedure video 
Intravitreal injection procedure pictogram 
Patient information pack 
The physician information should contain the following key elements: 
• 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Aseptic techniques to minimise the risk of infection 
•  Use of antibiotics 
• 
• 
Techniques for the intravitreal injection 
Patient monitoring after IVT injection 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 54/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Key signs and symptoms of IVT injection related adverse events including increased intraocular 
pressure,  glaucoma,  ocular  hypertension,  cataract,  traumatic  cataract  related  to  injection 
technique, vitreous detachment, vitreous haemorrhage, endophthalmitis, mechanical failure of 
device and implant misplacement 
•  Management of IVT injection related adverse events 
The patient information pack should be provided in both the form of a patient information booklet and 
an audio-CD that contain following key elements: 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for OZURDEX treatment 
•  What are the steps following treatment with OZURDEX 
•  Key  signs  and  symptoms  of  serious  adverse  events  including  increased  intraocular  pressure 
and ocular hypertension 
•  When to seek urgent attention from their health care provider 
•  User consultation 
The applicant has submitted results from user testing of the package leaflet, which was performed in 
English. Overall, the user test is found acceptable. The results demonstrated a sufficient percentage of 
identification  and  comprehension  of  product  related  information.  Therefore,  the  package  leaflet  was 
considered to be in line with the current readability requirements. 
2.7.3.  Benefit-risk balance  
The  proposed  product  is  a  dexamethasone  intravitreal  implant  intended  for  the  treatment  of  macular 
oedema due to branch or central retinal vein occlusion. 
•  Benefits 
Limited  pharmacokinetic  information  is  available  and  this  was  derived  from  pharmacokinetic 
evaluations  conducted  in  a  small  number  of  patients  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  studies.  These  indicated 
that systemic exposure is low. 
The  applicant  has  conducted  a  number  of  clinical  studies  in  various  indications.  Two  were  relevant  to 
this application. 
The  studies  (008  and  009)  which  were  identical  in  design,  were  six-month  randomised,  sham-
controlled  with  a  6-month  open  label  extension,  assessing  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  700  microgram 
and  350  microgram  implant  in  patients  with  macular  oedema  due  to  Branch  or  Central  Retinal  Vein 
Occlusion. The primary endpoint was defined as the proportion of patients with a best corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) improvement of 15 or more letters from baseline in the study eye at 180 days. In study 
008,  this  was,  subsequently,  modified  to  90  days.  The  results  were  consistent  in  both  studies  and 
showed  statistical  significance  on  day  90,  but  not  on  day  180.  The  results  from  the  open  label 
extension from patients receiving a second implant at 6 months, showed a similar pattern.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 55/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beneficial effects 
A statistically significant improvement in visual acuity was demonstrated in patients receiving the 700 
microgram  implant.  This  was  replicated  following  a  second  implantation.  Furthermore,  a  statistically 
significant  number  of  patients  who  initially  received  Sham  followed  by  DEX  700  showed  ≥15-letter 
worsening  in  BCVA  compared  to  patients  receiving  two  DEX  700  implants.  The  majority  of  patients 
benefited  from  treatment  with  DEX  700  in  terms  of  improvement  in  visual  acuity  or  prevention  of 
visual loss.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
There is a lack of experience with repeat administration (more than 2 implantations). 
•  Risks 
The  most  commonly  observed  adverse  events  were  increased  intraocular  pressure,  cataracts  and 
adverse  events  related  to  the  procedure  of  intravitreal  injection  such  as  conjunctival  haemorrhage, 
conjunctival oedema and hyperaemia, eye pain and vitreous haemorrhage. 
The  adverse  event  pattern  was  similar  following  re-implantation.  The  majority  of  patients  presenting 
with increased IOP did not require surgical intervention and were treated conservatively. 
Unfavourable effects 
The  most  commonly  observed  adverse  events  are  increased  IOP  and  cataracts.  These  are  well 
recognised complications following administration of intravitreal corticosteroids and adequate warnings 
in the SPC are included. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
As  with  efficacy,  there  is  lack  of  experience  with  repeat  administration.  An  observational  study  as  a 
follow  up  measure  has  been  requested  in  patients  requiring  a  second  or  subsequent  implant  due  to 
deteriorating  visual  acuity  with  the  aim  of  collecting  long  term  outcome  and  safety  data  in  such 
patients. 
•  Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Improvement in visual acuity and prevention of visual loss are extremely important clinical outcomes 
to patients with macular oedema due to BRVO and CRVO. The clinical studies submitted in support of 
this  application  have  demonstrated  a  significant  effect  on  these  outcomes.  Although,  as  expected  for 
an intravitreal corticosteroid implant, an increased incidence of ocular adverse events such as cataracts 
and increased IOP was observed, these were manageable.  
Benefit-risk balance 
An overall clinically relevant and statistically significant efficacy was demonstrated. Although there was 
an increase in ocular adverse events in the implanted eyes compared to the sham group, these in most 
cases were easily managed. 
•  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The  provided  data  indicate  that  there  is  a  maintained  effect  up  to  6  month,  but  not  thereafter,  with 
regards to visual acuity and prevention of visual loss in treatment with Ozurdex in adult patients with 
macular  oedema  following  either  Branch  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (BRVO)  or  Central  Retinal  Vein 
Occlusion  (CRVO).  These  efficacy  results  were  replicated  following  a  second  implant.  Furthermore, 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 56/58
 
 
 
increase  in  IOP  was  easily  managed  and  there  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation.  The  implant  is 
administered  through  a  needle  with  minimal  trauma  to  the  eye  and  slowly  releases  dexamethasone 
into  the  vitreous  with  effects  lasting  up  to  6  months,  preventing  the  need  for  frequent  intravitreal 
injections which can increase the risk for complications.  
•  Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
• 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
• 
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
The  MAH  shall  ensure  that,  at  launch,  all  physicians  who  are  expected  to  prescribe/use  Ozurdex  are 
provided with a physician information pack containing the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Physician information 
Intravitreal injection procedure video 
Intravitreal injection procedure pictogram 
Patient information pack 
The physician information should contain the following key elements: 
• 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Aseptic techniques to minimise the risk of infection 
•  Use of antibiotics 
• 
• 
Techniques for the intravitreal injection 
Patient monitoring after IVT injection 
•  Key signs and symptoms of IVT injection related adverse events including increased intraocular 
pressure,  glaucoma,  ocular  hypertension,  cataract,  traumatic  cataract  related  to  injection 
technique, vitreous detachment, vitreous haemorrhage, endophthalmitis, mechanical failure of 
device and implant misplacement 
•  Management of IVT injection related adverse events 
The patient information pack should be provided in both the form of a patient information booklet and 
an audio-CD that contain following key elements: 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for OZURDEX treatment 
•  What are the steps following treatment with OZURDEX 
•  Key  signs  and  symptoms  of  serious  adverse  events  including  increased  intraocular  pressure 
and ocular hypertension 
•  When to seek urgent attention from their health care provider 
Prior  to  launch  in  each  Member  State  the  MAH  shall  agree  the  final  educational  material  with  the 
National Competent Authority. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 57/58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Ozurdex  in  the  treatment  of  of  adult  patients  with  macular  oedema 
following  either  Branch  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (BRVO)  or  Central  Retinal  Vein  Occlusion  (CRVO)  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/457364/2010 
Page 58/58
 
 
 
