PART VI SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Table of Contents 
I. 
II. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR ··········································· 2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS ···························· 2 
II.A 
II.B 
II.C 
II.C.1 
II.C.2 
List of important risks and missing information ············································ 3 
Summary of important risks ·································································· 3 
Postauthorization development plan ························································· 8 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization ······················· 8 
Other studies in postauthorization development plan ································ 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of risk management plan for enfortumab vedotin  
This is a summary of the RMP for Padcev. The RMP details important risks of enfortumab 
vedotin and how these risks can be minimized. 
PADCEV’s summary of product characteristics and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how enfortumab vedotin should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Padcev should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current risks will be included in updates of 
enfortumab vedotin’s RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Enfortumab vedotin as monotherapy is authorized for the treatment of adult patients with 
urinary tract cancer (locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer) who have previously 
received treatment for this (a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor, and a platinum-containing 
chemotherapy) (see EU-SmPC for the full indication). The product contains enfortumab 
vedotin as the active substance and it is given by intravenous administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of enfortumab vedotin’s benefits can be found in 
enfortumab vedotin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
European Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage:   
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/padcev 
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of Padcev, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Padcev 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
●  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and EU-SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
● 
●  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
●  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Padcev are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Padcev. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Skin reactions 
● 
●  Hyperglycemia 
● 
●  None 
●  None 
Pneumonitis/Interstitial lung disease 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Skin reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
The presence of Nectin-4 in skin may increase the risk of skin 
reactions as a result of Nectin-4 targeted microtubule-
disrupting agent monomethyl auristatin E delivery.  
In EV-301, the overall incidence of skin reactions (including 
SCAR) in the enfortumab vedotin arm was 53.7% as compared 
to 19.9% in the standard chemotherapy groups, and the 
incidence of SCAR in the enfortumab vedotin arm was 26% as 
compared to 9.3% in the standard chemotherapy groups. When 
adjusted for events per patient-year, the event rates of skin 
reactions (including SCAR) and SCARs remained higher in the 
enfortumab-treated group (3.370 and 1.050 events per patient-
year, respectively) compared with the chemotherapy groups 
(0.822 and 0.375 events per patient-year, respectively).  
The overall rate of skin reactions in the clinical trial of the ISS 
population (EV-203 ISS) is 55.6%, and the rate of SCARs was 
24.1%. Of 793 patients treated with enfortumab vedotin (EV) 
1.25 mg/kg, the incidence of skin reactions (including SCAR) 
was 56.7% and the incidence of SCAR was 24.3%.  
A review of postmarketing data up to 31 Aug 2022 showed 661 
spontaneous cases of skin reactions, of which 48 cases were 
fatal. There were a total of 829 events in these 661 cases, of 
which 655 were non-serious, and the remaining 174 were 
serious events. The numbers and PTs identified by the SCAR 
SMQ (Broad) and 5 HLTs (Bullous conditions; Dermatitis and 
eczema; Rashes, eruptions and exanthemas NEC; Erythemas; 
Dermatitis ascribed to specific agent) consisted of Rash (408), 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Erythema (68), Drug eruption (34), Blister (29), Stevens-
Johnson syndrome (28), Rash pruritis and Rash erythematous 
(26 each) and Skin exfoliation, Stomatitis and Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (22 each). 
Risk factors for SCAR include both drug dosage and inherent 
patient factors. There appears to be an increased risk of SCAR 
with higher drug dosages [Mustafa et al, 2018]. Antiepileptic 
agents, along with baseline conditions such as systemic lupus 
erythematous, tuberculosis and HIV (human immunodeficiency 
virus) increase the risk of SCAR [Mustafa et al, 2018]. Drugs 
commonly associated with SCAR include antimicrobial agents 
(cotrimoxazole, vancomycin, aminopenicillin, minocycline, 
sulfasalazine and dapsone) and NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs). Genetic predisposition and individual 
drug metabolism or drug clearance also affect the risk of SCAR 
[Chung et al, 2016]. Many subjects who experienced SCAR 
events during the enfortumab vedotin clinical trials had risk 
factors for development of a skin reaction, including a past 
medical history of rash or initiation of new concomitant 
medications frequently implicated as a cause of rash within 30 
days prior to SCAR onset. To date, there are no specific 
product related risk factors for development of SCAR detected. 
Routine risk communication: 
• EU-SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8; 
• PL sections 2 and 4  
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
•  Recommendations are provided in the EU-SmPC Section 
4.4 to monitor for severe skin reactions starting with the 
first cycle and throughout enfortumab vedotin treatment. 
Fever or flu-like symptoms may be the first sign of a severe 
skin reaction, and patients should be observed, if this 
occurs. 
- For Grade 2 worsening, Grade 2 with Fever or Grade 3 
skin reactions, treatment should be withheld until Grade ≤1 
and referral for specialized care should be considered. 
Treatment should be resumed at the same dose level or 
consider dose reduction by one dose level. 
- For suspected SJS or TEN, or in case of bullous lesions 
onset, withhold treatment immediately and refer to 
specialised care; histologic confirmation, including 
consideration of multiple biopsies, is critical to early 
recognition, as diagnosis and intervention can improve 
prognosis. 
- Permanently discontinue enfortumab vedotin for 
confirmed SJS or TEN, Grade 4 or recurrent severe skin 
reactions. 
 
•  Recommendations are provided in the EU-SmPC Section 
4.2 for treatment interruption, dose reduction and treatment 
discontinuation of enfortumab vedotin.  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  Patient card 
 Patient survey study 
NSAIDs: Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs; HIV: Human Immunodeficiency Virus; HLT: High Level 
Term; PL: Package Leaflet; PT: Preferred Term; SCAR: Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reaction; SJS: Stevens 
Johnson Syndrome; EU-SmPC: European Union-Summary of Product Characteristics; SMQ: Standardized 
MedDRA Query; TEN: Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis. 
Important identified risk: Hyperglycemia 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
The overall rate of hyperglycemia in the 7 clinical trials in the 
EV-203 ISS population was 16.2% (140/862 subjects). Of 793 
patients treated with EV 1.25 mg/kg, the incidence of 
hyperglycemia was 16.6% (132/793 subjects). The most 
frequently reported PTs in the EV 1.25 mg/kg group were 
Hyperglycemia (14.9%), Blood glucose increased and Diabetes 
mellitus (0.9%). Most hyperglycemia events in the EV 1.25 
mg/kg group were Grade 3 (52/132; 39.4%), followed by Grade 2 
(41/132; 31.1%) and Grade 1(31/132; 23.5%). Six subjects 
experienced Grade 4 events (4.5%) and 2 subjects experienced 
Grade 5 event (1.5%). SAEs were reported in 20 subjects 
(20/793; 2.5%). In the enfortumab vedotin clinical program 
testing for fasting glucose was not included. The rate of any 
hyperglycemia event in subjects without risk factors (BMI <30 
and no pre-existing hyperglycemia or diabetes) was 5.6% in the 
EV 1.25 mg/kg group. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
A review of post-marketing data up to 31 Aug 2022 showed 
153 spontaneous cases of the Hyperglycaemia/new onset diabetes 
mellitus SMQ (Narrow). There were a total of 166 events in these 
153 cases, of which 125 were non serious, and the remaining 41 
were serious events. The most frequently reported PTs were 
Hyperglycaemia (99), Blood glucose increased (45), and diabetic 
ketoacidosis (8). Three cases reported a fatal outcome. Two fatal 
cases lacked sufficient information for a meaningful medical 
assessment. In the remaining fatal case, the patient had 
concurrent SCAR event.  
Literature shows that diabetes was reported in approximately 
20% of subjects in the few urothelial cancer trials where pre-
existing comorbidities are documented [Galsky et al, 2018; 
Niegisch et al, 2018], consistent with rates reported in the general 
population of older adults [Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, 2017].  
The major risk factors for hyperglycemia include a family history 
of type 2 diabetes, being overweight or obese, low birth weight, 
older age, gestational diabetes (in women), and socioeconomic 
 
 
Risk minimization measures 
disadvantage [WHO, 2020; IDF, 2020]. Race/ethnicity is also a 
major risk factor for hyperglycemia. Higher rates are seen in 
people of South Asian descent and people of African and 
African-Caribbean origin [WHO, 2020]. 
In the enfortumab vedotin clinical development program, 
hyperglycemia events were more common in subjects with a 
baseline BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2, or with a prior medical history of 
hyperglycemia, or in subjects with an elevated baseline HbA1c. 
Routine risk communication: 
•  EU-SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8; 
•  PL sections 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
•  Recommendations are provided in EU-SmPC Section 4.4 to 
monitor blood glucose levels prior to dosing and periodically 
throughout the course of treatment as clinically indicated in 
patients with or at risk for diabetes mellitus or 
hyperglycaemia. If blood glucose is elevated >13.9 mmol/L 
(>250 mg/dL), enfortumab vedotin should be withheld until 
blood glucose is ≤13.9 mmol/L (≤250 mg/dL) and treat as 
appropriate. 
•  Recommendations are provided in EU-SmPC Section 4.2 for 
treatment interruption and when to resume treatment of 
enfortumab vedotin. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
BMI: body mass index; EV: Enfortumab vedotin; HbA1c: hemoglobin A1C; HIV: Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus; PL: Package Leaflet; SAE: serious adverse event; SMQ: Standardized MedDRA Query; EU-SmPC: 
European Union-Summary of Product Characteristics; WHO: World Health Organization. 
None 
Important identified risk: Pneumonitis/Interstitial lung disease 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
The overall rate of Pneumonitis/Interstitial lung disease in the 
clinical trials of the EV-203 ISS population was 3.3% (29/862). 
Of 793 patients treated with enfortumab vedotin 1.25 mg/kg, 
Pneumonitis/Interstitial lung disease occurred in 3.1% of 
subjects. The most common PTs reported were Pneumonitis 
(2.1%), followed by Interstitial lung disease (0.6%). Of the 793 
patients treated with enfortumab vedotin 1.25 mg/kg, majority of 
the events were Grade 1 and 2. No Grade 5 events were observed. 
A review of post-marketing data up to 31 Aug 2022 showed 51 
spontaneous cases of pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease. There 
were a total of 53 events in these 51 cases, of which 4 were non 
serious, and the remaining 49 were serious events. The most 
frequently reported PT was Interstitial lung disease (n = 37), 
followed by Pneumonitis (n = 7). Seven cases reported a fatal 
outcome. The 7 fatal cases concerned patients from Japan (n = 6) 
and Germany (n = 1) and all were elderly. The reported cause of 
death was Interstitial lung disease (n = 5); pneumonia and acute 
respiratory distress syndrome (n = 1); and pneumonitis and 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
respiratory insufficiency (n = 1). The time to onset ranged from 1 
to 3 months in 5 cases and was not provided in the remaining 2 
cases. Three of these cases reported a prior episode of interstitial 
pneumonia and 1 case reported an immune-related adverse event 
due to pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab was reported as a 
concomitant/co-suspect drug in 4 of these cases. 
Interstitial lung disease is a heterogeneous group of disorders 
characterized by fibrosis (scarring) of the lungs which are 
classified based on histopathological, radiologic, and clinical 
parameters. Interstitial lung disease, where there is damage to 
tissues between the alveoli, is one of the major patterns of lung 
injury following systemic cancer therapies. This pattern of lung 
injury may arise from direct cytotoxicity, oxidative stress, and 
immune-mediated mechanisms. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  EU-SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8; 
•  PL sections 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
•  For Grade 2 pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease, withhold 
enfortumab vedotin until Grade ≤1, then resume at the same 
dose level or consider dose reduction by one dose level. 
Permanently discontinue enfortumab vedotin for Grade ≥3 
pneumonitis/interstitial lung disease. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
ISS: Integrated Summary of Safety; EU: European Union, PL: Package Leaflet; PT: Preferred Term; SmPC: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
None 
 
II.C  Postauthorization development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation 
of Padcev.  
II.C.2  Other studies in postauthorization development plan 
Patient survey study 
Purpose of the study: To evaluate patients' understanding and awareness of the content of the 
patient card related to risks of skin reactions and patient behaviours to minimize the risk. 
 
