Summary of risk management plan for PALFORZIA          
(defatted powder of Arachis hypogaea L., semen (peanuts)) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for PALFORZIA.  The RMP details important 
risks of PALFORZIA, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about PALFORZIA’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
PALFORZIA’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how PALFORZIA should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for PALFORZIA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of PALFORZIA’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
PALFORZIA is authorised for patients aged 4 to 17 years of age with a confirmed peanut allergy and 
may be continued in patients 18 years of age and older (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains 
defatted powder of Arachis hypogaea L., semen (peanuts) as the active substance, and it is taken 
orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefit of PALFORZIA can be found in the EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/palforzia. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of PALFORZIA, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about risks with PALFORZIA, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of PALFORZIA, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment – so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of PALFORZIA is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of PALFORZIA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof 
of a link with the use of PALFORZIA.  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the 
medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Anaphylaxis/systemic allergic reactions 
Eosinophilic oesophagitis 
Important potential risks 
Possible rebound after discontinuation of treatment 
Missing information 
Use during pregnancy  
Impact on long-term immune-mediated reactions 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk:  Anaphylaxis/systemic allergic reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Patients with peanut allergy may have allergic symptoms, 
including systemic allergic reactions, when treated with 
PALFORZIA as it contains defatted powder of Arachis hypogaea 
L., semen (peanuts).  Systemic allergic reaction is used to 
describe an anaphylactic reaction of any severity and anaphylaxis 
is used to describe an anaphylactic reaction that is severe. 
In the integrated safety population, systemic allergic reactions of 
any severity were reported in 15.1% of subjects, including 
0.6% during initial dose escalation, 8.7% during up-dosing and 
9.9% during maintenance.  Severe systemic allergic reaction 
(anaphylaxis) was reported in 1.1% subjects, including 
0.4% subjects during up-dosing and 0.8% during maintenance 
at 300 mg/day.  Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the 
frequency and nature of an adverse reaction that is expected to 
occur in clinical practice. 
Patients are more likely to experience allergic symptoms in the 
presence of certain co-factors which are known to increase the 
likelihood of allergic reactions in general.  These cofactors may 
be modifiable or non-modifiable.  Modifiable co-factors may 
include exercise, hot bath or shower, alcohol consumption, 
fasting, or intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications.  
Non-modifiable co-factors may include intercurrent illness 
(eg, influenza or viral infection), an increase in severity of 
asthma, menstruation, stress, fatigue or sleep deprivation 
(Smith, 2015; Turner, 2017b; Varshney, 2009).  In addition, 
patients aged 12 years or older and/or with high sensitivity to 
peanut may be at higher risk of experiencing allergic symptoms 
during treatment. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2, SmPC section 4.3, SmPC section 4.4, and 
SmPC section 4.8 
 
•  PL section 2, PL section 3, and PL section 4 
•  Different dose levels distinguished through limiting the pack 
size and use of different coloured capsules  
•  Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Healthcare professional educational materials  
•  Patient and parent/caregiver educational materials and 
Patient Card 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Study ARC008 extension 
•  Effectiveness evaluation of PALFORZIA educational materials 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important identified risk:  Eosinophilic oesophagitis (EoE) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Eosinophilic oesophagitis is a significant allergic condition which 
if left untreated can cause lasting damage to the oesophagus.  
EoE has been reported for other OIT used to treat food allergies.   
In the integrated safety population, EoE was diagnosed in 5 of 
944 subjects (0.5%) with a further 7 cases in other studies 
(1 subject in ARC001, 1 subject in ARC002, 1 subject in 
ARC004, and 4 subjects in ARC008) to total 12 of 1217 subjects 
(approximately 1%) treated with PALFORZIA experiencing 
EoE.  After PALFORZIA was discontinued symptoms improved 
in all 12 subjects.  
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and 
nature of an adverse reaction that is expected to occur in clinical 
practice.  The published medical literature can support the 
evidence of a possible causal association based on what has been 
observed for other OIT and the predicted mechanism. 
A strong association between IgE-mediated food allergy and EoE 
has been observed (Greenhawt, 2014; Spergel, 2012).  
Consequently, patients with IgE-mediated food allergy who 
encounter the food to which they are allergic, either naturally or 
during OIT, are at increased risk of EoE.  It remains unclear 
whether OIT induces EoE or causes pre-existing subclinical EoE 
to become symptomatic (Wright, 2018).  The aetiology of EoE is 
multifactorial and unlike food anaphylaxis, which occurs in an 
estimated 15% of EoE patients (Assa’ad, 2007), patients with 
EoE are polysensitised to a variety of foods suggesting a general 
breakdown in oral antigen tolerance (Rothenberg, 2009). 
Male sex is a strong risk factor for EoE both in children and 
adults (Arias, 2016). 
Eosinophilic oesophagitis may occur at any age but there is 
a rising incidence in children with age and a peak in adults 
at 30-50 years with most cases occurring in children, 
adolescents, and adults younger than 50 years (Lucendo, 2017).  
A retrospective database analysis over a period of 8 years found 
that in 89 paediatric patients with EoE up to 18 years of age, 
male sex (78.6%), white race (94.4%), young age at diagnosis 
(mean ± SD, 6.2 ± 4.8 years), and atopy with sensitisation to 
 
environmental and food allergens in 79% and 75%, respectively, 
were prevalent (Assa’ad, 2007).  The associated conditions 
extracted from the past medical history of the 89 patients or 
reported by the parents were atopy (asthma, allergic rhinitis, 
eczema, anaphylaxis to food, and allergic conjunctivitis in 39%, 
30%, 19%, 9%, and 8%, respectively); immunologic (recurrent 
infections and autoimmune disorders in 13% and 2%, 
respectively); and developmental and neurologic (developmental 
delay, seizures, cerebral palsy, autism in 12%, 6%, 4%, and 1%); 
and chromosomal abnormalities in 1% patients (Assa’ad, 2007). 
EoE patients usually suffer from a high number of concomitant 
atopic disorders including rhinitis, asthma and eczema.  A recent 
systematic review of 21 studies comprising 53,542 EoE patients 
and 54,759 controls found that allergic rhinitis was significantly 
more common among patients with EoE compared with 
control subjects as were bronchial asthma and eczema 
(González-Cervera, 2017).  Eosinophilic oesophagitis has a 
strong familial association (Rothenberg, 2009).  Nearly 10% of 
parents of EoE patients have a history of oesophageal strictures 
and an estimated 8% have biopsy proven EoE (Noel, 2004).  In a 
study out of the 103 paediatric patients 73.5% had a family 
history of atopic disease, 6.8% a family history of EoE, 9.7% a 
family history of oesophageal dilatation, 
57.4% rhinoconjunctivitis, 36.8% wheezing, and 46% possible 
food allergy (Noel, 2004). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.3, SmPC section 4.4, and SmPC section 4.8 
•  PL section 2 and PL section 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Healthcare professional educational materials 
•  Patient and parent/caregiver educational materials  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Study ARC008 extension 
•  Effectiveness evaluation of PALFORZIA educational materials 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important potential risk:  Possible rebound after discontinuation of treatment 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
When PALFORZIA treatment is discontinued an increased 
severity of allergic reactions (ie, rebound) upon exposure to 
peanut could possibly occur compared with the severity of 
allergic reactions before or during treatment.  However, this is 
very unlikely due to the competitive inhibition by IgG4 of 
antigen binding to IgE (Kulis, 2018; Vickery, 2013; Jones, 2009) 
and that the effects of IgE elevation have not been observed to 
result in rebound or exacerbated effects after discontinuation of 
treatment.  For patients who discontinued the clinical studies 
early, no systemic allergic reaction events, accidental exposures 
to peanut, or other important safety events were reported in any 
of the follow-up periods.   
A search of the published literature found no reports that suggest 
an increased risk of increased severity of reactions (ie, rebound) 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
following discontinuation of food OIT at any point during the 
process. 
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and 
nature of an adverse reaction that is expected to occur in clinical 
practice.  The published medical literature can support the 
evidence of a possible causal association based on what has been 
observed for other OIT and the predicted mechanism. 
There are no known risk factors that increase possible rebound 
after discontinuation of treatment.  
The risk factors that increase the likelihood of anaphylaxis/ 
systemic allergic reactions are described for the important 
identified risk anaphylaxis/systemic allergic reactions. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 
•  PL section 3 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Study ARC008 extension 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Missing information:  Use during pregnancy  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.6 
•  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Post-marketing pregnancy registry 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Missing information:  Impact on long-term immune-mediated reactions 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Study ARC008 extension 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
 
 
 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
PALFORZIA. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study ARC008:  Open-label extension for maintenance of desensitization and safety 
Purpose of the study:  Additional data on maintenance of desensitization and safety on longer-term 
treatment with PALFORZIA is needed.   
The objectives of the study are to evaluate safety and tolerability, maintenance of desensitization, and 
effects on immunologic parameters after longer-term administration of PALFORZIA and follow-up 
observation after treatment discontinuation.  
Post-marketing pregnancy registry 
Purpose of the study:  To collect, analyse, and report data on pregnancy outcomes and infant outcomes 
after exposure to PALFORZIA during pregnancy 
Effectiveness evaluation of PALFORZIA educational materials 
Purpose of the study:  The key study objectives are to evaluate: 
•  Healthcare professional’s understanding and retention of core educational material messages 
•  Parent/caregiver’s (4-11 year old patients) understanding and retention of core educational 
messages 
•  Patient’s (12-17 year old) understanding and retention of core educational messages 
•  Monitor adherence to educational materials distribution plan 
List of references in the Summary of the RMP 
Arias Á, Pérez-Martínez I, Tenías JM, Lucendo AJ. Systematic review with meta-analysis: 
the incidence and prevalence of eosinophilic oesophagitis in children and adults in population-based 
studies. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Jan;43(1):3-15. 
Assa'ad AH, Putnam PE, Collins MH, Akers RM, Jameson SC, et al. Pediatric patients 
with eosinophilic esophagitis: an 8-year follow-up. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2007 Mar;119(3):731-8. 
González-Cervera J, Arias Á, Redondo-González O, Cano-Mollinedo MM, Terreehorst I, Lucendo AJ. 
Association between atopic manifestations and eosinophilic esophagitis: A systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2017 May;118(5):582-590.e2. 
Greenhawt M, Aceves SS. Non-IgE medicated food allergy: eosinophilic esophagitis update on the 
pathogenesis, clinical features, and management of eosinophilic esophagitis in children. Curr Pediatr 
Rep. 2014;2(2):127-34. 
Irani V, Guy AJ, Andrew D, Beeson JG, Ramsland PA, Richards JS. Molecular properties of human 
IgG subclasses and their implications for designing therapeutic monoclonal antibodies against 
infectious diseases. Molecular Immunology. 2015;67(2):171-82. 
Jones SM, Pons L, Roberts JL, Scurlock AM, Perry TT, Kulis M, et al. Clinical efficacy and immune 
regulation with peanut oral immunotherapy. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2009;124(2):292-300. 
Kulis MD, Patil SU, Wambre E, Vickery BP. Immune mechanisms of oral immunotherapy. J Allergy 
Clin Immunol. 2018;141(2):491-8. 
Lawrence MG, Woodfolk JA, Schuyler AJ, Stillman LC, Chapman MD, Platts-Mills TA. Half-life of 
IgE in serum and skin: consequences for anti-IgE therapy in patients with allergic disease. J Allergy 
Clin Immunol. 2017;139(2):422-8. 
 
 
Lucendo AJ, Molina-Infante J, Arias Á, von Arnim U, Bredenoord AJ, et al. Guidelines on 
eosinophilic esophagitis: evidence-based statements and recommendations for diagnosis and 
management in children and adults. United European Gastroenterol J. 2017 Apr;5(3):335-358. 
Noel RJ, Putnam PE, Rothenberg ME. Eosinophilic esophagitis. N Engl J Med. 
2004 Aug 26;351(9):940-1. 
Rothenberg ME. Biology and treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis. Gastroenterology. 
2009 Oct;137(4):1238-49. 
Smith PK, Hourihane JO, Lieberman P. Risk multipliers for severe food anaphylaxis. World Allergy 
Organ J. 2015 Nov 24;8(1):30. 
Spergel JM, Brown-Whitehorn TF, Cianferoni A, Shuker M, Wang ML, Verma R, et al. Identification 
of causative foods in children with eosinophilic esophagitis treated with an elimination diet. J Allergy 
Clin Immunol. 2012;130(2):461-7. 
Turner PJ, Jerschow E, Umasunthar T, Lin R, Campbell DE, Boyle RJ. Fatal anaphylaxis: mortality 
rate and risk factors. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2017 Sep-Oct;5(5):1169-1178.  
Vickery BP, Lin J, Kulis M, Zhiyan F, Steele PH, Jones SM, et al. Peanut oral immunotherapy 
modifies IgE and IgG4 responses to major peanut allergens. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 
2013;131(1):128-34. 
 
