28 January 2021 
EMA/345906/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pegvaliase 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010761/202005 
Period covered by the PSUR: 24 November 2019 to 23 May 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pegvaliase, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of the available data on anaphylactic reactions from post-marketing sources and literature the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between pegvaliase and anaphylactic reactions is at least a 
reasonable possibility. There were 34 reports of anaphylactic reactions received in the interval of this 
PSUR with 92 reports received cumulatively from the post-marketing setting. Though information is 
limited in some of these reports and some reports are more consistent with milder hypersensitive 
reactions, there is a reasonable possibility that a limited number of these reports, describing multi-system 
allergic manifestations requiring immediate treatment and subsequent discontinuation of treatment with 
pegvaliase,  represent type I hypersensitivity reactions and this possibility cannot be discounted.  Acute 
systemic hypersensitivity reactions, considered type III hypersensitivity reactions, are well-recognised for 
pegvaliase from the clinical development program.  It is considered that the clinical presentation and 
acute management of anaphylaxis and acute systemic hypersensitivity reactions are indistinguishable.  
The occurrence of type I anaphylactic reactions in the post-marketing setting as distinct from type III 
acute systemic hypersensitivity reactions cannot be ruled out and it is considered that there is value in 
updating the product information with anaphylaxis, signalling the need for immediate medical 
intervention and consideration of the need for permanent discontinuation of treatment. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pegvaliase the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pegvaliase is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/345906/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
