03 May 2019 
EMA/227084/2019  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Palynziq (Pegylated recombinant phenylalanine ammonia lyase) 
Treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia 
EU/3/09/708 (EMA/OD/112/09) 
Sponsor: BioMarin International Limited 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 7 
4. COMP position adopted on 21 March 2019 ............................................. 12 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Pegylated recombinant phenylalanine ammonia lyase 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Pegvaliase 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia 
Solution for injection 
Subcutaneous use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
A16ABXX 
Sponsor’s details: 
BioMarin International Limited 
Shanbally 
Ringaskiddy 
County Cork 
Ireland 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
BioMarin Europe Ltd 
United Kingdom 
05 November 2009 
28 January 2010 
EU/3/09/708 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from BioMarin Europe Ltd.to BioMarin 
International Limited – EC decision of 08 August 2016 
Marketing authorisation  
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Johann Lodewijk Hillege, Joseph Emmerich 
BioMarin International Limited  
06 March 2018 
29 March 2018 
EMA/H/C/004744 
Pegylated recombinant phenylalanine ammonia lyase  
For the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia in adults 
with phenylketonuria  
Further information on Palynziq can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/search/search
?search_api_views_fulltext=EU/3/09/708 
CHMP opinion date 
28 February 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
E.J. Rook / A. Lorence 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
07 March 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
19-21 February 2019 
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
19 March 2019 
21 March 2019 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2010 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
hyperphenylalaninaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 1.7 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating (if untreated) due to mental retardation; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that pegylated recombinant phenylalanine ammonia 
lyase may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition based on potential clinically 
relevant advantage in particular in patients who do not respond to current treatment. This has 
been shown in a relevant clinical study. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) is a group of inherited disorders in which plasma phenylalanine (Phe) 
concentrations are abnormally elevated, giving a clinical presentation involving abnormal development 
of the central nervous system with cognitive impairment in untreated children.  
When performed, genetic testing has shown HPA to be most frequently related to mutations (one or 
more loss-of-function or reduced function mutations) in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene, 
which encodes the PAH enzyme. PAH catalyses the conversion of the essential amino acid 
phenylalanine to tyrosine, and this enzymatic activity is facilitated by tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4). 
Mutations in the PAH gene account for approximately 98% of HPA cases. The remaining cases arise 
from mutations in genes encoding enzymes involved in BH4 biosynthesis or regeneration.  
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is the inherited, autosomal recessive disease characterised by a deficiency in 
PAH. PAH deficiency results in abnormally elevated concentrations of phenylalanine, which is toxic to 
the brain.  
At the time of designation, the orphan condition was “hyperphenylalaninaemia”. The initial orphan 
condition remains acceptable for maintenance of this particular orphan designation. Nevertheless, it 
should be highlighted that at the time of this review and for future designations the COMP generally 
designates the orphan condition “phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency”.  
The approved therapeutic indication “Palynziq is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
phenylketonuria (PKU) aged 16 years and older who have inadequate blood phenylalanine control 
(blood phenylalanine levels greater than 600 micromol/l) despite prior management with available 
treatment options” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “Treatment of 
hyperphenylalaninaemia”. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
At the time of designation and review at initial marketing authorisation, the COMP agreed that the 
condition was chronically debilitating and life-threatening.  
At the time of this review, PKU continues to be described as causing serious health and mental 
problems, including severe intellectual disability and neurological impairments, as well as behavioural, 
emotional, and social problems, if not managed from birth and continuously throughout life. 
Uncontrolled blood Phe in adulthood is associated with significant morbidity, including heterogeneous 
neurocognitive and psychiatric deficits. Evidence from a systematic literature review and meta-analysis 
found that executive functioning impairment impacts daily life by interfering with the ability to perform 
basic cognitive tasks such as focusing, memory, planning, and impulse control. These tasks play a 
critical role in fulfilling responsibilities of adulthood such as acquiring/maintaining employment, 
managing money, raising a family, and driving. 
The condition is not considered to be life-threatening. 
The COMP concluded that the condition remains chronically debilitating due to intellectual impairment, 
deterioration of cognitive performance and motor skills, and heterogeneous psychiatric deficits that 
have a significant impact on daily living.   
Number of people affected or at risk 
At the time of designation the prevalence was agreed to be approximately 1.7 per 10,000. It has been 
noted there has been considerable evolution in the classification of HPA/PKU since the initial 
designation. Both the 2017 EU and 2014 US guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of PKU 
recognise this evolution, and that there remains a lack of agreement on the blood phenylalanine level 
defining HPA.   
Prevalence has been estimated to be approximately 1 per 10,000 for this review. For the calculation of 
the prevalence, a systematic literature search has been performed defining HPA/PKU as phenylalanine 
level >360 umol/L, in accordance with the latest EU treatment guidelines. The identified 
epidemiological reports seem relatively outdated. There are ongoing infantile screening programs in 
the EU, but data do not seem to be available in the public domain.  
The prevalence was estimated by using the formula P=I*D taking into consideration the identified 
HPA/PKU incidence and the average life expectancy in the EU for male and females (81 years according 
to Eurostat 2016). The COMP noted a high heterogeneity across EU member states with reported 
prevalence figures of up to 2 per 10,000 (table 1 and 2) and concluded on less than 2 per 10,000 in 
order to cover the heterogeneous epidemiological reporting. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of Estimated Prevalence of HPA Patients in the European Community 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Summary of Estimated Prevalence of PKU Patients in the European Community 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There is one authorised product for the treatment of the orphan condition in the EU. Kuvan 
(Sapropterin dihydrochloride) is indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults 
and paediatric patients of all ages with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been shown to be responsive 
to such treatment. Kuvan is also indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults 
and paediatric patients of all ages with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency who have been shown to 
be responsive to such treatment. 
There is a European consensus treatment guideline on phenylketonuria (van Wegberg et al. Orphanet J 
Rare Dis. 2017; 12: 162), which has been developed by the scientific advisory committee of the 
European Society for Phenylketonuria and Allied Disorders Treated as Phenylketonuria (ESPKU) with 
support of a group of European PKU experts. Dietary treatment is the basis of PKU management. It 
consists of 3 parts: natural protein restriction, Phe-free-L-amino acid supplements, and low protein 
food. The majority of patients fail to achieve adequate low phenylalanine levels based on the diet 
alone. 
Significant benefit 
In line with the therapeutic indication, significant benefit needs to be demonstrated for Palynziq in 
patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) aged 16 years and older who have inadequate blood 
phenylalanine control (blood phenylalanine levels greater than 600 micromol/l) despite prior 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
 
management with available treatment options. Taking into consideration the authorisation status of 
medicinal products, it was considered that significant benefit needs to be demonstrated over Kuvan.  
The applicant did not seek EMA protocol assistance on significant benefit issues from the COMP during 
their development.  
To substantiate significant benefit over Kuvan, clinical data from the phase II and phase III trials have 
been submitted (overview in figure 1). Two phase III studies (study 165-301 and 165-302) and three 
phase II studies (PAL-002, PAL-004 and 165-205) were submitted. Studies PAL-002, PAL-004, 165-
205 and also 165-301 are considered dose finding studies.  
The same set of data was assessed by the CHMP for the establishment of benefit-risk (please be 
referred to the see EPAR of Palynziq); study 165-302 was considered by the CHMP as the main study, 
consisting of four parts. Study 165-302 is a four-part, phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled, four-arm, discontinuation study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous 
injections of pegvaliase self-administered by adults with PKU. All patients who participated in study 
165-301 or preceding phase II studies could be subsequently enrolled in study 165-302. The objectives 
of Part 1 were to screen patients for eligibility (≥20% reduction in blood phenylalanine from baseline 
treatment-naïve values, thus change from baseline study 165-301) for entry into Part 2 of the study 
and to characterise the safety of pegvaliase (20 or 40 mg/day) in patients previously exposed to 
pegvaliase. Safety evaluation was the primary endpoint. In part 2 of the study (randomised double-
blind placebo-controlled withdrawal phase) 86 eligible patients were randomised to either continue on 
their randomised pegvaliase dose (20 or 40 mg/day) or receive a placebo treatment (withdrawal from 
pegvaliase). The primary efficacy objective of Part 2 was to evaluate the effect on blood phenylalanine 
in patients previously exposed to pegvaliase in part 1 compared with those who were administered a 
matching placebo. The Part 2 entry criterion of ≥20% blood phenylalanine reduction was applied. 
Enrichment criteria with the minimum blood phenylalanine efficacy of 20% reduction from naïve 
baseline (e.g. baseline study 165-301 or the Phase II study in which they initiated pegvaliase were 
considered the first signal of pharmacological efficacy from pegvaliase. Part 4 of the study is an open-
label long term follow-up that included patients who finalised part 1 to part 3 of the study and patients 
who were transitioned from study 165-301 however who were not eligible for inclusion in part 1 of 
study 165-302. In part 4 of the study patients could be treated with pegvaliase doses 5, 10, 20, 40, 
and 60 mg/day in case the randomised dose of 20 or 40 mg/day did not lead to a reduction of 
phenylalanine levels ≥20%. During study 165-302 several neurocognitive and neuropsychiatric 
measures were performed, including the ADHD-RS hyperactivity subscore and ADHD-RS Inattention 
subscore. Throughout study 165-302 dietary intake was collected by means of a diary, 3 days prior to 
baseline and at every study visit. The patients were requested to maintain the dietary intake stable 
during the studies.  
The “Induction, Titration, Maintenance Population” (I/T/M population, n=285) was defined to allow for 
pooled analyses of clinical data across the development program. I/T/M included subjects whose 
overall pegvaliase treatment followed an induction, titration, and maintenance treatment regimen, 
similar to the proposed treatment regimen. This population includes data from subjects originally 
enrolled in parent studies 165-205 and 165-301 and data from the extension studies to which they 
transferred (PAL-003 and 165-302). For the subjects in the I/T/M Population who reached and 
completed 12 months of treatment (184/285), blood phenylalanine concentrations were reduced by a 
mean (SD) of 674.9 μmol/L (579.6; n = 184) to a mean (SD) blood phenylalanine level of 546.6 
(520.8) μmol/L at 12 months ). Reductions to≤600 μmol/L (controlled phenylalanine) were achieved 
by 56.0% (n = 103) and reductions to ≤ 120 μmol/L (normalized phenylalanine) were achieved by 
37.0% (n = 68). For the subjects in the I/T/M Population who reached and completed 24 months of 
treatment (67/285), blood phenylalanine concentrations were reduced by a mean (SD) of 913.6 
μmol/L (528.3; n = 67) to a mean (SD) blood phenylalanine level of 294.3 (398.0) μmol/L. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Patient Disposition across the Phase II/Phase III, Multiple Dose Studies 
Of main interest for the establishment of significant benefit over Kuvan is a post-hoc subgroup analysis 
of the I/T/M population, which was performed in order to understand the efficacy of Palynziq in 
patients that do not respond to Kuvan. It should be noted that the reported studies were not designed 
to show efficacy and safety of pegvaliase in Kuvan responders and Kuvan non-responders. The post-
hoc sub-group analysis was based on an assessment of the investigator within 6 months of the 
screening visit. For this analysis, ‘Kuvan non-responder’ was defined as a patient for whom blood 
phenylalanine did not decrease ≥30 percent from baseline after 1 month of treatment with 20 mg/kg 
per day Kuvan. 
Of all 224 subjects in this post-hoc sub-group analysis, 196 (87.5%) had previously been treated with 
Kuvan within 6 months of the screening visit (37 subjects were not included because the assessment 
was not added to the protocol until Amendment 1).  
Of the 196 subjects previously treated with Kuvan, 144 (73.5%) were determined by the investigator 
as Kuvan non-responders (with lack of response defined as no clinically significant decrease in blood 
phenylalanine level per investigator determination). At baseline, the mean (SD) blood phenylalanine 
observed in the Kuvan non-responder subgroup was 1278.1 (377.20). Following 12 months of 
pegvaliase treatment 62.4% of the Kuvan non responder subgroup achieved blood phenylalanine 
control (< 600 μmol/L). Following 24 months of pegvaliase treatment 79.3% of the Kuvan non-
responder subgroup achieved blood phenylalanine control (< 600 μmol/L) demonstrating a reduction in 
blood phenylalanine over time (table 3). This effect was also observed in Kuvan responders, as 
presented in table 4. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.  Sapropterin Non-responders Mean (SD) Blood phenylalanine Concentration (μmol/L), Change 
From Baseline, Percent Change From Baseline Over Time 
Max, maximum; Min, minimum; MNT, medical nutritional therapy; SD, standard deviation. 
Data collected for Phe in study 302 part 2 RDT phase were excluded for subjects whose treatment was placebo. 
Post-baseline values were mapped to the closest monthly visit. 
a Change and percent change from baseline was based on subjects with available measurements at both time 
points. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Sapropterin Reponder Subgroup Mean (SD) Blood phenylalanine Concentration (μmol/L), 
Change From Baseline, Percent Change From Baseline Over Time 
Max, maximum; Min, minimum; MNT, medical nutritional therapy; SD, standard deviation. 
Data collected for Phe in study 302 part 2 RDT phase were excluded for subjects whose treatment was placebo. 
Post-baseline values were mapped to the closest monthly visit. 
a Change and percent change from baseline was based on subjects with available measurements at both time 
points. 
In conclusion, the sponsor has submitted a dedicated post-hoc subgroup analysis from its clinical 
development to support significant benefit over Kuvan. The post-hoc subgroup analysis investigated 
the efficacy of Palynziq on lowering blood phenylalanine levels in patients, who did not respond to 
Kuvan therapy as determined at the time of screening for the clinical program. The post-hoc analysis 
demonstrated that patients, who were not adequately responding to Kuvan, achieved a response to 
Palynziq in terms of reduction of blood phenylalanine levels. This was associated with clinically 
meaningful improvement in inattention and mood outcomes as well as in the normalisation of diet. The 
COMP considered that there is sufficient evidence to confirm that Palynziq has significant benefit over 
Kuvan on the grounds of a clinically relevant advantage in those patients with inadequate control of 
blood phenylalanine despite Kuvan treatment.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 21 March 2019  
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of hyperphenylalaninaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be less than 2 in 10,000 persons in 
the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to intellectual impairment, deterioration of cognitive 
performance and motor skills, and heterogeneous psychiatric deficits that have a significant impact 
on daily living; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, Palynziq is of significant benefit to those affected by the orphan condition. A post-hoc 
subgroup analysis of the clinical data demonstrated that patients, who were not adequately 
responding to the currently authorised product Kuvan (sapropterin dihydrochloride), achieved a 
response to Palynziq in terms of reduction of blood phenylalanine levels. The reduction in 
phenylalanine was associated with additional clinically meaningful improvement in inattention, 
mood outcomes as well as in the normalisation of diet. The COMP considered that significant 
benefit has been demonstrated on the grounds of an improved clinical efficacy.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Palynziq, pegylated recombinant 
phenylalanine ammonia lyase, pegvaliase, EU/3/09/708 for treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia is 
not removed from the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/227084/2019 2.0,CURRENT,OMAR final 
 
 
 
