ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 20 mg pantoprazole (as sodium sesquihydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant tablet. 
Yellow, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets imprinted with “P20” in brown ink on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
PANTOZOL Control is indicated for short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (e.g. heartburn, acid 
regurgitation) in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 20 mg pantoprazole (one tablet) per day.  
It might be necessary to take the tablets for 2-3 consecutive days to achieve improvement of 
symptoms. Once complete relief of symptoms has occurred, treatment should be discontinued. 
The treatment should not exceed 4 weeks without consulting a doctor. 
If no symptom relief is obtained within 2 weeks of continuous treatment, the patient should be 
instructed to consult a doctor. 
Special populations 
No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients or in those with impaired renal or liver function. 
Paediatric population 
PANTOZOL Control is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of age 
due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
Method of administration 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets should not be chewed or crushed, and should be 
swallowed whole with liquid before a meal. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Co-administration of pantoprazole is not recommended with HIV protease inhibitors for which 
absorption is dependent on acidic intragastric pH such as atazanavir, nelfinavir; due to significant 
reduction in their bioavailability (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Patients should be instructed to consult a doctor if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
They have unintentional weight loss, anaemia, gastrointestinal bleeding, dysphagia, persistent 
vomiting or vomiting with blood, since pantoprazole may alleviate symptoms and delay 
diagnosis of a severe condition. In these cases, malignancy should be excluded. 
They have had previous gastric ulcer or gastrointestinal surgery. 
They are on continuous symptomatic treatment of indigestion or heartburn for 4 or more weeks. 
They have jaundice, hepatic impairment, or liver disease. 
They have any other serious disease affecting general well-being. 
They are aged over 55 years with new or recently changed symptoms. 
Patients with long-term recurrent symptoms of indigestion or heartburn should see their doctor at 
regular intervals. Especially, patients over 55 years taking any non-prescription indigestion or 
heartburn remedy on a daily basis should inform their pharmacist or doctor. 
Patients should not take another proton pump inhibitor or H2 antagonist concomitantly. 
Patients should consult their doctor before taking this medicinal product if they are due to have an 
endoscopy or urea breath test. 
Patients should be advised that the tablets are not intended to provide immediate relief. 
Patients may start to experience symptomatic relief after approximately one day of treatment with 
pantoprazole, but it might be necessary to take it for 7 days to achieve complete heartburn control. 
Patients should not take pantoprazole as a preventive medicinal product. 
Gastrointestinal infections caused by bacteria 
Decreased gastric acidity, due to any means - including proton pump inhibitors - increases gastric 
counts of bacteria normally present in the gastrointestinal tract. Treatment with acid-reducing 
medicinal products leads to a slightly increased risk of gastrointestinal infections such as Salmonella, 
Campylobacter, or Clostridium difficile. 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms (DRESS) which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported in association with 
pantoprazole with frequency not known (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions.  
If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, pantoprazole should be withdrawn 
immediately and an alternative treatment considered. 
Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE) 
Proton pump inhibitors are associated with very infrequent cases of SCLE. If lesions occur, especially 
in sun-exposed areas of the skin, and if accompanied by arthralgia, the patient should seek medical 
help promptly and the health care professional should consider stopping PANTOZOL Control. SCLE 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
after previous treatment with a proton pump inhibitor may increase the risk of SCLE with other proton 
pump inhibitors. 
Interference with laboratory tests 
Increased Chromogranin A (CgA) level may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumours. 
To avoid this interference, PANTOZOL Control treatment should be stopped for at least 5 days before 
CgA measurements (see section 5.1). If CgA and gastrin levels have not returned to reference range 
after initial measurement, measurements should be repeated 14 days after cessation of proton pump 
inhibitor treatment. 
The following additional risks are considered relevant for long-term use: 
This medicinal product is intended for short-term use (up to 4 weeks) only (Refer to section 4.2). 
Patients should be warned about additional risks with long-term use of the medicinal products and the 
need for prescription and regular surveillance should be emphasised. 
Influence on vitamin B12 absorption 
Pantoprazole, as all acid-blocking medicines, may reduce the absorption of vitamin B12 
(cyanocobalamin) due to hypo- or achlorhydria. This should be considered in patients with reduced 
body stores or risk factors for reduced vitamin B12 absorption on long-term therapy or if respective 
clinical symptoms are observed. 
Bone fracture 
Proton pump inhibitors, especially if used in high doses and over long durations (> 1 year), may 
modestly increase the risk of hip, wrist and spine fracture, predominantly in the elderly or in the 
presence of other recognised risk factors. Observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitors 
may increase the overall risk of fracture by 10–40%. Some of this increase may be due to other risk 
factors. Patients at risk of osteoporosis should receive care according to current clinical guidelines and 
they should have an adequate intake of vitamin D and calcium. 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Severe hypomagnesaemia has been rarely reported in patients treated with proton pump inhibitors 
(PPIs) like pantoprazole for at least three months, and in most cases for a year. Serious manifestations 
of hypomagnesaemia such as fatigue, tetany, delirium, convulsions, dizziness, and ventricular 
arrhythmia can occur, but they may begin insidiously and be overlooked. Hypomagnesaemia may lead 
to hypocalcaemia and/or hypokalaemia (see section 4.8). In most affected patients, hypomagnesaemia 
(and hypomagnesaemia associated hypocalcaemia and/or hypokalaemia) improved after magnesium 
replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. 
For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with digoxin or medicinal 
products that may cause hypomagnesaemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals should consider 
measuring magnesium levels before starting PPI treatment and periodically during treatment. 
PANTOZOL Control contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Medicinal products with pH-dependent absorption pharmacokinetics 
PANTOZOL Control may reduce the absorption of active substances whose bioavailability is 
dependent on the gastric pH (e.g., ketoconazole). 
HIV protease inhibitors 
Co-administration of pantoprazole is contraindicated with HIV protease inhibitors for which 
absorption is dependent on acidic intragastric pH such as atazanavir, nelfinavir; due to significant 
reduction in their bioavailability (see section 4.3). 
Coumarin anticoagulants (phenprocoumon or warfarin) 
Although no interaction during concomitant administration of phenprocoumon or warfarin has been 
observed in clinical pharmacokinetic studies, a few isolated cases of changes in International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) have been reported during concomitant treatment in the post-marketing 
period. Therefore, in patients treated with coumarin anticoagulants (e.g., phenprocoumon or warfarin), 
monitoring of prothrombin time/INR is recommended after initiation, termination or during irregular 
use of pantoprazole. 
Methotrexate 
Concomitant use of high-dose methotrexate (e.g., 300 mg) and proton pump inhibitors has been 
reported to increase methotrexate levels in some patients. Therefore, in settings where high-dose 
methotrexate is used, for example cancer and psoriasis, a temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole may 
need to be considered. 
Other interactions studies 
Pantoprazole is metabolised in the liver via the cytochrome P450 enzyme system. Interaction studies 
with carbamazepine, caffeine, diazepam, diclofenac, digoxin, ethanol, glibenclamide, metoprolol, 
naproxen, nifedipine, phenytoin, piroxicam, theophylline and an oral contraceptive containing 
levonorgestrel and ethinyl oestradiol did not reveal clinically significant interactions. However, an 
interaction of pantoprazole with other substances which are metabolised by the same enzyme system 
cannot be excluded. 
There were no interactions with concomitantly administered antacids. 
Drug-laboratory test interactions 
There have been reports of false-positive results in some urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol 
(THC) in patients receiving pantoprazole. An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to 
verify positive results. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of pantoprazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity. Preclinical studies revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or 
teratogenic effects (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Pantoprazole should 
not be used during pregnancy. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
Pantoprazole/metabolites have been identified in human milk. The effect of pantoprazole on 
newborns/infants is unknown. PANTOZOL Control should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There was no evidence of impaired fertility following the administration of pantoprazole in animal 
studies (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
PANTOZOL Control has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, adverse reactions such as dizziness and visual disturbances may occur (see section 4.8). If 
affected, patients should not drive or use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Approximately 5% of patients can be expected to experience adverse reactions. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported with pantoprazole. 
Within the following table, adverse reactions are ranked under the MedDRA frequency classification: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1. Adverse reactions with pantoprazole in clinical trials and post-marketing experience 
Frequency 
Common  Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
System 
organ class 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Agranulocytosis 
Thrombocytopenia; 
Leukopenia; 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
(incl. anaphylactic 
reactions and 
anaphylactic 
shock) 
Hyperlipidaemias 
and lipid increases 
(triglycerides, 
cholesterol); 
Weight changes 
Sleep disorders  Depression (and 
all aggravations) 
Disorientation (and 
all aggravations) 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache; 
Dizziness 
Taste disorders 
6 
Hyponatraemia; 
Hypomagnesaemia; 
Hypocalcaemia(1) 
Hypokalaemia(1) 
Hallucination; 
Confusion 
(especially in 
pre-disposed 
patients, as well as 
the aggravation of 
these symptoms in 
case of 
pre-existence) 
Paraesthesia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disturbances in 
vision / blurred 
vision 
Microscopic colitis 
Eye disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Fundic 
gland 
polyps 
(benign) 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Diarrhoea; 
Nausea / 
vomiting; 
Abdominal 
distension and 
bloating; 
Constipation; 
Dry mouth; 
Abdominal 
pain and 
discomfort 
Liver enzymes 
increased 
(transaminases, 
γ-GT) 
Rash / 
exanthema / 
eruption; 
Pruritus 
Bilirubin 
increased 
Urticaria; 
Angioedema 
Fracture of 
wrist, hip and 
spine. 
Arthralgia; 
Myalgia 
Gynaecomastia 
Asthenia, 
fatigue and 
malaise 
Body temperature 
increased; 
Oedema 
peripheral 
Hepatocellular 
injury; 
Jaundice; 
Hepatocellular 
failure 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome; 
Lyell syndrome 
(TEN); 
Drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms 
(DRESS); 
Erythema 
multiforme; 
Photosensitivity; 
Subacute cutaneous 
lupus erythematosus 
(see section 4.4). 
Tubulointerstitial 
nephritis (TIN) (with 
possible progression 
to renal failure) 
(1) Hypocalcaemia and/or hypokalaemia may be related to the occurrence of hypomagnesaemia (see section 4.4)  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
Doses up to 240 mg administered intravenously over 2 minutes were well tolerated. 
As pantoprazole is extensively protein bound, it is not readily dialysable. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the case of overdose with clinical signs of intoxication, apart from symptomatic and supportive 
treatment, no specific therapeutic recommendations can be made. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Proton pump inhibitors, ATC code: A02BC02 
Mechanism of action 
Pantoprazole is a substituted benzimidazole which inhibits the secretion of hydrochloric acid in the 
stomach by specific blockade of the proton pumps of the parietal cells. 
Pantoprazole is converted to its active form, a cyclic sulphenamide, in the acidic environment in the 
parietal cells where it inhibits the H+, K+-ATPase enzyme, i.e., the final stage in the production of 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach.  
The inhibition is dose-dependent and affects both basal and stimulated acid secretion. In most patients, 
freedom from heartburn and acid reflux symptoms is achieved in 1 week. Pantoprazole reduces acidity 
in the stomach and thereby increases gastrin in proportion to the reduction in acidity. The increase in 
gastrin is reversible. Since pantoprazole binds to the enzyme distal to the receptor level, it can inhibit 
hydrochloric acid secretion independently of stimulation by other substances (acetylcholine, 
histamine, gastrin). The effect is the same whether the active substance is given orally or 
intravenously. 
The fasting gastrin values increase under pantoprazole. On short-term use, in most cases they do not 
exceed the upper limit of normal. During long-term treatment, gastrin levels double in most cases. An 
excessive increase, however, occurs only in isolated cases. As a result, a mild to moderate increase in 
the number of specific endocrine (ECL) cells in the stomach is observed in a minority of cases during 
long-term treatment (simple to adenomatoid hyperplasia). However, according to the studies 
conducted so far, the formation of carcinoid precursors (atypical hyperplasia) or gastric carcinoids as 
were found in animal experiments (see section 5.3) have not been observed in humans. 
During treatment with antisecretory medicinal products, serum gastrin increases in response to the 
decreased acid secretion. Also CgA increases due to decreased gastric acidity. The increased CgA 
level may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumours. 
Available published evidence suggests that proton pump inhibitors should be discontinued between 
5 days and 2 weeks prior to CgA measurements. This is to allow CgA levels that might be spuriously 
elevated following PPI treatment to return to reference range. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In a retrospective analysis of 17 studies in 5960 patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease 
(GORD) who were treated with 20 mg pantoprazole monotherapy, the symptoms associated with acid 
reflux e.g., heartburn and acid regurgitation were evaluated according to a standardised methodology. 
Studies selected had to have at least one acid reflux symptom recording point at 2 weeks. GORD 
diagnosis in these studies was based on endoscopic assessment, with the exception of one study in 
which the inclusion of the patients was based on symptomatology alone. 
In these studies, the percentage of patients experiencing complete relief from heartburn after 7 days 
was between 54.0% and 80.6% in the pantoprazole group. After 14 and 28 days, complete heartburn 
relief was experienced in 62.9% to 88.6% and 68.1% to 92.3% of the patients, respectively. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the complete relief from acid regurgitation, similar results were obtained as for heartburn. After 
7 days the percentage of patients experiencing complete relief from acid regurgitation was between 
61.5% and 84.4%, after 14 days between 67.7% and 90.4%, and after 28 days between 75.2% and 
94.5%, respectively. 
Pantoprazole was consistently shown to be superior to placebo and H2RA and non-inferior to other 
PPIs. Acid-reflux symptom relief rates were largely independent of the initial GORD stage. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetics do not vary after single or repeated administration. In the dose range of 10 to 80 mg, 
the plasma kinetics of pantoprazole are linear after both oral and intravenous administration. 
Absorption 
Pantoprazole is completely and rapidly absorbed after oral administration. The absolute bioavailability 
from the tablet was found to be about 77%. On average, at about 2.0 h - 2.5 h post administration (tmax) 
of a single 20 mg oral dose, the maximum serum concentrations (Cmax) of about 1-1.5 µg/mL are 
achieved, and these values remain constant after multiple administration. Concomitant intake of food 
had no influence on bioavailability (AUC or Cmax), but increased the variability of the lag-time (tlag). 
Distribution 
Volume of distribution is about 0.15 L/kg and serum protein binding is about 98%. 
Biotransformation 
Pantoprazole is almost exclusively metabolised in the liver. 
Elimination 
Clearance is about 0.1 L/h/kg, and terminal half-life (t1/2) about 1 h. There were a few cases of subjects 
with delayed elimination. Due to the specific binding of pantoprazole to the proton pumps within the 
parietal cell, the elimination half-life does not correlate with the much longer duration of action 
(inhibition of acid secretion). 
Renal elimination represents the major route of excretion (about 80%) for the metabolites of 
pantoprazole; the rest is excreted with the faeces. The main metabolite in both serum and urine is 
desmethylpantoprazole, which is conjugated with sulphate. The half-life of the main metabolite (about 
1.5 h) is not much longer than that of pantoprazole. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose reduction is recommended when pantoprazole is administered to patients with impaired renal 
function (including patients on dialysis, which removes only negligible amounts of pantoprazole). As 
with healthy subjects, the half-life of pantoprazole is short. Although the main metabolite has a longer 
half-life (2-3h), excretion is still rapid and thus accumulation does not occur. 
Hepatic impairment 
After administration of pantoprazole to patients with liver impairment (Child-Pugh classes A, B and 
C) the half-life values increased to between 3 and 7 h and the AUC values increased by a factor of 3-6, 
whereas the Cmax only increased slightly by a factor of 1.3 compared with healthy subjects. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
The slight increase in AUC and Cmax in elderly volunteers compared with younger subjects was not 
clinically relevant. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
In the 2-year carcinogenicity studies in rats, neuroendocrine neoplasms were found. In addition, 
squamous cell papillomas were found in the forestomach of rats in one study. The mechanism leading 
to the formation of gastric carcinoids by substituted benzimidazoles has been carefully investigated 
and allows the conclusion that it is a secondary reaction to the massively elevated serum gastrin levels 
occurring in the rat during chronic high-dose treatment. 
In the 2-year rodent studies an increased number of liver tumours was observed in rats (in one rat 
study only) and in female mice and was interpreted as being due to pantoprazole's high metabolic rate 
in the liver. 
A slight increase of neoplastic changes of the thyroid was observed in the group of rats receiving the 
highest dose (200 mg/kg) in one 2-year study. The occurrence of these neoplasms is associated with 
the pantoprazole-induced changes in the breakdown of thyroxine in the rat liver. As the therapeutic 
dose in man is low, no side effects on the thyroid glands are expected. 
In a peri-postnatal rat reproduction study designed to assess bone development, signs of offspring 
toxicity (mortality, lower mean body weight, lower mean body weight gain and reduced bone growth) 
were observed at exposures (Cmax) approximately 2x the human clinical exposure. By the end of the 
recovery phase, bone parameters were similar across groups and body weights were also trending 
toward reversibility after a drug-free recovery period. The increased mortality has only been reported 
in pre-weaning rat pups (up to 21 days age) which is estimated to correspond to infants up to the age 
of 2 years old. The relevance of this finding to the paediatric population is unclear. A previous 
peri-postnatal study in rats at slightly lower doses found no adverse effects at 3 mg/kg compared with 
a low dose of 5 mg/kg in this study. Investigations revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or 
teratogenic effects. 
Penetration of the placenta was investigated in the rat and was found to increase with advanced 
gestation. As a result, concentration of pantoprazole in the foetus is increased shortly before birth. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Core 
Sodium carbonate, anhydrous 
Mannitol (E421) 
Crospovidone 
Povidone K90 
Calcium stearate  
Coating 
Hypromellose 
Povidone K25 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Polysorbate 80 
Triethyl citrate 
Printing ink 
Shellac  
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Ammonia solution, concentrated 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Alu/Alu blisters with or without cardboard reinforcement containing 7 or 14 gastro-resistant tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda GmbH 
Byk-Gulden-Str. 2 
D-78467 Konstanz 
Germany 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/517/001-004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 12 June 2009 
Date of latest renewal: 21 February 2014 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Takeda GmbH 
Production site Oranienburg 
Lehnitzstraße 70-98 
D-16515 Oranienburg 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product not subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER WITH CARDBOARD REINFORCEMENT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
pantoprazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 20 mg pantoprazole (as sodium sesquihydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 gastro-resistant tablets 
14 gastro-resistant tablets 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Tablets should be swallowed whole. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda GmbH 
Byk-Gulden-Str. 2 
D-78467 Konstanz 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/517/001-004 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
For short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (e.g. heartburn, acid regurgitation) in adults. 
Take one tablet (20 mg) per day. Do not exceed this dose. This medicine may not bring immediate 
relief. 
Relieves heartburn 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable  
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
CARDBOARD REINFORCEMENT  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
pantoprazole  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 20 mg pantoprazole (as sodium sesquihydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 gastro-resistant tablets 
14 gastro-resistant tablets 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Tablets should be swallowed whole. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda GmbH 
Byk-Gulden-Str. 2 
D-78467 Konstanz 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/517/001-004 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
For short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (e.g. heartburn, acid regurgitation) in adults. 
Take one tablet (20 mg) per day. Do not exceed this dose. This medicine may not bring immediate 
relief.  
Relieves heartburn. 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
pantoprazole 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
OTHER 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
PANTOZOL Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
pantoprazole  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
Always take this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor or pharmacist have told 
you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Ask your pharmacist if you need more information or advice. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 2 weeks. 
You should not take PANTOZOL Control tablets for more than 4 weeks without consulting a 
doctor. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What PANTOZOL Control is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take PANTOZOL Control  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take PANTOZOL Control  
Possible side effects 
How to store PANTOZOL Control 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What PANTOZOL Control is and what it is used for 
PANTOZOL Control contains the active substance pantoprazole, which blocks the ‘pump’ that 
produces stomach acid. Hence it reduces the amount of acid in your stomach. 
PANTOZOL Control is used for the short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (for example heartburn, 
acid regurgitation) in adults. 
Reflux is the backflow of acid from the stomach into the gullet (“foodpipe”), which may become 
inflamed and painful. This may cause you symptoms such as a painful burning sensation in the chest 
rising up to the throat (heartburn) and a sour taste in the mouth (acid regurgitation). 
You may experience relief from your acid reflux and heartburn symptoms after just one day of 
treatment with PANTOZOL Control, but this medicine is not meant to bring immediate relief. It may 
be necessary to take the tablets for 2-3 consecutive days to relieve the symptoms. 
You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 2 weeks. 
2.  What you need to know before you take PANTOZOL Control 
Do not take PANTOZOL Control 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to pantoprazole or to any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)  
if you are taking HIV protease inhibitors such as atazanavir; nelfinavir (for the treatment of 
HIV-infection). See ‘Other medicines and PANTOZOL Control’. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking PANTOZOL Control 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have been treated for heartburn or indigestion continuously for 4 or more weeks 
if you are over 55 years old and taking non-prescription indigestion treatment on a daily basis 
if you are over 55 years old with any new or recently changed reflux symptoms 
if you have previously had a gastric ulcer or stomach surgery 
if you have liver problems or jaundice (yellowing of skin or eyes) 
if you regularly see your doctor for serious complaints or conditions  
if you are due to have an endoscopy or a breath test called a C-urea test. 
if you have ever had a skin reaction after treatment with a medicine similar to PANTOZOL 
Control that reduces stomach acid. 
if you are due to have a specific blood test (Chromogranin A) 
if  you  are  taking  HIV  protease  inhibitors  such  as  atazanavir,  nelfinavir  (for  the  treatment  of 
HIV-infection) at the same time as pantoprazole, ask your doctor for specific advice. 
- 
- 
Do not take this product for longer than 4 weeks without consulting your doctor. If your reflux 
symptoms (heartburn or acid regurgitation) persist for longer than 2 weeks, consult your doctor who 
will decide about the need for long-term intake of this medicine. 
If you take PANTOZOL Control for longer periods, this may cause additional risks, such as: 
- 
reduced  absorption  of  Vitamin B12,  and  Vitamin B12  deficiency  if  you  already  have  low  body 
stores of Vitamin B12. Please contact your doctor if you notice any of the following symptoms, 
which could indicate low levels of Vitamin B12: 
- Extreme tiredness or lack of energy  
- Pins and needles  
- Sore or red tongue, mouth ulcers  
- Muscle weakness 
- Disturbed vision  
- Problems with memory, confusion, depression 
fracture of your hip, wrist or spine, especially if you already have osteoporosis (reduced bone 
density) or if your doctor has told you that you are at risk of getting osteoporosis (for example, 
if you are taking steroids). 
falling magnesium levels in your blood (potential symptoms: fatigue, involuntary muscle 
contractions, disorientation, convulsions, dizziness, increased heart rate). Low levels of 
magnesium can also lead to a reduction in potassium or calcium levels in the blood. You should 
talk to your doctor if you have been using this product for more than 4 weeks. Your doctor may 
decide to perform regular blood tests to monitor your levels of magnesium. 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor immediately, before or after taking this medicine, if you notice any of the following 
symptoms, which could be a sign of another, more serious, disease: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
an unintentional loss of weight (not related to a diet or an exercise programme) 
vomiting, particularly if repeated 
vomiting blood; this may appear as dark coffee grounds in your vomit 
you notice blood in your stools; which may be black or tarry in appearance 
difficulty in swallowing or pain when swallowing 
you look pale and feel weak (anaemia) 
chest pain 
stomach pain 
severe and/or persistent diarrhoea, because this medicine has been associated with a small 
increase in infectious diarrhoea 
if you get a rash on your skin, especially in areas exposed to the sun tell your doctor as soon as 
you can, as you may need to stop your treatment with PANTOZOL Control. Remember to also 
mention any other ill-effects like pain in your joints 
Serious skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) and erythema multiforme,  have 
been reported in association with pantoprazole treatment. Stop using pantoprazole and seek 
- 
- 
24 
 
 
 
 
medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious skin 
reactions described in section 4. 
Your doctor may decide that you need some tests. 
If you are due to have a blood test, tell your doctor that you are taking this medicine. 
You may experience relief from your acid reflux and heartburn symptoms after just one day of 
treatment with PANTOZOL Control, but this medicine is not meant to bring immediate relief. 
You should not take it as a preventive measure. 
If you have been suffering from repetitive heartburn or indigestion symptoms for some time, 
remember to see your doctor regularly. 
Children and adolescents 
PANTOZOL Control should not be used by children and adolescents under 18 years of age due to a 
lack of safety information in this younger age group. 
Other medicines and PANTOZOL Control 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
PANTOZOL Control may stop certain other medicines from working properly. Especially medicines 
containing one of the following active substances:  
- 
HIV protease inhibitors such as atazanavir, nelfinavir (for the treatment of HIV-infection). You 
must not use PANTOZOL Control if you are taking HIV protease inhibitors. See ‘Do not take 
PANTOZOL Control’. 
ketoconazole (used for fungal infections). 
warfarin and phenprocoumon (used to thin blood and prevent clots). You may need further 
blood tests 
methotrexate (used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and cancer) – if you are taking 
methotrexate your doctor may temporarily stop your PANTOZOL Control treatment because 
pantoprazole can increase levels of methotrexate in the blood. 
- 
- 
- 
Do not take PANTOZOL Control with other medicines which limit the amount of acid produced in 
your stomach, such as another proton pump inhibitor (omeprazole, lansoprazole or rabeprazole) or an 
H2 antagonist (e.g., ranitidine, famotidine). 
However, you may take PANTOZOL Control with antacids (e.g., magaldrate, alginic acid, sodium 
bicarbonate, aluminium hydroxide, magnesium carbonate, or combinations thereof), if needed. 
Talk to your doctor before taking PANTOZOL Control if you are due to have a specific urine test (for 
THC; Tetrahydrocannabinol). 
Pregnancy and, breast-feeding and fertility  
You should not take this medicine if you are pregnant or while breast-feeding. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
If you experience side effects like dizziness or disturbed vision, you should not drive or use machines. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PANTOZOL Control contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take PANTOZOL Control 
Always take this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor or pharmacist have told 
you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one tablet a day. Do not exceed this recommended dose of 20 mg 
pantoprazole daily. 
You should take this medicine for at least 2-3 consecutive days. Stop taking PANTOZOL Control 
when you are completely symptom-free. You may experience relief from your acid reflux and 
heartburn symptoms after just one day of treatment with PANTOZOL Control, but this medicine is not 
meant to bring immediate relief. 
If you have no symptom-relief after taking this medicine for 2 weeks continuously, consult your 
doctor. 
Do not take PANTOZOL Control tablets for more than 4 weeks without consulting your doctor. 
Take the tablet before a meal, at the same time every day. You should swallow the tablet whole with 
some water. Do not chew or break the tablet. 
If you take more PANTOZOL Control than you should 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have taken more than the recommended dose. If possible take 
your medicine and this leaflet with you. 
If you forget to take PANTOZOL Control  
Do not take a double dose to make up for the forgotten dose. Take your next, normal dose, the next 
day, at your usual time. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately or contact the casualty department at your nearest hospital, if you get 
any of the following serious side effects. Stop taking this medicine straight away, but take this 
leaflet and/or the tablets with you. 
- 
- 
Serious allergic reactions (frequency rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
hypersensitivity reactions, so-called anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactic shock and 
angioedema. Typical symptoms are: swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue and/or throat, 
which may cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing, hives (nettle rash), severe dizziness with 
very fast heartbeat and heavy sweating. 
Serious skin reactions (frequency not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the 
available data):  
you may notice one or more of the following  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- rash with swelling, blistering or peeling of the skin, losing skin and bleeding around eyes, 
nose, mouth or genitals and rapid deterioration of your general health, or rash particularly in 
areas of skin exposed to the sun. You may also have joint pain or flu-like symptoms, a fever, 
swollen glands (e.g. in the armpit) and blood tests may show changes in certain white blood 
cells or liver enzymes. 
- reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, 
skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes can be 
preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis). 
- widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (DRESS syndrome or drug 
hypersensitivity syndrome). 
- 
Other serious reactions (frequency not known):  
yellowing of the skin and eyes (due to severe liver damage), or fever, rash, and enlarged kidneys 
sometimes with painful urination, and lower back pain (serious inflammation of the kidneys), 
possibly leading to kidney failure. 
Other side effects include: 
- 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
benign polyps in the stomach. 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
headache; dizziness; diarrhoea; feeling sick, vomiting; bloating and flatulence (wind); 
constipation; dry mouth; bellyache and discomfort; skin rash or hives; itching; feeling weak, 
exhausted or generally unwell; sleep disorders; increase in liver enzymes in a blood test; 
fracture in the hip, wrist or spine. 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
distortion or complete lack of the sense of taste; disturbances in vision such as blurred vision; 
pain in the joints; muscle pains; weight changes; raised body temperature; swelling of the 
extremities; depression; increased bilirubin and fat levels in blood (seen in blood tests), breast 
enlargement in males; high fever and a sharp drop in circulating granular white blood cells (seen 
in blood tests). 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
disorientation; reduction in the number of blood platelets, which may cause you to bleed or 
bruise more than normal; reduction in the number of white blood cells, which may lead to more 
frequent infections; coexisting abnormal reduction in the number of red and white blood cells, 
as well as platelets (seen in blood tests). 
- 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
hallucination, confusion (especially in patients with a history of these symptoms); decreased 
level of sodium, magnesium, calcium or potassium in blood, rash, possibly with pain in the 
joints; feeling of tingling, prickling, pins and needles, burning sensation or numbness, 
inflammation in the large bowel, that causes persistent watery diarrhoea. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store PANTOZOL Control 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the carton and the blister after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What PANTOZOL Control contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is pantoprazole. Each tablet contains 20 mg pantoprazole (as sodium 
sesquihydrate). 
The other ingredients are:  
- 
Core: sodium carbonate (anhydrous), mannitol (E421), crospovidone, povidone K90, 
calcium stearate. 
Coating: hypromellose, povidone, titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172), 
propylene glycol (E1520), methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer, sodium 
laurilsulfate, polysorbate 80, triethyl citrate. 
Printing ink: shellac, red, black and yellow iron oxide (E172) and ammonia solution, 
concentrated.  
- 
- 
What PANTOZOL Control looks like and contents of the pack 
The gastro-resistant tablets are yellow, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets imprinted with “P20” on one 
side. 
PANTOZOL Control is available in Alu/Alu blisters with or without cardboard reinforcement. 
Packs containing 7 or 14 gastro-resistant tablets. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda GmbH 
Byk-Gulden-Straße 2, 78467 Konstanz  
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Takeda GmbH 
Production site Oranienburg 
Lehnitzstraße 70-98, 16515 Oranienburg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
Такеда България ЕООД 
Teл.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Česká republika  
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország 
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 270 7030 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Danmark 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Deutschland 
DR. KADE Pharmazeutische Fabrik GmbH 
Rigistrasse 2 
12277 Berlin 
Tel: +49 (0)30 720820 
info@kade.de 
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ελλάδα  
Takeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
España 
Takeda Farmacéutica España, S.A. 
Tel: +34 917 90 42 22 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tél: + 33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Takeda HELLAS S.A. 
Tel: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 800-20 80 50 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Portugal 
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 120 1457 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel: +40 21 335 03 91 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd 
Tel: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 (0) 59 082 480 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος  
Takeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel: +44 (0) 3333 000 181 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web 
site:http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
_________________________________________________________________________________ 
The following recommendations for lifestyle and dietary changes may also help to relieve heartburn or 
acid related symptoms. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Avoid large meals 
Eat slowly 
Stop smoking 
Reduce alcohol and caffeine consumption 
Reduce weight (if overweight) 
Avoid tight-fitting clothing or belts 
Avoid eating less than three hours before bedtime 
Elevate bedhead (if you suffer from nocturnal symptoms) 
Reduce intake of food that can cause heartburn. These might include: Chocolate, peppermint, 
spearmint, fatty and fried food, acidic food, spicy food, citrus fruits and fruit juices, tomatoes. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
