EMA/621406/2016  
EMEA/H/C/003995 
EPAR summary for the public 
Parsabiv 
etelcalcetide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Parsabiv. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Parsabiv. 
For practical information about using Parsabiv, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Parsabiv and what is it used for? 
Parsabiv is a medicine used to reduce the levels of parathyroid hormone in adults who have high levels 
of this hormone because of their long-term kidney disease (secondary hyperparathyroidism). 
Parathyroid hormone is produced by the parathyroid glands in the neck and regulates calcium and 
phosphate levels. High levels of parathyroid hormone can cause loss of calcium from the bones, bone 
pain and fractures, and heart and circulation problems.  
Parsabiv is used in patients on haemodialysis (a technique for removing waste products from the blood 
using a blood filtration machine). It contains the active substance etelcalcetide.  
How is Parsabiv used? 
Parsabiv is available as a solution for injection. Treatment is started at a dose of 5 mg three times a 
week and the dose is then adjusted according to the patient’s parathyroid hormone level or calcium 
level. It is given at the end of a haemodialysis session into the line that leads back from the dialysis 
machine to the patient’s vein. In some circumstances, it can be given by injection into a vein. 
Parsabiv can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Parsabiv work? 
When cells in the parathyroid gland detect high levels of calcium in the blood, they reduce the amount 
of parathyroid hormone entering the blood. The active substance in Parsabiv, etelcalcetide, is a 
calcimimetic. This means that it mimics the action of calcium on these cells and in this way, it reduces 
the parathyroid hormone levels in the blood. Reduced parathyroid hormone decreases the levels of 
calcium in the blood. 
What benefits of Parsabiv have been shown in studies? 
Parsabiv has been investigated in three main studies involving 1,706 patients on haemodialysis who 
had long-term kidney disease and secondary hyperparathyroidism. The first two studies compared 
Parsabiv with placebo (a dummy treatment), and the third study compared it with cinacalcet, another 
calcimimetic medicine. In all three studies, Parsabiv was given for 26 weeks. The main measure of 
effectiveness was a reduction in parathyroid hormone by more than 30% after at least 20 weeks of 
treatment. 
In the first two studies, Parsabiv was effective in 75% (380 out of 509) of patients compared with 9% 
(46 out of 514) of patients given placebo. In the third study, Parsabiv was found to be at least as 
effective as cinacalcet: in 68% (232 out of 340) patients given Parsabiv compared with 58% (198 out 
of 343) patients given cinacalcet. 
What are the risks associated with Parsabiv? 
The most common side effects with Parsabiv (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are low 
calcium level in the blood, muscle spasm, diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting.  
Parsabiv must not be started if the patient’s blood calcium level is below the normal range. For the full 
list of Parsabiv’s side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Parsabiv approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Parsabiv’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The medicine has 
been found effective for reducing parathyroid hormone in the blood in patients with kidney disease 
being treated with haemodialysis and its side effects are those expected of a calcimimetic substance. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Parsabiv? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Parsabiv have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Parsabiv 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Parsabiv on 11 November 2016. 
The full EPAR for Parsabiv can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Parsabiv, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Parsabiv  
EMA/621406/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016. 
Parsabiv  
EMA/621406/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
