EMA/80728/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005973 
Paxlovid (PF-07321332 / ritonavir) 
An overview of Paxlovid and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Paxlovid and what is it used for? 
Paxlovid is a medicine used for treating COVID-19 in adults who do not require supplemental oxygen 
and who are at increased risk of the disease becoming severe. 
Paxlovid contains two active substances, PF-07321332 and ritonavir, in two different tablets. 
How is Paxlovid used? 
Paxlovid can only be obtained with a prescription. The recommended dose is two tablets, each 
containing 150 mg PF-07321332, plus one tablet containing 100 mg ritonavir, to be taken together by 
mouth twice a day for 5 days. Paxlovid should be given as soon as possible after a diagnosis of COVID-
19 has been made and within 5 days of the start of symptoms.  
For more information about using Paxlovid, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Paxlovid work? 
Paxlovid is an antiviral medicine that reduces the ability of SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-
19) to multiply in the body. The active substance PF-07321332 blocks the activity of an enzyme 
needed by the virus to multiply. Paxlovid also contains a low dose of the medicine ritonavir, which 
slows the breakdown of PF-07321332, enabling it to remain longer in the body at levels that affect the 
multiplication of the virus. Together, the active substances can help the body to overcome the virus 
infection, and prevent the disease becoming severe. 
What benefits of Paxlovid have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving patients with COVID-19 and at least one underlying condition putting them at 
risk of severe COVID-19 looked at the effects of Paxlovid on rate of hospitalisation or death within 28 
days of treatment when compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). The analysis was done in 
patients who received Paxlovid within 5 days after COVID-19 symptoms began and who did not receive 
nor were expected to receive treatment with antibodies. Over the month following treatment, the rate 
of hospitalisation or death was 0.8% (8 out of 1,039) for patients who received Paxlovid, compared 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
with 6.3% (66 out of 1,046) for those who received placebo. There were no deaths in the Paxlovid 
group and 12 deaths in the placebo group. 
The majority of patients in the study were infected with the Delta variant. Based on laboratory studies, 
Paxlovid is also expected to be active against Omicron and other variants.  
What are the risks associated with Paxlovid? 
The most common side effects with Paxlovid (which may affect less than 1 in 10 people) are dysgeusia 
(taste disturbance), diarrhoea, headache and vomiting. 
Paxlovid must not be used together with medicines that are harmful at high levels in the blood and 
whose breakdown in the body is reduced by ritonavir. Paxlovid must also not be taken by people who 
have just stopped these medicines as some of the medicine may still remain in the body. Paxlovid 
must also not be taken with medicines that may reduce its effectiveness or by patients who are taking 
St John’s wort (a herbal preparation used to treat depression). To identify interactions with ritonavir, a 
drug interaction tool is available on the website of the company marketing Paxlovid which can be 
accessed through a QR code in the product information and outer carton. 
For the full list of restrictions and side effects of Paxlovid, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Paxlovid authorised in the EU? 
Paxlovid was shown to be effective at reducing the risk of hospitalisation or death in patients with 
COVID-19 at increased risk of the disease becoming severe. The safety profile of Paxlovid was 
favourable and side effects were generally mild. However, the well-known effect of ritonavir on other 
medicines was a concern and advice is included in Paxlovid’s product information. The European 
Medicines Agency concluded that Paxlovid’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
Paxlovid was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the 
authorisation has been switched from conditional to full authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Paxlovid? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Paxlovid have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet, including a link to a drug interaction tool to identify interactions with ritonavir.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Paxlovid are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Paxlovid are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Paxlovid 
Paxlovid received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 January 2022. 
This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 24 February 2023.  
Further information on Paxlovid can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/paxlovid  
This overview was last updated in 02-2023. 
Paxlovid (PF-07321332 / ritonavir)  
EMA/80728/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
