21 November 2023  
EMA/20760/2023 Rev.21 
Shortage of Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
paclitaxel formulated as albumin-bound nanoparticles / 5 mg/ml powder for 
dispersion for infusion 
Indication 
Pazenir is used to treat: 
•  metastatic breast cancer, when the first treatment has 
stopped working and standard treatment including an 
anthracycline is not suitable;  
•  metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, as a first 
treatment in combination with another cancer 
medicine, gemcitabine; 
•  non-small cell lung cancer, as a first treatment in 
combination with the cancer medicine carboplatin 
when the patient cannot have surgery or radiotherapy.  
Reason for shortage  
There has been an increase in demand in Europe for 
albumin-bound nanoparticle paclitaxel throughout 2023, 
which has led to a limited supply or shortage of Pazenir in 
most EU Member States where it is marketed. 
The company that markets Pazenir has since made the 
commercial decision to stop marketing the medicine in the 
majority of EU Member States in order to redistribute 
supplies to countries outside the EU. This will last at least 
until the end of 2024.  
Member States affected by the decision will be notified by 
the company of the expected start date of the market 
withdrawal. 
Member States affected2 
Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czechia, Estonia, Greece, 
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, 
Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. 
1 This document was first published on 24 January 2023. It was modified on 27 June 2023 to update information on 
the shortage of Pazenir and to reflect ongoing monitoring by the Medicines Shortages Single Point of Contact 
(SPOC) working party and additional measures to maintain supply. It was further modified on 21 November 2023 to 
reflect the company’s decision to stop marketing Pazenir in the majority of EU Member States. 
2 This information may change. For accurate information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State the national competent authority should be contacted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
paclitaxel formulated as albumin-bound nanoparticles / 5 mg/ml powder for 
dispersion for infusion 
Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s SPOC working party3 is aware of the impact of this 
Information for healthcare 
professionals  
Information for patients  
commercial decision on patients and is closely monitoring 
the supply situation. Commercial decisions are made 
independently of EMA. 
The working party is liaising with the marketing 
authorisation holder and also engaging with other 
stakeholders to identify measures to mitigate the impact 
of the supply shortage.  
Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be 
found on EMA’s website. 
• 
• 
There has been an increase in demand in Europe for 
albumin-bound nanoparticle paclitaxel throughout 
2023, which has led to a shortage of Pazenir. 
The company that markets Pazenir has since made the 
commercial decision to stop marketing the medicine in 
the majority of EU Member States so that supplies can 
be redistributed to countries outside the EU. This is 
expected to last at least until the end of 2024. 
• 
Pazenir will still be available in France, Germany and 
Sweden throughout 2024. 
•  Healthcare professionals should consider alternative 
treatment options for their existing patients if Pazenir 
is not available in their country. 
• 
Pazenir treatment should not be started for new 
patients. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) on the Pazenir shortage was previously sent to 
healthcare professionals in affected Member States 
and is also available on the EMA website.  
•  Additional advice, including information on suitable 
alternatives, may be available from your national 
• 
• 
• 
shortage register or national competent authority. 
Pazenir contains the cancer medicine paclitaxel 
attached to the human protein albumin, in the form of 
tiny particles known as nanoparticles (albumin-bound 
nanoparticle paclitaxel). 
There has been an increase in demand in Europe for 
albumin-bound nanoparticle paclitaxel, which has led 
to a shortage of Pazenir in some EU countries. 
The company that markets Pazenir has since decided 
to stop marketing the medicine in most EU Member 
3 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. 
Shortage of Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
EMA/20760/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
paclitaxel formulated as albumin-bound nanoparticles / 5 mg/ml powder for 
dispersion for infusion 
States and redistribute supplies to countries outside 
the EU. This will last at least until 2024. 
Your doctor will prescribe you a treatment alternative 
if Pazenir is not available. 
If you have any questions, speak to your doctor or 
• 
• 
pharmacist. 
•  Additional advice may be available from your national 
shortage register or national competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
EMA/20760/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
