28 February 2019 
EMA/202215/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pazenir  
International non-proprietary name: paclitaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004441/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 16 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 16 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 16 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 16 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 20 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 20 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 22 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 22 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 22 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 24 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 24 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 24 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 24 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 29 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 29 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 30 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 30 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 30 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 30 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 31 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 2/31 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
5 fluorouracil 
ATP-binding cassette 
Nab-paclitaxel; Albumin-bound paclitaxel; Protein-bound paclitaxel 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Adenosine triphosphate 
Area under the time-concentration curve 
Breast-conserving surgery 
Carbohydrate antigen 
Cytidine deaminase protein 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Colony Forming Units 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Colony Forming Units 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Collagen-induced arthritis 
Peak plasma concentration 
Certificate of Analysis 
Cyclooxygenase 
Complete response 
CrEL-paclitaxel plus carboplatin 
Cryogenic transmission electron microscopy 
Computerized tomography 
Cytochrome 
Disease control rate 
Disease-free interval 
Dynamic light scattering 
Dose limiting toxicity 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
European Commission 
European Medicines Agency 
Epithelial ovarian cancer 
Oestrogen receptor (ER)/progesterone receptor 
European Society for Medical Oncology 
European School of Oncology 
Endocrine therapy 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
5-FU  
ABC  
ABI-007  
API 
ATP  
AUC  
BCS  
CA  
CDP  
CEP  
CFU 
CEP  
CFU 
CHMP    
CIA  
Cmax    
CoA 
COX  
CR  
CrEL-P/C  
Cryo-TEM 
CT  
CYP  
DCR  
DFI  
DLS 
DLT  
DNA  
ECOG    
EDQM   
EC 
EMA  
EOC  
ER  
ESMO    
ESO  
ET  
EU  
FDA  
FOLFIRINOX   Folinic acid (leucovorin)/5-FU/irinotecan/oxaliplatin 
GC   
GDP  
GLP  
Gp  
GTP  
HAS  
HER2    
HMEC    
HMVEC   
Gas Chromatography 
Guanosine diphosphate 
Good laboratory practice 
Glycoprotein 
Guanosine triphosphate 
Human serum albumin 
Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 
Human mammary epithelial cells 
Human M vascular endothelial cells 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 3/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HMVEC-L  
HPLC     
HSA  
HUVEC   
ICH 
Human microvascular epithelial cells-lung 
High performance liquid chromatography 
Human serum albumin 
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry 
Interferon 
Interleukin 
In-process control 
Infrared 
Interleukin receptor-associated kinase 
Intravenous 
Maximum reaction velocity 
Liquid Chromatography 
ICP-MS  
ICP-OES  
IFN  
IL  
IPC 
IR 
IRAK  
IV  
Km  
LC 
LD10,50,90   Doses lethal to 10%, 50% and 90% of animals 
Low-dose metronomic therapy 
LDM  
Locally advanced breast cancer 
LABC    
Mitogen-activated protein kinase 
MAPK    
Microtubule-associated protein 
MAP  
Metastatic breast cancer 
MBC  
MDT (MDR)   Multidrug resistance 
MML  
MKP  
mRNA    
MTD  
Nab-P    
Nab-P/C  
NBPs  
NCCN    
NCI  
NMT 
NOAEL   
NSCLC   
ORR  
OS  
PBSC    
PDAC    
PDE 
PET  
PFS  
P-gP  
Ph. Eur. 
PK  
PMF 
ppm 
PPTP  
PR  
PS  
PSCs  
q3w  
q2w  
Monocyte-macrophage lineage 
Protein kinase phosphatase 
Messenger ribonucleic acid 
Maximum tolerated dose 
Nab-paclitaxel 
Nab-paclitaxel plus carboplatin 
Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates 
National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
National Cancer Institute 
Not more than 
No observed adverse effect level 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Objective response rate 
Overall survival 
Peripheral blood stem cells 
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Positron-emission tomography 
Progression free survival 
P-glycoprotein 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetics 
Plasma master file 
Parts per million 
Pediatric preclinical testing program 
Partial response 
Performance status 
Pancreatic stellate cells 
Every 3 weeks 
Every 2 weeks 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 4/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECIST  
RH 
RMP 
ROS  
RT  
SCLC    
SPARC   
SD  
SDS-PAGE 
SmPC    
TAMC    
TSP-1    
TNBC    
TLR  
TSG  
TTE  
TTP  
TX  
TYMC    
ULN  
UV 
VEGF    
XRPD 
Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours 
Relative Humidity 
Reference medicinal product 
Reactive oxygen species 
Radiation therapy 
Small cell lung cancer 
Secreted protein acid and rich in cysteine 
Stable disease 
Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Total Aerobic Microbial Count 
Thrombospondin-1 
Triple-negative breast cancer 
Toll-like receptor 
Tumor suppressor gene 
Time to endpoint 
Time to progression 
Thromboxane 
Total Combined Yeasts/Moulds Count 
Upper limit of normal 
Ultraviolet 
Vascular endothelial growth factor 
X-ray powder diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 5/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva B.V. submitted on 28 July 2017 an application for marketing authorisation to the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pazenir, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) 
No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 28 April 2016. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a marketing 
authorisation is or has been granted in the Union in the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 
8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Pazenir monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who have failed 
first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing therapy is not 
indicated. 
Pazenir in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
Pazenir in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in 
adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation therapy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC) 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and comparative 
pharmacokinetic and demonstration of similarity of anti-tumour effects non-clinical studies with the reference 
medicinal product Abraxane. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less than 
10 years in the EEA: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Abraxane, 5 mg/ml, powder for suspension for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 11-01-2008 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/428/001, EU/1/07/428/002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European reference 
medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Abraxane, 5 mg/ml, powder for suspension for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 11-01-2008 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 6/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/428/001, EU/1/07/428/002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Abraxane, 5 mg/ml, powder for suspension for infusion 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Celgene Europe B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 11-01-2008 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/428/001, EU/1/07/428/002 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products but subsequently withdrew the claimed indication that related to a condition for which there 
was an authorised orphan medicinal product for patent reasons. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice on the development relevant for the approved indication from the CHMP 
on 23 July 2015.  The Scientific Advice pertained to the following: quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the 
dossier: 
Questions on Quality development: 
•  Acceptability of the attributes for release testing of human serum albumin as well as completeness of the 
indicated attributes, current release requirements, test methods for release and stability testing of the 
drug product. The Scientific Advice also discussed the additional characterisation tests to demonstrate 
sameness of Pazenir 5 mg/ml Drug Product vs EU reference product (Abraxane), another nanoparticle 
albumin-bound paclitaxel. 
•  Acceptability of the manufacturing process for preparing Pazenir nanoparticles and combination of 
smaller sub-batches to receive a larger commercial batch size. 
Multidisciplinary questions on Pharmaceutical and Clinical development: 
• 
The multidisciplinary topics concerned the head-to-head in vitro physical and chemical characterisation 
studies and the suitability of their methodology to be used for the MAA submission to establish the 
comparability with Abraxane. Further, the discussion concerned the eligibility for a biowaiver of a 
bioequivalence study, based on the applicant's position that the products have same route of 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 7/31 
 
  
  
 
 
administration (IV) and have the same qualitative and quantitative compositions, as well as nature and 
behaviour of the products. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur:  Milena Stain 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
28 July 2017 
17 August 2017 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
3 November 2017 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
17 November 2017 
members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
29 November 2017 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
14 December 2017 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
17 April 2018 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
04 May 2018 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
17 May 2018 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
31 May 2018 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
26 June 2018 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
12 July 2018 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
26 July 2018 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
03 January 2019 
Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
16 January 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 8/31 
 
  
  
 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
31 January 2019 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
04 February 2019 
Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
15 February 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
28 February 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Pazenir on 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion is a generic medicinal product containing the active substance 
paclitaxel. The reference medicinal product is Abraxane 5 mg/ml powder for suspension for infusion, authorised 
in the EU on 11th of January 2008. 
The use of ‘powder for dispersion for infusion’ to describe the pharmaceutical form of Pazenir (instead of ‘powder 
for suspension for infusion’ as used for the reference product) is justified based on the decision from European 
Directorate for Quality of Medicines.  
The reference product Abraxane is a nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (also referred as nab-paclitaxel in 
this report). This formulation allows the administration of insoluble lipophilic agents, such as nab-paclitaxel, 
which is an amorphous and crystalline form of paclitaxel bound to albumin (at a concentration of 3–4%). 
Nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel; nab-P) is Cremophor EL(CrEL)-free, consisting only of 
unmodified paclitaxel and human albumin. By eliminating CrEL from its formulation, nab-paclitaxel has a 
reduced risk of hypersensitivity reactions, does not require premedication and can be administered over a 
shorter period (30 min) of time without special IV tubing. 
The first commercial product based on protein nanoparticles was a 130-nanometer albumin-bound paclitaxel, 
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2005 and by the European Commission in 2008 for 
the treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma, and later on for the treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer 
(2013) and advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma (2015).  
Pazenir consists of nanoparticles, which most likely consist of packages of paclitaxel-bound HSA (human serum 
albumin), which are attached together via non-covalent/hydrophobic interactions in the form of nanoparticles 
and fall apart upon dilution in vitro or in the systemic circulation. Upon intravenous administration, the paclitaxel 
albumin nanoparticles are expected to rapidly dissociate into soluble, albumin-bound paclitaxel complexes of 
approximately 10 nm in size. Albumin is known to mediate endothelial caveolar transcytosis of plasma 
constituents, and in vitro studies demonstrated that the presence of albumin enhances transport of paclitaxel 
across endothelial cells. It is hypothesised that this enhanced transendothelial caveolar transport is mediated by 
the gp-60 albumin receptor, and that there is enhanced accumulation of paclitaxel in the area of tumour due to 
the albumin-binding protein Secreted Protein Acidic Rich in Cysteine (SPARC) (SmPC Abraxane). 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 9/31 
 
  
  
 
The safety and efficacy profile of nab-paclitaxel for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer, metastatic 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and non-small cell lung cancer has been demonstrated in several clinical trials 
for the reference medicinal product. In addition, there is a long-term post-marketing experience contributing to 
the knowledge of the clinical use of this active substance. 
The claimed indications of Pazenir are as follows: 
•  Breast cancer: in monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who have 
failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing 
therapy is not indicated. 
•  Non-small cell lung cancer: in combination with carboplatin for the first-line treatment of non-small cell 
lung cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation 
therapy. 
The indication for pancreatic adenocarcinoma is not included. The application is for the 100 mg strength only and 
does not concern the 250 mg that is also approved for Abraxane. 
To demonstrate comparability between the proposed generic product and the reference product Abraxane, the 
physicochemical characteristics and protein characterization of both products were compared. Integrity studies 
were also performed in order to demonstrate that the albumin present in the Pazenir formulation is comparable 
with the albumin present in the reference product and its integrity is not affected by the manufacturing process 
of Pazenir.  
No bioequivalence studies have been conducted. The applicant justified that Pazenir was eligible for a biowaiver 
on the basis of qualitative and quantitative comparability with the reference product and based on the nature of 
the product, rapidly dissociating upon in vivo dilution and binding to endogenous albumin. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for dispersion for infusion containing 5 mg/ml of paclitaxel as 
active substance.  
Other ingredients are albumin (human), sodium caprylate, N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan, sodium chloride, 
hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
The product is available in type 1 glass vials with butyl rubber stoppers and aluminium overseals as described in 
section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of paclitaxel is 5β,20-epoxy-1,7β-dihydroxy-9-oxotax-11-ene-2α,4,10β,13α-tetrayl 
4,10-diacetate 2-benzoate 13-[(2R,3S)-3-(benzoylamino)-2-hydroxy-3-phenylpropanoate)] corresponding to 
the molecular formula C 47H51NO14. It has a relative molecular mass of 854 g/mol and the following structure: 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 10/31 
 
  
  
Figure 1: active substance structure 
As there is a monograph of paclitaxel in the European Pharmacopoeia, the manufacturer of the active substance 
has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for paclitaxel which has been 
provided within the current marketing authorisation application. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the CEP. 
Specification 
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and test methods of the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
The active substance specification used by the finished product manufacturer includes tests for appearance 
(visual), identity (IR, specific optical rotation, both Ph. Eur.), appearance of solution (clarity, colour, both Ph. 
Eur.), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content (Ph. Eur.), heavy metals 
(ICP-OES), microbial contamination (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.). In-house methods were 
adequately described and validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. The microbial contamination 
methods were suitably validated. Suitable information has been provided on the reference standards used for 
assay, impurities and residual solvents testing. 
Batch analysis data from 3 production scale batches of the active substance were provided. The results were 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data was assessed during evaluation of the CEP. No additional data were provided with the present 
application. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion (100 mg/vial) is a white to slightly yellow lyophilized cake, 
packaged in a 50 ml clear Type I glass vial closed with a bromobutyl fluorinated polymer coated stopper which 
is sealed by 20 mm aluminium overseal with a coloured polypropylene snap-cap. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 11/31 
 
  
  
 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a generic medicinal product essentially similar to 
Abraxane 5 mg/ml powder for suspension for infusion. Pazenir has the same active substance, dosage form, 
strength, route of administration and conditions of use as the reference product. 
Although the dosage forms are the same, there is a discrepancy between how these are described in the dossier, 
labelling, and product information. Abraxane is described as a “powder for suspension for infusion.” However, 
this is no longer a valid standard term due to safety concerns with the concept of infusing a suspension, which 
implies solid particles. Therefore, the applicant describes the product as a “powder for dispersion for infusion,” 
which was recommended by EMA during validation and is considered acceptable by CHMP. 
Paclitaxel has poor solubility in aqueous media. Therefore, paclitaxel products aim to increase its solubility by 
use of excipients, for example, Cremophor. However this excipient has been known to cause hypersensitivity 
reactions. Abraxane uses human serum albumin (HSA) as an excipient to stabilise amorphous paclitaxel 
nanoparticles, preventing aggregation and improving dissolution characteristics once diluted with saline for 
intravenous infusion. HSA is a naturally occurring protein, which reduces the risk of any adverse effects during 
infusion. Once administered, the nanoparticles rapidly dissociate into soluble endogenous albumin-bound 
paclitaxel complexes, which are thought to be the major carriers of paclitaxel in blood, and also, to mediate 
tumour uptake. Sodium caprylate and N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan are added to stabilise the albumin, as per the 
reference product. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. 
HSA is supported by a plasma master file and its shelf-life is taken into account when determining the shelf-life 
of the formulated product. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of 
excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The applicant considers the product to be eligible for a biowaiver on the basis of both qualitative and quantitative 
comparability with the reference product. It was stated that the paclitaxel dissociates rapidly upon in vivo 
administration and binds to endogenous albumin. Accordingly, it was argued that excipients do not alter the 
disposition of the product. 
In order to demonstrate essential similarity to the reference product, numerous different characterization 
studies were carried out by using different analytical methods to compare the Pazenir and Abraxane 
formulations. The applicant has divided the characterization tests into 3 parts, namely physico-chemical 
characterization and in vitro dissociation, protein characterization (structural integrity of HSA), and sameness 
and nature of bond between paclitaxel and HSA. However, the initial data was not considered sufficient to grant 
a biowaiver and a multi-disciplinary major objection was raised. In particular, the qualitative and quantitative 
compositions immediately prior to administration had not been adequately compared, there were some 
differences in composition (apparent differences in excipient content and residual solvent content used to 
solubilise paclitaxel during formulation), and the particle size of reference product batches was slightly larger 
than the generic product on average, with inadequate discussion on how these differences might impact 
performance in vivo. Furthermore, the dissociation experiments had only been carried out in a set of media 
considered too limited to mimic in vivo conditions. In addition, comparison had only been carried out with one 
batch of reference product, which prevented any comparison of batch to batch variability. 
In response, the applicant provided extensive additional data comparing relevant characteristics of Pazenir and 
the reference product. This included a demonstration that the differences in physico-chemical properties and 
excipient content were not significant once compared to the batch to batch variability. Protein characterization 
and integrity studies were performed to demonstrate that the albumin present in the test product formulation is 
comparable with the albumin present in the reference product and that its integrity is not affected by the 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 12/31 
 
  
  
manufacturing process. Results of studies on binding characteristics of paclitaxel to HSA showed an identical 
binding site for paclitaxel and the affinity of the drug binding was also the same as for Abraxane. In addition, 
limits for residual solvents were tightened. It was adequately demonstrated that the products can be considered 
essentially qualitatively and quantitatively similar. 
In addition, further studies conducted in relevant media were able to show that the differences in particle size of 
the lyophilized product didn’t translate to significant differences following dilution and simulated infusion. 
Further clarification was requested on the relative amounts of HSA-bound and unbound paclitaxel. The applicant 
explained that there is no non-destructive method available to separate the non-encapsulated paclitaxel from 
the paclitaxel-HSA nanoparticles to accurately measure unbound paclitaxel and therefore no reliable data on 
non-encapsulated paclitaxel could be generated. However, almost all HSA in the formulation is expected to be 
bound to paclitaxel molecules and the fraction of unbound HSA that does not contain paclitaxel is considered to 
be negligible. The conclusion that the percentage of non-encapsulated (unbound) HSA indirectly represents the 
percentage of non-encapsulated paclitaxel (which is bound to the non-encapsulated HSA) is accepted. The 
applicant further described that any free paclitaxel above the maximum solubility will precipitate and be 
removed during the final sterile filtration in the manufacturing process. 
The importance of the dissociation of the nanoparticle has been emphasized throughout the procedure. In 
addition to initially-provided results, dissociation data was provided in comparison to an additional two batches 
of reference product in order to address the concerns about batch to batch variability. Statistical comparison of 
the relative dissociation kinetics showed sufficient overlap. Overall, it is considered that complete dissociation of 
the nanoparticles has been shown in human plasma (neat and diluted) at a clinically relevant paclitaxel 
concentration, (see clinical section, dissociation kinetics sub-heading). Although slight differences were 
observed between the exact time-points at which complete dissociation was achieved in vitro, these were 
adequately justified on the basis that they are on the scale of minutes.  
Overall, it was demonstrated that differences between the test and reference formulations in terms of the 
parameters measured were insignificant, or unlikely to impact the performance of the products. Considering 
that the nanoparticles are expected to dissociate even faster in vivo, and bearing in mind the additional dilution 
effect upon slow intravenous infusion, these minor differences are not expected to have a clinical impact. 
Overall, the biowaiver was considered justified. 
Development of the manufacturing process was considered critical in order to produce a product essentially 
similar to the reference product. The process is based on emulsification followed by solvent evaporation. A 
suitable organic solvent had to be chosen in order to first dissolve paclitaxel and subsequently evaporate on 
lyophilisation. 
In order to optimise the process, various parameters were investigated. In addition, suitable lyophilisation 
conditions were determined in order to remove both water and residuals of used organic solvents. The 
description of the manufacturing process development is suitably detailed. 
Given the nature of the product, it is not possible to conduct terminal sterilisation. Instead, sterile filtration of 
the bulk product is carried out prior to filling and lyophilisation under aseptic conditions. It was demonstrated 
that the filtration step does not impact the nature of the nano-particulate formulation. 
Compatibility studies were conducted with the manufacturing equipment including the vessels, tubing and filter 
material. Following a risk assessment, extractables studies were designed in line with the intended duration of 
the manufacturing process but under exaggerated conditions. No extractables were observed above the applied 
evaluation thresholds, demonstrating compatibility of the manufacturing equipment with the formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 13/31 
 
  
  
The primary packaging is type 1 glass vials with butyl rubber stoppers and aluminium overseals. The materials 
comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been validated by 
stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of multiple steps of which the main ones are: preparation of bulk solutions 
of albumin, saline, paclitaxel and albumin stabilizer solution; preparation of nano-emulsion followed by dilution 
to give a nano-suspension; evaporation of organic solvent, removal of large particles; diafiltration; addition of 
albumin stabilizer solution; sterile filtration; filling followed by lyophilisation; capping; labelling and packaging. 
Overages for paclitaxel and albumin are applied to compensate for losses during the manufacturing process. 
These have been adequately justified and a consistent loss has been observed during different unit operations 
during process validation. The process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
The  following  unit  operations  were  defined  as  critical  for  the  process:  preparation  of  crude  emulsion; 
homogenization  (to  ensure  desired  nano-emulsion  droplet  size);  quenching  (to  maintain  particle  size); 
evaporation for removal of organic solvent; sterile filtration. The process parameters used to control these steps 
have been adequately defined. The extensive IPCs applied to the whole process, and in particular, the critical 
steps, are adequate for this type of manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. Bioburden is tested prior 
to sterile filtration and the integrity of the filters is also tested. Holding times for individual operations have been 
defined and justified with data. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated on 3 consecutive production scale batches of 
finished product. In addition, the sterile filter was tested in a microbial challenge study and demonstrated to be 
suitable for filtration of the bulk product. Media fill studies were carried out to demonstrate an acceptable level 
of aseptic processing. Overall, it has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing 
the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form  including 
appearance (visual), identification (UPLC, UV), reconstitution time (visual), appearance of dispersion (visual), 
particulate  matter  (Ph.  Eur.),  pH  (Ph.  Eur.),  osmolality  (Ph.  Eur.),  particle  size  distribution  (Ph.  Eur.), 
bound/unbound  albumin  (in-house),  closure  integrity  (dye  ingress),  water  content  (Ph.  Eur.),  uniformity  of 
dosage units (Ph. Eur.), residual solvents (GC), related substances (UPLC), solid state form (XRPD), albumin 
oligomeric  status  (UPLC),  albumin  assay  (UPLC),  N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan  assay  (UPLC),  caprylic  acid  assay 
(UPLC), paclitaxel assay (UPLC), sterility (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with the 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing 
has been presented. Impurities present above the qualification limit have been adequately qualified. A risk 
assessment for elemental impurities was carried out according to ICH Q3D indicating low risk of contamination. 
Batch analysis data on 3 batches using a validated ICP-MS method was provided, demonstrating that each 
relevant elemental impurity was not detected above 30% of the respective PDE. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 production scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 14/31 
 
  
  
The finished product is released on the market based on the release specifications, through traditional final 
product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 production scale batches of finished product stored for up to 12 months under long term 
conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH), for up to 12 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 75% RH),  and for up 
to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The 
batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing. 
Samples were tested for appearance, reconstitution time, appearance of dispersion, pH, osmolality, particle size 
distribution,  bound/unbound  albumin,  closure  integrity,  water  content,  related  substances,  solid  state  form, 
albumin oligomeric status, albumin assay, N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan assay, caprylic acid assay, paclitaxel assay, 
sterility, bacterial endotoxins and sub-visible particles. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. 
No significant trends to any of the test parameters were observed under any of the storage conditions. 
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug 
Substances  and  Products.  Product  stored  in  the  primary  container  only  showed  an  increase  in  degradation 
products over time whereas product stored within the primary and secondary (cardboard box) containers did not 
show any difference from the dark control. Therefore, the product is photosensitive and should be stored in the 
outer carton to protect from light exposure. 
In order to assess the stability of the product to short term changes in temperature and humidity which may be 
experienced during uncontrolled transportation or short-term storage outside of the recommended conditions, 
a short term excursion study (-20 oC to 60 oC / 75% RH) and a thermal cycling study (-20 oC to 40 oC / 75% RH) 
were conducted. No significant changes to any measured parameters were observed, meaning that it is not 
necessary to transport the product under controlled conditions. 
An in-use stability study was conducted to evaluate the stability of the product reconstituted in the intended 
infusion fluid (0.9% NaCl) in the primary packaging and in the intended infusion bag. Product from the initial 
time-point and following 12 months’ storage was reconstituted and tested following storage in the original vial, 
inside  the  carton,  under  refrigerated  conditions  or  following  storage  in  the  infusion  bag  under  ambient 
conditions. Stability was demonstrated in both formats for up to 8 hours although it is recommended to transfer 
the  reconstituted  dispersion  from  vial  to  bag  immediately,  and  also  to  use  the  dispersion  in  the  infuse  bag 
immediately (see SmPC section 6.3). 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 2 years with the vial stored in the outer carton to 
protect from light as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3 and 6.4) is acceptable. 
Stability of reconstituted dispersion in the vial: 
Chemical  and  physical  in-use  stability  has  been  demonstrated  for  8  hours  at  2-8  °C  when  the  vial  is  in  the 
original carton, and protected from bright light. Alternative light-protection may be used in the clean room. From 
a  microbiological  point  of  view,  unless  the  method  of  opening/reconstituting/dilution  precludes  the  risks  of 
microbial contamination, the product should be filled into an infusion bag immediately. If not used immediately, 
in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 15/31 
 
  
  
 
 
Stability of the reconstituted dispersion in the infusion bag: 
Chemical  and  physical  in-use  stability  has  been  demonstrated  for  8  hours  not  above  25  °C.  From  a 
microbiological  point  of  view,  unless  the  method  of  opening/reconstituting/dilution  precludes  the  risks  of 
microbial contamination, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times 
and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
Adventitious agents 
Human serum albumin, a plasma-derived product, is used as an excipient in the finished product. The HSA used 
by the manufacturer has a valid marketing authorisation in the EU, linked to a certified plasma master file (PMF). 
The PMF certificate of compliance has been provided, along with a letter of access. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
A CEP was presented for the active substance. Information on development, manufacture and control of the 
finished product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. It was demonstrated through an extensive array 
of studies that Pazenir is essentially similar to the reference product, Abraxane. The data provided justifies the 
biowaiver. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical development was limited to comparative pharmacokinetics studies and demonstration of 
similarity of anti-tumour effects. Other information on pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of 
paclitaxel has been derived from literature and other scientific publications available up to June 2017. 
The following in vivo non-clinical studies were submitted: 
- Study 2215-003: PK study in non-tumour bearing rats with 40L scale development batch in comparison with 
EU and US-sourced Abraxane  
- study MDA-MB231-e461: PK/PD study in tumour bearing mice with a production scale development batch in 
comparison with EU-sourced Abraxane. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 16/31 
 
  
  
 
Study No. 2215-03 
72 male jugular vein-cannulated Sprague-Dawley [Crl:CD (SD)] rats were assigned to six groups (four test 
formulations and 2 batches of Abraxane). The test batches included in study 2215-003 were manufactured at 
different stages of scale-up ranging from early to mid-development. Two batches of Abraxane (EU-sourced and 
US-sourced) were included in the study for comparison with the test formulations.  
Each test and reference product was prepared at a target concentration of 2 mg paclitaxel/mL and administered 
at a dose volume of 5 ml/kg to achieve a dose level of 10 mg paclitaxel/kg. Each group of rats was divided into 
2 cohorts (6 animals per cohort) that were bled at the following alternating collection intervals: 0.033 (2 
minutes), 0.083 (5 minutes), 0.25 (15 minutes), 0.5 (30 minutes), 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hours post dose. All 
animals were bled at 24 hours post dose. Total (i.e. unbound plus bound) and unbound paclitaxel concentrations 
were determined in plasma via HPLC with MS/MS detection.  
Results from the PK analysis are presented below. 
Figure 2: Levels of total paclitaxel in rat plasma after i.v bolus injection of nab-paclitaxel (10 mg 
paclitaxel/kg b.w.). Nominal quantitation range 20.0 – 20000 ng/mL 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 17/31 
 
  
  
 
 
Figure 3: Levels of unbound paclitaxel in rat plasma after i.v. bolus injection of nab-paclitaxel (10 
mg paclitaxel/kg b.w.). Nominal quantitation range 2.00 – 2000 ng/mL 
No deaths were observed and all doses were well-tolerated; no signs of systemic toxicity following 
administration of a single intravenous bolus dose at a dose level of 10 mg/kg were noted. 
Study MDA-MB231-e461 
The anticancer effect of Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion was studied in female athymic nude 
mice transplanted with MDA-MB-231 human breast carcinoma cells, in comparison with EU-sourced Abraxane. 
The study was conducted as a combined pharmacokinetics (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) study.  
The study was performed in the human xenograft MDA-MB231 breast carcinoma model in female NCr nu/nu 
mice. Nude mice were inoculated with MDA-MB231 tumour cells in the flank. For the PD groups (groups 1-5; 
vehicle and two paclitaxel dose levels), a pair match was performed when tumours reached an average size of 
100 – 150 mm3 followed by dosing of the animals (n=20) intravenously in the tail vein with a bolus dose on 
study days 1, 5, and 9.  
Immediately before dosing, reconstitution of test and reference products was done in accordance with the 
instructions of the SmPC of Abraxane in 0.9% sodium chloride for injection. Body weight determination and 
calliper measurement were performed frequently. The endpoint of the study for individual animals in groups 1-5 
was a tumour volume of 1500 mm3 or 59 days, whichever came first. All treated groups showed tumour growth 
delay as compared to vehicle group and a dose response was observed (Figure 4).  
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 18/31 
 
  
  
 
 
Figure 4: Median Tumor Volume in Study MDA-MB231-e461 
The PK part of the study consisted of two groups (group 6 and 7; n=35) treated with Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder 
for dispersion for infusion or Abraxane. Group 8 (n=3) was not treated. Once tumours in Groups 6 and 7 reached 
an acceptable size range (approximately 500 mm3), they were treated with Abraxane and Pazenir, respectively, 
at a dosage of 20 mg/kg i.v. once. The individual tumour volumes ranged from 172 to 1183 mm3 with group 
mean tumour volumes ranging from 505 to 587 mm3. Inadvertently the animals in the PK groups were dosed 
prematurely when group mean tumour volumes were between 128 and 129 mm3. This error was corrected by 
obtaining replacement animals that had been injected previously with MDA-MB-231 cells for group 6+8 and 
group 7, respectively. 
Animals treated with Abraxane and the non-treated animals were sampled 37 days post inoculation, whereas 
the animals treated with Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion were sampled on 26 days post 
inoculation. 
Terminal blood samples were collected via cardiac puncture while under isoflurane anaesthesia from five 
animals in each group at the following time points: 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 3 hours, 8 hours 
and 24 hours post a single dose. Immediately following blood collection, tumour, heart and liver samples were 
collected. Group 8 had three non-treated animals that were sampled as previously described for Groups 6 and 
7. 
The elimination half-life (t½) after IV administration of Abraxane or Pazenir was 0.62 and 0.66 hours 
respectively. It was noted that the 8-hour time point was excluded from the t½ calculation for both groups. The 
plasma AUC0-t was 8043 ng·h/mL for Abraxane and 9086 ng·h/mL for Pazenir, respectively.  
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 19/31 
 
  
  
 
Table 1: Pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel in plasma in a single dose i.v bolus study in tumor-bearing 
female mice administered Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion or Abraxane at 20 
mg/kg bw (Study MDA-MB231-e461) 
Table 2: Pharmacokinetics of total paclitaxel in tissues in a single dose i.v bolus study in 
tumor-bearing female mice administered Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion or 
Abraxane at 20 mg/kg bw (Study MDA-MB231-e461) 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Pazenir is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes 
for all paclitaxel containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical development was limited to comparative studies of the pharmacokinetics and of the 
anti-tumour effects. Information on pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of paclitaxel was derived 
from the literature. The non-clinical overview was based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature and 
thorough literature search was done using a number of different databases/search tool. The following in vivo 
non-clinical studies were provided by the applicant: one PK study in non-tumour bearing rats with 40L scale 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 20/31 
 
  
  
 
 
development batch in comparison with EU and US-sourced Abraxane (study 2215-003) and one PK/PD study in 
tumour bearing mice with a production scale development batch in comparison with EU-sourced Abraxane 
(study MDA-MB231-e461).  
PK analyses in the rat model showed comparable AUC values, volume of distribution (Vz), and clearance (CL) for 
total paclitaxel between Pazenir and Abraxane (EU sourced). Generally, the EU-sourced Abraxane is considered 
the relevant comparator for this application. The test batches included in study 2215-003 were manufactured at 
different stages of scale-up ranging from early to mid-development. Various differences (e.g. a higher organic 
solvent content) between test batches and the “to be marketed product” were detected and their possible 
influence on PK is not entirely clear; e.g. literature suggests, that organic solvents play a significant role in 
nanoparticle formation (effect on the particle size and entrapment efficiency) 1; thus, the relevance of this study 
for the overall bioequivalence approach is considered limited. 
PK analysis showed that for total paclitaxel, AUC values, volume of distribution (Vz), and clearance (CL) were 
more or less comparable for all batches of Pazenir 5 mg/ml and of Abraxane (EU sourced). High variability in C0 
was however observed (range from 570 ng/ml to 55 ng/ml), likely caused by differences in the exact times of 
sampling at the first post administration sampling time (i.e., 2 minutes post dose). 
For unbound paclitaxel, the results of the PK analysis showed that AUC and t½ values were generally lower for 
Pazenir compared to the reference product EU Abraxane. These finding might partly be explained by a strong 
variability in C0 and varying mean values for LLQ. 
Abraxane and Pazenir performed similarly in the MDA-MB-231 human breast carcinoma xenograft model. As 
compared to vehicle all treated groups showed tumour growth delay; a dose response was observed as well. 
Similar delay of tumour growth was observed after treatment with Abraxane and Pazenir, and numbers of partial 
and complete regressions and tumour-free survivors were comparable. Abraxane and Pazenir performed 
similarly in the MDA-MB-231 human breast carcinoma xenograft model. 
The elimination half-life (t½) after IV administration of Abraxane or Pazenir was 0.62 and 0.66 hours 
respectively. It needs however to be mentioned, that the 8-hour time point was excluded from the t½ 
calculation for both groups. According to the Applicant, the reason was that in the Abraxane group the mean 
plasma concentration was higher at 8 hours post-dose than at 3 hours post-dose. This was inconsistent with the 
expected profile after IV administration. The underlying cause for this observation is unknown. The most likely 
explanation for this finding is however an unintended extravascular application, leading to delayed absorption 
and resulting in higher concentrations at later time points. 
The plasma AUC0-t was 8043 ng·h/ml for Abraxane and 9086 ng·h/mL for Pazenir, respectively. The higher 
AUC0-t for Pazenir may be driven by the higher partial AUC0-5 min in this group. This can be explained by the 
higher C5min for Pazenir as the extrapolation to C0 relies heavily on the concentration at the 5-minute time 
point. Two animals in the nab-paclitaxel group had substantially higher plasma concentrations at the 5-minute 
time point had than did the other 3. This resulted in a higher mean concentration at 5 minutes post-dose 
(C5min) for nab-paclitaxel (C5min = 15679±11565 ng/ml) compared to Abraxane (C5min=8493±857 ng/ml). 
A source of this detected variability can be explained by the 5-minute collection time that was allowed to take 
place between 4 – 6 minutes, which may impact concentrations substantially due to the rapid decrease in 
concentrations occurring in that time period.  
1 Vineeth, P et al. (2014). Influence of organic solvents on nanoparticle formation and surfactants on release behaviour 
in-vitro using costunolide as model anticancer agent. International Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. 6. 
638-645. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 21/31 
 
  
  
                                                
 
Paclitaxel exposures (AUC0-t) in heart and liver tissue were comparable between the Abraxane and Pazenir 
groups.  On the contrary, tumour exposure for Pazenir was higher than for Abraxane (AUC0-t: 68309 vs. 
56310). Thus, the PK data on tumour tissue exposure apparently suggested a difference between both 
treatments. However, the differences in growth rates of the tumours, vascularization, etc. may be an underlying 
factor for the variability and the observed differences. Whether paclitaxel concentrations in tumour tissue 
represent an adequate and relevant endpoint for the comparability exercise is questionable. In this respect, the 
comparison of PK results in plasma and organ tissues (liver and heart) seems to be a more robust variable. 
Overall, several methodological weaknesses have been identified in both in vivo non-clinical studies and the 
overall bioequivalence approach is based primarily on in vitro comparative characterization in simulated serum 
and human plasma, which is acceptable for the comparative exercise. 
The justification for not submitting an ERA since it is considered that Pazenir is unlikely to result in a significant 
risk to the environment is acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical overview is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature and is therefore considered 
adequate. Additional in vivo non-clinical studies were provided but their value in the assessment of similarity 
between Pazenir and Abraxane is considered limited due to methodological weaknesses.   
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for a powder for dispersion for infusion containing paclitaxel formulated as albumin-bound 
paclitaxel.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of paclitaxel based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
Exemption  
The applied indications, route of administration, dosage form and strength (100 mg) for Pazenir are the same as 
for Abraxane, except for the following:  
- The indication “in combination with gemcitabine for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas” was excluded from the current applicant for patent reasons.   
- The 250 mg strength, which is authorised for Abraxane, was not applied for in this MA procedure.  
No clinical bioequivalence studies have been provided. The applicant applied for a waiver for bioequivalence 
studies/clinical studies on the basis of the qualitative and quantitative comparability with the reference product 
and based on its rapid dissociation after dilution. 
Pazenir is not an aqueous intravenous solution but a “complex” formulation and as such, a bioequivalence study 
may be necessary, unless otherwise justified. According to the “Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **)”, the following requirements must be met in order to qualify for a 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 22/31 
 
  
  
biowaiver in the case of “complex” formulations (where any excipient could interact with the drug substance or 
otherwise affect the disposition of the drug substance): 
- 
- 
the same excipients in very similar quantities or  
a justification that any difference in quantity does not affect the pharmacokinetics of the active 
substance. 
Based on a rapid dissociation of the nanoparticles upon infusion, the situation shows resemblance to the 
situation of micellar parenteral drug products with rapid degradation of the micellar component. Hence, a 
bioequivalence study may be waived, if all prerequisites as outlined in the “Reflection paper on the 
pharmaceutical development of intravenous medicinal products containing active substances solubilised in 
micellar systems, EMA/CHMP/QWP/799402/2011” are fulfilled.   
- 
- 
- 
- 
the method and rate of administration should be the same as for the approved product; 
rapid disassembly of the micelles on dilution occurs and the drug product is not designed to control 
release or disposition; 
the excipients do not affect the disposition of the drug substance; 
the composition of the micelle infusion immediately before administration should be qualitatively and 
quantitatively the same as that currently approved, and satisfactory data should be provided to 
demonstrate similar physicochemical characteristics. 
Pazenir has the same method and rate of administration, indication, dosage form and strength (100 mg) as 
Abraxane. 
Regarding the qualitative and quantitative composition of the reference and the generic product, the 
concentration of Paclitaxel is the same and the concentration of the excipient albumin is similar. To further 
demonstrate comparability between the proposed product and the reference product Abraxane, the following 
physicochemical characteristics were compared (see quality assessment):  
- 
- 
- 
The total paclitaxel and HSA content as well as paclitaxel/HSA molar ratios; 
average particle size and volume size distribution (by two different dynamic light scattering 
techniques);  
dissociation kinetics comparing three TEVA batches and two EU-reference batches (supported by 
further investigations of one CH-sourced reference batch and two TEVA batches with higher and 
lower paclitaxel: albumin ratio); 
- 
encapsulated and non-encapsulated HSA in the reconstituted suspension using a specific dynamic 
light scattering technique indirectly representing the percentage of non-/encapsulated paclitaxel, 
which is bound to the non-/encapsulated HSA  
- 
protein characterization and integrity studies to demonstrate that the albumin present in the Pazenir 
formulation is comparable with the albumin present in the reference product, and its integrity is not 
affected by the proposed manufacturing process;  
- 
binding characteristics of paclitaxel to HSA using fluorescence spectroscopy and equilibrium dialysis 
(in vitro release kinetics of paclitaxel from paclitaxel-HSA complexes). 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 23/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented (see clinical discussion). 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented (see clinical discussion).  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The applicant has claimed a biowaiver on the basis that the relevant pharmaceutical properties of Pazenir are 
essentially similar to the reference product. The applicant received a scientific advice which related to 
multidisciplinary topics (i.e. pharmaceutical and clinical development) in relation to the suitability of the 
head-to-head in vitro physical and chemical characterisation studies to fulfil the requirements for eligibility for a 
biowaiver, based on the same route of administration (IV), comparability of the qualitative and quantitative 
composition as well as nature of the product (rapid dissociation upon in vivo dilution and binding to endogenous 
albumin). The applicant’s justification was generally acceptable. The nanoparticle suspension is considered a 
“complex” parenteral, for which a clinical bioequivalence study may be necessary. However, a biowaiver could 
be justifiable, if the composition is qualitatively and quantitatively similar to Abraxane and the in vitro 
characteristics of the infusion suspension and the behaviour of the nanoparticles in blood/plasma following 
infusion can be sufficiently characterised by in vitro assays (e.g. showing very rapid dissociation of the 
paclitaxel-albumin nanoparticle during infusion, demonstration that the observed nanoparticles in the infusion 
suspension do not play a role from a PK perspective).  
With regards to the qualitative and quantitative composition of the reference and the generic product, it is 
considered that the concentration of paclitaxel is the same and the concentration of the excipient albumin is 
similar. The possible impact of higher organic solvent content that was reported in one batch of Pazenir was also 
assessed. All important quality attributes (including dissociation kinetics) were shown to be similar between the 
Pazenir batch with a higher organic solvent content and Pazenir batches with normal organic solvent content and 
Abraxane batches. It is concluded that the qualitative composition of the Pazenir product compared to reference 
is the same and that the slight differences in quantitative composition are not expected to affect the 
biodistribution of paclitaxel (see also quality section). 
Additional physicochemical characteristics were compared to support the biowaiver claim. Summarizing the 
results of the extensive set of in vitro experiments, slight differences exist in average paclitaxel:albumin ratio, 
nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size distribution and monomer/oligomer percentage of albumin between Pazenir 
and the reference product Abraxane. The relevance of these differences is discussed further below and PKWP 
input has been sought by the CHMP on the adequacy of the provided in vitro data and the biowaiver approach.  
Dissociation kinetics 
To prove rapid and complete dissociation of the nanoparticles, the in vitro dissociation behaviour was 
characterized in a variety of physiologically-relevant media using the specific dynamic light scattering (DLS) 
technique. The measurements conducted in human plasma are considered most predictive for the in vivo 
situation. Representativeness of this medium for the in vivo situation was sufficiently justified by the Applicant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 24/31 
 
  
  
The average particle diameter and mass-percentage of the particles at different paclitaxel concentrations were  
compared in two EU-sourced Abraxane batches and one CH-sourced Abraxane batch (EU manufacture) three 
TEVA submission batches and two additionally produced batches with higher and lower albumin:paclitaxel 
ratios.   
Demonstrating that the average particle diameter drops to the same average particle diameter of the blank 
human plasma (i.e. the same level as measured in blank plasma) may be accepted as confirmation that 
complete dissociation occurs. The investigated media can be accepted as representative for the in vivo situation 
in humans and the method seems sufficiently validated.  
Statistical comparison (e.g. test versus reference, test versus test, test versus blank medium, reference versus 
blank medium and reference versus reference) was done for the parameter “time-point to reach plateau values” 
(i.e. complete dissociation), using the One-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). As also stated by the PKWP, 
variability within batch was higher than between batches, and variability in the determined parameters time to 
reach complete dissociation and the decay constant of the dissociation kinetics were overlapping.  No statistical 
difference could be demonstrated between test and reference product for the selected parameters. 
Overall, however, it is agreed that complete dissociation of the nanoparticles has been adequately shown in 
human plasma (and diluted human plasma) at a clinically relevant paclitaxel concentration. The Applicant 
adequately discussed the slight differences for the exact time-points, at which complete dissociation was 
achieved in vitro. Considering that nanoparticles are expected to dissociate even faster in vivo (bearing in mind 
the dilution effect upon (slow) intravenous infusion), no impact on the clinical aspects is to be expected.  
Paclitaxel: albumin ratio 
A further important consideration was the possible impact of the differing molar ratios between test and 
reference product.As also emphasised by the PKWP, drug binding characteristics and dissociation kinetic 
experiments indicated no apparent differences for the produced TEVA batches with high and low 
paclitaxel:albumin molar ratio compared to normal TEVA and Abraxane batches. This finding is in line with the 
in vivo PK data for the originator Abraxane, showing that the use of different paclitaxel: albumin molar ratios did 
not affect the exposure (in terms of dose-normalised AUCinf) of paclitaxel in patients (EPAR Abraxane). The 
differences in molar ratios are not expected to have any relevant clinical impact. 
Monomer/oligomer status 
A difference exists between reference and test product in the percentage of albumin monomers and oligomers 
of TEVA submission batches (i.e. freshly produced batches) compared to Abraxane reference batches (i.e. aged 
batches). The deviation from Abraxane oligomer status is slight.  
Observed differences may be explained by differences in age of the batches at the time-point of testing and 
change of oligomer distribution over time (additional long term, intermediate and accelerated stability data have 
been presented). To support this statement, additional in vitro dissociation kinetics of the nanoparticles of one 
Teva submission batch , and one EU reference batch were conducted, both stored for 6 months under long-term 
and accelerated conditions, which showed the same trend of complete dissociation in human plasma, regardless 
of the differences in HSA monomer/oligomer content.  
It is reassuring that batches under similar long term storage conditions are comparable in terms of 
monomer/oligomer status and dissociation kinetics. Furthermore, although recently produced Abraxane versus 
Teva batches were not compared, potential differences in oligomer status are not expected to have any clinically 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 25/31 
 
  
  
 
relevant impact. In the worst case scenario, slight differences in paclitaxel uptake into tumour would be 
expected to be within the expected range of inter-individual variability of the patient population. 
Free and bound paclitaxel fraction 
The ‘unencapsulated’, protein unbound fraction of paclitaxel in plasma at various clinically relevant 
concentrations has not been compared for both products due to feasibility reasons (refer to the quality section). 
This point was also discussed by the PKWP, taking into consideration micellar formulations, for which this is 
considered an important factor for the demonstration of bioequivalence. The PKWP concluded that in the present 
case, considering that comparable dissociation kinetics have been demonstrated and, importantly, that the 
amount of HSA infused is low (<5% of serum albumin in blood) and that comparable binding affinity of 
paclitaxel-HSA has been shown for the TEVA and Abraxane products, it seems highly unlikely that the 
‘unencapsulated’, protein unbound fraction of paclitaxel in plasma would be different at various clinically 
relevant concentrations.  
PKWP responses to CHMP request for input regarding the possibility of a biowaiver for a generic 
Paclitaxel-Albumin nanoparticles 
CHMP Question 
1. Does the PKWP agree that the observed differences between the proposed generic formulation 
(Pazenir) and the reference product (Abraxane) in nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size distribution 
and molar ratio are not expected to impact on the PK as long as comparability of complete 
dissociation of the nanoparticles can be demonstrated?  
PKWP answer: 
Of note, the nanoparticle suspension of paclitaxel-albumin is considered by PKWP as a 'complex' parenteral. The 
PKWP also considers that a generic application with Abraxane as reference product is in principle possible 
because paclitaxel is the active substance, the concentration of paclitaxel is the same, concentration of the 
excipient albumin is similar and intravenous route of administration and dosing recommendations are the same 
for TEVA paclitaxel as for Abraxane.  
Because of the rapid dissociation of the paclitaxel-albumin nanoparticles upon infusion, the situation shows 
resemblance to the situation of micellar parenteral drug products with rapid degradation of the micellar 
component.  Hence, a bioequivalence study can be waived if all requisites as outlined in the Reflection 
(Reflection paper on the pharmaceutical development of intravenous medicinal products containing active 
substances solubilised in micellar systems, EMA/CHMP/QWP/799402/2011) are fulfilled.   
The PKWP also considers that small differences in nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size distribution and molar 
ratio in the infusion solution can be accepted as long as comparability of complete dissociation of the 
nanoparticles in plasma can be demonstrated.  
Argumentation: 
The nanoparticle suspension of paclitaxel-albumin is considered a 'complex' parenteral, for which a 
bioequivalence study may need to be performed regardless of the intravenous route. The main objective of the 
paclitaxel nanoparticles is to overcome the poor solubility of paclitaxel in the infusion solution and not to control 
release or disposition in the bloodstream. During the marketing authorisation procedure of Abraxane, it was 
shown that the nanoparticles dissociate rapidly in the blood circulation into soluble individual albumin-paclitaxel 
complexes (Desai et al., 2008). The data presented by TEVA also show a rapid, complete dissociation of the 
nanoparticles when diluted in plasma. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 26/31 
 
  
  
As the nanoparticles dissociate very rapidly in the blood circulation into soluble individual albumin-paclitaxel 
complexes, the PKWP considers that the situation shows resemblance to the situation of micellar parenteral drug 
products with rapid degradation of the micellar component following intravenous infusion. (Reflection paper on 
the pharmaceutical development of intravenous medicinal products containing active substances solubilised in 
micellar systems EMA/CHMP/QWP/799402/2011). 
Analogous to micellar parenteral drug products, a waiver of a bioequivalence study might be possible for a 
nanoparticle suspension of paclitaxel-albumin. The composition should be qualitative and quantitative very 
similar, the in vitro characteristics of the infusion suspension and the behaviour of the nanoparticles in 
blood/plasma following infusion should be sufficiently characterised by in vitro assays. This is in line with the 
CHMP’s scientific advice in July 2015 (Procedure No: EMEA/H/SA/3120/1/2015/II). 
Pazenir and Abraxane formulations have been characterised extensively by using different analytical methods:  
physico-chemical characterization and in vitro dissociation, protein characterization – structural integrity of 
HSA, and sameness and nature of bond between paclitaxel and HSA. It is understood that in general 
comparability has been sufficiently demonstrated but small differences in nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size 
distribution and molar ratio were observed.  
Reason for waiving a bioequivalence study, is that the main function of the paclitaxel nanoparticles is to 
overcome the poor solubility of paclitaxel in the infusion solution and not to control release or disposition in the 
bloodstream.  Hence, the critical step is the dissociation kinetics of the nanoparticles following infusion. 
Following dissociation, the paclitaxel molecules can still attach to the dissociated albumin or re-complex with 
abundantly available circulating albumin. The amount of albumin in the nanoparticles is only a few percent of the 
endogenous amount of albumin in blood, and therefore the added amount of albumin from the nanoparticle will 
not contribute significantly to the paclitaxel albumin binding in blood. Therefore, small differences in 
nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size distribution and molar ratio in the infusion solution can be accepted as 
long as comparability of dissociation of the nanoparticles can be demonstrated.  
In this respect the additional data of two batches of Abraxane for the EU and CH market, and two TEVA batches 
with a high and low paclitaxel:albumin ratio  submitted at 2nd D180 responses are important data to support the 
comparability between Pazenir and Abraxane.  HSA binding and dissociation kinetic experiments confirmed that 
there was no apparent differences for the batches with high and low paclitaxel:albumin molar ratio compared to 
normal TEVA and Abraxane batches. This is in agreement with the in vivo PK data for Abraxane, which showed 
the use of different albumin: paclitaxel mass ratios did not affect the exposure of paclitaxel in patients. Data 
from 2 new Abraxane batches were provided: one batch from the EU market and one batch for CH market as no 
2 different batches for EU market could be obtained by the applicant. The batch for CH market is manufactured 
within Europe. Overall, the data set of reference and test products seems now sufficient to draw a conclusion on 
comparability. 
2. Is the provided data sufficient to conclude on “similar” dissociation kinetics of Pazenir and the 
reference product? If not, what additional comparative PK data would be needed? 
PKWP answer: 
The comparative dissociation kinetics should be conducted with a sufficient number of test and reference 
batches to evaluate if there is a similar variability in dissociation kinetics between test and reference products. 
Comparability should be supported by statistical analyses or the results of the test product should be within the 
variability observed for the reference product (analogous to comparability assessment of quality attributes of 
biosimilars). 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 27/31 
 
  
  
This has been addressed in the response to the 2nd D180 LOQ: 2 additional batches of Abraxane one for EU 
market and one for CH market were submitted, providing information on inter- and intra-batch variability of the 
various dissociation parameters.  Variability within batch was higher than between batches, and variability in the 
determined parameters time to reach to plateau values and the decay constant of the dissociation kinetics were 
overlapping.  Statistical comparison between the batches (e.g. test versus reference, test versus test, test 
versus blank medium, reference versus blank medium and reference versus reference) was done using the 
One-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). No statistical difference could be demonstrated between test and 
reference product for the selected parameters. It is noted that the objective of the statistical analysis is to 
demonstrate that there is no statistical difference between the batches rather than demonstration of 
comparability. Conduct of statistical analysis for demonstration of comparability for quality attributes is an 
ongoing discussion (Draft reflection paper on statistical methodology for the comparative assessment of quality 
attributes in drug development, EMA/CHMP/138502/2017), and the PKWP considers it is out of their scope to 
evaluate if appropriate statistical methodology has been applied to demonstrate comparable dissociation 
kinetics.     
For micellar formulations, an important assay to waive a bioequivalence study is demonstration of comparable 
free fraction of the active substance in plasma at various clinical relevant concentrations to support comparable 
disposition in vivo. It seems from the D180 report that determination of the ‘unencapsulated’, protein unbound 
fraction of paclitaxel in plasma at various clinical relevant concentrations has not been compared for both 
products. On the other hand, comparable dissociation of the nanoparticles has been demonstrated at various 
paclitaxel concentrations in plasma. As it has been demonstrated that at clinical relevant concentrations the 
nanoparticles are fully dissociated, the amount of HSA infused is <5% of serum albumin in blood, and 
comparable binding affinity of paclitaxel-HSA has been shown for TEVA and Abraxane, PKWP considers it highly 
unlikely that the ‘unencapsulated’, protein unbound fraction of paclitaxel in plasma at various clinical relevant 
concentrations would be different. 
In summary, PKWP considers the submitted data are sufficient to conclude that any observed differences 
between the proposed generic formulation (Pazenir) and the reference product (Abraxane) in nanoparticle size, 
nanoparticle size distribution and molar ratio are not expected to impact on PK and as such no additional 
comparative PK data are needed.  
In conclusion, taking the below points into consideration,  
• 
The main function of the paclitaxel nanoparticles is to overcome the poor solubility of paclitaxel in the 
infusion solution (and not to control release or disposition in the bloodstream). 
•  Similarly rapid complete dissociation of the nanoparticles was shown for two EU reference, one CH 
reference and three generic batches (as well as two batches with lower and upper paclitaxel: albumin 
ratios of 6:1 and 10.3:1). 
• 
Protein characterisation, structural integrity of HSA and drug binding characteristics were shown to be 
similar between test and reference batches.  
•  Weak hydrophobic bonds are present between paclitaxel and HSA. 
• 
Endogenous albumin is abundantly available in vivo and the added amount of albumin from the 
albumin-paclitaxel complexes is not expected to contribute significantly to the paclitaxel albumin 
binding in blood. It is therefore expected that paclitaxel is transferred to endogenous albumin in vivo in 
a similar way for the reference as well as the generic product.  
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 28/31 
 
  
  
it is concluded that the slight differences in nanoparticle size, nanoparticle size distribution and molar ratios as 
well as in HSA polymer content (as seen in the freshly produced TEVA batches as compared to older EU reference 
batches) between the proposed generic formulation and the reference product Abraxane are not expected to 
have an impact on the pharmacokinetics. Based on the same argumentation, no differences in free paclitaxel 
between the products are expected in vivo. 
Overall, it is concluded that the prerequisites for the biowaiver approach have been met.  
Safety aspects 
In terms of safety aspects, a concern was raised on potential risk of medication errors associated with the 
initially proposed product name due to the existence of generics of other formulation of paclitaxel. The name of 
the product has been changed and the SmPC section 4.4 reflects that Pazenir is an albumin-bound nanoparticle 
formulation of paclitaxel, which may have substantially different pharmacological properties compared to other 
formulations of paclitaxel and that it should not be substituted for or administered with other paclitaxel 
formulations. This was considered adequate to minimise this risk of medication errors. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The Pazenir nanoparticle dispersion is considered a complex parenteral. A generic application with Abraxane as 
the reference product is in principle acceptable, as paclitaxel is the active substance, the concentration of 
Paclitaxel is the same, the concentration of the excipient albumin is similar and intravenous route of 
administration and dosing recommendations are the same for TEVA paclitaxel and Abraxane.  
The biowaiver approach is considered acceptable. Based on the provided in vitro comparability data the 
bioequivalence between the proposed Pazenir formulation and the reference product Abraxane at the clinical 
level can be concluded. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety Specification 
There are no important identified or potential risks or missing information. 
The applicant aligned the safety specification with the latest approved safety specification of the reference 
product. 
The CHMP considers that the safety specification in line with the reference product is appropriate. 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine pharmacovigilance activities are considered sufficient to monitor the benefit-risk profile of the product 
and detect any safety concerns. This is in line with the reference product. 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, is of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance plan is 
sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV remains sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 29/31 
 
  
  
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures are considered sufficient for all safety concerns of the product.  
Conclusion 
The RMP version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of paclitaxel formulated as albumin-bound paclitaxel and presented 
as a powder for dispersion for infusion. The reference product is Abraxane 5 mg/ml powder for suspension for 
infusion. The applied indications are in monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and in 
combination with carboplatin for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (see SmPC section 4.1). 
The applicant provided an adequate summary of the available nonclinical literature. In addition, nonclinical 
studies have been provided for this application and are considered acceptable. Although the findings of different 
paclitaxel exposures in the tumour between the Abraxane and Pazenir groups in the mouse study were 
inconclusive, the distribution of paclitaxel to healthy tissue (heart and liver) appeared more robust and 
supportive for the clinical conclusion of a biowaiver.  
The applicant did not submit clinical studies (pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy 
and safety studies). The applicant provided a clinical overview with clinical information from published literature 
and this was considered adequate. Furthermore, exemption from the need to conduct a bioequivalence study 
was considered adequately substantiated.  
Based on the quality, non-clinical and clinical data submitted, the benefit/risk balance of Pazenir is considered 
positive. 
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 30/31 
 
  
  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Pazenir is favourable in the following indication: 
• 
• 
Pazenir monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who 
have failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing 
therapy is not indicated. 
Pazenir in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation therapy. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/202215/2019 
Page 31/31 
 
  
  
 
 
 
