ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion. 
2.  
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles.  
After reconstitution, each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound 
nanoparticles. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for dispersion for infusion. 
The reconstituted dispersion has a pH of 6-7.5 and an osmolality of 300-360 mOsm/kg.  
The powder is white to yellow. 
4.   CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1   Therapeutic indications 
Pazenir monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who 
have failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing 
therapy is not indicated (see section 4.4). 
Pazenir in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
Pazenir in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation 
therapy. 
4.2   Posology and method of administration 
Pazenir should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified oncologist in units 
specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. It should not be substituted for or with other 
paclitaxel formulations. 
Posology 
Breast cancer 
The recommended dose of Pazenir is 260 mg/m2 administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
3 weeks. 
Dose adjustments during treatment of breast cancer 
Patients who experience severe neutropenia (neutrophil count < 500 cells/mm3for a week or longer) or 
severe sensory neuropathy during Pazenir therapy should have the dose reduced to 220 mg/m2 for 
subsequent courses. Following recurrence of severe neutropenia or severe sensory neuropathy, 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
additional dose reduction should be made to 180 mg/m2. Pazenir should not be administered until 
neutrophil counts recover to >1500 cells/mm3. For Grade 3 sensory neuropathy, withhold treatment 
until resolution to Grade 1 or 2, followed by a dose reduction for all subsequent courses. 
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
The recommended dose of Pazenir in combination with gemcitabine is 125 mg/m2 administered 
intravenously over 30 minutes on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. The concurrent 
recommended dose of gemcitabine is 1000 mg/m2 administered intravenously over 30 minutes 
immediately after the completion of Pazenir administration on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. 
Dose adjustments during treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
Table 1: Dose level reductions for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
Dose level 
Full dose 
1st dose level reduction 
2nd dose level reduction 
If additional dose 
reduction required 
Pazenir dose (mg/m2) 
125 
100 
75 
Gemcitabine dose (mg/m2) 
1000 
800 
600 
Discontinue treatment 
Discontinue treatment 
Table 2: Dose modifications for neutropenia and/or thrombocytopenia at the start of a cycle or 
within a cycle for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
Cycle 
Day 
ANC count 
(cells/mm3) 
Platelet count 
(cells/mm3) 
Pazenir Dose 
Gemcitabine 
Dose 
Day 1 
< 1500 
OR  < 100,000 
Delay doses until recovery 
Day 8 
≥ 500 but < 1000 
OR  ≥ 50,000 but < 75,000 
Reduce doses 1 dose level 
< 500 
OR  < 50,000 
Withhold doses 
Day 15:  If Day 8 doses were given without modification: 
Day 15  ≥ 500 but < 1000 
OR  ≥ 50,000 but < 75,000 
Treat with Day 8 dose level and 
follow with WBC Growth Factors 
OR 
Reduce doses 1 dose level from 
Day 8 doses 
< 500 
OR  < 50,000 
Withhold doses 
Day 15:  If Day 8 doses were reduced: 
Day 15  ≥ 1000 
AND  ≥ 75,000 
≥ 500 but < 1000 
OR  ≥ 50,000 but < 75,000 
Return to the Day 1 dose levels and 
follow with WBC Growth Factors 
OR 
Treat with same doses as Day 8 
Treat with Day 8 dose levels and 
follow with WBC Growth Factors 
OR 
Reduce doses 1 dose level from 
Day 8 doses 
< 500 
OR  < 50,000 
Withhold doses 
Day 15:  If Day 8 doses were withheld: 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 15  ≥ 1000 
AND  ≥ 75,000 
≥ 500 but < 1000 
OR  ≥ 50,000 but < 75,000 
Return to Day 1 dose levels and 
follow with WBC Growth Factors 
OR 
Reduce doses 1 dose level from  
Day 1 doses 
Reduce 1 dose level and follow 
with WBC Growth Factors 
OR 
Reduce doses 2 dose levels from 
Day 1 doses 
< 500 
OR  < 50,000 
Withhold doses 
Abbreviations: ANC=Absolute Neutrophil Count; WBC=white blood cell 
Table 3: Dose modifications for other adverse drug reactions in patients with pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
(ADR) 
Febrile Neutropenia: 
Grade 3 or 4 
Peripheral Neuropathy: 
Grade 3 or 4 
Cutaneous Toxicity: 
Grade 2 or 3 
Gastrointestinal 
Toxicity: 
Grade 3 mucositis or 
diarrhoea 
a See Table 1 for dose level reductions 
Pazenir Dose 
Gemcitabine Dose 
Withhold doses until fever resolves and ANC ≥ 1500; resume at 
next lower dose levela 
Withhold dose until improves 
to 
Treat with same dose 
≤ Grade 1; 
resume at next lower dose 
levela 
Reduce to next lower dose levela; 
discontinue treatment if ADR persists 
Withhold doses until improves to ≤ Grade 1; 
resume at next lower dose levela 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
The recommended dose of Pazenir is 100 mg/m2 administered as an intravenous infusion over 
30 minutes on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 21-day cycle. The recommended dose of carboplatin is AUC = 
6 mg•min/mL on Day 1 only of each 21-day cycle, beginning immediately after the end of Pazenir 
administration. 
Dose adjustments during treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 
Pazenir should not be administered on Day 1 of a cycle until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is 
≥1500 cells/mm3 and platelet count is ≥100,000 cells/mm3. For each subsequent weekly dose of 
Pazenir, patients must have an ANC ≥500 cells/mm3 and platelets >50,000 cells/mm3 or the dose is to 
be withheld until counts recover. When counts recover, resume dosing the following week according 
to the criteria in Table 4. Reduce subsequent dose only if criteria in Table 4 are met. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Dose reductions for haematologic toxicities in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
Haematologic Toxicity 
Occurrence 
Dose of Pazenir  
(mg/m2)1 
75 
Dose of carboplatin 
(AUC mg•min/mL)1 
4.5 
First 
Nadir ANC <500/mm3 with 
neutropenic fever > 38°C 
OR 
Delay of next cycle due to 
persistent neutropenia2 (Nadir 
ANC <1500/mm3) 
OR 
Nadir ANC <500/mm3 for > 1 
week 
Nadir platelets <50,000/mm3 
Second 
50 
3.0 
Third 
First 
Second 
Discontinue Treatment 
75 
4.5 
Discontinue Treatment 
1On Day 1 of the 21-day cycle reduce the dose of Pazenir and carboplatin simultaneously. On Days 8 or 15 of the 21-day 
cycle reduce the dose of Pazenir; reduce the dose of carboplatin in the subsequent cycle. 
2Maximum of 7 days post scheduled Day 1 dose of next cycle. 
For Grade 2 or 3 cutaneous toxicity, Grade 3 diarrhoea, or Grade 3 mucositis, interrupt treatment until 
the toxicity improves to ≤ Grade 1, then restart treatment according to the guidelines in Table 5. For 
≥ Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy, withhold treatment until resolution to ≤ Grade 1. Treatment may be 
resumed at the next lower dose level in subsequent cycles according to the guidelines in Table 5. For 
any other Grade 3 or 4 non-haematologic toxicity, interrupt treatment until the toxicity improves to 
≤ Grade 2, then restart treatment according to the guidelines in Table 5. 
Table 5: Dose reductions for non-haematologic toxicities in patients with non-small cell lung 
cancer 
Non-haematologic Toxicity 
Occurrenc
e 
Dose of Pazenir  
(mg/m2)1 
Dose of carboplatin 
(AUC mg•min/mL)1 
Grade 2 or 3 cutaneous toxicity 
Grade 3 diarrhoea 
Grade 3 mucositis 
≥ Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy  
Any other Grade 3 or 4 non- 
haematologic toxicity 
Grade 4 cutaneous toxicity, diarrhoea, or 
mucositis 
First 
Second 
Third 
First 
75 
50 
4.5 
3.0 
Discontinue Treatment 
Discontinue Treatment 
1On Day 1 of the 21-day cycle reduce the dose of Pazenir and carboplatin simultaneously. On Days 8 or 15 of the 21-day 
cycle reduce the dose of Pazenir; reduce the dose of carboplatin in the subsequent cycle. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
For patients with mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 1 to ≤ 1.5 x ULN and aspartate 
aminotransferase [AST] ≤ 10 x ULN), no dose adjustments are required, regardless of indication. Treat 
with same doses as patients with normal hepatic function. 
For metastatic breast cancer patients and non-small cell lung cancer patients with moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 1.5 to ≤ 5 x ULN and AST ≤ 10 x ULN), a 20% reduction in dose 
is recommended. The reduced dose may be escalated to the dose for patients with normal hepatic 
function if the patient is tolerating the treatment for at least two cycles (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
For patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas that have moderate to severe hepatic 
impairment, there are insufficient data to permit dosage recommendations (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients with total bilirubin > 5 x ULN or AST > 10 x ULN, there are insufficient data to permit 
dosage recommendations regardless of indication (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Adjustment of the starting Pazenir dose is not required for patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (estimated creatinine clearance ≥30 to <90 ml/min). There are insufficient data available 
to recommend dose modifications of Pazenir in patients with severe renal impairment or end stage 
renal disease (estimated creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 5.2). 
Elderly 
No additional dosage reductions, other than those for all patients, are recommended for patients 
65 years and older. 
Of the 229 patients in the randomized study who received human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles monotherapy for breast cancer, 13% were at least 65 years of age and < 2% were 
75 years and older. No toxicities occurred notably more frequently among patients at least 65 years of 
age who received human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. However, a subsequent analysis in 
981 patients receiving human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy for metastatic 
breast cancer, of which 15% were ≥ 65 years old and 2% were ≥ 75 years old, showed a higher 
incidence of epistaxis, diarrhoea, dehydration, fatigue and peripheral oedema in patients ≥ 65 years. 
Of the 421 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma in the randomized study who received human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine, 41% were 65 years and 
older and 10% were 75 years and older. In patients aged 75 years and older who received human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and gemcitabine, there was a higher incidence of serious 
adverse reactions and adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation (see section 4.4). Patients 
with pancreatic adenocarcinoma aged 75 years and older should be carefully assessed before treatment 
is considered (see section 4.4). 
Of the 514 patients with non-small cell lung cancer in the randomized study who received human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with carboplatin, 31% were 65 years or older 
and 3.5% were 75 years or older. Myelosuppression events, peripheral neuropathy events, and 
arthralgia were more frequent in patients 65 years or older compared to patients younger than 65 years 
of age. There is limited experience of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin use 
in patients 75 years or older. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling using data from 125 patients with advanced solid 
tumours indicates that patients ≥ 65 years of age may be more susceptible to development of 
neutropenia within the first treatment cycle. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in children and adolescents 
aged 0 to less than 18 years has not been established. Currently available data are described in section 
s 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. There is no relevant use of 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in the paediatric population for the indication of 
metastatic breast cancer or pancreatic adenocarcinoma or non-small cell lung cancer. 
Method of administration 
Pazenir is for intravenous use. Administer reconstituted Pazenir dispersion intravenously using an 
infusion set incorporating a 15 µm filter. Following administration, it is recommended that the 
intravenous line be flushed with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure 
administration of the complete dose. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3   Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
Patients who have baseline neutrophil counts < 1500 cells/mm3. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Pazenir is an albumin-bound nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel, which may have substantially 
different pharmacological properties compared to other formulations of paclitaxel (see sections 5.1 
and 5.2). It should not be substituted for or with other paclitaxel formulations. 
Hypersensitivity 
Rare occurrences of severe hypersensitivity reactions, including very rare events of anaphylactic 
reactions with fatal outcome, have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the medicinal 
product should be discontinued immediately, symptomatic treatment should be initiated, and the 
patient should not be rechallenged with paclitaxel. 
Haematology 
Bone marrow suppression (primarily neutropenia) occurs frequently with human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles. Neutropenia is dose-dependent and a dose-limiting toxicity. Frequent 
monitoring of blood cell counts should be performed during Pazenir therapy. Patients should not be 
retreated with subsequent cycles of Pazenir until neutrophils recover to >1500 cells/mm3 and platelets 
recover to >100,000 cells/mm3 (see section 4.2). 
Neuropathy 
Sensory neuropathy occurs frequently with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles, although 
development of severe symptoms is less common. The occurrence of Grade 1 or 2 sensory neuropathy 
does not generally require dose reduction. When Pazenir is used as monotherapy, if Grade 3 sensory 
neuropathy develops, treatment should be withheld until resolution to Grade 1 or 2 followed by a dose 
reduction for all subsequent courses of Pazenir is recommended (see section 4.2). For combination use 
of Pazenir and gemcitabine, if Grade 3 or higher peripheral neuropathy develops, withhold Pazenir; 
continue treatment with gemcitabine at the same dose. Resume Pazenir at reduced dose when 
peripheral neuropathy improves to Grade 0 or 1 (see section 4.2). For combination use of Pazenir and 
carboplatin, if Grade 3 or higher peripheral neuropathy develops, treatment should be withheld until 
improvement to Grade 0 or 1 followed by a dose reduction for all subsequent courses of Pazenir and 
carboplatin (see section 4.2). 
Sepsis 
Sepsis was reported at a rate of 5% in patients with or without neutropenia who received human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine. Complications due to the 
underlying pancreatic cancer, especially biliary obstruction or presence of biliary stent, were identified 
as significant contributing factors. If a patient becomes febrile (regardless of neutrophil count), initiate 
treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics. For febrile neutropenia, withhold Pazenir and gemcitabine 
until fever resolves and ANC ≥ 1500 cells/mm3, then resume treatment at reduced dose levels (see 
section 4.2). 
Pneumonitis 
Pneumonitis occurred in 1% of patients when human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles was used 
as monotherapy and in 4% of patients when when human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles were 
used in combination with gemcitabine. Closely monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of 
pneumonitis. After ruling out infectious etiology and upon making a diagnosis of pneumonitis, 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
permanently discontinue treatment with Pazenir and gemcitabine and promptly initiate appropriate 
treatment and supportive measures (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Because the toxicity of paclitaxel can be increased with hepatic impairment, administration of Pazenir 
in patients with hepatic impairment should be performed with caution. Patients with hepatic 
impairment may be at increased risk of toxicity, particularly from myelosuppression; such patients 
should be closely monitored for development of profound myelosuppression. 
Pazenir is not recommended in patients that have total bilirubin > 5 x ULN or AST > 10 x ULN. In 
addition, Pazenir is not recommended in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas that 
have moderate to severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 1.5 x ULN and AST ≤ 10 x ULN) (see 
section 5.2). 
Cardiotoxicity 
Rare reports of congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction have been observed among 
individuals receiving human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. Most of the individuals were 
previously exposed to cardiotoxic medicinal products such as anthracyclines, or had underlying 
cardiac history. Thus, patients receiving Pazenir should be vigilantly monitored by physicians for the 
occurrence of cardiac events. 
Central nervous system metastases 
The effectiveness and safety of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in patients with central 
nervous system (CNS) metastases has not been established. CNS metastases are generally not well 
controlled by systemic chemotherapy. 
Gastrointestinal symptoms 
If patients experience nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea following the administration of Pazenir, they 
may be treated with commonly used anti-emetics and constipating agents. 
Eye disorders 
Cystoid macular oedema (CMO) has been reported in patients treated with human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles. Patients with impaired vision should undergo a prompt and complete 
ophthalmologic examination. In case CMO is diagnosed, Pazenir treatment should be discontinued and 
appropriate treatment initiated (see section 4.8). 
Patients 75 years and older 
For patients of 75 years and older, no benefit for the combination treatment of human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles and gemcitabine in comparison to gemcitabine monotherapy has been 
demonstrated. In the very elderly (≥ 75 years) who received human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles and gemcitabine, there was a higher incidence of serious adverse reactions and adverse 
reactions that led to treatment discontinuation including haematologic toxicities, peripheral 
neuropathy, decreased appetite and dehydration. Patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma aged 
75 years and older should be carefully assessed for their ability to tolerate Pazenir in combination with 
gemcitabine with special consideration to performance status, co-morbidities and increased risk of 
infections (see section 4.2 and 4.8). 
Other 
Although limited data is available, no clear benefit in terms of prolonged overall survival has been 
demonstrated in pancreatic adenocarcinoma patients with normal CA 19-9 levels prior to start of 
treatment with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and gemcitabine (see section 5.1). 
Erlotinib should not be co-administered with Pazenir plus gemcitabine (see section 4.5). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interactions with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The metabolism of paclitaxel is catalysed, in part, by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2C8 and 
CYP3A4 (see section 5.2). Therefore, in the absence of a PK drug-drug interaction study, caution 
should be exercised when administering paclitaxel concomitantly with medicinal products known to 
inhibit either CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 (e.g. ketoconazole and other imidazole antifungals, erythromycin, 
fluoxetine, gemfibrozil, clopidogrel, cimetidine, ritonavir, saquinavir, indinavir, and nelfinavir) 
because toxicity of paclitaxel may be increased due to higher paclitaxel exposure. Administering 
paclitaxel concomitantly with medicines known to induce either CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 (e.g. rifampicin, 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, efavirenz, nevirapine) is not recommended because efficacy may be 
compromised because of lower paclitaxel exposures. 
Paclitaxel and gemcitabine do not share a common metabolic pathway. Paclitaxel clearance is 
primarily determined by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 mediated metabolism followed by biliary excretion, 
while gemcitabine is inactivated by cytidine deaminase followed by urinary excretion. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions between Pazenir and gemcitabine have not been evaluated in humans. 
A pharmacokinetic study was conducted with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and 
carboplatin in non-small cell lung cancer patients. There were no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic 
interactions between human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and carboplatin. 
Pazenir is indicated as monotherapy for breast cancer, in combination with gemcitabine for pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma, or in combination with carboplatin for non-small cell lung cancer (see section 4.1). 
Pazenir should not be used in combination with other anticancer agents. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6   Fertility, pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment and up to 
1 month after receiving treatment with Pazenir. Male patients treated with Pazenir are advised to use 
effective contraception and to avoid fathering a child during and up to six months after treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are very limited data on the use of paclitaxel in human pregnancy. Paclitaxel is suspected to 
cause serious birth defects when administered during pregnancy. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Women of childbearing potential should have a pregnancy test 
prior to starting treatment with Pazenir. Pazenir should not be used in pregnancy, and in women of 
childbearing potential not using effective contraception, unless the clinical condition of the mother 
requires treatment with paclitaxel. 
Breast-feeding 
Paclitaxel and/or its metabolites were excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). It is not 
known if paclitaxel is excreted in human milk. Because of potential serious adverse reactions in 
breast-feeding infants, Pazenir is contraindicated during lactation.  Breast-feeding must be 
discontinued for the duration of therapy. 
Fertility 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles induced infertility in male rats (see section 5.3). Based 
on findings in animals, male and female fertility may be compromised. Male patients should seek 
advice on conservation of sperm prior to treatment because of the possibility of irreversible infertility 
due to therapy with Pazenir. 
4.7   Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Paclitaxel has minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Paclitaxel may 
cause adverse reactions such as tiredness (very common) and dizziness (common) that may affect the 
ability to drive and use machinery. Patients should be advised not to drive and use machines if they 
feel tired or dizzy. 
4.8   Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common clinically significant adverse reactions associated with the use of human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles have been neutropenia, peripheral neuropathy, arthralgia/myalgia and 
gastrointestinal disorders. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 6 lists adverse reactions associated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles 
monotherapy at any dose in any indication during clinical trials (N = 789), human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparicles in combination with gemcitabine for pancreatic adenocarcinoma from the 
phase III clinical trial (N = 421), human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with 
carboplatin for non-small cell lung cancer from the phase III clinical trial (N = 514) and from post-
marketing use. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 
to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 6: Adverse reactions reported with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles  
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Sepsis, pneumonia, 
oral candidiasis 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Pneumonia, bronchitis, 
upper respiratory tract 
infection, urinary tract 
infection 
Sepsis, oral candidiasis 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
Infections and infestations 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Infection, urinary tract 
infection, folliculitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection, 
candidiasis, sinusitis 
Sepsis1, neutropenic sepsis1, 
pneumonia, oral candidiasis, 
nasopharyngitis, cellulitis, 
herpes simplex, viral 
infection, herpes zoster, 
fungal infection, catheter-
related infection, injection 
site infection 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Uncommon: 
Tumour necrosis, metastatic 
pain 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common: 
Bone marrow suppression, 
neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia, anaemia, 
leukopenia,  lymphopenia 
Common: 
Febrile neutropenia 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Immune system disorders 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Severe hypersensitivity1 
Very common: 
Anorexia 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Dehydration, decreased 
appetite, hypokalaemia 
Hypophosphataemia, fluid 
retention, 
hypoalbuminaemia, 
polydipsia, hyperglycaemia, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hypoglycaemia, 
hyponatraemia 
Tumour lysis syndrome1 
Not known: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Depression, insomnia, 
anxiety 
Uncommon: 
Nervous system disorders 
Restlessness 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Peripheral neuropathy, 
neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia 
Peripheral sensory 
neuropathy, dizziness, 
peripheral motor neuropathy, 
ataxia, headache, sensory 
disturbance, somnolence, 
dysgeusia 
Polyneuropathy, areflexia, 
syncope, postural dizziness, 
11 
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia 
Neutropenia3, 
thrombocytopenia3, 
anaemia3, leukopenia3  
Pancytopenia 
Thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic 
purpura 
Febrile neutropenia, 
lymphopenia 
Pancytopenia 
Drug hypersensitivity, 
hypersensitivity 
Dehydration, 
decreased appetite, 
hypokalaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Dehydration 
Depression, insomnia 
Anxiety 
Insomnia 
Peripheral 
neuropathy, 
dizziness, headache, 
dysgeusia 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Dizziness, headache, 
dysgeusia 
VIIth nerve paralysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
dyskinesia, hyporeflexia, 
neuralgia, neuropathic pain, 
tremor, sensory loss 
Cranial nerve palsies 
multiple1 
Vision blurred, lacrimation 
increased, dry eye, 
keratoconjunctivitis sicca, 
madarosis 
Reduced visual acuity, 
abnormal vision, eye 
irritation, eye pain, 
conjunctivitis, visual 
disturbance, eye pruritus, 
keratitis 
Not known: 
Eye disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Lacrimation 
increased 
Vision blurred 
Cystoid macular 
oedema 
Cystoid macular oedema1 
Rare: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Cardiac disorders 
Vertigo 
Tinnitus, ear pain 
Common: 
Rare 
Arrhythmia, tachycardia, 
supraventricular tachycardia 
Cardiac arrest, cardiac failure 
congestive, left ventricular 
dysfunction,  atrioventricular 
block1, bradycardia 
Cardiac failure 
congestive, 
tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Hypertension, lymphoedema, 
flushing, hot flushes 
Hypotension, 
hypertension 
Hypotension, 
hypertension 
Uncommon: 
Hypotension, orthostatic 
hypotension, peripheral 
coldness 
Thrombosis 
Rare: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Flushing 
Flushing 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Interstitial pneumonitis2, 
dyspnoea, epistaxis, 
pharyngolaryngeal pain, 
cough, rhinitis, rhinorrhoea 
Pulmonary emboli, 
pulmonary 
thromboembolism, pleural 
effusion, exertional 
dyspnoea, sinus congestion, 
12 
Dyspnoea, epistaxis, 
cough 
Pneumonitis, nasal 
congestion 
Dyspnoea 
Haemoptysis, epistaxis, 
cough 
Dry throat, nasal 
dryness 
Pneumonitis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Diarrhoea, vomiting, 
nausea, constipation, 
abdominal pain, 
abdominal pain upper 
Intestinal obstruction, 
colitis, stomatitis, dry 
mouth 
Diarrhoea, vomiting, 
nausea, constipation 
Stomatitis, dyspepsia, 
dysphagia, abdominal 
pain 
Cholangitis 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Alopecia, rash 
Pruritus, dry skin, 
nail disorder 
Alopecia, rash 
Pruritus, nail disorder 
Skin exfoliation, 
dermatitis allergic, 
urticaria 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
decreased breath sounds, 
productive cough, allergic 
rhinitis, hoarseness, nasal 
congestion, nasal dryness, 
wheezing 
Vocal cord paresis1 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: 
Diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, stomatitis 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, dyspepsia, 
abdominal pain, abdominal 
distension, abdominal pain 
upper, oral hypoaesthesia 
Rectal haemorrhage, 
dysphagia, flatulence, 
glossodynia, dry mouth, 
gingival pain, loose stools, 
oesophagitis, abdominal pain 
lower, mouth ulceration, oral 
pain 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Hepatomegaly 
Common: 
Uncommon 
Alopecia, rash 
Pruritus, dry skin, nail 
disorder, erythema, nail 
pigmentation/discolouration, 
skin hyperpigmentation, 
onycholysis, nail changes 
Photosensitivity reaction, 
urticaria, skin pain, 
generalised pruritus, pruritic 
rash, skin disorder, 
pigmentation disorder, 
hyperhidrosis, 
onychomadesis, 
erythematous rash, 
generalised rash, dermatitis, 
night sweats, maculo-papular 
rash, vitiligo, hypotrichosis, 
nail bed tenderness, nail 
discomfort,  macular rash, 
papular rash, skin lesion, 
swollen face 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis1 
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesiae 
syndrome1, 4, scleroderma1 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Arthralgia, myalgia 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Back pain, pain in extremity, 
bone pain, muscle cramps, 
limb pain 
Chest wall pain, muscular 
weakness, neck pain, groin 
pain, muscle spasms, 
musculoskeletal pain, flank 
pain, limb discomfort, 
muscle weakness 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Haematuria, dysuria, 
pollakiuria, nocturia, 
polyuria, urinary 
incontinence 
Arthralgia, myalgia, 
pain in extremity 
Muscular weakness, 
bone pain 
Arthralgia, myalgia 
Back pain, pain in 
extremity, 
musculoskeletal pain 
Acute renal failure 
Haemolytic uraemic 
syndrome 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon: 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Breast pain 
Very common: 
Fatigue, asthenia, pyrexia 
Common: 
Malaise, lethargy, weakness, 
peripheral oedema, mucosal 
inflammation, pain, rigors, 
oedema, decreased 
performance status, chest 
pain, influenza-like illness, 
hyperpyrexia 
Uncommon: 
Chest discomfort, abnormal 
gait, swelling, injection site 
reaction 
Fatigue, asthenia, 
pyrexia, oedema 
peripheral, chills 
Infusion site reaction  Pyrexia, chest pain 
Fatigue, asthenia, 
oedema peripheral 
Mucosal inflammation, 
infusion site, 
extravasation, infusion 
site inflammation, 
infusion site rash 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Extravasation 
Very common: 
Weight decreased, 
alanine 
aminotransferase, 
increased 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination 
therapy with 
gemcitabine 
(N = 421) 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased, blood 
bilirubin increased, 
blood creatinine 
increased 
Combination therapy 
with carboplatin 
(N = 514) 
Weight decreased, 
alanine aminotransferase 
increased, aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased, blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased, 
Monotherapy (N = 789) 
Decreased weight, increased 
alanine aminotransferase, 
increased aspartate 
aminotransferase, decreased 
haematocrit, decreased red 
blood cell count, increased 
body temperature, increased 
gamma-glutamyltransferase, 
increased blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
Increased blood pressure, 
increased weight, increased 
blood lactate dehydrogenase, 
increased blood creatinine, 
increased blood glucose, 
increased blood phosphorus, 
decreased blood potassium, 
increased bilirubin 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Contusion 
Uncommon: 
Radiation recall 
phenomenon, radiation 
pneumonitis 
Rare: 
1 As reported in the post-marketing surveillance of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. 
2 The frequency of pneumonitis is calculated based on pooled data in 1310 patients in clinical trials receiving human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy for breast cancer and for other indications. 
3 Based on laboratory assessments: maximal degree of myelosuppression (treated population). 
4 In some patiets previously exposed to capecitabine. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
This section contains the most common and clinically relevant adverse reactions related to human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. 
Adverse reactions were assessed in 229 patients with metastatic breast cancer who were treated with 
260 mg/m2 human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles once every three weeks in the pivotal phase 
III clinical study (human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy). 
Adverse reactions were assessed in 421 patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who were treated 
with human serum albumin-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine (125 mg/m2 human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine at a dose of 1000 mg/m2 given on 
Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle) and 402 gemcitabine monotherapy-treated patients receiving 
first-line systemic treatment for metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine). 
Adverse reactions were assessed in 514 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were treated with 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with carboplatin (100 mg/m2 human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles given on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 21-day cycle in 
combination with carboplatin given on Day 1 of each cycle) in the phase III randomized, controlled 
clinical trial (human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin). Patient-reported taxane 
toxicity was assessed using the 4 subscales of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taxane questionnaire. Using repeated measure analysis, 3 of the 4 subscales (peripheral neuropathy, 
pain hands/feet and hearing) favored human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and carboplatin 
(p ≤ 0.002). For the other subscale (oedema), there was no difference in the treatment arms. 
Infections and infestations 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine 
Sepsis was reported at a rate of 5% in patients with or without neutropenia who received human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine during the conduct of a trial in 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Of the 22 cases of sepsis reported in patients treated with human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine, 5 had a fatal outcome. 
Complications due to the underlying pancreatic cancer, especially biliary obstruction or presence of 
biliary stent, were identified as significant contributing factors. If a patient becomes febrile (regardless 
of neutrophil count), initiate treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics. For febrile neutropenia, 
withhold Pazenir and gemcitabine until fever resolves and ANC ≥ 1500 cells/mm3, then resume 
treatment at reduced dose levels (see section 4.2). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
In patients with metastatic breast cancer, neutropenia was the most notable important haematological 
toxicity (reported in 79% of patients) and was rapidly reversible and dose-dependent; leukopenia was 
reported in 71% of patients. Grade 4 neutropenia (< 500 cells/mm3) occurred in 9% of patients treated 
with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. Febrile neutropenia occurred in four patients on 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. Anaemia (Hb < 10 g/dl) was observed in 46% of 
patients on human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles, and was severe (Hb < 8 g/dl) in three 
cases. Lymphopenia was observed in 45% of the patients. 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine 
Table 7 provides the frequency and severity of haematologic laboratory-detected abnormalities for 
patients treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine 
or with gemcitabine. 
Table 7: Haematologic laboratory-detected abnormalities in pancreatic adenocarcinoma trial 
Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles 
(125 mg/m2)/ Gemcitabine 
Grades 1-4 
(%) 
97 
73 
74 
a 405 patients assessed in human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine-treated group 
b 388 patients assessed in gemcitabine-treated group 
c 404 patients assessed in human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine-treated group 
Anaemiaa,b 
Neutropenia a,b 
Thrombocytopeniab,c 
Grade 3-4 
(%) 
12 
27 
9 
Grade 3-4 (%)  Grades 1-4 
(%) 
96 
58 
70 
Gemcitabine 
13 
38 
13 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin 
Anaemia and thrombocytopenia were more commonly reported in the human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles and carboplatin arm than in the Taxol and carboplatin arm (54% versus 28% 
and 45% versus 27% respectively). 
Nervous system disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
In general, the frequency and severity of neurotoxicity was dose-dependent in patients receiving 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. Peripheral neuropathy (mostly Grade 1 or 2 sensory 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
neuropathy) was observed in 68% of patients on human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles with 
10% being Grade 3, and no cases of Grade 4. 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine 
For patients treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with 
gemcitabine, the median time to first occurrence of Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy was 140 days. The 
median time to improvement by at least 1 grade was 21 days, and the median time to improvement 
from Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy to Grade 0 or 1 was 29 days. Of the patients with treatment 
interrupted due to peripheral neuropathy, 44% (31/70 patients) were able to resume human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles at a reduced dose. No patients treated with human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine had Grade 4 peripheral neuropathy. 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin 
For non-small cell lung cancer patients treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles 
and carboplatin, the median time to first occurrence of Grade 3 treatment-related peripheral 
neuropathy was 121 days, and the median time to improvement from Grade 3 treatment related 
peripheral neuropathy to Grade 1 was 38 days.  No patients treated with human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles and carboplatin experienced Grade 4 peripheral neuropathy. 
Eye disorders 
There have been rare reports during post-marketing surveillance of reduced visual acuity due to 
cystoid macular oedema during treatment with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles (see 
section 4.4). 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine 
Pneumonitis has been reported at a rate of 4% with the use of human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine. Of the 17 cases of pneumonitis reported in patients 
treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with gemcitabine, 2 had a 
fatal outcome. Monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis. After ruling out 
infectious etiology and upon making a diagnosis of pneumonitis, permanently discontinue treatment 
with Pazenir and gemcitabine and promptly initiate appropriate treatment and supportive measures 
(see section 4.2). 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
Nausea occurred in 29% of the patients and diarrhoea in 25% of the patients.  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
Alopecia was observed in >80% of the patients treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles. The majority of alopecia events occurred less than one month after initiation of human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles. Pronounced hair loss ≥ 50% is expected for the majority of 
patients who experience alopecia. 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
Arthralgia occurred in 32% of patients on human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and was 
severe in 6% of cases. Myalgia occurred in 24% of patients on human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles and was severe in 7% of cases. The symptoms were usually transient, typically occurred 
three days after human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles administration and resolved within a 
week.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles monotherapy-metastatic breast cancer 
Asthenia/Fatigue was reported in 40% of the patients. 
Paediatric population 
The study consisted of 106 patients, 104 of whom were paediatric patients aged from 6 months to less 
than 18 years (see section 5.1). Every patient experienced at least 1 adverse reaction. The most 
frequently reported adverse reactions were neutropenia, anaemia, leukopenia and pyrexia. Serious 
adverse reactions reported in more than 2 patients were pyrexia, back pain, peripheral oedema and 
vomiting. No new safety signals were identified in the limited number of paediatric patients treated 
with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles and the safety profile was similar to that of the 
adult population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9   Overdose 
There is no known antidote for paclitaxel overdose. In the event of an overdose, the patient should be 
closely monitored. Treatment should be directed at the major anticipated toxicities, which are bone 
marrow suppression, mucositis and peripheral neuropathy. 
5.  
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, plant alkaloids and other natural products, taxanes, 
ATC Code: L01CD01 
Mechanism of action 
Paclitaxel is an antimicrotubule agent that promotes the assembly of microtubules from tubulin dimers 
and stabilises microtubules by preventing depolymerisation. This stability results in the inhibition of 
the normal dynamic reorganisation of the microtubule network that is essential for vital interphase and 
mitotic cellular functions. In addition, paclitaxel induces abnormal arrays or “bundles” of microtubules 
throughout the cell cycle and multiple asters of microtubules during mitosis. 
Pazenir contains human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles of approximately 130 nm in size, 
where the paclitaxel is present in a non-crystalline, amorphous state. Upon intravenous administration, 
the nanoparticles dissociate rapidly into soluble, albumin bound paclitaxel complexes of 
approximately 10 nm in size. Albumin is known to mediate endothelial caveolar transcytosis of 
plasma constituents, and in vitro studies demonstrated that the presence of albumin enhances transport 
of paclitaxel across endothelial cells. It is hypothesised that this enhanced transendothelial caveolar 
transport is mediated by the gp-60 albumin receptor, and that there is enhanced accumulation of 
paclitaxel in the area of tumour due to the albumin-binding protein Secreted Protein Acidic Rich in 
Cysteine (SPARC). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Breast cancer 
Data from 106 patients accrued in two single-arm open-label studies and from 454 patients treated in a 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised Phase III comparative study are available to support the use of human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles in metastatic breast cancer. This information is presented below. 
Single-arm open-label studies 
In one study, human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles were administered as a 30-minute 
infusion at a dose of 175 mg/m2 to 43 patients with metastatic breast cancer. The second trial utilised a 
dose of 300 mg/m2 as a 30 minute infusion in 63 patients with metastatic breast cancer. Patients were 
treated without steroid pre-treatment or planned G-CSF support. Cycles were administered at 3-week 
intervals. The response rates in all patients were 39.5% (95% CI: 24.9%-54.2%) and 47.6% (95% CI: 
35.3%-60.0%), respectively. The median time to disease progression was 5.3 months (175 mg/m2; 
95% CI: 4.6-6.2 months) and 6.1 months (300 mg/m2; 95% CI: 4.2-9.8 months). 
Randomised comparative study 
This multi-centre trial was conducted in patients with metastatic breast cancer, who were treated every 
3 weeks with single-agent paclitaxel, either as solvent-based paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 given as a 3-hour 
infusion with premedication to prevent hypersensitivity (N = 225), or as human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles 260 mg/m2 given as a 30 minute infusion without premedication (N = 229). 
Sixty-four percent of patients had impaired performance status (ECOG 1 or 2) at study entry; 79% had 
visceral metastases; and 76% had > 3 sites of metastases. Fourteen percent of the patients had not 
received prior chemotherapy; 27% had received chemotherapy in the adjuvant setting only, 40% in the 
metastatic setting only, and 19% in both metastatic and adjuvant settings. Fifty-nine percent received 
study medicinal product as second or greater than second-line therapy. Seventy-seven percent of the 
patients had been previously exposed to anthracyclines. 
Results for overall response rate and time to disease progression, and progression-free survival and 
survival for patients receiving > 1st-line therapy, are shown below. 
Table 8: Results for overall response rate, median time to disease progression, and progression-
free survival as assessed by the investigator 
Efficacy variable 
Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles 
(260 mg/m2) 
Solvent-based paclitaxel 
(175 mg/m2) 
p-value 
Response rate [95% CI] (%) 
> 1st-line therapy 
26.5 [18.98, 34.05] (n = 132) 
13.2 [7.54, 18.93] (n = 136) 
0.006a 
*Median time to disease progression [95% CI] (weeks) 
> 1st-line therapy 
20.9 [15.7, 25.9] (n = 131) 
16.1 [15.0, 19.3] (n = 135) 
0.011b 
*Median progression free survival [95% CI] (weeks) 
> 1st-line therapy 
20.6 [15.6, 25.9] (n = 131) 
16.1 [15.0, 18.3] (n = 135) 
0.010b 
*Survival [95% CI] (weeks) 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> 1st-line therapy 
56.4 [45.1, 76.9] (n = 131) 
46.7 [39.0, 55.3] (n = 136) 
0.020b 
*This data is based on Clinical Study Report: CA012-0 Addendum dated Final (23 March-2005) 
a Chi-squared test 
b Log-rank test 
Two hundred and twenty nine patients treated with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in 
the randomized, controlled clinical trial were evaluated for safety. Neurotoxicity to paclitaxel was 
evaluated through improvement by one grade for patients experiencing Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy 
at any time during therapy. The natural course of peripheral neuropathy to resolution to baseline due to 
cumulative toxicity of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles after > 6 courses of treatment 
was not evaluated and remains unknown. 
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
A multicenter, multinational, randomized, open-label study was conducted in 861 patients to compare 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine versus gemcitabine monotherapy as first-
line treatment in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles were administered to patients (N = 431) as an intravenous infusion over 30-40 
minutes at a dose of 125 mg/m2 followed by gemcitabine as an intravenous infusion over 30-40 
minutes at a dose of 1000 mg/m2 given on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. In the comparator 
treatment arm, gemcitabine monotherapy was administered to patients (N = 430) in accordance with 
the recommended dose and regimen. Treatment was administered until disease progression or 
development of an unacceptable toxicity. Of the 431 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma who 
were randomized to receive human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in combination with 
gemcitabine, the majority (93%) were white, 4% were black and 2% were Asian. 16% had a 
Karnofsky Performance Status of 100; 42% had a KPS of 90; 35% had a KPS of 80; 7% had a KPS of 
70; and <1% of patients had a KPS of below 70. Patients with high cardiovascular risk, history of 
peripheral artery disease and/or of connective tissue disorders and/or interstitial lung disease were 
excluded from the study. 
Patients received a median treatment duration of 3.9 months in the human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles/gemcitabine arm and 2.8 months in the gemcitabine arm. 32% of patients in the human 
serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine arm compared with 15% of patients in the 
gemcitabine arm received 6 or more months of treatment. For the treated population, the median 
relative dose intensity for gemcitabine was 75% in the human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles/gemcitabine arm and 85% in the gemcitabine arm. The median relative dose intensity of 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles was 81%. A higher median cumulative dose of 
gemcitabine was delivered in the human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine arm 
(11400 mg/m2) when compared with the gemcitabine arm (9000 mg/m2). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was overall survival (OS). The key secondary endpoints were 
progression- free survival (PFS) and overall response rate (ORR), both assessed by independent, 
central, blinded radiological review using RECIST guidelines (Version 1.0). 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Efficacy results from randomized study in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma 
(Intent-to-treat population) 
Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles 
(125 mg/m2)/gemcitabine 
(N=431) 
Gemcitabine 
(N=430) 
333(77) 
8.5 (7.89, 9.53) 
359 (83) 
6.7 (6.01, 7.23) 
0.72 (0.617, 0.835) 
<0.0001 
35% (29.7, 39.5) 
9% (6.2, 13.1) 
22% (18.1, 26.7) 
4% (2.3, 7.2) 
14.8 
277 (64) 
11.4 
265 (62) 
5.5 (4.47, 5.95) 
3.7 (3.61, 4.04) 
0.69 (0.581, 0.821) 
<0.0001 
99 (23) 
19.1,27.2 
31 (7) 
5.0, 10.1 
3.19 (2.178, 4.662) 
<0.0001 
Overall Survival 
Number of deaths (%) 
Median Overall Survival, 
months (95% CI) 
  HRA+G/G(95% Cl)a 
P-valueb 
Survival Rate % (95% CI) 
at 
1 Year 
2 Year 
75th Percentile Overall 
Survival (months) 
Progression-free Survival 
Death or progression, n 
(%) 
Median Progression-free 
Survival, months (95% CI) 
HRA+G/G (95%Cl)a 
P-valueb 
Overall Response Rate 
Confirmed complete or 
partial overall response, n 
(%) 
95% CI 
pA+G/pG(95% Cl) 
P-value (chi-square test) 
CI = confidence interval, HRA+G/G = hazard ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles+gemcitabine/gemcitabine, pA+G/pG=response rate ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles+gemcitabine/gemcitabine 
a stratified Cox proportional hazard model 
b stratified log-rank test, stratified by geographic region (North America versus others), KPS (70 to 80 versus 90 to 100), and 
presence of liver metastasis (yes versus no). 
There was a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients treated with human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone, with 1.8 months increase in 
median OS, 28% overall reduction in risk of death, 59% improvement in 1-year survival, and 125% 
improvement in 2-year survival rates. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curve of overall survival (intent-to-treat population) 
 Paclitaxel-albumin+Gemcitabine 
 Gemcitabine 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
(PT at Risk) 
Pacl-alb/GEM: 
          GEM: 
Time (months) 
Treatment effects on OS favoured the human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine arm 
across the majority of pre-specified subgroups (including gender, KPS, geographic region, primary 
location of pancreatic cancer, stage at diagnosis, presence of liver metastases, presence of peritoneal 
carcinomatosis, prior Whipple procedure, presence of  biliary stent at baseline, presence of pulmonary 
metastases, and number of metastatic sites). For patients ≥ 75 years of age in the human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine and gemcitabine arms the survival Hazard Ratio (HR) 
was 1.08 (95% CI 0.653, 1. 797). For patients with normal baseline CA 19-9 levels the survival HR 
was 1.07 (95% CI 0.692, 1.661). 
There was a statistically significant improvement in PFS for patients treated with human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone, with 1.8 months increase in 
median PFS. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
A multicenter, randomized, open-label study was conducted in 1052 chemotherapy-naive patients with 
Stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer. The study compared human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles in combination with carboplatin versus solvent-based paclitaxel in combination with 
carboplatin as first-line treatment in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Over 99% of 
patients had an ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status of 0 or 1. Patients 
with pre-existing neuropathy of Grade ≥ 2 or serious medical risk factors involving any of the major 
organ systems were excluded. Human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles were administered to 
patients (N=521) as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at a dose of 100 mg/m2 on Days 1, 8 and 
15 of each 21-day cycle without any steroid premedication and without granulocyte colony stimulating 
factor prophylaxis. Beginning immediately after the end of human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles administration, carboplatin at a dose of AUC = 6 mg•min/mL was administered 
intravenously on Day 1 only of each 21-day cycle. Solvent-based paclitaxel was administered to 
patients (N=531) at a dose of 200 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion over 3 hours with standard 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
premedication, immediately followed by carboplatin administered intravenously at AUC = 
6 mg•min/mL. Each medicinal product was administered on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle. In both study 
arms treatment was administered until disease progression or development of an unacceptable toxicity. 
Patients received a median of 6 cycles of treatment in both study arms. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was overall response rate defined as the percentage of patients who 
achieved an objective confirmed complete response or partial response based on an independent, 
central, blinded radiological review using RECIST (Version 1.0). Patients in the human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin arm had a significantly higher overall response rate 
compared with patients in the control arm: 33% versus 25%, p = 0.005 (Table 10). There was a 
significant difference in overall response rate in the human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles/carboplatin arm compared to the control arm in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
of squamous histology (N=450, 41% vs. 24%, p<0.001), however this difference did not translate into 
a difference in PFS or OS. There was no difference in ORR between the treatment arms in patients 
with non-squamous histology (N=602, 26% vs 25%, p=0.808). 
Table 10: Overall response rate in randomized non-small cell lung cancer trial (intent-to-treat 
population) 
Efficacy Parameter 
Overall Response Rate 
(independent review) 
Confirmed complete or partial overall 
response, n (%) 
95% CI (%) 
pA/pT (95.1% CI) 
P-valuea 
Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles  
(100 mg/m2/week) + 
carboplatin (N=521) 
Solvent-based paclitaxel 
(200 mg/m2 every 3 
weeks) + carboplatin 
(N=531) 
170 (33%) 
28.6, 36.7 
132 (25%) 
21.2, 28.5 
1.313 (1.082, 1.593) 
0.005 
CI = confidence interval; HRA/T = hazard ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin to solvent-based 
paclitaxel/carboplatin; pA/pT = response rate ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin to solvent-
based paclitaxel/carboplatin. 
a P-value is based on a chi-square test. 
There was no statistically significant difference in progression-free survival (by blinded radiologist 
assessment) and overall survival between the two treatment arms. A non-inferiority analysis was 
conducted for PFS and OS, with a pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 15%. The non-inferiority 
criterion was met for both PFS and OS with the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval for the 
associated hazard ratios being less than 1.176 (Table 11). 
Table 11: Non-inferiority analyses on progression-free survival and overall survival in 
randomized non-small cell lung cancer trial (intent-to-treat population) 
Efficacy Parameter 
Progression-free Survivala (independent review) 
Human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles 
(100 mg/m2/week)+ 
carboplatin 
(N=521) 
Solvent-based paclitaxel 
(200 mg/m2 every 3 weeks)+ 
carboplatin 
(N=531) 
Death or progression, n (%) 
Median PFS (95% CI) (months) 
HRA/T (95% CI) 
Overall Survival 
429 (82%) 
6.8 (5.7, 7.7) 
442 (83%) 
6.5 (5.7, 6.9) 
0.949 (0.830, 1.086) 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of deaths, n (%) 
Median OS (95% CI) (months) 
HRA/T (95.1% CI) 
360 (69%) 
12.1 (10.8, 12.9) 
384 (72%) 
11.2 (10.3, 12.6) 
0.922 (0.797, 1.066) 
CI = confidence interval; HRA/T = hazard ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin to solvent-based 
paclitaxel/carboplatin; pA/pT = response rate ratio of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles/carboplatin to solvent-
based paclitaxel/carboplatin. 
a Per EMA methodological considerations for PFS endpoint, missing observations or initiation of subsequent new therapy 
were not used for censoring. 
Paediatric population 
Safety and effectiveness in paediatric patients have not been established (see section 4.2). 
Study ABI-007-PST-001, a Phase 1/2, multicenter, open-label, dose-finding study to assess the safety, 
tolerability and preliminary efficacy of weekly human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in 
paediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumours included a total of 106 patients aged 
≥ 6 months to ≤ 24 years.  
The Phase 1 portion of the study included a total of 64 patients aged from 6 months to less than 
18 years old and determined the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) to be 240 mg/m2, administered as an 
intravenous infusion over 30 minutes, on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.  
The Phase 2 portion enrolled a total of 42 patients using a Simon two-stage minimax design, aged 
from 6 months to 24 years with recurrent or refractory Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma or 
rhabdomyosarcoma for the evaluation of antitumour activity assessed by the overall response rate 
(ORR). Of the 42 patients, 1 patient was < 2, 27 were aged ≥ 2 to < 12, 12 were aged ≥ 12 to < 18 and 
2 adult patients were aged ≥ 18 to 24 years old. 
Patients were treated for a median of 2 cycles at the MTD. From the 41 patients eligible for efficacy 
evaluation in stage 1, 1 patient in the rhabdomyosarcoma group (N=14) had a confirmed partial 
response (PR) resulting in an ORR of 7.1% (95% CI:  0.2, 33.9). No confirmed complete response 
(CR) or PR was observed in either the Ewing’s sarcoma group (N=13) or the neuroblastoma group 
(N=14). None of the study arms continued into stage 2 because the protocol-defined requirement of 
≥ 2 patients to have a confirmed response was not met.  
The median overall survival results, including the 1-year follow-up period were 32.1 weeks (95% CI: 
21.4, 72.9), 32.0 weeks (95% CI: 12, not established) and 19.6 weeks (95% CI: 4, 25.7) for the 
Ewing’s sarcoma, neuroblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma groups, respectively. 
The overall safety profile of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in paediatric patients was 
consistent with the known safety profile of human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles in adults 
(see section 4.8). Based on these results, it was concluded that human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles as monotherapy does not have meaningful clinical activity or survival benefit that 
warrants further development in the paediatric population 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of total paclitaxel following 30- and 180-minute infusions of human serum 
albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles at dose levels of 80 to 375 mg/m2
 were determined in clinical studies. 
The paclitaxel exposure (AUC) increased linearly from 2653 to 16736 ng.hr/ml following dosing from 
80 to 300 mg/m2. 
In a study in patients with advanced solid tumours, the pharmacokinetic characteristics of paclitaxel 
following human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles administered intravenously at 260 mg/m2 
over 30 minutes were compared with those following 175 mg/m2 of the solvent-based paclitaxel 
injection administered over 3 hours. Based on non-compartmental PK analysis, the plasma clearance 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of paclitaxel with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles was larger (43%) than that following 
a solvent-based paclitaxel injection and its volume of distribution was also higher (53%). There were 
no differences in terminal half-lives. 
In a repeat dose study with 12 patients receiving human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles 
administered intravenously at 260 mg/m2, intra-patient variability in AUC was 19% (range = 3.21%-
37.70%). There was no evidence for accumulation of paclitaxel with multiple treatment courses. 
Distribution 
Following human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles administration to patients with solid 
tumours, paclitaxel is evenly distributed into blood cells and plasma and is highly bound to plasma 
proteins (94%). 
The protein binding of paclitaxel following human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles was 
evaluated by ultrafiltration in a within-patient comparison study. The fraction of free paclitaxel was 
significantly higher with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles (6.2%) than with solvent-
based paclitaxel (2.3%). This resulted in significantly higher exposure to unbound paclitaxel with 
human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles compared with solvent-based paclitaxel, even though 
the total exposure is comparable. This is possibly due to paclitaxel not being trapped in Cremophor EL 
micelles as with solvent-based paclitaxel. Based on the published literature, in vitro studies of binding 
to human serum proteins, (using paclitaxel at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 50 µg/ml), indicate 
that the presence of cimetidine, ranitidine, dexamethasone, or diphenhydramine did not affect protein 
binding of paclitaxel. 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, the total volume of distribution is approximately 
1741 L; the large volume of distribution indicates extensive extravascular distribution and/or tissue 
binding of paclitaxel. 
Biotransformation and elimination 
Based on the published literature, in vitro studies with human liver microsomes and tissue slices show 
that paclitaxel is metabolised primarily to 6-hydroxypaclitaxel; and to two minor metabolites, 3’-p-
hydroxypaclitaxel and 6-3’-p-dihydroxypaclitaxel. The formation of these hydroxylated metabolites 
is catalysed by CYP2C8, CYP3A4, and both CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes, respectively. 
In patients with metastatic breast cancer, after a 30-minute infusion of human serum albumin-
paclitaxel nanoparticles at 260 mg/m2, the mean value for cumulative urinary excretion of unchanged 
active substance accounted for 4% of the total administered dose with less than 1% as the metabolites 
6-hydroxypaclitaxel and 3’-p-hydroxypaclitaxel, indicating extensive non-renal clearance. Paclitaxel 
is principally eliminated by hepatic metabolism and biliary excretion. 
At the clinical dose range of 80 to 300 mg/m2, the mean plasma clearance of paclitaxel ranges from 13 
to 30 L/h/m2, and the mean terminal half-life ranges from 13 to 27 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment on population pharmacokinetics of human serum albumin-paclitaxel 
nanoparticles was studied in patients with advanced solid tumours. This analysis included patients 
with normal hepatic function (n=130), and pre-existing mild (n=8), moderate (n=7), or severe (n=5) 
hepatic impairment (according to NCI Organ Dysfunction Working Group criteria). The results show 
that mild hepatic impairment (total bilirubin >1 to ≤1.5 x ULN) has no clinically important effect on 
pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel. Patients with moderate (total bilirubin >1.5 to ≤3 x ULN) or severe 
(total bilirubin >3 to ≤5 x ULN) hepatic impairment have a 22% to 26% decrease in the maximum 
elimination rate of paclitaxel and approximately 20% increase in mean paclitaxel AUC compared with 
patients with normal hepatic function. Hepatic impairment has no effect on mean paclitaxel Cmax. In 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
addition, elimination of paclitaxel shows an inverse correlation with total bilirubin and a positive 
correlation with serum albumin. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling indicates that there is no correlation between hepatic 
function (as indicated by the baseline albumin or total bilirubin level) and neutropenia after adjusting 
for human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles exposure. 
Pharmacokinetic data are not available for patients with total bilirubin >5 x ULN or for patients with 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis included patients with normal renal function (n=65), and pre-
existing mild (n=61), moderate (n=23), or severe (n=l) renal impairment (according to draft FDA 
guidance criteria 2010). Mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥30 to <90 ml/min) 
has no clinically important effect on the maximum elimination rate and systemic exposure (AUC and 
Cmax) of paclitaxel. Pharmacokinetic data are insufficient for patients with severe renal impairment and 
not available for patients with end stage kidney disease. 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis for human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles included 
patients with ages ranging from 24 to 85 years old and shows that age does not significantly influence 
the maximum elimination rate and systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) of paclitaxel. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling using data from 125 patients with advanced solid 
tumours indicates that patients ≥ 65 years of age may be more susceptible to development of 
neutropenia within the first treatment cycle, although the plasma paclitaxel exposure is not affected by 
age. 
Paediatric population  
The pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel following 30 minutes of intravenous administration at dose levels 
of 120 mg/m2 to 270 mg/m2 were determined in 64 patients (2 to ≤ 18 years) in Phase 1 of a Phase 1/2 
study in recurrent or refractory paediatric solid tumours. Following dosing increase from 120 to 
270 mg/m2, the paclitaxel mean AUC(0-inf) and Cmax ranged from 8867 to 14361 ng*hr/ml and from 
3488 to 8078 ng/ml, respectively. 
Dose normalized peak drug exposure values were comparable across the dose range studied; however, 
dose-normalized total drug exposure values were only comparable across 120 mg/m2 to 240 mg/m2; 
with lower dose-normalized AUC∞ at the 270 mg/m2 dose level. At the MTD of 240 mg/m2, the mean 
CL was 19.1 L/h and the mean terminal half-life was 13.5 hours. 
In children and adolescent patients, exposure to paclitaxel increased with higher dosing and weekly 
drug exposures were higher than in adult patients. 
Other intrinsic factors 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses for human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles indicate that 
gender, race (Asian vs. White), and type of solid tumours do not have a clinically important effect on 
systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) of paclitaxel. Patients weighing 50 kg had paclitaxel AUC 
approximately 25% lower than those weighing 75 kg. The clinical relevance of this finding is 
uncertain. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The carcinogenic potential of paclitaxel has not been studied. However, based on the published 
literature, paclitaxel is a potentially carcinogenic and genotoxic agent at clinical doses, based upon its 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamic mechanism of action. Paclitaxel has been shown to be clastogenic in vitro 
(chromosome aberrations in human lymphocytes) and in vivo (micronucleus test in mice). Paclitaxel 
has been shown to be genotoxic in vivo (micronucleus test in mice), but it did not induce mutagenicity 
in the Ames test or the Chinese hamster ovary/hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase 
(CHO/HGPRT) gene mutation assay. 
Paclitaxel at doses below the human therapeutic dose was associated with low fertility when 
administered prior and during mating in male and female rats and foetal toxicity in rats. Animal 
studies with human serum albumin-paclitaxel nanoparticles showed non-reversible, toxic effects on 
the male reproductive organs at clinically relevant exposure levels. 
Paclitaxel and/or its metabolites were excreted into the milk of lactating rats. Following intravenous 
administration of radiolabelled paclitaxel to rats on days 9 to 10 postpartum, concentrations of 
radioactivity in milk were higher than in plasma and declined in parallel with the plasma 
concentrations. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1   List of excipients 
Albumin (human) 
Sodium caprylate 
N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid 
Sodium hydroxide  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3   Shelf life 
Unopened vials 
3 years 
Stability of reconstituted dispersion in the vial 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2-8 °C when the vial is in 
the original carton, and protected from bright light. Alternative light-protection may be used in the 
clean room. From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of 
opening/reconstituting/dilution precludes the risks of microbial contamination, the product should be 
filled into an infusion bag immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions 
are the responsibility of the user. 
Stability of the reconstituted dispersion in the infusion bag 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, protected from 
light followed by 4 hours at 15°C-25°C. From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of 
opening/reconstituting/dilution precludes the risks of microbial contamination, the product should be 
used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility 
of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unopened vials 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Keep the 
container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. Neither freezing nor refrigeration adversely 
affects the stability of the product.  
Reconstituted dispersion 
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
50 ml vial (type 1 glass) with a stopper (butyl rubber), with an overseal (aluminium), containing 
100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
Pack size of one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation and administration precautions 
Paclitaxel is a cytotoxic anticancer medicinal product and, as with other potentially toxic compounds, 
caution should be exercised in handling Pazenir. The use of gloves, goggles and protective clothing is 
recommended. If the dispersion contacts the skin, the skin should be washed immediately and 
thoroughly with soap and water. If it contacts mucous membranes, the membranes should be flushed 
thoroughly with water. Pazenir should only be prepared and administered by personnel appropriately 
trained in the handling of cytotoxic agents. Pregnant staff should not handle Pazenir. 
Given the possibility of extravasation, it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion site for possible 
infiltration during administration of the medicinal product. Limiting the infusion of Pazenir to 
30 minutes, as directed, reduces the likelihood of infusion-related reactions. 
Reconstitution and administration of the product 
Pazenir is supplied as a sterile lyophilised powder for reconstitution before use. After reconstitution, 
each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
Using a sterile syringe, 20 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion should slowly 
be injected into a vial of Pazenir over a minimum of 1 minute. 
The solution should be directed onto the inside wall of the vial. The solution should not be injected 
directly onto the powder as this will result in foaming. 
Once the addition is complete, the vial should be allowed to stand for a minimum of 5 minutes to 
ensure proper wetting of the solid. Then, the vial should gently and slowly be swirled and/or inverted 
for at least 2 minutes until complete redispersion of any powder occurs. The generation of foam must 
be avoided. If foaming or clumping occurs, the dispersion must stand for at least 15 minutes until 
foam subsides. 
The reconstituted dispersion should be milky and homogenous without visible precipitates. Some 
settling of the reconstituted dispersion may occur. If precipitates or settling are visible, the vial should 
be gently inverted again to ensure complete redispersion prior to use.  
Inspect the dispersion in the vial for particulate matter. Do not administer the reconstituted dispersion 
if particulate matter is observed in the vial. 
The exact total dosing volume of 5 mg/ml dispersion required for the patient should be calculated and 
the appropriate amount of reconstituted Pazenir should be injected into an empty, sterile, PVC or non-
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PVC type intravenous bag. 
The use of medical devices containing silicone oil as a lubricant (i.e. syringes and IV bags) to 
reconstitute and administer Pazenir may result in the formation of proteinaceous strands. Administer 
Pazenir using an infusion set incorporating a 15 µm filter to avoid administration of these strands. Use 
of a 15 µm filter removes strands and does not change the physical or chemical properties of the 
reconstituted product. 
Use of filters with a pore size less than 15 µm may result in blockage of the filter. 
The use of specialized di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP)-free solution containers or administration 
sets is not necessary to prepare or administer Pazenir infusions. 
Following administration, it is recommended that the intravenous line be flushed with sodium chloride 
9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure administration of the complete dose. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.   MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1317/001 
9.   DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
06 May 2019 
10.   DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Strasse 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
Netherlands 
Teva Nederland B.V. (additional entity) 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
NETHERLANDS 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
GA-2031 Haarlem 
Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required  pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the  agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed  subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion  
paclitaxel 
2.  
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
After reconstitution, each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound 
nanoparticles. 
3.   LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Human albumin solution (containing sodium caprylate and N-acetyl–DL-tryptophan). 
Contains sodium, see package leaflet for further information. 
4.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for dispersion for infusion. 
1 vial 
100 mg/20 ml 
5.   METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not substitute for or with other paclitaxel formulations. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.   EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Keep the container in the outer carton until use in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution, see package leaflet. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
12.   MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1317/001 
13.   BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.   GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D bar code carrying the unique identifier 
18.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING  
VIAL 
1.   NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion  
paclitaxel  
2.  
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles.  
After reconstitution, each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel. 
3.   LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Human albumin solution (containing sodium caprylate and N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan). 
Contains sodium, see package leaflet for further information. 
4.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for dispersion for infusion. 
100 mg/20 ml 
5.   METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use 
6.  
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.   OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not substitute for or with other paclitaxel formulations. 
8.   EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Unopened vials: Keep the container in the outer carton until use in order to protect from light. 
10.   SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.   NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
12.   MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1317/001 
13.   BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.   GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted.  
17.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Pazenir 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion  
paclitaxel 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Pazenir is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you are given Pazenir 
How to use Pazenir 
Possible side effects 
How to store Pazenir 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.   What Pazenir is and what it is used for 
What Pazenir is 
Pazenir contains, as its active substance, paclitaxel attached to the human protein albumin, in the form 
of tiny particles known as nanoparticles. Paclitaxel belongs to a group of medicines called “taxanes” 
used in cancer. 
• 
Paclitaxel is the part of the medicine that affects the cancer, it works by stopping cancer cells 
from dividing – this means that they die. 
Albumin is the part of the medicine that helps paclitaxel dissolve in the blood and get across the 
walls of the blood vessels into the tumour. This means that other chemicals that can cause side 
effects that can be life threatening are not needed. Such side effects occur far less with Pazenir. 
• 
What Pazenir is used for 
Pazenir is used to treat the following types of cancer: 
Breast cancer 
• 
• 
• 
Breast cancer which has spread to other parts of the body (this is called “metastatic” breast 
cancer). 
Pazenir is used in metastatic breast cancer when at least one other therapy has been tried but has 
not worked and you are unsuitable for treatments containing a group of medicines called 
“anthracyclines”. 
People with metastatic breast cancer who received paclitaxel attached to the human protein 
albumin where another therapy had failed, were more likely to experience a reduction in tumour 
size, and lived longer than people who took an alternative therapy. 
Pancreatic cancer 
• 
Pazenir is used together with a medicine called gemcitabine if you have metastatic cancer of the 
pancreas. People with metastatic pancreatic cancer (pancreatic cancer that has spread to other 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
parts of the body) who received paclitaxel attached to the human protein albumin with 
gemcitabine in a clinical trial lived longer than people who had only received gemcitabine. 
Lung cancer 
• 
Pazenir is also used together with a medicine called carboplatin if you have the most common 
type of lung cancer, called “non-small cell lung cancer”. 
Pazenir is used in non-small cell lung cancer where surgery or radiotherapy would not be 
suitable to treat the disease. 
2.  
What you need to know before you are given Pazenir 
Do not use Pazenir 
• 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to paclitaxel or any of the other ingredients of Pazenir (listed 
in section 6); 
if you are breast-feeding; 
if you have a low white blood cell count (baseline neutrophil counts <1500 cells/mm3 - your 
doctor will advise you on this). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before using Pazenir 
• 
• 
• 
if you have poor kidney function; 
if you have severe liver problems; 
if you have heart problems. 
Talk to your doctor or nurse if you experience any of these conditions whilst being treated with 
Pazenir, your doctor may wish to stop treatment or reduce the dose: 
• 
if you experience any abnormal bruising, bleeding, or signs of infections such as a sore throat or 
a fever; 
if you experience numbness, tingling, pricking sensations, sensitivity to touch, or muscle 
weakness; 
if you experience breathing problems, like shortness of breath or dry cough. 
• 
• 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine is only for adults and should not be taken by children and adolescents aged below 18 
years. 
Other medicines and Pazenir  
Tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. This includes medicines 
obtained without a prescription, including herbal medicines. This is because Pazenir can affect the way 
some other medicines work. Also, some other medicines can affect the way Pazenir works. 
Take care and speak to your doctor when taking Pazenir at the same time as any of the following: 
• 
medicines for treating infections (i.e. antibiotics such as erythromycin, rifampicin, etc.; ask your 
doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are unsure whether the medicine you are taking is an 
antibiotic), and including medicines for treating fungal infections (e.g. ketoconazole) 
medicines used to help you stabilize your mood also sometimes referred to as anti-depressants 
(e.g. fluoxetine) 
medicines used to treat seizures (epilepsy) (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin) 
medicines used to help you lower blood lipid levels (e.g. gemfibrozil) 
medicine used for heartburn or stomach ulcers (e.g. cimetidine) 
medicines used to treat HIV and AIDS (e.g. ritonavir, saquinavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, 
efavirenz, nevirapine) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
a medicine called clopidogrel used to prevent blood clots 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Paclitaxel may cause serious birth defects and should therefore not be used if you are pregnant. Your 
doctor will arrange a pregnancy test before starting treatment with Pazenir. 
Women of childbearing age should use effective contraception during and up to 1 month after 
receiving treatment with Pazenir. 
Do not breast-feed when taking Pazenir as it is not known if the active ingredient paclitaxel passes into 
the mother’s milk. 
Male patients are advised to use effective contraception and to avoid fathering a child during and up to 
six months after treatment and should seek advice on conservation of sperm prior to treatment because 
of the possibility of irreversible infertility due to therapy with Pazenir. 
Ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Some people may feel tired or dizzy after being given Pazenir. If this happens to you, do not drive or 
use any tools or machines. 
If you are given other medicines as part of your treatment, you should ask your doctor for advice on 
driving and using machines. 
Pazenir contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.   How to use Pazenir 
Pazenir will be given to you by a doctor or nurse into a vein from an intravenous drip. The dose you 
receive is based on your body surface area and blood test results. The usual dose for breast cancer is 
260 mg/m2 of body surface area given over a 30 minute period. The usual dose for advanced 
pancreatic cancer is 125 mg/m2 of body surface area given over a 30 minute period. The usual dose for 
non-small cell lung cancer is 100 mg/m2 of body surface area given over a 30 minute period. 
How often will you receive Pazenir? 
For treatment of metastatic breast cancer, Pazenir is usually given once every three weeks (on day 1 of 
a 21 day cycle). 
For treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer, Pazenir is given on days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day 
treatment cycle with gemcitabine being given immediately after the Pazenir. 
For treatment of non-small cell lung cancer Pazenir is given once every week (i.e. on days 1, 8 and 15 
of a 21 day cycle), with carboplatin being given once every three weeks (i.e. only on day 1 of each 21-
day cycle), immediately after the Pazenir dose has been given. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everyone gets them. 
• 
• 
The very common side effects may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
• 
Loss of hair (the majority of cases of hair loss happened less than one month after starting 
paclitaxel. When it happens, hair loss is pronounced (over 50%) in the majority of patients) 
Rash 
Abnormal decrease in the number of types of white blood cells (neutrophils, lymphocytes or 
leukocytes) in the blood 
Deficiency of red blood cells 
Reduction in the number of platelets in the blood 
Effect on peripheral nerves (pain, numbness, tingling or loss of feeling) 
Pain in a joint or joints 
Pain in the muscles 
Nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, sore mouth, loss of appetite 
Vomiting 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weakness and tiredness, fever 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Dehydration, taste disturbance, weight loss 
Low levels of potassium in the blood 
Depression, sleep problems 
Headache 
Chills 
Difficulty in breathing 
Dizziness 
Swelling of mucosal and soft tissues 
Increased liver function tests 
Pain in extremities 
Cough 
Abdominal pain 
Nose bleeds 
The common side effects may affect up to 1 in 10 people: 
• 
• 
Itching, dry skin, nail disorder 
Infection, fever with decrease in the number of a type of white blood cell (neutrophils) in the 
blood, flushing, thrush, severe infection in your blood which may be caused by reduced white 
blood cells 
Reduction in all blood cell counts 
Chest or throat pain 
Indigestion, abdominal discomfort 
Stuffy nose 
Pain in back, bone pain 
Diminished muscular coordination or difficulty in reading, increased or decreased tears, loss of 
eyelashes 
Changes in heart rate or rhythm, heart failure 
Decreased or increased blood pressure 
Redness or swelling at the site where the needle entered the body 
Anxiety 
Infection in the lungs 
Infection in the urinary tract 
Obstruction in the gut, inflammation of the large bowel, inflammation of the bile duct 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Acute kidney failure 
Increased bilirubin in the blood 
Coughing up blood 
Dry mouth, difficulty in swallowing 
Muscle weakness 
Blurred vision 
The uncommon side effects may affect up to 1 in 100 people: 
• 
Increased weight, increased lactate dehydrogenase in the blood, decreased kidney function, 
increased blood sugar, increased phosphorus in the blood 
Decreased or lack of reflexes, involuntary movements, pain along a nerve, fainting, dizziness 
when standing up, shaking, facial nerve paralysis 
Irritated eyes, painful eyes, red eyes, itchy eyes, double vision, reduced vision, or seeing 
flashing lights, blurred vision due to swelling of the retina (cystoid macular oedema) 
Ear pain, ringing in your ears 
Coughing with phlegm, shortness of breath when walking or climbing stairs, runny nose, or dry 
nose, decreased breath sounds, water on the lung, loss of voice, blood clot in the lung, dry throat 
Gas, stomach cramps, painful or sore gums, rectal bleeding 
Painful urination, frequent urination, blood in the urine, inability to hold your urine 
Fingernail pain, fingernail discomfort, loss of fingernails, hives, skin pain, red skin from 
sunlight, skin discolouration, increased sweating, night sweats, white areas on the skin, sores, 
swollen face 
Decreased phosphorus in the blood, fluid retention, low albumin in the blood, increased thirst, 
decreased calcium in the blood, decreased sugar in the blood, decreased sodium in the blood 
Pain and swelling in the nose, skin infections, infection due to catheter line 
Bruising 
Pain at site of tumour, death of the tumour 
Decreased blood pressure when standing up, coldness in your hands and feet 
Difficulty walking, swelling 
Allergic reaction 
Decreased liver function, increased size of liver 
Pain in the breast 
Restlessness 
Small bleedings in your skin due to blood clots 
A condition involving destruction of red blood cells and acute kidney failure 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The rare side effects may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Skin reaction to another agent or lung inflammation following radiation 
Blood clot 
Very slow pulse, heart attack 
Leaking of drug outside the vein 
A disorder of the electrical conduction system of the heart (atrioventricular block) 
The very rare side effects may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people: 
• 
Severe inflammation/eruption of the skin and mucous membranes (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
Not known side effects (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Hardening/thickening of the skin (scleroderma).  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.   How to store Pazenir  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials: Keep the container in the outer carton until use in order to protect from light. 
After first reconstitution the dispersion should be used immediately. If not used immediately, the 
dispersion may be stored in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C) for up to 24 hours in the vial when kept in the 
outer carton in order to protect it from light. 
The reconstituted dispersion in the intravenous drip may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, 
protected from light followed by 4 hours at 15°C-25°C. 
Your doctor or pharmacist is responsible for disposing of any unused Pazenir correctly. 
6.   Contents of the pack and other information 
What Pazenir contains 
The active substance is paclitaxel. 
Each vial contains 100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
After reconstitution, each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound 
nanoparticles. 
The other ingredient is human albumin (containing sodium caprylate and N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan), 
see section 2 “Pazenir contains sodium”. 
What Pazenir looks like and contents of the pack 
Pazenir is a white to yellow powder for dispersion for infusion. Pazenir is available in glass vials 
containing 100 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
Each pack contains 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Straße 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
Haarlem 
2031 GA 
The Netherlands 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Тел: +359 24899585 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140202 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Τel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Medical or healthcare professionals 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions for use, handling and disposal 
Preparation and administration precautions 
Paclitaxel is a cytotoxic anticancer medicinal product and, as with other potentially toxic compounds, 
caution should be exercised in handling Pazenir. Gloves, goggles and protective clothing should be 
used. If Pazenir dispersion contacts the skin, the skin should be washed immediately and thoroughly 
with soap and water. If Pazenir contacts mucous membranes, the membranes should be flushed 
thoroughly with water. Pazenir should only be prepared and administered by personnel appropriately 
trained in the handling of cytotoxic agents. Pregnant staff should not handle Pazenir. 
Given the possibility of extravasation, it is advisable to closely monitor the infusion site for possible 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infiltration during administration of the medicinal product. Limiting the infusion of Pazenir to 
30 minutes, as directed, reduces the likelihood of infusion-related reactions. 
Reconstitution of the product and administration 
Pazenir should be administered under the supervision of a qualified oncologist in units specialised in 
the administration of cytotoxic agents. 
Pazenir is supplied as a sterile lyophilised powder for reconstitution before use. After reconstitution, 
each ml of dispersion contains 5 mg of paclitaxel formulated as albumin bound nanoparticles. 
Reconstituted Pazenir dispersion is administered intravenously using an infusion set incorporating a 
15 µm filter. 
Reconstitution of 100 mg: 
Using a sterile syringe, 20 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion should slowly 
be injected into the 100 mg vial of Pazenir over a minimum of 1 minute. 
The solution should be directed onto the inside wall of the vial. The solution should not be injected 
directly onto the powder as this will result in foaming. 
Once the addition is complete, the vial should be allowed to stand for a minimum of 5 minutes to 
ensure proper wetting of the solid. Then, the vial should gently and slowly be swirled and/or inverted 
for at least 2 minutes until complete redispersion of any powder occurs. The generation of foam 
should be avoided. If foaming or clumping occurs, the dispersion should stand for at least 15 minutes 
until foam subsides. 
The reconstituted dispersion should be milky and homogenous without visible precipitates. Some 
settling of the reconstituted dispersion may occur. If precipitates or settling are visible, the vial should 
be gently inverted again to ensure complete redispersion prior to use. 
Inspect the dispersion in the vial for particulate matter. Do not administer the reconstituted dispersion 
if particulate matter is observed in the vial. 
The exact total dosing volume of 5 mg/ml dispersion required for the patient should be calculated and 
the appropriate amount of reconstituted Pazenir should be injected into an empty, sterile, PVC or non-
PVC type intravenous bag. 
The use of medical devices containing silicone oil as a lubricant (i.e. syringes and IV bags) to 
reconstitute and administer Pazenir may result in the formation of proteinaceous strands. Administer 
Pazenir using an infusion set incorporating a 15 µm filter to avoid administration of these strands. Use 
of a 15 µm filter removes strands and does not change the physical or chemical properties of the 
reconstituted product. 
Use of filters with a pore size less than 15 µm may result in blockage of the filter. 
The use of specialized DEHP-free solution containers or administration sets is not necessary to prepare 
or administer Pazenir infusions. 
Following administration, it is recommended that the intravenous line be flushed with sodium chloride 
9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure administration of the complete dose. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
Stability 
Unopened vials of Pazenir are stable until the date indicated on the package when the vial is kept in 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the outer carton in order to protect from light. Neither freezing nor refrigeration adversely affects the 
stability of the product. This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage 
conditions. 
Stability of the reconstituted dispersion in the vial 
After first reconstitution, the dispersion should be filled into an infusion bag immediately. However, 
chemical and physical in use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C-8°C in the original 
carton, and protected from bright light. 
Stability of the reconstituted dispersion in the infusion bag 
After reconstitution, the reconstituted dispersion in the infusion bag should be used immediately. 
However chemical and physical in use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C-8°C, 
protected from light followed by 4 hours at 15°C-25°C. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
