EMA/159292/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004441 
Pazenir (paclitaxel) 
An overview of Pazenir and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pazenir and what is it used for? 
Pazenir is used to treat the following cancers in adults: 
•  metastatic breast cancer, when the first treatment has stopped working and standard treatment 
including an anthracycline (another type of cancer medicine) is not suitable. ‘Metastatic’ means 
that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body; 
•  metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, as a first treatment in combination with another 
cancer medicine, gemcitabine; 
•  non-small cell lung cancer, as a first treatment in combination with the cancer medicine carboplatin 
when the patient cannot have surgery or radiotherapy. 
Pazenir contains the active substance paclitaxel attached to a human protein called albumin and is a 
‘generic medicine’. This means that Pazenir contains the same active substance and works in the same 
way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Abraxane. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Pazenir used? 
Pazenir is given as an infusion into a vein over a period of 30 minutes. The recommended dose 
depends on the patient’s height and weight.  
In metastatic breast cancer, Pazenir is given on its own every three weeks.  
In metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, Pazenir is given in 4-week treatment cycles. The 
medicine is given once a day on days 1, 8 and 15 of each cycle. Immediately after giving Pazenir, 
gemcitabine should be given. 
In non-small cell lung cancer, treatment is carried out in 3-week cycles with Pazenir given on days 1, 8 
and 15 of each cycle and carboplatin given on day 1 immediately after Pazenir.  
Pazenir should only be given under the supervision of a cancer doctor in clinics that are specialised in 
giving ‘cytotoxic’ (cell-killing) medicines. It should not be interchanged with other medicines containing 
paclitaxel. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Pazenir, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Pazenir work? 
The active substance in Pazenir, paclitaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as the 
‘taxanes’. Paclitaxel blocks a stage of cell division in which the cell’s internal ‘skeleton’ is dismantled to 
allow the cell to divide. By keeping this structure intact, the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. 
Pazenir also affects non-cancer cells such as blood and nerve cells, which can cause side effects. 
Paclitaxel has been available as a cancer medicine since 1993. In Pazenir, as in its reference medicine 
Abraxane, paclitaxel is attached to a human protein called albumin in tiny particles known as 
‘nanoparticles’. This makes it easy to prepare a suspension of paclitaxel, which can be infused into a 
vein. 
How has Pazenir been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Abraxane, and do not need to be repeated for Pazenir.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Pazenir. There was no need for 
‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Pazenir is absorbed similarly to the reference medicine 
to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because Pazenir is given by 
infusion into a vein and the nanoparticles it contains rapidly separate into its constituent parts in the 
same way as Abraxane’s. 
What are the benefits and risks of Pazenir? 
Because Pazenir is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and 
risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Pazenir authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Pazenir has been 
shown to be comparable to Abraxane. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Abraxane, the 
benefits of Pazenir outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pazenir? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pazenir have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pazenir are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Pazenir are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Pazenir 
Pazenir received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 6 May 2019. 
Pazenir (paclitaxel)  
EMA/159292/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Pazenir can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pazenir. Information on the reference medicine can also be 
found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 12-2019. 
Pazenir (paclitaxel)  
EMA/159292/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
