24 September 2012 
EMA/561822/2012  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
PecFent 
fentanyl   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/001164/A20/0013 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 3 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment...................................... 4 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation.................................... 4 
Assessment report  
EMA/561822/2012  
Page 2/5
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The US Food and Drug Administration informed the European Medicines Agency that following an 
inspection, concerns have been raised about the conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the 
Cetero research facilities in Houston (Texas, USA) during the period from April 2005 to June 2010. The 
inspection identified significant instances of misconduct and violations of federal regulations, including 
falsification of documents and manipulation of samples. 
In the European Union it was identified that this could potentially impact the marketing authorisation of 
PecFent. 
On 16 November 2011 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) informed relevant MAHs that the Food 
and Drug Administration had raised concerns, following its inspection of Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA), on the conduct of bio-analytical studies in the period between April 2005 and 
June 2010. The EMA asked MAH of all centrally authorised medicinal products to identify the products 
for which the marketing authorisation dossier included studies conducted at the above mentioned 
facility. 
The MAH for Pecfent provided responses on 23 November 2011. 
On 2 May 2012, the FDA informed the EMA of a letter sent to Cetero confirming that, based on the 
final results of the inspection, the period of concern for which data generated by Cetero was considered 
potentially unreliable and for which the FDA recommended actions to be taken is from April 2005 to 
August 2009. 
A Rapporteur’s assessment report on the MAH’s responses was circulated on 5 July 2012. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 16 July 2012 to assess whether 
the deficiencies in conduct of bio-analytical studies performed by the Cetero Research facilities in 
Houston (Texas, USA) have impact on the benefit-risk balance of Pecfent, and to give its opinion on 
whether measures are necessary to ensure the safe use of the product and specifically on whether the 
marketing authorisation for Pecfent should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Pecfent is indicated for the treatment of breakthrough pain (BTP) in adults who are already receiving 
maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. The purpose of the nasal fentanyl product Pecfent 
is to deliver fentanyl as a controlled quantity into the nasal cavity and thereby to achieve rapid 
systemic absorption as well as fast onset of action.  
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for PecFent to 
Archimedes Development Ltd on 31 August 2010.  
Study CP048/07 entitled ‘a single centre, three-way cross-over trial to assess the relative 
bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of single doses of NasalFent (Fentanyl Citrate 
Nasal Spray [FCNS]) when administered to subjects with seasonal allergic rhinitis in symptomatic, 
symptomatic but treated (with oxymetazoline) and asymptomatic states’ was performed by Cetero 
Research from February to July 2008 and assessed as part of the marketing authorisation dossier for 
PecFent.   
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
In addition to study CP048/07, comprehensive pharmacokinetic and safety data from three additional 
studies (CP037/02, CP42/05, CP047/07) supporting the nasal administration of fentanyl in the general 
population were included in the marketing authorisation dossier, but these are not affected by the 
Cetero inspection concerns. 
Assessment report  
EMA/561822/2012  
Page 3/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results of study CP048/07 showed that following a single dose administration of PecFent in 
subjects experiencing an induced episode of acute allergic rhinitis, the rate and extent of exposure to 
PecFent was generally unaffected when compared to the asymptomatic state, but was somewhat 
reduced following treatment with oxymetazoline.  
After the concerns in relation to the Cetero inspection became known, the data from study CP048/07 
was re-evaluated:  
  A qualitative and quantitative (statistical) examination of pharmacokinetic data from CP048/07 
was conducted. The control pharmacokinetic data for a single dose of 100mcg FCNS from study 
CP048/07 are similar to data from other pharmacokinetic studies assessing the same dose. 
This supports to the results of study CP048/07 and is indicative that the results have not been 
impacted by potential deficiencies at Cetero Research. 
  A re-evaluation of the data was performed following the removal of subject data that was 
generated from specific extractions and/or analytical runs of concern, and the study results 
were not significantly changed. 
In addition an evaluation of the published literature was made to determine if the results of CP048/07 
were consistent with other similar and/or related findings. Evaluation of the published literature 
indicates that allergic rhinitis has no effect on nasal absorption. Additionally, an evaluation of the 
limited literature available for vasoconstricting nasal decongestants (e.g. oxymetazoline) indicated a 
generally reduced rate and/or extent of nasal absorption.  
The following information can be found in the currently approved Summary of Product Characteristics 
for PecFent: 
Section 4.5  
Concomitant use of nasally administered oxymetazoline has been shown to decrease the absorption of 
PecFent (see section 5.2). The concomitant use of nasally administered vasoconstrictive decongestants 
during titration is therefore not recommended as this may lead to patients titrating to a dose that is 
higher than required. PecFent maintenance treatment may also be less effective in patients with 
rhinitis when administered concomitantly with a nasal vasoconstrictive decongestant. If this occurs, 
patients should be advised to discontinue their decongestant.  
Section 5.2  
A pharmacokinetic study was conducted to evaluate the absorption and tolerability of a single dose of 
PecFent in patients with pollen-induced seasonal allergic rhinitis, comparing the un-challenged, acutely 
challenged (rhinitic) and acutely challenged and then treated with oxymetazoline, states.  
There was no clinically significant effect of acute rhinitis on Cmax, Tmax or overall exposure to 
fentanyl, comparing the unchallenged with the acutely challenged states. Following treatment of the 
acute rhinitic state with oxymetazoline, there were reductions in Cmax and exposure, and increases in 
Tmax that were statistically, and possibly clinically, significant.  
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Data from relevant clinical studies (including a re-evaluation of data from the potentially affected study 
CP048/07), as well as data from the published literature, are consistent and do not indicate that the 
results of study CP048/07 may have been substantially impacted by any potential deficiencies in the 
conduct of bio-analytical studies at Cetero Research. The information currently in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics for PecFent remains appropriate and no further action is recommended. 
The CHMP therefore concluded that the potential deficiencies in the conduct of bio-analytical studies by 
the Cetero Research facilities have no impact on the benefit-risk of PecFent. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas, 
 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
PecFent, initiated by the European Commission. 
 
The Committee reviewed relevant data from clinical studies and from the published literature.  
Assessment report  
EMA/561822/2012  
Page 4/5
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee concluded, in view of available data, that any potential deficiencies in the 
conduct of bio-analytical studies by the Cetero Research facilities do not impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of PecFent. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of PecFent remains positive 
under normal conditions of use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/561822/2012  
Page 5/5
 
 
 
 
 
