22 February 2018 
EMA/378606/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): fentanyl (transmucosal route of administration) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001369/201704 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 May 2014 - 30 April 2017  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for fentanyl (transmucosal route of 
administration), the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Scientific  conclusions  and  grounds  for  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing 
authorisations 
Hyperalgesia 
Opioid-induced hyperalgesia is a state of nociceptive sensitization to opioids characterized by a paradoxical 
response and increased pain following opioids administration. It is a well-known phenomenon related to 
opioids which could explain loss of efficacy. This condition should be distinguished from tolerance to opioids 
and progression of underlying disease.  
Sixteen new cases of hyperalgesia have been received during the last regulatory safety review. In addition, 
the phenomenon of hyperalgesia was reported in clinical trials where hyperalgesia was studied primarily as 
adverse effect but also in one clinical trial as primary outcome where increased areas of hyperalgesia from 
4.5 to 6.5 h after fentanyl administration were reported (Mauermann et al., 2016).  Other cases have also 
been described in the literature. Section 4.4 has been reviewed in order to add this adverse reaction.  
Absence of adequate pain control 
During the last regulatory safety review, 698 case of lack of pain control were retrieved cumulatively for all 
transmucosal fentanyl products. This is further observed in the context of French national survey of 
transmucosal fentanyl product in which 30 cases of lack of efficacy associated with fentanyl were reported. 
Considering potential consequences of dependency and overdose, information in section 4.2 of the SmPC 
related to reassessment of the treatment in case of hyperalgesia but also in case of tolerance or disease 
progression has been reviewed with a cross-reference to section 4.4. 
Adrenal insufficiency and androgen deficiency 
The potential influence of opioids due to its mechanism of action on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and 
gonadal axis is a well-known effect via inhibition of ACTH production by pituitary gland for adrenal 
insufficiency and via inhibition of GnRH production by hypothalamus for androgen deficiency. A number of 
cases were reported during the last safety regulatory review. However, a casual association with a frequency 
of event could not be established. In view of the potential biological plausibility for association, additional 
information in section 5.1 of the SmPC on the potential effect of fentanyl on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal 
and gonadal axis and its connection with adrenal insufficiency and androgen deficiency is warranted. 
Neonatal withdrawal syndrome  
Neonatal withdrawal syndrome is a well-known effect of opioids which is potentially life-threatening if 
unrecognized or untreated and preventable with careful monitoring and clinical management. A mention in 
section 4.6 of the SmPC is already presented in all transmucosal fentanyl products. However, additional 
cases were reported during the last safety regulatory review as well as in the literature. In view of these new 
cases, section 4.8 of the SmPC has been review and the information in the package leaflet on this adverse 
reaction has been strengthened.  
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/378606/2018 
Page 2/3 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dependence and drug abuse 
Dependence and drug abuse are two well-known concerns with opioids products. During the review period, 
168 cases of drug dependence and 124 cases of drug abuse, mainly related with drug dependence, were 
reported. In addition, 109 cases were report in the context of a French national survey on the use of 
transmucosal fentanyl products.  Section 4.8 has been review to include this adverse reaction. 
Frequency of addiction 
Addiction followed opioid treatment has been constantly reported and it is a known effect of opioids. 
Different observational studies reported rate of addiction ranging from 0% to 50% in patient. However, the 
estimation of this effect is of great difficulty due to complex interplay of many factors such patient 
characteristics, societal and other influences.  Therefore, section 4.4 of the current SmPC has been review 
from the actual not “rare” to “known to occur” with a subsequent review of section 4.8. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for fentanyl (transmucosal route of administration) the CHMP is of 
the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing fentanyl (transmucosal 
route of administration) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/378606/2018 
Page 3/3 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
