19 December 2013 
EMA/132119/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
PecFent 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: fentanyl (single substance – 
transmucosal formulations) 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001369/201304 
Period covered by the PSUR:  01 October 2012 – 30 April 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSURs for the products containing fentanyl as 
a single active substance in transmucosal formulations , including nasal spray, buccal tablet, sublingual 
tablets, buccal soluble film and lozenges, the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
There  is  no  new  information  that  would  have  an  impact  on  benefit  of  transmucosal  fentanyl  in  the 
approved  indication.  In  addition,  for  the  time  being,  no  new  risks  with  transmucosal  formulations  of 
fentanyl  containing  medicinal  products  have  been  identified.  However,  some  known  risks  remain  of 
particular  concern.  Therefore,  whilst  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  fentanyl  remains  favourable  in  the 
management of breakthrough pain in adults who are already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for 
chronic cancer pain, some changes were recommended to be  made to the  product information for all 
transmucosal formulations as detailed below.  
The PRAC is of the view that the systemic effects of the transmusocal formulations are expected to be 
the  same,  regardless  of  the  formulation.  So  the  PRAC  considered  that  the  product  information  of  the 
transmucosal  fentanyl  should  share  a  similar  safety  profile.  Therefore,  in  view  of  the  available  data 
regarding  fentanyl,  and  the  results  of  signal  evaluation,  the  following  changes  were  recommended  to 
be  made  to  the  section  4.3,  4.4,  4.5,  4.6,  4.8  and  5.3  for  all  of  the  transmucosal  formulations  of 
fentanyl containing medicinal products based on the evidence of the data summarised below: 
-  Some  known  risks  remain  of  particular  concern,  such  as  the  risk  of  respiratory  depression  and  the 
risk  of  abuse  and  dependence.  Therefore  an  update  of  section  4.3  was  recommended  for  all  fentanyl 
containing transmucosal formulations to contraindicate the use in patients without maintenance opioid 
therapy, and to contraindicate the use for the treatment of acute pain other than breakthrough pain. 
Respiratory  depressant  effect  should  also  be  reflected  in  section  4.8  for  all  the  fentanyl  containing 
products.   
-  Having  reviewed  the  available  data  on  bradycardia  and  bradyarrhythmia,  an  update  of  section  4.4 
was requested to reinforce this warning for all the fentanyl containing transmucosal formulations.    
- Since there is a world-wide co-prescription of serotoninergic drugs with fentanyl and considering the 
potential interaction between opioids such as fentanyl and Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors or  
Serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors as well as case reports and literature data (Ailawadhi et 
al  2007),  it  was  considered  that  the  risk  of  serotonin  syndrome  warranted  an  update  of  sections  4.4 
and 4.5 for all the fentanyl containing transmucosal formulations.  
- For the time being, no study provides results regarding quantities of fentanyl in breast milk 48 hours 
after  the  last  administration  of  fentanyl.  However,  given  that  the  terminal  half-life  elimination  after 
administration of transmucosal fentanyl is approximately 20 hours, the PRAC considered safer to wait 
48  hour  after  the  last  administration  of  fentanyl  before  breastfeeding  and  requested  that  the  section 
4.6 is updated accordingly for all the fentanyl containing transmucosal formulations. 
-  Further  to  the  detection  of  new  signals,  the  PRAC  recommended  the  addition  of  following  adverse 
effects:  fall,  flushing  and  hot  flush,  diarrhoea,  fatigue,  malaise,  peripheral  oedema,  convulsion, 
hallucination to the section 4.8 for all the fentanyl containing transmucosal formulations.  
-  Further  to  the  evaluation  of  data  from  a  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats  showing  evidence  of  brain 
lesions,  an  update  of  section  5.3  was  requested  for  all  the  fentanyl  containing  transmucosal 
formulations. 
PecFent  
EMA/132119/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On  the  basis  of  the  scientific  conclusions  for  the  transmucosal  fentanyl  products,  the  CHMP  is  of  the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing the active substance fentanyl 
(single  substance-  transmucosal  formulations)  is  favourable  subject  to  the  proposed  changes  to  the 
product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
PecFent  
EMA/132119/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
