EMEA/H/C/000549 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pedea 
ibuprofen 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pedea. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Pedea. 
What is Pedea? 
Pedea is a solution for injection that contains the active substance ibuprofen. 
What is Pedea used for? 
Pedea is used to treat ‘patent ductus arteriosus’ in newborn premature babies who were born six or 
more weeks too early (less than 34 weeks gestational age). Patent ductus arteriosus is a condition 
where the ductus arteriosus (the blood vessel that allows blood to bypass the baby’s lungs before 
birth) fails to close after birth. This causes heart and lung problems in the baby. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Pedea used? 
Treatment with Pedea should only be carried out in a neonatal intensive care unit under the 
supervision of an experienced neonatologist (a doctor specialising in newborn babies). 
Pedea is given as three injections into a vein at 24-hour intervals. Each injection lasts 15 minutes. The 
first injection is given when the baby is at least six hours old. If the ductus arteriosus has not closed by 
48 hours after the final injection, or if it re-opens, a second course of three doses of Pedea may be 
given. If the condition is unchanged after the second course of therapy, surgery may be necessary. 
Pedea should not be used before there is proof that the baby has patent ductus arteriosus. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
How does Pedea work? 
The active substance in Pedea, ibuprofen, has been used since the 1960s as a painkiller and an anti 
inflammatory medicine. It works by reducing the level of chemical messengers called prostaglandins 
within cells. As prostaglandins are also involved in keeping the ductus arteriosus open after birth, 
Pedea is thought to work by reducing the levels of prostaglandins, allowing this blood vessel to close. 
How has Pedea been studied? 
Because ibuprofen has been in use for a long time, the company presented information from the 
published literature. It also presented the results of studies, including one study looking at different 
doses of Pedea in 40 newborn premature babies. The main measure of effectiveness was the number 
of babies whose ductus arteriosus closed without the need for surgery. 
A further study compared the effects of Pedea and placebo (a dummy treatment) in 131 newborns who 
were treated before there was proof that they had patent ductus arteriosus. 
What benefit has Pedea shown during the studies? 
In the study looking at the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus, the approved dose of Pedea led to a 
closure rate of 75% in babies born 11 to 13 weeks premature (six out of eight) and 33% in babies 
born 14 to 16 weeks premature (two out of six). 
In study looking at the use of Pedea before there was proof that the babies had patent ductus 
arteriosus, Pedea seemed to be more effective than placebo at preventing surgery. However, the study 
had to be stopped early because of side effects (kidney and lung problems). 
What is the risk associated with Pedea? 
The cause of any side effects seen in babies receiving Pedea is difficult to assess because they may be 
related to the patent ductus arteriosus or to Pedea itself. The most common side effects seen in babies 
receiving the medicine (seen in more than 1 baby in 10) are thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet 
counts), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), bronchopulmonary 
dysplasia (abnormal lung tissue, usually seen in babies born prematurely), increased blood creatinine 
levels (a marker of kidney function) and decreased blood sodium levels. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Pedea, see the package leaflet. 
Pedea must not be used in babies who have a life-threatening infection, bleeding, blood clotting 
problems or significant kidney problems. It must also not be used in babies with congenital heart 
disease where an open ductus arteriosus is needed for the blood to flow, or in babies with necrotising 
enterocolitis (a severe bacterial infection causing death of tissue in the gut). For the full list of 
restrictions see the see the package leaflet. 
Why has Pedea been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Pedea’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation.  
Other information about Pedea 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union to 
Orphan Europe SARL on 29 July 2004.  
Pedea  
EMA/741008/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Pedea can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Pedea, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.This summary 
was last updated in 11-2015. 
Pedea  
EMA/741008/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
