EMA/201917/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005130 
Pedmarqsi (sodium thiosulfate) 
An overview of Pedmarqsi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pedmarqsi and what is it used for? 
Pedmarqsi is a medicine used in children aged 1 month to less than 18 years old to reduce the risk of 
hearing loss caused by the cancer medicine cisplatin when used to treat solid tumours that have not 
spread. 
Pedmarqsi contains the active substance sodium thiosulfate. 
How is Pedmarqsi used? 
Pedmarqsi can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given in a hospital under the 
supervision of an appropriately qualified doctor. It is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting 15 
minutes, exactly 6 hours after the patient has received cisplatin.  
For more information about using this medicine, see the package leaflet or contact you or your child’s 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Pedmarqsi work? 
The way Pedmarqsi works is not fully understood, but the active substance, sodium thiosulfate, is 
thought to act by binding to and blocking the action of cisplatin that has not been taken up by cells and  
preventing damage to cells caused by molecules known as ‘oxygen free radicals’. These combined 
actions are expected to help protect the ear against hearing loss caused by cisplatin. 
What benefits of Pedmarqsi have been shown in studies? 
Two studies found that Pedmarqsi reduced the risk of hearing loss in children aged 1 month to 18 
years who were receiving cisplatin to treat solid tumours. 
The first study involved 114 children with hepatoblastoma (a cancer of the liver), with an average age 
of about 19 months. The results showed that 35% (20 out of 57) of children who received Pedmarqsi 6 
hours after each dose of cisplatin developed hearing loss compared with 67% (35 out of 52) of children 
who only received cisplatin.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The second study involved 125 children aged 1 month to 18 years with different types of cancer, 
including hepatoblastoma, neuroblastoma (a cancer of immature nerve cells) and tumours of the 
central nervous system. The study found that hearing loss was experienced by 29% (14 out of 49) of 
children who received Pedmarqsi after each cisplatin dose compared with 56% (31 out of 55) of those 
who received only cisplatin. 
What are the risks associated with Pedmarqsi? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Pedmarqsi, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Pedmarqsi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), hypernatraemia (high blood levels of sodium), hypophosphataemia 
(low blood levels of phosphate) and hypokalaemia (low blood levels of potassium). 
The most common serious side effects with Pedmarqsi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
include hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). 
Pedmarqsi must not be used in infants under the age of 1 month. 
Why is Pedmarqsi authorised in the EU? 
Hearing loss due to cisplatin is an important clinical issue for which there were no treatment options 
available at the time of the authorisation of Pedmarqsi. Pedmarqsi has been shown to prevent hearing 
loss in children and adolescents caused by cisplatin treatment for certain cancers. In addition, the 
safety profile of Pedmarqsi is in line with that known for sodium thiosulfate when given for other uses 
and is considered acceptable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Pedmarqsi’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pedmarqsi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pedmarqsi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pedmarqsi are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Pedmarqsi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Pedmarqsi 
Pedmarqsi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 May 2023. 
Further information on Pedmarqsi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pedmarqsi.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023.  
Pedmarqsi (sodium thiosulfate)  
EMA/201917/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
