15 October 2020 
EMA/578690/2020 
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Pegasys  
peginterferon alfa-2a 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000395/P46/057 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 17 
3. Overall conclusion and recommendation ............................................... 18 
2 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 13th July 2020, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Pegasys® (pegylated-interferon 
alfa-2a), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that Study NV25361: Phase IIIb, Randomized, Open-Label Study of Pegylated 
Interferon Alfa-2a in Combination with Lamivudine or Entecavir Compared with Untreated Control 
Patients in Children with HBeAg-Positive Chronic Hepatitis B in the Immune-Tolerant Phase is a stand-
alone study. 
The NEPTUNE study (Study WV19432) was a non-inferiority Phase IV trial that confirmed the efficacy 
of a regimen of Pegasys® 180µg/week for 48 weeks in adults with HBeAg-positive chronic HBV 
infection. This does was modified for paediatric use in order to achieve similar exposures to the 
authorised adult dose (Schwarz et al. 2006). 
Subsequently, Study NV25361 aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treating children with 
immune-tolerant CHB disease, with therapy duration based on those used in two pilot studies where 
this particular treatment strategy was first tested (D’Antiga et al. 2006; Poddar et al. 2013). This study 
was originally specified as a clinical measure in the Paediatric Investigation Plan agreed for Pegasys® 
but was removed as a result of modification procedure EMEA-000298-PIP01-08-M06 (decision 
P/0143/2018). 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
In study NV25361, Pegasys® 180 μg/mL (1 mL solution in 2-mL vials) was administered 
subcutaneously once weekly. This formulation and strength is already authorised for the treatment of 
HBeAg-positive CHB in non-cirrhotic children and adolescents 3 years of age and older with evidence of 
viral replication and persistently elevated serum ALT levels. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final abbreviated clinical study report (CSR) for a prematurely terminated 
paediatric clinical study: 
• 
Study NV25361: Phase IIIb, Randomized, Open-Label Study of Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a in 
Combination with Lamivudine or Entecavir Compared with Untreated Control Patients in Children with 
HBeAg-Positive Chronic Hepatitis B in the Immune-Tolerant Phase 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Study NV25361 
Phase IIIb, Randomized, Open-Label Study of Pegylated Interferon Alfa-2a in Combination 
with Lamivudine or Entecavir Compared with Untreated Control Patients in Children with 
HBeAg-Positive Chronic Hepatitis B in the Immune-Tolerant Phase 
3 
 
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
The original study objectives specified in the study protocol were: 
Efficacy 
• 
Primary efficacy: of Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir for 48 weeks compared with an 
untreated control in children with CHB, as measured by loss of HBsAg 24 weeks post 
treatment/ end of untreated observation. 
•  Secondary efficacy: of Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir compared with an untreated control 
in children with CHB, as measured by seroconversion to anti-HBs, seroconversion to anti-HBe, 
loss of HBeAg, and HBV DNA levels, at 24 weeks post-treatment/end of untreated observation 
And 
Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir in children with CHB, as measured by seroconversion to 
anti-HBs, seroconversion to anti-HBe, loss of HBsAg, loss of HBeAg, HBV DNA levels, at 1 
yearpost-treatment. 
Safety 
• 
of the Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir group compared with the untreated control group in 
children with CHB, by assessment of adverse events (including neuropsychiatric assessment), 
laboratory test results (including thyroid function), vital signs and growth, up to 24 weeks 
post-treatment/end of untreated observation and up to 1 year post-treatment. 
Pharmacokinetic 
• 
of Pegasys in children with CHB treated with Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir following 
administration of a body surface area (BSA)−based dosing regimen. 
Exploratory 
•  Relationship between quantitative HBsAg/quantitative HBeAg and treatment response in 
children with CHB. 
• 
• 
Lamivudine or entecavir viral resistance in children with CHB. 
Incidence of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) in children with CHB treated with Pegasys 
+ lamivudine or entecavir. 
Assessment comment: 
This Phase 3 study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of Pegasys® in combination with 
lamivudine or entecavir in paediatric patients with chronic, immune-tolerant hepatitis B, who 
historically have not been actively treated, on the basis that seroconversion rates were too low to 
justify the clinical burden and risks of treatment. The rationale for this was promising results from 
two small pilot studies treating pediatric patients with CHB in the immune-tolerant phase reported 
results for the treatment groups showing more frequent HBeAg and HBsAg loss, seroconversion, and 
sustained virological responses, as compared with untreated controls (D’Antiga et al. 2006; Poddar 
et al. 2013).  
4 
 
Study design 
The study began as a single-site investigator-sponsored trial (King’s College Hospital/King’s College 
London) with three arms (Pegasys monotherapy, Pegasys+lamivudine, and untreated control), from 
which 3 patients in the Pegasys monotherapy arm (Group C), 2 patients in the Pegasys + lamivudine 
and 6 patients in the untreated arm who signed an updated Informed Consent/Data Release form are 
included in the CSR. Patients who did not sign an updated Informed Consent/Data Release form 
(n=10) were not included in the CSR as their data were not released to Roche. 
The study was subsequently transferred to Roche and changed to an open-label, randomised, 
controlled, parallel group, multi-centre superiority study in 114 children, aged 3 to less than 18 years 
with immune-tolerant CHB, stratified by HBV genotype A vs. B/C vs. D/other) and randomized 1:1 to 
either lamivudine or entecavir alone for 8 weeks followed by Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir for 48 
weeks (Group A) or no treatment (Group B). The Pegasys monotherapy arm was removed following 
concerns regarding the probable low response rates to treatment with Pegasys monotherapy raised 
by the study Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) members and potential study investigators during 
feasibility assessment.  
For treated patients, the approximate intended study length was 2 years and 2 months (up to 6 weeks’ 
screening, 8 weeks’ lamivudine or entecavir treatment, 48 weeks’ Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir 
treatment, 24 weeks’ initial follow-up, 28 weeks’ additional follow-up). For untreated patients, the 
intended approximate study length was 1.5 years (up to 6 weeks’ screening and 80 weeks’ untreated 
observation). 
Figure 1.  Schematic of design of Study NV25361 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Figure 1. 
Assessment comment: 
The use of an untreated control group was adequately justified on the basis of lack of existing 
established treatment for the target population, difficulty in blinding due to the well-known side 
effect profile of Pegasys, and lack of ethical justification for administering weekly placebo injections 
for 48 weeks. This is not considered problematic for analysis of the efficacy endpoints, which are 
objective laboratory assays of virological markers of disease.  
The results from two multicentre clinical trials with a similar design to Study NV25361, sponsored by 
the National Institutes of Health (NIH), evaluating the entecavir + Pegasys treatment regimen in 
5 
 
 
 
patients with immune-tolerant chronic hepatitis B (CHB) were made available in October 2017 at the 
American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases Congress in Washington, USA (Rosenthal et al. 
2017 [paediatric patients]; Feld et al. 2017 [adult patients]). Both studies demonstrated minimal to no 
efficacy of the intervention in adult and paediatric patient populations with immune-tolerant CHB. The 
combination of entecavir + Pegasys, administered for up to 48 weeks, rarely led to loss of hepatitis B 
envelope antigen with sustained suppression of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA levels and was associated 
with frequent but not serious adverse events. Based on these results the PDCO agreed in March 2018 
to modify the PIP for Pegasys and remove Study NV25361 from the PIP commitments. The study was 
also removed from the Risk Management Plan (RMP). Following this, Roche terminated recruitment to 
the study on 28 March 2018 in accordance with the recommendation from the Data Safety Monitoring 
Board (DSMB) on 22 March 2018, which considered that the NIH results demonstrating minimal 
efficacy changed the benefit- risk balance of Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir in immune-tolerant 
CHB. No specific safety concerns were identified in their scheduled review of the study. 
Study population  
Children 3 to <18 years of age with immune-tolerant CHB of any genotype, with positive HBsAg and 
HBeAg for >6 months prior to baseline, and detectable HBV DNA (>20,000 IU/mL) on at least 2 
occasions, one month apart, within 42 days of baseline. 
Compensated liver disease as evidenced by: 
  Liver biopsy performed within 2 years prior to baseline showing no or minimal fibrosis (Liver 
Biopsy Scores [see Appendix 3]) and stable normal ALT levels (≤upper limit of normal [ULN] 
during the 6 months leading up to baseline (including two separate occasions at least 1 month 
apart over the 6 months prior to baseline).  
OR 
  Stable normal ALT levels (≤ULN), during the 1-year leading up to baseline (including three 
separate occasions at least 1 month apart over the 1 year prior to baseline) and no signs of 
HCC, advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis, or splenomegaly on liver abdominal ultrasound at screening.  
Screening ALT was required to be normal (≤ULN). 
Patients who had any previous anti-HBV treatment (including investigational treatments), or who were 
co- infected with hepatitis A virus (HAV), HCV, hepatitis D virus (HDV), HIV, or who had 
decompensated liver disease, advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis, or suspicion of HCC on ultrasound were 
excluded. 
Assessment comment: 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria were appropriate for the study design. 
Sample size  
Approximately 114 patients were planned to be recruited (57 per group) to ensure at least 50 
evaluable patients in each group, providing a Fisher’s Exact test with a two-sided 5% significance level 
with 80% power to detect a difference between treated and untreated groups (intention-to-treat (ITT) 
populations), based on the assumption of expected loss of HBsAg rates after 24 weeks after the end of 
treatment/end of untreated observation were 17% in the Pegasys + lamivudine arm (D’Antiga et al., 
2006) and 0.6% in the untreated control group (Hsu, 1992). 
6 
 
Treatments 
Group A: lamivudine or entecavir administered orally once daily given alone for 8 weeks then in 
combination with Pegasys® administered subcutaneously once weekly for 48 weeks. 
Group B: untreated control. 
Assignment to treatment arms was stratified by genotypes A vs B/C vs D/other and randomised 1:1. 
The choice of nucleoside analogue to be used in combination was made by the investigator prior to 
assignment to a treatment group, and the same nucleoside analogue continued throughout the 
treatment period.   
Table 1.  Pegasys® paediatric dosing regimen 
Source: Protocol NV25361, Version 13, Table 1. 
Table 2.  Entecavir paediatric dosing regimen, patients aged 2 to <18 years 
Source: Protocol NV25361, Version 13, Table 2. 
7 
 
 
 
Paediatric lamivudine dose of 3-mg/kg/day (maximum of 100 mg daily). 
Both entecavir and lamivudine were available as either oral solution or tablets, as appropriate for the 
individual dose/patient. 
Assessment comment: 
The study used standard recommended dosing of Pegasys, lamivudine and entecavir as currently 
used for treatment of paediatric patients with chronic, immune-active hepatitis B. The duration of 
treatment was chosen based on that used in the two pilot studies where this treatment strategy first 
showed benefit (D’Antiga et al. 2006; Poddar et al. 2013).  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
• 
Loss of HBsAg at 24 weeks post-treatment (follow-up Week 24)/end of untreated observation 
(Week 80). 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
At 24 weeks post-treatment/endof untreated observation: 
•  Seroconversion to anti-HBs (loss of HBsAg and presence of anti-HBs) 
•  Seroconversion to anti-HBe (loss of HBeAg and presence of anti-HBe) 
• 
Loss of HBeAg 
•  HBV DNA < 20,000 IU/mL, < 2000 IU/mL, undetectable and change from baseline (by PCR or 
hybridization) 
•  Combined endpoints: HBeAg seroconversion and HBV DNA < 20,000 IU/mL 
•  Combined endpoints: HBeAg seroconversion and HBV DNA < 2000 IU/mL 
At 1-year post-treatment: 
•  Seroconversion to anti-HBs (loss of HBsAg and presence of anti-HBs) 
•  Seroconversion to anti-HBe (loss of HBeAg and presence of anti-HBe) 
• 
• 
Loss of HBsAg 
Loss of HBeAg 
•  HBV DNA < 20,000 IU/mL, < 2000 IU/mL, undetectable and change from baseline (by PCRor 
hybridization) 
•  Combined endpoints: HBeAg seroconversion and HBV DNA < 20,000 IU/mL 
•  Combined endpoints: HBeAg seroconversion and HBV DNA < 2000 IU/mL 
Safety endpoints 
At 24 weeks post-treatment/end of untreated observation: 
• 
Incidence, nature, and severity of serious and non-serious adverse events (including 
neuropsychiatric assessment) 
•  Reasons for the discontinuation of any study medication 
8 
 
•  Dose modifications for laboratory abnormalities and clinical adverse events 
•  Changes in vital signs and laboratory tests from screening/baseline, including thyroid function 
• 
Effect on growth (height, weight and sexual maturity status) 
At 1-year post-treatment: 
• 
Incidence, nature, and severity of persisting adverse events, new-onset related serious 
adverse events/non-serious adverse events of special interest 
•  Changes in thyroid function from screening/baseline 
• 
Effect on growth (height, weight and sexual maturity status) 
AESIs were defined as: 
  suspected transmission of an infectious agent by the study drug 
  ALT or AST > 3 x baseline value in combination with total bilirubin > 2 x ULN or with clinical 
jaundice 
Pharmacokinetic endpoints 
•  Samples collected from all treated patients for exploratory analysis. 
Exploratory endpoints 
•  Quantitative HBsAg and quantitative HBeAg 
• 
• 
Presence of lamivudine or entecavir viral resistance 
Incidence of anti-drug antibodies from all patients treated with Pegasys® + lamivudine or 
Pegasys® + entecavir 
Assessment  comment: 
The planned study endpoints were appropriate for the study objectives. 
Statistical Methods 
As enrolment into the study was terminated prematurely, the collected data were only descriptively 
summarised in the final CSR. No formal statistical hypothesis testing or formal treatment group 
comparisons were performed.  
The number of observations, percentage of responders (response rate) and 95% CI (using the 
Clopper-Pearson method) for the response rate was presented for Groups A and B. AE summaries were 
presented for events with an onset date up to 24 weeks post treatment (follow-up Week 24)/end of 
untreated observation (Week 80) by group and for events with an onset at any time up to the end of 
the 1-year safety follow-up for the Pegasys + lamivudine or entecavir treatment group. Laboratory 
data was descriptively summarised by treatment group over time.  
Efficacy and safety data were presented as listings for Group C.  
Individual and mean serum Pegasys concentration versus time pharmacokinetic data was tabulated. 
Exploratory pharmacodynamic analyses were not covered in the Clinical Study Report. 
9 
 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
At database lock (DBL) on 12 Mar 2020, 62 patients were enrolled into the study (Group A=26, Group 
B=33, Group C=3). The end of the study was defined as the date when the last patient, last visit 
(LPLV) for the final analysis occurred, which was 29 January 2020. 
The region that recruited the highest number of patients randomized was Europe (48 patients), 
followed by North and South America (7 patients), Asia (3 patients) and Australia (1 patients). 
Table 3.  Patient disposition, all patients, study NV25361 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 1. 
Withdrawal from the study for non-safety reasons was documented for 3/26 (11.5%) Group A and 
8/33 (24.2%) group B, mainly for the reason of withdrawal by subject. No patients were prematurely 
discontinued from study treatment during the treatment/observation period. No patient was excluded 
from the ITT or safety populations.  
Seven patients (26.9%) in Group A and 9 patients (27.3%) in Group B were considered to have at 
least 1 major protocol deviation during the study, mainly failure to fully meet study inclusion criteria 
with regards to baseline hepatic markers or HBV serology.  
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics were similar between Groups A and B. The ITT population was predominantly 
Asian or Caucasian, median age 12 years old in Group A and 11 years old in Group B, median body 
surface area (BSA) 1.4m2 in both groups.  
Baseline disease characteristics were similar between Groups A and B. The most frequent HBV 
genotype was D (Group A 40%, Group B 46.9%), followed by B, C and E. The mode of HBV acquisition 
was reported as perinatal in a high proportion of patients in both groups (73.1% in Group A and 69.7% 
in Group B). The most frequently reported fibrosis score was F1 (85.7% in Group A and 70% in Group 
B). 
10 
 
 
Patient exposure 
The median exposure duration of Pegasys® was 48 weeks (range: 47 to 48 weeks) and the median 
number of doses was 48 (range: 43.0 to 48.0). The median cumulative dose was 6480.00 µg/mL 
(range: 3285.0 - 8640.0 µg/mL).  
The median exposure duration of lamivudine was 56 weeks (range: 56 to 57 weeks) and the median 
number of doses was 387 (range: 375.0 - 395.0). The median cumulative dose was 38700.00 mg 
(range: 37500.0 - 39400.0 mg).  
The median exposure duration of entecavir was 57 weeks (range: 56 to 58 weeks) and the median 
number of doses was 393 (range: 387.0 - 397.0). The median cumulative dose was 196.00 mg 
(range: 117.9 - 198.5).  
Efficacy results 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
Table 4.  HBsAg loss at 24 Weeks post-treatment (follow-up Week 24)/end of 
untreated observation (Week 80): ITT Population 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 7. 
11 
 
 
In Group C, 0/3 patients demonstrated loss of HBsAg at 24 weeks post-treatment. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Table 5.  Responses at 24 Weeks post-treatment (follow-up Week 24)/end of untreated 
observation (Week 80): ITT Population 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 8. 
12 
 
 
Table 6.  Responses at 1 year post-treatment, Group A: ITT Population 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 9. 
13 
 
 
In Group C, 2/3 patients demonstrated seroconversion to HBeAb and loss of HBeAg at 1 year post-
treatment. 
Spontaneous HBeAg loss in chronically infected children occurs at an annual rate of 10% -16% 
(Bortolotti et al. 1986; Moyes et al. 1993), whereas spontaneous loss of HBsAg is as low as 0.6% per 
year (Hsu et al. 1992), the children achieving earlier seroconversion being those with biochemical 
and/or histological evidence of active disease. Moreover, the annual HBsAg clearance rate is 
significantly higher in those children who are already anti-HBe positive (i.e., low viral load) than in 
those with HBeAg (i.e., high viral load) (1.7% vs. 0.4%). 
Assessment comment: 
The small sample size and premature termination of the study preclude statistical comparison of the 
groups, but the frequency of attainment of virological endpoints seen across the three groups is 
consistent with background annual spontaneous seroconversion rates previously reported in 
untreated paediatric patients. Long-term follow-up studies in children show that many seroconvert 
from HBeAg to anti-HBe before reaching adulthood and most of those children have stable remission 
with normal ALT thereafter.  
Safety results 
Table 7.  Overview of Adverse Events up to 24 weeks post-treatment/end of untreated 
observation: Safety Population 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 10. 
14 
 
  
Table 8.  Adverse Events by Preferred Term, Relative Frequency ≥5% (up to 24 weeks 
post-treatment/end of untreated 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 Table 11. 
Adverse events 
In Group A, general disorders and administration site conditions was the most common SOC, 
specifically PTs of pyrexia, fatigue and pain in 3 children. Nervous system disorders was the next most 
common SOC, specifically PTs of headache and dizziness. 
The majority of reported AEs were of mild or moderate intensity, except one patient in Group A 
reporting severe events of migraine (on study Day 57), night sweats (on study Day 107) and headache 
(on study Day 338) and one patient in Group B reporting severe events of dehydration and 
pharyngitis.  
One patient in untreated Group B (3%) reported 2 serious AEs (pharyngitis and dehydration). There 
were no other SAEs or deaths. There were no AESIs. None of the patients were discontinued from any 
of the study treatments due to adverse events. 
Pegasys® dose modifications due to AEs or laboratory abnormalities were reported in 6 patients (23%) 
in Group A. Three patients (12%) reported AE (tooth abscess, alanine aminotransferase increased, 
neutropenia), and 4 reported non-AE laboratory abnormalities (2 low absolute neutrophil count (one 
also reported as AE), 2 elevated serum ALT, 8% each). 
Laboratory values 
Haematology 
Low white blood cell (WBC) count occurred at any time post-baseline in 24/26 (92.3%) of Group A and 
3/33 (9.7%) of Group B. Most abnormalities were either Grade 1 or 2 according to the Division of Aids 
Table for Grading the Severity of Adult and Pediatric Adverse Events (DAIDS), however in Group A 2 
patients experienced Grade 3 low WBC and one patient reported neutropenia as an AE. 
15 
 
 
Chemistry 
High laboratory values occurring at any time post-baseline were more frequent in Group A than Group 
B with regard to ALT (84.6% vs 22.6%), AST (69.2% vs 9.7%), GGT (50.0% vs 3.2%) and INR 
(26.9% vs 16.1%). Low glucose values occurring at any time post-baseline were more frequent in 
Group A than Group B (20.8% vs 4.0%). High uric acid values occurring at any time post-baseline 
were more frequent in Group B than Group A (12.0% vs 4.2.%).  
Abnormally high (DAIDS Grade ≥3) values occurring post-baseline were reported for the following 
biochemistry parameters: In Group A, high ALT of Grade 3 (4 patients, 15.4%) and Grade 4 (1 patient, 
3.8%), high AST of Grade 3 (2 patients, 7.7%), low glucose of Grade 3 (2 patients, 8.3%), high uric 
acid of Grade 3 (1 patient, 4.2%). In Group B, high uric acid of Grade 3 was reported in 3 patients 
(12%). 
In Group A, mean (SD) change from baseline for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) was -0.21 (0.76) 
and -0.46 (0.65) at Week 56 and 1-year follow-up, respectively. In Group B, mean (SD) change from 
baseline for TSH was 0.19 (1.01) and 0.23 (0.66) at Week 56 and Week 80, respectively. There were 
no clinically relevant changes from baseline in triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) levels observed 
in either of the groups. 
Vital signs 
One patient in Group A (3.8%) experienced high diastolic blood pressure (>20% increase from 
baseline). Two patients in Group B (6.1%) reported low pulse rate (>20% decrease from baseline). No 
associated AE was reported. No clinically significant trends were observed in either group in changes 
from baseline over time in SBP, DBP, pulse rate, or mean temperature. 
Neuropsychiatric assessments 
Total T-score in the Child Depression Inventory (CDI) for Group A remained close to baseline values 
throughout the study and showed no relevant changes over time post baseline up to week 4 of initial 
follow-up. The CDI was not administered in post-baseline visits in Group B. In Group A, one patient 
reported an adverse event of depressed mood of mild intensity, and the total CDI score was between 
0-3 throughout the study. 
Height and weight 
At Week 56, the proportion of patients with >15% drop in height-for-age percentile from baseline was 
3.8% in Group A and 4.5% in Group B. In Group A, follow-up at Week 24 (24 patients) and 1-year (24 
patients), these proportions changed to 12.5% and 20.8% respectively. At Week 80 in Group B, the 
proportion of patients with >15% drop in height-for-age percentile from baseline was 16%. 
At Week 56, the proportion of patients with >15% drop in weight-for-age percentile from baseline was 
34.6% in Group A and 4.5% in Group B. In Group A, follow-up at Week 24 (25 patients) and 1-year 
(24 patients), these proportions changed to 20% and 25% respectively. At Week 80 in Group B, the 
proportion of patients with >15% drop in weight-for-age percentile from baseline was 12%. 
16 
 
Assessment  comment 
The reported adverse events and frequencies are in keeping with the known safety and tolerability 
profile of the treatments used in the study, with the most common being non-specific/systemic AEs 
of headache, pyrexia, fatigue and nausea. Low WBC count, abnormal LFTs, and low serum glucose 
occurred more frequently in Group A and are known to occur in association with one or more of the 
treatments used in the study. 
The difference in weight loss amongst Group A vs Group B patients at week 56 is striking, although 
it must be remembered that the sample size is small. Around one third of patients in Group A 
experienced a weight-for-age percentile drop >15% by week 56 on treatment, and this despite the 
fact that height-for-age percentile drop was only modest in both groups by week 56. Also significant 
is that lamivudine, which was co-administered to some patients in Group A, is known to cause 
weight gain, and therefore would be expected to have some counter effect. 
The CSR states that, due to lack of long-term follow-up data and limited sample size resulting from 
early termination of enrolment, it is difficult to draw any conclusion regarding whether there was 
long-term growth inhibition in children treated with PEG + LAM/ENT (Group A). On-treatment 
growth inhibition with Pegasys-containing regimens has been observed in previous studies of 
paediatric patients, however the majority of patients returned to their baseline height for age 
percentile within 5 years of post-treatment follow-up. The current SmPC contains a warning 
regarding the potential impact on growth and development in children. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
Table 9.  Summary of serum Pegasys® RO0258310 concentrations by visit 
Source: CSR Study NV25361 appendices. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study NV25361 was a Phase 3 study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treating children with 
immune-tolerant CHB with Pegasys in combination with either lamivudine or entecavir, with therapy 
duration based on those used in two pilot studies where this particular treatment strategy was first 
tested. The study design was appropriate for the original objectives. However, during the course of the 
study, results from two multicentre NIH trials demonstrated minimal to no efficacy of the same 
intervention in both adult and paediatric patient populations with immune-tolerant CHB. Based on 
these results, it was decided that the benefit-risk balance had changed and recruitment to Study 
NV25361 was terminated prematurely. The study was also removed from the PIP commitments and 
the RMP.  
17 
 
 
The applicant has hereby submitted the results of the prematurely terminated study. Only 62 patients 
were enrolled into the study (Group A=26, Group B=33, Group C=3). The collected data were only 
descriptively summarised in the final CSR. No formal statistical hypothesis testing or formal treatment 
group comparisons were performed.  
Overall, 1/26 patients (3.8%) in the treatment group PEG + LAM/ENT (Group A) and no patients from 
untreated group (Group B) had HBsAg loss at 24 Weeks post-treatment or end of untreated 
observation (Week 80), respectively. Responses of secondary efficacy endpoints at 24 or 52 weeks 
post-treatment/end of untreated observation, respectively, were similar to the primary efficacy 
observations. In patients in the Pegasys monotherapy arm from the earlier study protocol (Group C), 
2/3 patients demonstrated seroconversion to HBeAb and loss of HBeAg at 1-year post-treatment. The 
small sample size and premature termination of the study preclude statistical comparison of the 
groups, but in absolute numbers the rate of antigen loss and seroconversion is very low across all 
three groups, and consistent with background annual spontaneous seroconversion rates previously 
reported in untreated paediatric patients. 
The adverse events and deviations in laboratory values reported by patients in the treatment group 
PEG + LAM/ENT (Group A) during the study are in keeping with the known safety and tolerability 
profiles of the individual components of the treatment regimen. Although comprehensive assessment is 
not possible due to the small sample size and limited follow up time, the data are suggestive of an on-
treatment impact of Pegasys + LAM/ENT on growth, which has previously been described in earlier 
studies and is listed as a warning in the SmPC for Pegasys. There were no unexpected safety issues.  
The reason for the disparity between results of the initial pilot studies and subsequent larger clinical 
trials is not clear. Long-term follow-up studies have shown that more than 80% of Caucasian children 
with HBV infection seroconvert from HBeAg to anti-HBe before reaching adulthood. Lower figures are 
reported in Asian children, possibly due to the fact that perinatal transmission is the dominant route of 
infection in this area. The annual spontaneous HBeAg seroconversion rate is up to 14-18% in 
Caucasian children vs less than 2% in Asian children below 3 years of age. It is interesting that in one 
of the two positive pilot studies (D’Antiga et al. 2006) the response rate appeared to be highest 
amongst Asian patients vs European patients. The other pilot study (Poddar et al. 2013) was 
conducted in India. Similarly, in their discussion of the results of the NIH clinical study in paediatric 
patients with immune-tolerant CHB (Rosenthal et al., 2019), the authors note that the trial’s only two 
complete responders were Asian (both suspected mother to child transmission; one genotype B and 
one genotype C), while two patients with incomplete virologic response were Asian (genotype B) and 
Black (genotype E). They postulate that differences might exist in response rate between different biral 
viral genotypes and/or different ethic groups. However, in the NIH clinical study in adult patients with 
immune-tolerant CHB (Feld et al. 2019), in which 96% of enrolled patients were Asian (almost 
exclusively genotypes B and C), no patient met the primary endpoint of both HBeAg loss and HBV DNA 
≤1000 IU/mL 48 weeks after treatment ended. The data presented in the submitted CSR for Study 
NV25361 are not sufficiently detailed to allow for consideration of virological outcomes vs viral 
genotype or ethnicity. 
3.  Overall conclusion and recommendation 
Results from the prematurely-terminated Phase 3 Study NV25361 of Pegasys in combination with 
either lamivudine or entecavir for treatment of children with immune-tolerant chronic hepatitis B, 
though limited and only descriptive in nature, appear to support the conclusion of two multicentre NIH 
trials demonstrated minimal to no efficacy of the intervention in immune-tolerant CHB. In some 
instances, it is considered valuable to the prescriber to include negative study results relevant to the 
paediatric population in the SmPC, for example where a treatment authorised for a particular indication 
18 
 
in adults has not been shown effective for the same indication in children. However, in this case there 
is no expectation of a future indication of treatment of immune-tolerant CHB in adults, and the 
published evidence for overall lack of efficacy in immune-tolerant CHB is expected to be familiar to 
clinicians experienced in initiating treatment of CHB, therefore additions to the efficacy information in 
the currently approved Product Information are not warranted. 
No new safety concerns were identified during the course of prematurely-terminated Study NV25361. 
Long-term data on growth, thyroid effects and neuropsychiatric events in paediatric patients continue 
to be collected as part of the 5-year follow up of patients in ongoing study YV25718 in the paediatric 
population with immune-active CHB. No update to the safety information in the currently approved 
Product Information is necessary at this time. 
  Fulfilled: 
PAM fulfilled. No regulatory action required.  
19 
 
