20 February 2014 
EMA/CHMP/51083/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Pegasys 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: Peginterferon alfa-2a 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000395/PSUV/0072 
Period covered by the PSUR:  5 July 2012 – 4 July 2013 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Pegasys, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
PRAC has recommended labelling changes to include tongue pigmentation as an adverse drug reaction 
and to include a warning concerning glucose monitoring. 
At the request of the PRAC the MAH carried out a review in August 2013 to assess the possible 
association between tongue pigmentation and exposure to peginterferon alfa-2a.  
Based on the available information and analyses there are sufficient data to indicate a reasonable causal 
association between the event of tongue pigmentation and the use of Pegasys. On this basis PRAC 
requested the MAH to update section 4.8 of the SmPC and section 4 of the package leaflet to reflect the 
new adverse drug reaction tongue pigmentation 
The PRAC also raised a concern associated with glucose monitoring. Hepatitis C therapy with pegylated 
interferon plus ribavirin has been reported to cause a significant fall in A1C values without a change to 
fasting plasma glucose levels in diabetic patients.  As such the PRAC requested the MAH to add a 
warning to section 4.4 of the SmPC concerning glucose monitoring during therapy with Pegasys. The 
package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Pegasys, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance Peginterferon alfa-2a is favourable 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
 
 
