European Medicines Agency 
Post-authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
EMEA/CHMP/650637/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR PEGASYS 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: peginterferon alfa-2a 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000395/II/0036 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
FDA  
HALT-C study  
adverse event 
chronic hepatitis C 
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
AE  
CHC    
CHMP  
DITTO-HCV study   Dynamically Individualized Treatment of Hepatitis C 
Infection and Correlates of Viral/Host Dynamics study 
Food and Drug Administration 
Hepatitis C Antiviral Long-Term Treatment Against 
Cirrhosis study 
hepatitis B e antigen 
hepatitis C virus 
interferon 
National Institutes of Health 
number needed to treat 
negative predictive value 
positive predictive value 
peginterferon alfa 
peginterferon alfa-2a (Pegasys) 
peginterferon alfa-2b (PegIntron) 
ribavirin 
ribonucleic acid 
subcutaneous 
Sustained Virological response  
HbeAg  
HCV    
IFN  
NIH  
NNT    
NPV  
PPV  
PEG-IFN alfa   
PEG-IFN alfa-2a  
PEG-IFN alfa-2b  
RBV    
RNA    
sc  
SVR                     
2
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
3.1. 
Introduction 
Pegasys (peginterferon alfa-2a, PEG-IFN alfa-2a) is a chemically modified interferon alfa formed by 
the  covalent  attachment  of  a  40-kilodalton  single  branched  methoxy  polyethylene  glycol  moiety  to 
recombinant interferon alfa-2a.  
PEG-IFN  alfa-2a,  alone  or  in  combination  with  ribavirin,  is  currently  approved  for  the  treatment  of 
chronic  hepatitis  C  (CHC)  in  treatment-naïve  adult  patients  who  are  positive  for  hepatitis  C  virus 
(HCV)  infection,  including  patients  with  compensated  cirrhosis  and/or  clinically  stable  human 
immunodeficiency virus. PEG-IFN alfa-2a is also indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in 
patients with either hepatitis B e-antigen (HBeAg)-positive or HbeAg-negative disease. The optimal 
way to use PEG-IFN alfa-2a in patients with CHC is in combination with ribavirin. PEG-IFN alfa-2a 
monotherapy  is  mainly  reserved  for  patients  who  are  intolerant  of  ribavirin  or  in  whom  ribavirin  is 
contraindicated. 
Chronic Hepatitis C is a worldwide health problem with 170 million HCV carriers globally including 
4  million  in  the  United  States  and  9  million  in  Europe.  Of  those  who  become  infected  with  HCV, 
approximately  80%  will  progress  to  chronic  liver  disease  that  may  ultimately  lead  to  cirrhosis, 
hepatocellular  carcinoma,  liver  transplantation  and  death.  The  prevalence  of  end-stage  liver  disease 
secondary to HCV accounts for approximately 50% of the liver transplants in the United States and 
Europe.  Despite  the  decreased  number  of  new  HCV  infections  in  the  last  decade,  the  prevalence  of 
advanced CHC-related liver disease is on the rise as a result of the significant lag period between the 
onset of infection and the development of decompensated cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. 
The goal of HCV treatment is achievement of a SVR, which is defined as the absence of HCV RNA in 
serum  by  a  sensitive  test  at  the  end  of  treatment  and  6  months  later.  Over  the  past  several  years, 
considerable  advances  have  been  made  in  the  treatment  of  treatment-naïve  patients  with  CHC.  The 
first effective treatment identified used IFN alfa monotherapy and resulted in SVRs of between 15% 
and 20%, which later increased to between 35% and 40% with the use of IFN alfa in combination with 
ribavirin and   more recently to greater than 50% with the combination of PEG-IFN alfa and ribavirin. 
This combination is considered to be the current standard of care for treatment-naïve patients. 
As  improvements  in  treatment  outcome  and  the  widespread  use  of  PEG-IFN  alfa  plus  ribavirin 
combination  therapy  have  led  to  an  increase  in  the  number  of  treatment-naïve  patients  receiving 
treatment for CHC, a growing patient population of treatment failures from this regimen has emerged. 
Patients  with  certain  demographic  and  disease  characteristics  have  been  found  to  be  less  likely  to 
achieve an SVR. Thus, nearly half of the patients with HCV genotype 1 and 20% to 30% of patients 
with  genotype  2  or  3  infection  do  not  respond  to  the  current  standard  of  care,  and  patients  with 
advanced  cirrhosis,  high  baseline  HCV  RNA  viral  load,  higher  body  weight,  and  black  race  have  a 
lower probability of achieving an SVR. 
Several small clinical studies in non-responders to previous treatment have identified the importance 
of  patient  and  disease  characteristics, type  of  previous  treatment regimen  and the  potency  of the  re-
treatment  regimen  on  re-treatment  outcome.  Several  pilot  studies  have  been  conducted  in  non-
responders  and  relapsers  to  previous  IFN  alfa  monotherapy  or  IFN  alfa  plus  ribavirin  combination 
therapy and have demonstrated that these patients can achieve an SVR when re-treated with PEG-IFN 
alfa-2a plus ribavirin combination therapy but also to a lower extent than that attained in treatment-
naïve  patients.    Studies  demonstrated  that  the  overall  SVR  achieved  after  re-treatment  is  widely 
variable and depends on the pattern of previous treatment failure (relapse or non-response), the type of 
previous  treatment  (IFN  alfa  or  PEG-IFN  alfa),  and  baseline  prognostic  factors  known  to  impact 
treatment outcome in treatment-naïve patients (genotype, fibrosis stage, baseline viral load). 
Unfortunately  no  clear  treatment  strategy  has  emerged  from  the  multiplicity  of  small  pilot  studies 
conducted in non-responders and relapsers to a first course of treatment.  
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this clinically challenging environment associated with re-treatment, the 2002 National Institutes of 
Health consensus statement remains pertinent even today, advising that retreatment decisions should 
be  based  upon  multiple  considerations  (previous  type  of  response,  previous  type  of  treatment,  the 
relative  potency  of  the  re-treatment  regimen,  severity  of  the  underlying  liver  disease,  and  viral 
genotype).  New  drug  development  directed  at  a  number  of  different  viral  targets  is  anticipated  to 
provide  new  treatment  strategies  and  improve  outcomes  for  all  patients  with  CHC.  However,  until 
these  potential  new  treatments  become  available  for  CHC  non-responder  and  relapser  patients  who 
remain at risk for further liver disease progression, this unmet medical need requires identification of 
the best available treatment strategy utilizing currently available agents. 
The  basis  of  this  variation  is  to  support  an  extension  of  the  indication  for  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  and 
ribavirin  combination  therapy  to  include  re-treatment  of  patients  who  failed  previous  IFN  alfa-  or 
pegylated  IFN  alfa-based  therapy.  The  submission  is  based  on  one  pivotal  study,  study  MV17150, 
conducted in patients not responding, i.e. not achieving non-detectable hepatitis C virus at week 12 or 
later on treatment with PEG-IFN alfa 2b and weight adjusted ribavirin. Supportive data derive from an 
NIH  sponsored  study,  HALT-C  where  the  primary  objective  was  to  study  the  hypothesised  anti-
fibrotic effects of low dose IFN and two small single (relapsers) arm studies.  Supportive safety data 
was also available from 3 further studies. 
Clinical efficacy 
The clinical development program to support the extension of the indication include an international, 
pivotal study, MV17150. This  was a phase III,  randomised, open-label, multicenter (n=106), efficacy 
and  safety  study  examining  the  effects  of  duration  of  treatment  and  of  a  high  induction  dose  of 
Pegasys in combination with daily ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C who did not respond to 
previous peginterferon alfa-2b/ribavirin combination therapy. 
 In addition to the pivotal study, the lead-in phase of the Hepatitis C Antiviral Long-Term Treatment 
Against Cirrhosis (HALT-C) trial provided both efficacy and safety data in non-responders who were 
treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  and  ribavirin  for  48  weeks.  The  HALT-C  trial  was  a  prospective, 
randomised,  controlled  study  of  long-term  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  monotherapy  versus  no  therapy  in 
patients  with  chronic  hepatitis  C  and  advance  fibrosis  or  cirrhosis  who  failed  to  achieve  an  SVR 
following treatment with IFN with or without ribavirin and remained virus-positive after 20 weeks of 
re-treatment  with  PEGIFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  in  the  lead-in  phase.  Patients  who  achieved 
undetectable levels of virus at week 20 remained on combination therapy for a total of 48 weeks and 
were then followed for 24 weeks. 
Efficacy data from two supportive studies in relapsers after previous treatment with PEG-IFN alfa-2a 
plus ribavirin who were re-treated for 72 weeks or for 48 weeks are also provided: 
• Study WV16143 was an open-label, multicenter, re-treatment trial in 64 CHC Patients. 
• Kaiser et al (2007)1 study was an academic study and evaluated 120 mostly genotype 1 CHC 
patients. 
1  Kaiser S,  Lutze, B, Sauter B, et al.Retreatment of HCV genotype 1 relapse patients to peginterferon/ribavirin therapy  with an extended 
treatment regimen of 72 weeks with consensus interferon/ribavirin versus peginterferon alfa/ribavirin. Presented at the 58th Annual Meeting 
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease, November 2-6, 2007.Boston MA. 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Study MV17150 
Study Design and treatment 
Study  MV17150,  which  is  also  referred  to  by  the  acronym  REPEAT,  was  a  phase  III,  multicenter, 
international, randomised, open-label, parallel-group trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety 
of the combination of an induction dose of PEG-IFN alfa-2a, 360 µg given for 12 weeks followed by 
180 µg for 60 weeks, and ribavirin, 1000 or 1200 mg given for 72 weeks, compared with 48 weeks of 
treatment with 180 µg of PEG-IFN alfa-2a and 1000 or 1200 mg of ribavirin in CHC patients who had 
not  responded  to  previous  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  and  ribavirin  combination  therapy  given  for  at  least  12 
weeks. See Figure 1. 
Patient Selection 
−  Serological evidence of HCV infection confirmed by an anti-HCV antibody test. 
−  Serum HCV RNA quantifiable at >600 IU/ml by the Roche Amplicor HCV Monitor Test v2.0 or 
another quantitative HCV RNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based test, which reported the 
HCV RNA assessment at screening in international units. 
−  Non-responders  to  previous  therapy  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  and  ribavirin  combination  therapy 
given for at least 12 weeks (defined as detectable HCV RNA at every assessment after initiation of 
PEG-IFN alfa-2b and ribavirin combination therapy, with at least one HCV RNA test performed 
on  treatment  after  a  minimum  of  12  weeks  of  therapy).  Patients  had  to  have  received  at  least  
1.0 µg/kg of PEG-IFN alfa- 2b weekly and 800 mg of ribavirin daily as the starting dose. 
−  Compensated liver disease. 
−  Patients who had prematurely discontinued previous PEG-IFN alfa-2b and ribavirin treatment for 
haematological adverse events were excluded from this study. 
Randomisation 
Enrolled patients were randomised in a 2:1:1:2 ratio to one of the four treatment groups (A, B, C, D). 
See  Figure  1.  The  permuted  blocks  randomization  was  stratified  by  geographical  region,  HCV 
genotype (type 1 vs non-1), and cirrhosis stage (cirrhosis or transition to cirrhosis vs no cirrhosis).  
Statistical Hypothesis 
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate that the sustained virological response in group 
A (high induction dose and 72 weeks of treatment) was superior to that in group D (180-µg dose and 
48 weeks of treatment). The test was stratified by HCV genotype, geographical region, and cirrhosis 
status. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary objectives of this study were to investigate: 
a) Whether the induction PEG-IFN alfa-2a dose of 360 µg was superior to the standard PEG-IFN alfa-
2a dose of 180 µg. 
b) Whether the treatment duration of 72 weeks was superior to the treatment duration of 48 weeks. 
c) Whether group A was superior to group B. 
d) Whether group C was superior to group D. 
e) Whether group A was superior to group C. 
f) Whether group B was superior to group D. 
g) Whether group B was superior to group C. 
For the secondary objective (a), the sustained virological response in groups A + B was compared with 
that in groups C + D. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test was stratified by the study treatment duration 
(48 vs 72 weeks), genotype, geographical region, and cirrhosis status. For the secondary objective (b), 
the  sustained  virological  response  in  groups  A  +  C  was  compared  with  that  in  groups  B  +  D.  The 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test was stratified by the PEG-IFN alfa-2a induction dose (360 vs 180 µg), 
genotype, geographical region, and cirrhosis status. 
All tests were two-sided at a significance level of 0.05. No alfa adjustment was considered necessary 
because  only  the  statistical  test  for  the  primary  objective  was  considered  confirmative,  whereas  the 
statistical tests of the secondary objectives were considered supportive only. 
Other secondary efficacy parameters included  virologic response at the end of treatment and after 12, 
24, and 48 weeks of treatment (groups A + B vs groups C+ D) and evaluation of the safety of the high 
induction  dose  of  360  µg  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  for  the  first  12  weeks  and  of  the  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  and 
ribavirin combination therapy given for 72 weeks .   
Results 
Baseline Characteristics 
Approximately two thirds of the patients were males and the majority was Caucasians (88% to 90%). 
The median age was 48 to 50 years in the four groups. The median body weight was between 79 and 
80 kg, and the median body mass index in the four groups was very similar (26.6 to 27.4 kg/m2). 
The HCV genotype distribution was balanced across the four treatment groups. In each group, 91% of 
the patients were infected with HCV genotype 1. Of the patients infected with HCV genotype non-1, 
the most common genotype was HCV genotype 4. 
Overall,  as  can  be  seen  in  table  1  patient’s  characteristics  are  those  expected  for  a  CHC  study 
conducted  in  patients  not  responding  to  PegIntron  plus  ribavirin,  as  there  is  an  enrichment  of  poor 
prognosis factors.  
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Summary of Baseline Demographic and Baseline Disease Characteristics in Study MV17150, 
All Patients Treated 
Previous PEG-IFN alfa-2b and Ribavirin Therapy 
The median starting dose of previous PEG-IFN alfa-2b therapy was the same (1.5 µg/kg weekly) and 
the median durations of previous PEG-IFN alfa-2b therapy were comparable (190 to 201 days) in the 
four treatment groups. The median starting dose of previous ribavirin therapy was the same (1000 mg 
daily)  and  median  durations  of  previous  ribavirin  were  comparable  (190  to  200  days)  in  the  four 
treatment groups. A total of 15 patients had either a previous ribavirin starting dose of <800 mg daily 
or  had  not  received  previous  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  and  ribavirin  combination  therapy.  Overall  the  prior 
treatment attempt appears to have been initiated with overall acceptable dose intensity. 
Patient disposition  
A  total  of  950  patients  were  randomly  assigned  in  a  ratio  of  2:1:1:2  to  groups  A,  B,  C,  and  D, 
respectively.  A total of eight randomised patients (three in the two 72-week treatment groups and five 
in the two 48-week treatment groups) did not receive study drug. Five of the eight patients withdrew 
consent after being randomised, one patient violated study entry criteria, and two patients had other 
protocol violations. Among the remaining 942 patients, a similar percentage of patients in each group 
7
 
 
 
 
completed the first 12 weeks (94% to 96%) and 24 weeks (88% to 92%) of treatment   indicating that 
high dose induction is not too poorly tolerated. The most frequent reason for withdrawal was adverse 
events (Table 2). 
A similar percentage of patients in each group completed 48 weeks of treatment (67% to 72%). The 
most common reason for premature withdrawal between weeks 25 and 48 in all treatment groups was 
“insufficient  therapeutic  response”  (13%  to  17%).  The  protocol  instructed  investigators  to  consider 
treatment  discontinuation  for  patients  who  did  not  demonstrate  evidence  of  virological  response  by 
week 24. 
Overall the percentage of patients who completed their scheduled treatment was lower in the two 72-
week  treatment  groups  (57%  and  58%)  than  in  the  two  48-week  treatment  groups  (72%).  Between 
weeks  49  and  72,  only  patients  in  the  two  72-week  treatment  groups  were  still  on  study  treatment. 
During  this  period,  an  additional  10%  to  11%  of  patients  in  the  two  treatment  groups  prematurely 
withdrew from treatment; the most common reasons patients withdrew between weeks 49 and 72 were 
adverse events and insufficient therapeutic response. 
The  percentage  of  patients  who  completed  12  weeks  of  follow-up  (94%  to  95%)  and  24  weeks  of 
follow-up (80% to 84%) according to the actual end of treatment was similar across the four treatment 
groups. The percentage of patients who completed 24 weeks of follow-up after the scheduled end of 
treatment was 59% to 62% in the two 72-week treatment groups and 74% to 75% in the two 48-week 
treatment groups. 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Summary of Reasons over Time that Patients Did Not Complete the scheduled Treatment in 
study MV17150 
9
 
 
 
 Primary Efficacy Parameters 
Treatment with the 360 µg induction dose of PEG-IFN alfa-2a for 12 weeks followed by 180 µg for 60 
weeks in combination with 1000/1200 mg of ribavirin for 72 weeks (group A) was significantly more 
effective than treatment for 48 weeks with 180 µg of PEG-IFN alfa-2a and 1000/1200 mg of ribavirin 
(group D). In the analysis based on all patients treated (intent-to-treat population), 16% of patients in 
group  A  achieved  a  sustained  virological  response  compared  with  9%  of  patients  in  group  D,  a 
difference that was statistically significant (odds ratio of 2.00; 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.21 to 
3.31, and a p value of 0.006; Table 3). The sustained virological response appeared to be consistently 
better  in  group  A  than  in  group  D  across  the  randomization  strata  formed  by  geographical  region, 
HCV genotype, and cirrhosis status (p-value of 0.211 using Breslow and Day’s test). 
Table 3:  Sustained Virological Response: Group A versus Group D 
Comparisons of Sustained Virological Response: Pooled Results 
In order to investigate whether the longer treatment duration of 72 weeks was superior to 48 weeks, 
the data from groups A and C were pooled and compared with the pooled data from groups B and D. 
Similarly, data from groups A and B were pooled and compared with the pooled data from groups C 
and D in order to investigate whether the PEG-IFN alfa-2a induction dose of 360 µg was superior to 
180 µg. 
In  the  analysis  based  on  all  patients  treated,  sustained  virological  response  according  to  the  actual 
treatment period was 16% for the pooled groups receiving 72 weeks treatment, which was statistically 
significantly higher than the sustained virological response of 8% for the pooled groups receiving 48 
weeks of treatment. The odds ratio of the comparison was 2.22 with a 95% CI of 1.40 to 3.52) and a  
p value of 0.001. See Table 4. 
Sustained virological response assessed according to the actual treatment period in the population of 
all patients treated was 13% in the pooled group receiving the 360 µg PEGIFN alfa-2a induction dose 
compared with 10% in the pooled group receiving 180 µg of PEG-IFN alfa-2a, a difference that was 
not statistically significant (Table 4). The odds ratio for the comparison was 0.98 (95% CI = 0.63, 1.51 
and p value = 0.923). The lack of a significant difference in sustained virological response between the 
pooled induction groups and the pooled non-induction groups indicated that induction dosing was not 
the driver for the difference observed between groups A and D. 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Pooled Treatment Comparisons, ITT 
Pair wise Treatment Comparisons 
72 weeks of treatment versus 48 weeks of treatment 
Results  support  those  presented  for  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  showing  that  sustained  virological 
response was higher in patients treated for 72 weeks than in those who received 48 weeks of treatment. 
Group A versus group B 
Sustained virological response in group A assessed according to the actual treatment period (16%) was 
significantly higher than the sustained virological response of 7% in group B. The odds ratio of this 
comparison was 2.77 with a 95% CI of 1.36 to 5.67 and a p value of 0.0036 (see Table 5). 
Group B versus group C 
Sustained virological response in group B assessed according to the actual treatment period (7%) was 
significantly lower than the sustained virological response of 14% in group C. The odds ratio of this 
comparison was 0.49 with a 95% CI of 0.23 to 1.03 and a p value of 0.049 (see Table 5). 
Group C versus group D 
Sustained virological response in group C assessed according to the actual treatment period (14%) was 
higher than the sustained virological response of 9% in group D, with an odds ratio of this comparison 
of  1.80  (95%  CI:  0.97 to 3.32).  However, the p  value  for this  comparison  (0.060)  did not  reach  the 
statistically significant level of 0.05 (Table 5). Although the sustained virological response in group C 
was  not  statistically  higher  than  that  in  group  D,  the  study  was  not  powered  to  detect  a  significant 
difference for this pair wise comparison. A significant difference was also noted when comparing the 
standard analysis population in groups C and D who had received a PEG-IFN alfa-2b starting dose of 
≥ 1.25 µg/kg. 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Pair wise Treatment Comparisons, ITT 
Overall  the  results  of  the  efficacy  analysis  indicate  that  duration  of  therapy  (72  vs.  48  weeks)  is  of 
importance while high-dose induction seems not to be associated with improved treatment outcome.  
Secondary Efficacy Parameters 
Virological response 
A summary of virological response (undetectable virus) assessed at various time points during the trial 
for all patients treated is provided in Table 6. The proportion of patients achieving viral suppression 
(HCV RNA < 50 IU/ml) at week 12 was highest in group A (24%) and lowest in group D (11%) and 
similar in groups B (14%) and C (16%). Exploratory logistic regression analyses on the probability of 
virological  response  (undetectable  virus)  at  week  12  did  not  identify  any  imbalance  in  baseline 
demographic or disease characteristics or in on-treatment factors (such as cumulative PEG-IFN alfa-2a 
and  ribavirin  dose  during  the  first  12  weeks)  among  the  treatment  groups  that  might  explain  the 
differences in virological response observed between groups A and B or between groups C and D.  
Although  the  data  are  not conclusive,  high  dose  induction  does  not  seem  to  result  in  a  higher  early 
(week 12) response rate.  
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Summary of Virological Response over Time 
Exploratory analyses 
Best Response to Previous PEG-IFN alfa-2b and Ribavirin Combination Therapy 
This  analysis  was  retrospectively  carried  out  in  response  to  a  request  by  the  CHMP  after 
completion of the study. The best HCV RNA response to previous treatment with PEG-IFN alfa-2b 
plus  ribavirin  combination  therapy  was  determined  based  on  HCV  RNA  measurements  performed 
during previous treatment, which were collected on the CRF for study MV17150. The best response 
was calculated by determining the difference between the previous baseline HCV RNA value and the 
best  (lowest)  HCV  RNA  result  between  the  start  of  previous  treatment  and  the  end  of  previous 
treatment plus 28 days. The last quantitative HCV RNA result within 1 year of previous treatment was 
used as the previous baseline value for HCV RNA.  
Appropriate quantitative HCV RNA data that could be used to calculate the best response to previous 
PEG-IFN alfa-2b plus ribavirin combination therapy were available for 53% of the patients. The main 
reasons that the best previous response could not be determined for the remaining patients were (1) the 
availability  of  only  qualitative  rather  than  quantitative  HCV  RNA  test  results  during  previous 
treatment or (2) baseline HCV RNA values before previous treatment were measured outside the 1-
year pretreatment time window. 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Best Response to Previous Combination Therapy with PEGIFN alfa-2b and Ribavirin in 
Patients with Available Data 
In patients for whom the necessary HCV RNA results were available, the best HCV RNA response to 
previous treatment has been categorized as either (1) at least a 2-log10 RNA or (2) less than a 2-log10 
decrease from baseline in HCV RNA. The best previous HCV RNA response was at least a 2-log10 
decrease  from  baseline  in  a  similar  percentage  of  patients  across  the  four  treatment  groups,  26%  in 
group A, 29% in group B, 29% in group C, and 20% in group D. See table 7. The majority of patients 
in the four treatment groups had a best previous HCV RNA response of less than a 2-log10 decrease 
from baseline. 
Impact of Best response on HCV RNA at week 12  
In  patients  whose  best  response  to  previous  treatment  was  ≥  2-log10  decrease,  a  higher  percentage 
achieved  viral  suppression  at  week  12  in  the  two  groups  treated  with  the  360  µg  induction  dose  of 
PEG-IFN alfa-2a than in the two groups treated with the 180-µg dose of PEG-IFN alfa-2a. A total of 
43% of patients in group A and 35% of patients in group B achieved viral suppression at week 12 of 
treatment compared with 10% of patients in group C and 14% of patients in  group D (See Table 8). 
In contrast, in patients whose best previous response was <2-log10 decrease, no clear pattern was seen 
and  the  360  µg  induction dose  did not  appear  to  have  an impact  on  the  proportion  of these  patients 
who achieved viral suppression at week 12. 
Table 8: Viral Response at Week 12 by Best Previous Response  
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Impact of Best Response on Sustained Virological Response 
A  similar  exploratory  analysis  of  the  relationship  between  best  previous  response  and  sustained 
virological response was performed (Table 9). The results showed that in patients whose best response 
to  previous  treatment  was  at  least  a  2-log10  decrease,  a  higher  percentage  achieved  a  sustained 
virological  response  when  they  were  treated  with  the  360  µg  induction  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  dose  plus 
ribavirin (35% in group A and 30% in group B) then when they were treated with the 180-µg dose of  
PEG-IFN alfa- 2a plus ribavirin (5% in group C and 7% in group D). 
In contrast, in patients whose best previous response was <2-log10 decrease the pattern was different 
and the proportion of patients who achieved a sustained virological response appeared to be higher in 
patients in the two 72-week treatment groups (11% in group A and 18% in group C) than in the two 
48-week treatment groups (0% in group B and 9% in group D). 
Table 9: Sustained Virological Response by Best Previous Response 
Sustained Virological Response According to the Actual Treatment Period by Factors Predictive of 
SVR 
HCV genotype, baseline viral load, and cirrhosis status are known important predictors for sustained 
virological  response  in  treatment-naïve  patients.  These  three  factors  were  also  found  in  multiple 
logistic regression analyses to be important predictors for sustained virological response in the present 
study  in  nonresponders.  Therefore,  sustained  virological  responses  have  been  summarized  in  the 
subgroups  of  patients  with  HCV  genotype  1 or  genotype  non-1  infection,  with baseline  viral  load ≤ 
800,000 or >800,000 IU/ml, and with cirrhosis or without cirrhosis. 
Sustained virological response in all four treatment groups was very low (4% to 7%) in patients with 
transition to cirrhosis or cirrhosis (Table 10). 
The  majority  of  patients  were  infected  with  HCV  genotype  1  (91%),  and  only  a  small  number  of 
patients were infected with HCV genotype 2 or 3 (3%).  
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10:  SVR according to actual treatment time by HCV Genotype, baseline viral load, and 
histological diagnosis 
Predictive Values of Various Degrees of Virological Responses at Week 12 on Sustained 
Virological Response  
In patients who failed to achieve full viral suppression at week 12, the negative predictive value for 
not  achieving  a  sustained  virological  response  was  high  and  ranged  from  94%  to  98%  in  the  four 
treatment  groups.  In  contrast,  as  shown  in  table  11  the  ability  to  predict  whether  a  patient  would 
achieve a sustained virological response if they achieved viral suppression at week 12 was 53% and 
68%  in  the  two  groups  receiving  72  weeks  of  treatment  (57%  when  the  two  72  week  groups  are 
pooled), and 36% and 34% in the two groups receiving 48 weeks of treatment (35% when the two 48 
week  groups  are  pooled).  These  analyses  underline  the  importance  of  achieving  full  suppression  at 
week 12 in order to attain sustained response.  
16
 
 
 
 
Table 11: Positive Predictive Values of Various Degrees of Virological Responses at Week 12 on 
Sustained Virological Response  
Sustained Virological Response in Patients by Baseline Covariates According to Virological Response 
at Week 12 
A multiple logistic regression analysis of independent baseline predictors of non response at week 12 
was carried out to identify covariates that would be sufficiently predictive to exclude patients with a 
low likelihood of week 12 response. The baseline covariates were: infection with HCV genotype 1, the 
presence of cirrhosis or bridging fibrosis, older age, and high baseline HCV RNA viral load. Complete 
virus suppression at week 12, however was shown to be the strongest predictor of SVR, irrespective of 
whether baseline prognostic factors were favorable or unfavorable as can be seen in Table 12.  
Table 12: Sustained Virological Response in Patients by Baseline Covariates According to Virological 
Response at Week 12 
Cirrhosis Status 
   No cirrhosis or bridging fibrosis 
  Cirrhosis or bridging fibrosis 
Age 
    ≤ 40 years 
    >40 years 
Baseline HCV RNA 
    ≤ 800,000 IU/mL 
    >800,000 IU/mL 
72 Weeks 
VR at Wk 
12 
  Non-VR at 
Wk 12 
48 Weeks 
VR at 
Wk 12 
  Non-VR at 
Wk 12 
59% 
46% 
54% 
58% 
63% 
54% 
6% 
0% 
12% 
  3% 
9% 
4% 
34% 
50% 
42% 
33% 
38% 
32% 
5% 
3% 
5% 
4% 
4% 
5% 
 Note:  VR = virological response, defined as HCV RNA undetectable (<50 IU/mL).  
Supportive studies – Non-responders 
HALT-C 
The HALT-C trial was a study conducted by the US National Institutes of Health that was designed to 
determine  whether  prolonged  low-dose  maintenance  monotherapy  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  altered 
histological  and  clinical  outcomes  in  a  broad  population  of  CHC  patients  with  advanced  fibrosis  or 
cirrhosis  (Ishak  score  of  3  to  6)  who  had  failed  to  eradicate  the  virus  with  previous  IFN-alfa-based 
treatment  for  a  minimum  of  12  weeks.  Although  the  majority  of  patients  had  received  previous 
treatment  with  IFN  alfa  monotherapy  or  IFN  alfa  and  ribavirin  combination  therapy,  some  of  the 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients were nonresponders to previous PEG-IFN alfa monotherapy or PEG-IFN alfa plus ribavirin 
combination therapy. 
Before  randomisation  into  the  maintenance  phase  of the  study,  patients  were  enrolled  into  a  lead-in 
phase  during  which  all  patients  were  treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  (180  µg  weekly)  and  ribavirin 
(1000/1200 mg daily) combination therapy for 24 weeks. Patients who had detectable virus at week 20 
were  entered  into  the  maintenance  phase  of  the  study  and  randomised  either  to  low-dose  (90  µg) 
maintenance PEG-IFN alfa-2a monotherapy or to observation for a 3.5-year period. Patients with no 
detectable  virus  at  week  20  remained  on  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  combination  therapy  for  a 
total of 48 weeks and were then followed for an additional 24 weeks to assess sustained virological 
response.  These  patients  were  not  randomised  to  the  low-dose  maintenance  phase  unless  they 
experienced a virological breakthrough during the 48 weeks of treatment or relapsed after the end of 
treatment. 
This submission of the HALT-C study is based on data from the following three papers: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Shiffman  et  al.  (2004)2  reported  on  the  first  604  patients  enrolled  in  the  lead-in  phase  of  the 
study. 
Everson et al. (2006)3 reported on 1046 patients who had HCV RNA assessments at week 20 
and  week  72  and  analyzed  the  results  in  four  subgroups  of  patients  subdivided  by  increasing 
liver disease severity. The four subgroups were group A, which consisted of 559 patients with 
bridging  fibrosis  (Ishak  score  of  3  or  4)  and  platelet  counts  >125,000/mm3;  group  B,  which 
consisted  of  96  patients  with  bridging  fibrosis  and  platelet  counts  ≤125,000/mm3;  group  C, 
which  consisted  of  198  patients  with  cirrhosis  (Ishak  score  of  5  or  6)  and  platelet  counts 
>125,000/mm3; and group D, which consisted of 195 patients with cirrhosis and platelet counts 
≤125,000/mm3. 
Shiffman et al. (2007)4 reported on 936 patients infected with genotype 1 who had HCV RNA 
assessments at week 20 and week 72, which was a subgroup of the 1046 patients described in 
the publication by Everson et al. 
Baseline characteristics 
The  baseline  characteristics  for  the  three  papers  are  presented  in  table  13  hereafter:  Most  of  the 
patients were Caucasian, and most were men. HCV genotype 1 predominates.  
2 Shiffman ML, DiBisceglie AM, Lindsay KL, et al. Peginterferon alfa- 2a and ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C who have failed 
prior treatment. Gastroenterology. 2004;126:1015-1023. 
3 Everson G, Hoefs JC, Seeff LB, et al. Impact of disease severity on outcome of antiviral therapy for chronic hepatitis C - lessons from the 
HALT-C Trial. Hepatology. 2006; 44:1675- 1684. 
4 Shiffman ML, Ghany MG, Morgan TR, et al. Impact of reducing peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin 
dose during retreatment in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Gastroenterology. 2007; 132:103-112. 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Table 13: demographic and Baseline Disease Characteristics in HALT-C Study 
Results HALT-C 
Sustained Virological Response in HALT-C 
The sustained virological responses reported in the three HALT-C publications for the patients in the 
lead-in phase of the study are provided in Table 14.  
Overall and by Disease Severity 
In the cohort consisting of the first 604 patients enrolled in the lead-in phase of the study, 18% of the 
patients achieved a sustained virological response (Table 13). In patients with fibrosis in this cohort, 
23% of patients achieved a sustained virological response, while in patients with cirrhosis, only 11% 
of patients achieved a sustained virological response.  
The  results  were  very  similar  in  the  larger  cohort  consisting  of  the  1046  patients  from  the  lead-in 
phase of the study who had HCV RNA assessments at week 20 and week 72.  A total of 17% of these 
patients achieved a sustained virological response (Table 13). In patients with fibrosis in this cohort, 
22% of patients achieved a sustained virological response, while in patients with cirrhosis, only 10% 
of patients achieved a sustained virological response. 
The  results  of  an  analysis  of  sustained  virological  response  by  increasing  disease  severity  were 
provided  in  the  Everson  publication.  In  this  analysis,  the  proportion  of  patients  who  achieved  a 
sustained virological response was found to decrease with increasing disease severity and ranged from 
23% in the group with less severe disease (fibrosis and platelet count >125,000/mm3) to 9% in  the 
group with the most severe disease (cirrhosis and platelet count  ≤125,000/mm3) (Table 13).  
The  decrease  in  sustained  virological  response  with  increasing  disease  severity  was  independent  of 
age,  percentage  African-Americans,  HCV  genotype,  HCV  RNA  viral  load,  and  type  of  previous 
therapy. 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: Sustained Virological Response in HALT-C Study 
Relapser Patients 
Study WV16143  
Study  WV16143  was  an  open-label,  multicenter,  uncontrolled  re-treatment  trial  in  64  HCV  patients 
who had initially been randomised to and treated for 24 weeks with 180 µg of PEG-IFN alfa-2a and 
800  or  1000/1200  mg  of  ribavirin  combination  therapy  in  the  phase  III  registration  study  NV15942 
and had relapsed after the end of treatment. In study WV16143, these patients were re-treated for 48 
weeks  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  and  ribavirin  combination  therapy  and  then  followed  for  24  weeks  to 
assess sustained virological response. 
Demographic and Baseline Disease Characteristics in Study WV16143 
Most  of  the  patients  were  Caucasian,  and  most  were  men.  The  majority  of  the  patients  (70%)  were 
infected  with  HCV  genotype  1,  and  22%  (14  patients)  were  infected  with  genotype  2  or  3. 
Approximately 31% had transition to cirrhosis or cirrhosis.  
Results Study WV16143  
A  total  of  55%  of  patients  who  had  relapsed  after  24  weeks  of  treatment  with    PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  
(180 µg) plus ribavirin (800 or 1000/1200 mg) combination  therapy and were retreated for 48 weeks 
with the combination of PEG-IFN  alfa-2a and ribavirin achieved a sustained virological response. In 
patients  infected  with  HCV  genotype  2  or  3,  64%  (9  of  14)  of  the  patients  achieved  a  sustained 
virological response after re-treatment for 48 weeks (Table 15). 
In  this  re-treatment  study,  55%  of  patients  with  genotype  1  infection  achieved  sustained  virological 
response. However, it should be noted that these genotype 1 patients may have received suboptimal 
previous treatment in  terms  of    treatment  duration and  ribavirin dose in the initial study,  NV15942, 
since  24    weeks  of  treatment  and  800  mg  of  ribavirin  is  not  the  standard  of  care  for    patients  with 
genotype 1 infection.  
20
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Sustained Virological Response in Study WV16143 
Kaiser et al study 
This  was  an  academic  study  with  120  patients  who  had  relapsed  after  48  weeks  of  combination 
treatment  with  PEG-IFN  alfa  plus  ribavirin  were  re-treated  for  72  weeks  with  the  combination  of 
either  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  (180  µg)  once  weekly  plus  weight-based  ribavirin  daily  (60  patients)  or 
consensus IFN (9 µg) daily plus weight-based ribavirin daily (60 patients). 
Demographic and Baseline Disease Characteristics  
The majority of the patients were men, and most of the patients were infected with HCV genotype 1. 
Approximately  two  thirds  of  the  patients  had  been  previously  treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  plus 
ribavirin and one third had been previously treated with PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus ribavirin 
Results Kaiser et al study5 
Overall  sustained  virological  response  was  achieved  by  51%  (54/107)  of  the  patients  who  had 
previously relapsed after treatment with PEG-IFN alfa and ribavirin combination therapy and were re-
treated for 72 weeks with 180 µg of PEG-IFN alfa-2a in combination with weight-based ribavirin. 
The incremental benefit over 48 weeks of re-treatment could not be determined because 48 weeks of 
re-treatment  was  not  studied.    However,  there  was  a  high  positive  predictive  value  for  sustained 
virological response if patients achieved viral suppression (undetectable HCV RNA) at week 12.  In 
total, 43% of these relapser patients (46 of 107 patients) achieved viral suppression at week 12 (HCV 
RNA <15 IU/ml), and 93% of the patients who achieved viral suppression at week 12 also achieved a 
sustained virological response (43 of 46 patients) with 72 weeks of re-treatment.   
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
Non-responders  
Efficacy  data  presented  in  study  MV17150  support  the  benefit  of  PEG-IFN  plus  weight  adjusted 
ribavirin  in  patients  non-responding  to  PEG-IFN  alfa  2b  and  weight  adjusted  ribavirin.  The  results 
from HALT-C study are compatible with the results reported in the pivotal study. 
With  respect  to  pivotal  study  MV17150,  prolonged  therapy  from  48  to  72  weeks  is  associated  with 
improved  efficacy  whereas  induction  with  high-dose  pegylated  IFN  did  not  improve  treatment 
outcome.  
However the proportion of patients responding to a new treatment course with PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus 
ribavirin as defined by sustained virological response (SVR) at the end of follow-up was modest: 16% 
and 14% in the 72 week treatment arms respectively. Due to toxic effects associated with PEG-IFN 
plus  ribavirin  treatment  it  is  important  to  define  early  predictive  factors  of  response  to  treatment  in 
order  to  avoid  unsuccessful  therapy  and  toxic  effects  in  a  large  majority  of  patients  that  would  be 
included  in  the  extended  therapeutic  indication.  In  a  multiple  logistic  regression  analysis  of  study 
MV17150, independent baseline predictors of non-response at week 12 included infection with HCV 
genotype 1, the presence of cirrhosis or bridging fibrosis, older age, and high baseline HCV RNA viral 
load. Complete virus suppression at week 12, however, was clearly shown to be the strongest predictor 
5 Data are derived from an abstract (AASLD Annual Meeting, 2008, abstract 1860).  
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
of  SVR,  irrespective  of  whether  baseline  prognostic  factors  were  favourable  or  unfavourable, 
providing a treatment stopping rule. 
The CHMP had concerns that the definition criteria for non-responders may be too broad and that data 
was  lacking  on  the  duration  of  proviso  response.  It  is  a  concern  whether  the  response  to  a  new 
treatment course with PEG-IFN plus ribavirin can be related with previous treatment response. Indeed, 
analysis of sustained virological response by best previous response supports this possibility but yields 
conflicting  results  with  the  global  data  of  the  pivotal  study.  Furthermore  the  CHMP  requested  a 
stratification  of  patients  according  to  different  non-responder  criteria,  best  previous  response  and 
duration of previous treatment to provide some key to define such markers of response to re-treatment 
Regarding  the  definition  criteria  for  non-responders  the  MAH  highlighted  that  the  study  excluded 
patients who achieved undetectable levels of virus. Furthermore patients failing an initially adequate 
course of treatment were excluded if their previous non-response was based solely on treatment with 
less  potent  therapy,  that  is,  treatment  with  IFN  alfa,  IFN  alfa  plus  ribavirin,  or  PEG-IFN  alfa 
monotherapy. The study did include patients with treatment intolerance, but the percentage was low, 
ranging  from  0.3%  to  3.2%  across  the  four  treatment  arms.  Four  patients  were  reported  to  have 
achieved undetectable HCV RNA levels on previous therapy.  These four patients were included in the 
intent-to-treat  analysis  but  are  considered  protocol  violators  and  were  excluded  from  the  standard 
population (per protocol analysis). 
To  further  investigate  the  effect  of  previous  response  on  the  achievement  of  a  sustained  virological 
response  after  re-treatment,  and  as  the  initial  analysis  of  sustained  virological  response  by  best 
previous  response  yields  potentially  conflicting  results  with  the  global  data  of  the  study  an 
additional multiple logistic regression analysis was conducted. The best previous response (≥ 2 log10 
vs  <2  log10  decrease  from  baseline  in  HCV  RNA)  was  tested  as  a  prognostic  factor  for  sustained 
virological response.  Looking at all patients pooled, a best previous response of  ≥ 2 log10  decrease 
from baseline was found to be an independent predictor for achieving a sustained virological response 
in addition to other factors identified in the previous analysis with more complete data (body weight, 
HCV  RNA  level  at  baseline,  and  treatment  duration).    However,  when  this  analysis  was  conducted 
looking separately at patients assigned to 48 weeks and 72 weeks of treatment, best previous response 
was predictive only in patients assigned to 48 weeks and not in patients assigned to 72 weeks.  
The CHMP considered the definition of non-responders as acceptable, but highlighted that there was 
remaining heterogeneity. In order to properly assess the benefit/risk balance, there is a need to separate 
between factors predictive of week 12 response and factors predictive of sustained response and that 
data should be reported in the SPC   in a way that facilitates the benefit/risk assessment.  
Regarding  the  effect  of  the  previous  duration  of  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  and  the  effect  of  the  previous 
duration  of  ribavirin,  both  as  continuous  variables  in  weeks,  were  examined  in  a  multiple  logistic 
regression  model  for  the  probability  of  a  sustained  virological  response  after  re-treatment  in  study 
MV17150.  In the model assessing all parameters, duration of previous treatment of PEG-IFN alfa-2b 
(odds ratio =1.04, p value = 0.56) and duration of previous treatment of ribavirin (odds ratio = 0.961, p 
value = 0.55) were not significant. 
Concerning  the  CHMP  request  for  stratification  of  patients  according  to  different  non-responder 
criteria, best previous response and duration of previous treatment the MAH considered that such an 
analysis was not feasible in a study that collects non responder status based on historical data.  The 
CHMP  accepted the  position  of  the  MAH  taking  into  account  that  data is  provided in  the  SPC  in a 
manner  that  facilitates  the  assessment  of  the  benefit  risk  balance  to  allow  prescribers  to  separate 
factors  predictive  of  SVR.  
between 
factors  predictive  of  week  12 
response 
and 
22
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Relapsers  
Conceptually,  these  data  supported  by  single  arm  studies  in  relapse  patients  have  been  provided  to 
support  a  second  course  of  therapy  for  a  prolonged  period  of  time  in  relapse  patients.    However  in 
study  WV16143  that re-treated patients for  48  weeks,  a  short course  of  first line  IFN  therapy  of 24 
weeks was administered and cannot be considered as the standard of treatment. Although the Kaiser 
results,  which  includes  predominantly  genotype  1  patients,  shows  that  relapsers  from  a  previous 
course of 48 weeks of PEG-IFN alfa plus ribavirin show clear benefit from re-treatment for 72 weeks 
(with a positive predictive value of 93% for those patients who achieved viral suppression at week 12), 
it is not possible to evaluate the benefit/risk relationship for 72 weeks of re-treatment compared with 
48  weeks  of  re-treatment.      Even  though  logical,  the  added  benefit  of  prolonged  therapy  from  48 
weeks  to  72  weeks  remains  quantitatively  undetermined,  formally  making  a  benefit/risk  assessment 
impossible.  Overall  the  MAH  no  longer  proposes  the  inclusion  of  data  on  relapsing  patients  in  the 
SPC. This approach is endorsed by the CHMP. 
Clinical safety 
The safety data to support this variation are provided from the pivotal study (MV17150).  Supporting 
safety  data  are  provided  from  the  HALT-C  study  and  from  three  studies  in  411  treatment-naïve 
patients treated with PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus ribavirin for 72 weeks. 
The three studies are outlined hereafter: 
• Study M78014 was an open-label, randomised, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter, 
phase III study that compared the efficacy and safety of 48 weeks vs 72 weeks of treatment 
with PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus ribavirin in 225 treatment-naïve CHC patients infected with HCV 
genotype 1. 
•  Study M78019 was a multicenter, randomised parallel-group, phase III study  comparing the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  48  weeks  vs  72  weeks  of  treatment  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  plus 
ribavirin in 162 treatment-naïve CHC patients who did not have an early virological response 
at week 4. 
•  The Dynamically  Individualized Treatment of Hepatitis C Infection and Correlates of Viral/ 
Host  Dynamics  (DITTO-HCV)  study  was  a  phase  III,  open  label,  randomised, multicenter 
study  using  combination  therapy  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  that  compared  a 
dynamically individualized treatment schedule based on early virological response versus the 
standard of care. A total of 270 treatment-naïve patients were treated for 48 weeks and 24 
patients were treated for 72 weeks. 
Study MV17150 
Patient exposure  
The total safety population, defined as all patients who received at least one dose of study medication 
and  had  at  least  one  follow-up  assessment,  in  study  MV17150  was  942  patients.  Of  the total  safety 
population, 473 patients (50%) received combination therapy for 72 weeks. 
Adverse events 
Nearly  all  patients  (≥  96%)  in  each  of  the  four  treatment  groups  reported  at  least  one  AE.  The 
frequency  of  severe  AEs  was    higher  in  the  two  groups  receiving  72  weeks  of  treatment  (24%  in 
groups A and C) than in the two groups receiving 48 weeks of treatment (16% in group B and 20% in 
group D). Overall, a total of 9 patients among the four treatment groups experienced life-threatening 
AEs. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths 
Five patients died during this study. One patient in group B died from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm, 2 
patients  in  group  C  died  (one  from  metastatic  esophageal  adenocarcinoma  and  the  other  from 
malignant  hepatic  neoplasm),  and  2  patients  in  group  D  died  (one  from  an  esophageal  variceal 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hemorrhage and the other from a thermal burn). One of the 5 deaths occurred during study treatment 
(ruptured cerebral aneurysm), and all the deaths were considered by the investigator as being unrelated 
to study treatment. 
Serious adverse events 
The frequency of severe AEs was  higher in the two  groups receiving 72 weeks of treatment (24% in 
groups A and C) than in the two groups receiving 48  weeks of treatment (16% in group B and 20% in 
group D). A total of 9 patients experienced life-threatening AEs (1 patient each in groups A and B; 3 
patients in group C; 4 patients in group D). Between 4% and 5% of patients in groups A, C, and D and 
1%  of  patients  in  group  B  experienced  serious  AEs  that  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be 
related  to  study  treatment.  Serious  infections,  serious  blood  and  lymphatic  disorders  and  serious 
gastrointestinal  disorders  were  the  most  common  types  of  serious  AEs  reported.  No  apparent 
differences in the frequency or types of treatment- related serious AEs were observed among the four 
treatment groups.  
Discontinuations and dose modifications due to AE Adverse Events or Laboratory Abnormalities 
Leading to Premature Withdrawal from Treatment 
The percentage of patients who were prematurely withdrawn from PEG-IFN alfa-2a treatment for AEs 
or laboratory abnormalities was higher in the two groups receiving 72 weeks of treatment (12%) than 
in  the    two  groups  receiving  48  weeks  of  treatment  (4%  and  6%;).  A  similar  trend  was  seen  in  the 
percentage  of  patients  who  were  prematurely  withdrawn  from  ribavirin  treatment  for  AEs  or 
laboratory abnormalities (13% in the two groups receiving 72 weeks of treatment and 6% and 7% in 
the  two  groups  receiving  48  weeks  of  treatment),  since  the  protocol  specified  that  patients 
discontinuing PEG-IFN alfa-2a therapy also had to stop treatment with ribavirin. 
During the first 12 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients prematurely withdrawn from PEG-
IFN    alfa-2a  treatment  for  AEs  or  laboratory  abnormalities  was  the  same  (2%),  irrespective  of  the 
PEG-IFN  alfa-2a induction dose (180 or 360 µg). No differences were observed in the types of AEs or 
laboratory abnormalities leading to premature withdrawal during this treatment period.  
The  most  frequent  type  of  AEs  leading  to  premature  discontinuation  of  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  treatment 
were    general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions,  which  led  to  withdrawal  from  PEG-IFN 
alfa-2a    treatment  in  1%  to  2%  of  patients  in  the  four  treatment  groups;  infections  and  infestations 
(<1% to 2% of  patients); and blood and lymphatic system disorders (0% to 3% of patients). 
The most frequent type of AEs leading to premature discontinuation of ribavirin treatment was blood 
and  lymphatic  system  disorders,  which  led  to  withdrawal  from  ribavirin  treatment  in  1%  to  3%  of 
patients  in    the  four  treatment  groups.  The  major  difference  between  premature  discontinuation  of 
PEG-IFN alfa-2a  and ribavirin treatment for safety reasons was that anaemia was the most important 
reason  for ribavirin    treatment  discontinuation  (12  patients)  but  not  for  discontinuation  of  PEG-IFN 
alfa-2a treatment (3 patients). 
Dose modification  
Dose modifications of PEG-IFN alfa-2a for AEs or laboratory abnormalities occurred in a comparable 
percentage  of  patients  across  the  four  treatment  groups  (18%  to  26%).  Across  all  four  treatment 
groups, laboratory abnormalities (16% to 22%), mainly neutropenia (12% to 16%) and less frequently 
thrombocytopenia (3% to 7%), were the main reasons for dose modification of PEG-IFN alfa-2a. Dose 
modifications of ribavirin also occurred in a comparable percentage of patients in the four treatment 
groups (25% to 32%). Across the four treatment groups, dose modification of ribavirin occurred more 
frequently  because  of  laboratory  abnormalities  (15%  to  22%)  than  because  of  AEs  (9%  to  15%).  
Anaemia  was  the  main  laboratory  abnormality  leading  to  ribavirin  dose  modifications  in  all  groups 
(15% to 21%). 
Exploratory Analysis of Adverse Events per Patient Year 
In  order  to  examine  whether  patients  exposed  to  72  weeks  of  treatment  experienced  an  additional 
safety  burden  compared  to  patients  exposed  to  48  weeks  of  treatment,  an  exploratory  analysis  was 
24
 
 
 
 
 
performed  to  examine  the  total  number  of  AEs  each  patient  experienced  across  the  four  treatment 
groups adjusted for the length of exposure and follow-up period. 
Short comings with this analysis relate to: 
−  Multiple episodes of the same AE preferred term were counted only once for each patient. 
−  Approximately two thirds of the AEs had a date of onset during the first 12 weeks of treatment.  
−  The rate of AEs per patient year during the study period (treatment and follow-up) was lower than 
the rate of AEs per patient year during the treatment period. 
. 
Therefore, the rate of AEs per patient year was calculated for the four treatment groups for the 
following three separate time periods: 
−  During the first 48 weeks of treatment for all four treatment groups. 
−  During treatment weeks 48 to 72 for the two 72-week treatment groups. 
−  During the treatment-free follow-up period. 
The results of this exploratory analysis are shown graphically in Figure 2. 
Figure 2: Estimated Average Number of AEs per Patient Year by Study Period week 
Note: Scheduled treatment period is shaded; scheduled follow-up period is unshaded. Multiple episodes of the same AE preferred term were 
counted only once for each patient. 
The rate of AEs per patient year during treatment weeks 48 to 72 was substantially lower than the rate 
during the first 48 weeks of treatment (reduced from 9.24 to 2.14 per patient year in the non-induction 
72-week treatment arm). The rate of AEs per patient year during the treatment-free follow-up period 
was  further  reduced  compared  with  the rate  during  treatment  weeks  48 to  72  (reduced from  2.14 to 
1.17 per patient year in the non-induction 72-week treatment arm). The rate of AEs per patient year 
during the treatment-free follow-up period for the non-induction 72-week treatment arm was similar to 
the rate for the non-induction 48-week treatment arm (1.17 vs 0.95 per patient year, respectively).  
The  results  of  this  exploratory  analysis  indicate  that  extending  treatment  duration  in  a  patient  for 
another half a year from 48 weeks to 72 weeks will lead to the occurrence of approximately 1 new AE 
(2.14 per patient year). 
Exploratory analysis of the average number of adverse events per patient on treatment day  
 In  this  analysis  the  average  number  of  adverse  events  per  patient  on  each  treatment  day  was 
calculated over time.  If a patient has repeated episodes of a particular adverse event, only the most 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
severe episode, or the episode with the strongest causal relationship to study drug, is usually counted.  
In this analysis adverse events were counted on each treatment day that the adverse event was present.   
The  average  number  of  adverse  events  per  patient  on  a  treatment  day  increased  during  the  first  
12  weeks  and  then  reached  a  plateau  for  the  remainder  of  the  treatment  period  whether  the  total 
treatment  duration  was  48  weeks  or  72  weeks.  The  peak  safety  burden  experienced  in  both  the  
48  week  and  72  week  treatment  groups  was  slightly  more  than  four  adverse  events  per  patient  per 
treatment day and remained constant after week 48 in the 72 week treatment groups.  
The  frequency  of  treatment  days  with  serious  adverse  events  in  relation  to  all  treatment  days  was 
determined. The ratios of the average number of days per patient with serious adverse events to days 
on  treatment  were  0.015  and  0.013  for  patients  treated  for  48  weeks  and  72  weeks,  respectively, 
suggesting  that the frequency of AEs per time period is considered stable over 72 weeks.    
Of  the  patients  assigned  to  72  weeks  of  treatment  who  remained  on  treatment  at  week  48  (323 
patients),  5.6%  (18  patients)  discontinued  treatment  for  adverse  events  or  laboratory  abnormalities 
between weeks 49 and 72.  Many of the safety reasons for discontinuation during weeks 49 to 72 were 
typical of the reasons for discontinuation during the first 48 weeks. 
Frequency of all serious and irreversible life-threatening adverse events  
In  order  to  quantify  the  frequency  of  all  serious  and  irreversible  adverse  events  that  were  life-
threatening and/or persisting and thus potentially irreversible, the MAH  analyzed safety data pooled 
from study MV17150 and 11 previous, randomised, multicenter, prospective, well-controlled clinical 
studies  in  treatment-naïve  CHC  patients  treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  combination 
therapy for 48 weeks.  
Prospectively, 50 adverse event MedDRA preferred terms were selected from this database that were 
considered  by  the  MAH  to  be  medically  not  only  serious  adverse  events  but  were  also  considered 
either  likely  to  be  life-threatening.  Of  the  6180  patients  exposed  to  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a,  the  most 
frequently reported of these rarely observed serious adverse events were suicide attempt (14 patients, 
0.2%), suicidal ideation (13 patients, 0.2%), overdose (9 patients, 0.1%), and sarcoidosis (7 patients, 
0.1%);  all  these  rare  serious  adverse  events  are  currently  included  as  labeled  events  in  the  Pegasys 
SPC.  All the other selected serious adverse events were reported at an incidence of < 0.1% (ie, ≤ 5 
patients).  
 Overall, of the  114  serious  adverse  events  that  were  considered  by  the  MAH  to  be  potentially  life-
threatening and/or persisting, 83 events (73%) were reported during the first 36 weeks of treatment  
Given the rarity of all these serious adverse events, it was not possible to identify any trend 
that would suggest with any assurance that these events are likely to be seen more frequently 
when treatment is extended from 48 to 72 weeks.      
Supportive Safety Information from Studies Using PEG-IFN alfa-2a and Ribavirin Combination 
Therapy 
Studies Using PEG-IFN alfa-2a and Ribavirin Combination Therapy for 72 Weeks in CHC treatment-
naïve Patients 
Supporting safety data are provided from three studies in treatment-naïve patients treated with PEG-
IFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  for  72  weeks.  The  studies  include  two  MAH  sponsored  studies  (M78014 
and M78019) in 387 patients treated with PEG-IFN alfa-2a (180 µg/week) and ribavirin (800 mg/day) 
and limited safety information from a third published study, DITTO-HCV, in which 24 patients treated 
with the same dose of PEG-IFN alfa-2a but a higher dose of ribavirin (1000/1200 mg/day). 
Studies M78014 and M78019 
The types and frequencies of common AEs experienced by nonresponder patients treated with PEG-
IFN  alfa-2a  plus  ribavirin  in  the  pivotal  study  MV17150  were  similar  to  those  observed  in  the  two 
MAH sponsored studies in treatment-naïve patients treated with PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus ribavirin for 72 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weeks. Also, the number and spectrum of AEs that occurred in both of these studies were typical for a 
CHC patient population treated with PEG-IFN alfa and ribavirin combination therapy.  
Even though there were two deaths in the non-responder patients assigned to 72 weeks of treatment in 
study MV17150, and none in these studies in treatment-naïve patients, the deaths in study MV17150 
were  assessed as unrelated to the study treatment. 
Serious AEs overall were reported in a similar percentage of patients in the two studies with treatment-
naïve patients and in study MV17150 in nonresponders. 
The frequency of premature withdrawals for safety reasons was similar in non-responder patients and 
the treatment-naïve  patients,  approximately  12%  of patients.  Dose  modification of  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a 
for  AEs  was  lower  in  non-responder  patients  than  in  treatment-naïve  patients.  Ribavirin  dose 
modification  for  AEs  was similar in  non-responder  patients  and in treatment-naive  patients  in  study 
M78014 but higher in treatment-naive patients in study M78019. 
Overall  as  study  MV17150  only  included  patients  treated  previously  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2b  and 
ribavirin  and  specifically  excluded  patients  who  had  discontinued  previous  treatment  for  a 
haematological toxicity, the frequencies of anaemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia were higher 
in the studies with treatment-naïve patients even though the dose of ribavirin was lower. 
DITTO-HCV study 
The  DITTO-HCV  study  compared  an  individualized  versus  standard  treatment  in  treatment-naïve 
CHC patients. A total of 270 patients were treated with PEG-IFN alfa-2a (180 µg/week) and ribavirin 
(1000/1200 mg/day) for the first 6 weeks and then classified as rapid, slow, flat or null responders and 
treatment  was  individualized  and  consisted  of  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  monotherapy  for  either  48  or  24 
weeks, triple therapy with histamine or prolonged combination therapy (72 weeks) or high dose PEG-
IFN  alfa-2a  (360  µg/week)  plus ribavirin.  A  total  of 24  patients  were treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a 
(180 µg/week) and ribavirin (1000/1200 mg/d) for 72 weeks, and safety information is limited to AEs 
of special interest. The overall safety results from the 24 patients treated for 72 weeks in the DITTO-
HCV study were similar to MV17150 and no new safety concerns were identified in this study.  
Safety Profile in HALT-C Study during the First 20 Weeks of PEG-IFN alfa-2a plus Ribavirin 
Combination Therapy in Non-responder Patients with Advanced Fibrosis or Cirrhosis 
The  HALT-C  study  in  non-responder  patients  treated  with  PEG-IFN  alfa-2a  (180  µg/week)  plus 
ribavirin (1000-1200 mg/day) combination therapy for 48 weeks also provided limited safety data. As 
the  efficacy  from  the  lead-in  phase  of the  trial  was  used  as  supporting  data  for the  purposes  of this 
filing, the safety data from the lead-in phase, provided by the NIH, was reviewed to determine if any 
additional safety signals were seen.  
The  HALT-C  lead-in  phase  study  population  included  1145  CHC  patients  who  were  predominantly 
male (72%), Caucasian (74%), and genotype 1 (89%), with a mean age of 50 years. The majority of 
the patients had liver cirrhosis (62%, Ishak score of 5 or 6). Patients with a baseline platelet count as 
low as 50,000/mm3 were allowed into this trial. 
The safety review of the HALT-C lead-in phase included AEs reported in weeks 1 to 20, haematologic 
laboratory  abnormalities,  and  deaths.  Based  on  this  review,  the  only  notable  safety  finding  was  the 
frequency  of  haematologic  laboratory  abnormalities  observed  during  the  first  20  weeks  of  the  trial: 
haemoglobin  levels  <10  g/dl  occurred  in  26%  of  the  patients  absolute  neutrophil  counts  <750/mm3 
occurred in 30% of the patients and platelet count <50,000/mm3 occurred in 13% of the patients. The 
frequency  of  these  haematologic  laboratory  abnormalities  was  higher  than  that  observed  in  study 
MV17150 and was consistent with treatment of a patient population containing a higher proportion of 
patients  with  advanced  fibrosis  and  cirrhosis  who  entered  the  study  with  lower  baseline  platelet 
counts. 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion Clinical Safety  
Seventy-two weeks of PEG-IFN plus weight adjusted ribavirin therapy constitutes a major burden of 
toxicity to the patient due to prevalent and sustained tolerability problems. At least one serious adverse 
event related to treatment was recorded for all patients in the pivotal trial. Extension of treatment to 72 
weeks increased the number of adverse events. Of note is the risk for serious and irreversible adverse 
reactions  such  as  pneumonitis  (some  times  fatal),  autoimmune  disorders  such  as  Thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and aplastic anaemia. Overall the most frequently reported types of 
adverse events were those already known to associate with IFN-PEG and ribavirin therapy.  
To  show  whether  there  was  an  unacceptable  excess  of  adverse  events  associated  to  the  72-week 
regimen,  as  compared  with  48  weeks,  the  MAH  has  performed  a  number  of  post-hoc  analysis.  The 
analyses  addressing  frequency  of  all  serious  events  shows  that  the  percentage  of  adverse  events 
considered  to  be  potentially  life-threatening  and/or  persisting  is  1.7%  (103/114).  In  addition,  it  is 
shown that most serious adverse events occur in the first 36 weeks of therapy.   
However  in  this  analysis  the  mean  duration  of  exposure  in  the  data  base  was  not  reported  but  it  is 
probable   that the results are mainly driven for patients treated during 48 weeks or less as they are 
supposed  to  be  the  majority  in  the  database  that  has  been  used  for  the  analysis.  In  addition,  the 
analyses  assumes  that  the  rate  of  adverse  events  is  constant  over  time.  Furthermore  patients  that 
interrupted  the  treatment  due  to  haematological  adverse  events  were  excluded  from  the  trial.  The 
results are therefore biased in this regard, at least for patients enrolled in trial MV17150.  
As  such  although  the  results  of  this  analysis  are  reassuring  they  are  of  limited  value.  As  a 
consequence,  the  MAH  will  enrol  patients  who  failed  previous  therapy  in  an  observational  study  to 
specifically collect SAE’s in order to provide further assurance of the safety of the extended treatment 
duration.  
Risk Management plan 
The  CHMP  agreed  that  an  EU-Risk  management  plan  would  not  be  required  for  Pegasys  for  the 
extension  of  indication  of  the  treatment  of  patients  who  failed  previous  treatment  with  pegylated 
interferon alfa and ribavirin combination therapy. The CHMP took into account that the population to 
be covered by the extension of indication have already been exposed to therapy with PEG-INF. 
BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT  
Benefit 
In patients with Chronic Hepatitis C being non-responders to PEG-IFN 2b plus  ribavirin, prolonged 
therapy from 48 to 72 weeks at retreatment with PEG-IFN 2a plus  weight adjusted ribavirin results in 
an increased sustained viral response rate (SVR) from about 8% to about 15%. SVR in practice means 
cure of the viral disease even though there is a remaining risk for complications related to cirrhosis. 
Treatment for 48 weeks is licensed for patients infected with virus genotype 1 and patients relapsing 
after treatment with interferon and ribavirin, but not for non-responding patients.  
If treatment is optimised in accordance with current clinical guidelines and therapy is stopped if virus 
is  still  detectable  at  week  12,  the  SVR  will  be  about  12%  and  one  in  four  patients  would  actually 
undergo treatment beyond the 12 week stopping point. This may be compared with about 8% using the 
same  approach  if  treatment  is  administered  for  48  weeks  (8%  is  based  on  the  assumption  that  viral 
response  rate  at  week  12  is  the  same  in  the  comparison  48  vs.  72  weeks,  and  a  positive  predictive 
value of 35% for 48 weeks of therapy, instead of 50% for 72 weeks).  
In principle, SVR varies in line with what would be expected based on known risk factors, but the very 
poor  SVR  in  patients  with  cirrhosis  (about  3-4%  if  all  patients  are  treated  for  72  weeks)  should  be 
noticed. 
There is a likely benefit of prolonged therapy at time of retreatment also in relapse patients however, 
submitted  single  arm  study  data  are  not  sufficient  to  estimate  the  add-on  benefit  of  the  72-week 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regimen  in  patients  infected  with  virus  genotype  1.  Furthermore  in  study  WV16143  where  patients 
were  re-treated  for  48  weeks,      suboptimal  first-line  therapy  was  administered.  As  such  no  data  on 
relapsers has been included in the SPC and the MAH no longer requests the extension of indication to 
relapsing patients. 
Risk  
Seventy-two weeks of PEG-IFN plus weight adjusted ribavirin therapy constitutes a major burden of 
toxicity  to  the  patient  due  to  prevalent  and  sustained  tolerability  problems.  Post-hoc  analyses 
addressing frequency of all serious events show that the percentage of adverse events considered to be 
potentially  life-threatening  and/or  persisting  is  1.7%  (103/114).  In  addition,  it  is  shown  that  most 
serious adverse events occur in the first 36 weeks of therapy.  The results of the analysis are reassuring 
but  of  limited  value  due  to  bias.  As  such  the  MAH  will  include  non-responder  patients  in 
observational studies in order to provide reassurance that prolonged therapy is not associated with an 
unacceptable burden of toxicity.  
Conclusion  
Non-responding  patients:  Overall  four  out  of  five  patients  will  be  treated  for  12  weeks  without  any 
benefit and one in five treated for 72 weeks will have a chance of around 50% of being cured from the 
viral disease. However, outcome varies according to well known prognostic factors. An individualised 
approach is therefore needed. These patients are all treatment experienced and are thus knowledgeable 
about adverse reactions to be expected; at least the meaning of 3 months of therapy without benefit. 
Extending  time  on  therapy  is  a  major  tolerability  issue.  However  it  is  possible  to  inform  about  the 
benefit 72 weeks of therapy.  
There is a risk for serious and irreversible adverse reactions such as pneumonitis (some times fatal), 
autoimmune  disorders  such  as  TTP  and  aplastic  anaemia.  The  risk  for  suicide  is  also  a  reality,  but 
probably  less  so  in  these  treatment-experienced  patients.  Altogether  the  risk  of  these  events  is 
considered acceptably low at least in patients with a reasonable chance of virological cure 
Unfortunately the outcome in patients with cirrhosis, i.e. the group of patients with more urgent need 
for  therapy,  is  very  poor,  probably  less  than  2%  SVR  if  treatment  is  stopped  at  week  12  in  non-
responders.    Hardly  ever  is  benefit/risk  likely  to  be  positive  in  this  patients  group.  However,  this 
should be left to the treating physician and the patient.  
Even though the sustained viral response rate is low in non-responders to a proper course of PEG-IFN 
and ribavirin it cannot be stated that benefit – risk is negative in the individual patient willing to take 
the  problems  associated  with  retreatment  with  PEG-IFN  plus  ribavirin.  If  retreatment  is  considered, 
the aim should be for 72 weeks of therapy and the week 12 stopping criteria should be adhered to.  
Relapse patients: Conceptually, there is support for the notion to retreat relapse patients. However the 
data  provided  from  the  WV16143  single  arm  study  that  re-treated  patients  for  72  weeks    used 
suboptimal  first-line  therapy  in  Genotype  1  patients  and  the    added  benefit  of  going  from  48  to  72 
weeks in patients infected with HCV genotype 1 could not  be estimated from the single arm Kaiser 
study that re-treated patients for 48 weeks. As such the MAH no longer requests the extension of the 
indication to relapsing patients. This position is endorsed by the CHMP.  
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
