20 March 2014 
EMA/CHMP/231978/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pegasys  
International non-proprietary name: PEGINTERFERON ALFA-2A 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000395/II/0073 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................... 6 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................... 6 
2.4.1. Main studies ..................................................................................................... 6 
2.5. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 27 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 2/29 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
BOC 
CHB 
CHC 
DAA  
DS 
EMA 
EPAR 
GCP 
HCV 
HIV 
IFN 
MAH 
MPA 
P  
PD 
PDCO 
PEG 
Boceprevir 
Chronic hepatitis B 
Chronic hepatitis C  
Direct acting antiviral 
Delayed start 
European Medicines Agency 
European Public Assessment Report 
Good Clinical Practice 
Hepatitis C virus 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
Interferon 
Marketing authorization holder 
Medical Products Agency  
Peg-IFN-alfa-2a 
Pharmacodynamics  
Paediatric Committee 
Polyethylene glycol 
PEG-IFN alfa-2a 
Peginterferon alfa-2a 
PEG-IFN/RBV 
Pegylated interferon and ribavirin 
PIP 
PK  
PLB 
PR 
PTL 
QW 
RAVs 
RBV 
RGT 
RNA 
SmPC 
SoC 
SVR 
T 
TID 
TW 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Pharmacokinetics 
Placebo 
Peginterferon alfa and ribavirin 
Product Team Leader 
Once a week 
Resistant-associated variants 
Ribavirin 
Response-guided therapy 
Ribonucleic acid 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standard-of-care 
Sustained virologic response 
Telaprevir 
Three times a day 
Treatment week 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 3/29 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 variation of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Roche Registration Ltd 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 4 December 2013 an application for a variation 
including an extension of indication. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
Pegasys 
PEGINTERFERON ALFA-2A 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.1.6 a) 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
II 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one 
The MAH proposed to extend the indication to include the use of HCV NS3/4A protease inhibitors for 
the treatment of HCV genotype 1. Section 4.1 is to be  updated and cross reference to the SmPC's of 
the HCVNS3/4A protease inhibitors is to be made throughout the SmPC.  
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included EMA Decision 
P/0089/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  At the time of submission of 
the application, the PIP P/0089/2013 was not yet completed as some measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Kristina Dunder  
Co-Rapporteur:  Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
Submission date: 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
4 December 2013 
Page 4/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Start of procedure: 
22 December 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
21 January 2014 
Co-Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
21 January 2014 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC 
5 February 2014 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on: 
14 February 2014 
Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Joint Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
Joint Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
20 February 2014 
24 February 2014 
10 March 2014 
14 March 2014 
20 March 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Peginterferon alfa-2a (Pegasys) is a chemically modified alpha interferon (IFN) formed by the covalent 
attachment of a 40-kilodalton single branched methoxy polyethylene glycol (PEG) moiety to 
recombinant IFN alfa-2a. Pegasys alone or in combination with ribavirin (RBV) is currently indicated for 
the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC), including coinfection with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV).  
The approval of boceprevir (Victrelis) and telaprevir (Incivo) in combination with a peginterferon (2a or 
-2b) and ribavirin in the EU in 2011 led to a change in the standard of care for the treatment of CHC 
caused by the genotype 1 HCV virus.  
Following this change in treatment paradigm, the marketing authorization holder (MAH) is proposing to 
update the Pegasys label to reflect the evolution in treatment of hepatitis C  as follows:  “Pegasys is 
indicated in combination with ribavirin and an approved Hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease 
inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection in non-cirrhotic and cirrhotic 
patients with compensated liver disease who are previously untreated or who have failed previous 
therapy. “ 
The NS3/4A inhibitors telaprevir and boceprevir are indicated for use with either of the alfa-
peginterferons and ribavirin, and have been studied in such combinations in the trials pivotal to their 
approval. To support the proposed extension of the indication of peginterferon alfa-2a to reciprocally 
include such combination use, the applicant refers to these pivotal studies. The relevant trials have 
previously been assessed by European regulators within the context of the approval procedures for 
boceprevir (EC Decision 18/07/2011) and telaprevir (EC Decision 19/09/2011). 
As they currently stand, both the boceprevir and the telaprevir Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SmPCs) extensively cross-refer the treating physician or patient to the SmPC for the peginterferon 
alfa that is used in combination.  
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 5/29 
 
 
 
 
Of note the full data set for the authorisation of telaprevir and boceprevir are discussed in the 
respective EPAR’s for these products available on the EMA website. The current report summarises the 
salient aspects of these dossiers relevant to the current extension of indication for Pegasys. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in this application. Given that the data have already 
been assessed in the context of the marketing authorisations for telaprevir and boceprevir this was 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The MAH did not provide an ERA with this application. The extended indication does not increase the 
overall target population but is aimed at a specific subpopulation of patients already covered by the 
previous Pegasys indication. Therefore, the lack of an ERA is justified. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Main studies 
The pivotal phase III studies conducted for demonstrating the efficacy and the safety of boceprevir and 
telaprevir used with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin is provided in Table 1.  
Table 1.  Overview of pivotal Studies that Evaluated Efficacy and Safety of Boceprevir and Telaprevir 
used with PEG-IFN Alfa-2a and Ribavirin  
Study ID 
Boceprevir 
P05685 
Diagnosis 
Inclusion 
Criteria 
Previous 
PEG/RBV 
treatment 
failures 
Design 
Study Posology  Subjects 
This is a randomized, 
multicenter study, double 
blinded for boceprevir or 
placebo in combination with 
open-label peginterferon 
alfa-2a / ribavirin, in adult 
subjects with hepatitis C 
genotype 1 who 
demonstrated interferon 
responsiveness but failed to 
achieve sustained virologic 
response on prior treatment 
with peginterferon/ribavirin. 
Boceprevir 800 mg 
three 
times daily (TID) 
was co-
administered with 
PEG2a 180 
μg/week SC plus 
ribavirin 1000 to 
1200 mg/day PO 
BID, after the 4-
week lead-in. 
A total of 202 
subjects were 
randomized and 
201 received at 
least one dose of 
PEG2a/R, 
including 67 
randomized to 
PEG2a/R control 
and 134 
randomized to 
BOC/PEG2a/R 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 6/29 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Diagnosis 
Inclusion 
Criteria 
Telaprevira 
Study 108 
(ADVANCE) 
Treatment- 
naïve 
Study 111 
(ILLUMINATE) 
Treatment- 
naïve 
Study C216 
(REALIZE) 
Previous 
PEG/RBV 
Treatment 
Failures 
Design 
Study Posology  Subjects 
T8/PR 
T12/PR 
PLB/PR48 
1088 
T12/PRb 
540 
T12/PR48c 
T12(DS)/PR48 c 
PLB/PR48 
662 
A Phase III Study of 2 Dose 
Regimens of Telaprevir in 
Combination With 
Peginterferon Alfa-2a 
(Pegasys) and Ribavirin 
(Copegus) in Treatment-
Naïve Subjects with 
Genotype 1 Chronic Hepatitis 
C 
A Phase III Randomized 
Study of Stopping Treatment 
at 24 Weeks or Continuing 
Treatment to 48 Weeks in 
Treatment-Naïve Subjects 
with Genotype 1 Chronic 
Hepatitis C who Achieve an 
Extended Rapid Viral 
Response While Receiving 
Telaprevir, Peginterferon-
alfa-2a (Pegasys), and 
Ribavirin (Copegus) 
A Phase III Randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-
controlled, Phase III trial of 2 
regimens of telaprevir (with 
and without delayed start) 
combined with pegylated 
interferon alfa-2a (Pegasys) 
and ribavirin (Copegus) in 
subjects with chronic 
genotype 1 hepatitis C 
infection who failed prior 
pegylated interferon plus 
ribavirin treatment 
BOC: boceprevir; HCV=hepatitis C virus; P: Peg-IFN-alfa-2a; PLB = placebo; PR: Peginterferon alfa and 
ribavirin; QW=once a week; RBV = ribavirin; T: telaprevir; TID = three times a day;  
a: In placebo-controlled studies, telaprevir matching placebo was administered to maintain double-blinding; b: The 
total duration of Peg-IFN and RBV treatment was 24 or 48 weeks based on subject’s individual on-treatment 
virologic response and randomization; c: In both telaprevir groups, subjects received 12 weeks of telaprevir in 
combination with 48 weeks of Peg-IFN and RBV. In the T12(DS)/PR48 group, telaprevir treatment had delayed 
start (DS), i.e. telaprevir treatment started after 4 weeks treatment with Peg-IFN and RBV. 
The efficacy of peginterferon alfa-2a in combination with an NS3/4A inhibitor 
Telaprevir 
Three pivotal studies supported the use of peginterferon alfa-2a in combination with telaprevir and 
ribavirin. In all studies, telaprevir was administered at a dose of 750 mg t.i.d, together with 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 7/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin at standard doses. Patients had genotype 1 infection and were 
either treatment naive (studies -108 and -111) or treatment experienced (study -216). Patients with 
decompensated liver disease or HCV/HIV co-infection were not eligible to participate. 
Study -108: A Phase 3 Study of 2 Dose Regimens of Telaprevir in Combination With 
Peginterferon Alfa-2a (Pegasys) and Ribavirin (Copegus) in Treatment-Naïve Subjects with 
Genotype 1 Chronic Hepatitis C 
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study. Patients 
included and female subjects between 18 to 70 years of age with genotype 1 chronic HCV infection 
who had not been previously treated for HCV. Decompensated liver disease or HBV/HCV co-infection 
were exclusion criteria.  
The treatment regimens were as follows: 
Table 2.  Treatment Groups 
The primary efficacy measure was SVRplanned (SVR 24 weeks after the planned end of treatment). Rates 
were as follows: 
Table 3.  SVR24 planned Rates, Full Analysis Set 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 8/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus, both telaprevir arms were significantly superior to placebo on the primary endpoint. The 
response in the T12/PR arm was numerically superior to that in the T8/PR arm. The placebo arm 
performed at the level of efficacy that would be expected. Both the 12-weeks and the 8 weeks 
telaprevir arm, with a subsequent peginterferon/ribavirin tail for a total of 24 or 48 weeks duration 
depending on eRVR (plasma viremia not detected at treatment weeks 4+12), were superior to 48 
weeks of peginterferon/ribavirin with placebo. A higher on-treatment virological failure rate after 
telaprevir treatment completion was found in the 8 week telaprevir arm. As the viral genotype of these 
excess failures were wild-type or low-level resistant variants which might have been cleared by further 
telaprevir treatment, these data indicate a virological edge of twelve rather than eight weeks of 
telaprevir therapy. The advantage of telaprevir over placebo was evident regardless of viral subtype, 
degree of fibrosis, baseline viral load, sex, age, gender or race. 
-111 A Randomized Study of Stopping Treatment at 24 Weeks or Continuing Treatment to 48 
Weeks in Treatment-Naïve Subjects with Genotype 1 Chronic Hepatitis C who Achieve an 
Extended Rapid Viral Response While Receiving Telaprevir, Peginterferon-alfa-2a (Pegasys), 
and Ribavirin (Copegus) 
The study was designed to evaluate the SVR rates in subjects who achieved an eRVR (undetectable 
HCV RNA levels at Week 4 and Week 12 on treatment) with telaprevir in combination with Peg-IFN-
alfa-2a and RBV.  
The treatment regimens were 24 or 48 weeks in duration, with telaprevir administered in combination 
with Peg-IFN-alfa-2a and RBV for the first 12 weeks (i.e., T12/PR24 arm or T12/PR48 arms, 
respectively). Subjects who achieved an eRVR and completed the Week 20 visit were randomized in a 
1:1 ratio to stop all study treatment at Week 24 or to continue treatment with Peg-IFN-alfa-2a and 
RBV to Week 48 (T12/PR48/eRVR+ group).  
Subjects who did not achieve an eRVR were assigned a total treatment with Peg-IFN-alfa-2a and RBV 
for 48 weeks (T12/PR48/eRVR- group). Subjects who prematurely discontinued treatment before Week 
20, were not randomized or assigned to a treatment regimen. These subjects were included in the 
group designated ‘Other’.  
The table below provides a summary of the treatment regimens in this study.  
Table 4.  Summary of Treatment 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 9/29 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy variable was the SVR24 planned rate, defined as undetectable HCV RNA levels at the 
end of treatment (EOT) visit and at 24 weeks after the last planned dose of study treatment without 
any confirmed detectable HCV RNA levels in between those visits. 
The T12/PR24 treatment regimen was to be declared non-inferior to the T12/PR48 treatment regimen 
if the lower limit of the 1-sided 97.5% CI on the observed difference between the T12/PR24/eRVR+ 
group and the T12/PR48/eRVR+ group was greater than -10.5% (i.e., the non-inferiority margin). 
The 540 enrolled subjects had a median age of 51 years (range: 19 to 70); 60% of the subjects were 
male; 32% had a body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m2; 14% were Black; 10% were Hispanic or Latino; 82% 
had baseline HCV RNA levels > 800,000 IU/ml; 16% had bridging fibrosis; 11% had cirrhosis; 72% 
had HCV genotype 1a; and 27% had HCV genotype 1b. 
Primary outcomes (SVR) 
Table 5.  SVR24 planned Rates, Full Analysis Set 
The SVR rate in those treated for 24 weeks was numerically higher and statistically non-inferior 
compared to that of subjects treated for 48 weeks (92% with T12/PR24 vs 88% with T12/PR48). 
The primary outcome was consistent through the subgroups of age, gender, race, viral subtype and 
baseline viral load.  
C216 A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase III trial of 2 regimens of telaprevir (with 
and without delayed start) combined with pegylated interferon alfa-2a (Pegasys) and ribavirin 
(Copegus) in subjects with chronic genotype 1 hepatitis C infection who failed prior pegylated 
interferon plus ribavirin treatment. 
The study was designed to compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of 2 regimens of telaprevir 
(with and without delayed start (DS) of telaprevir) combined with Peg-IFN-alfa-2a and RBV versus 
standard treatment (Peg-IFN-alfa-2a and RBV). 
Subjects were eligible to enrol in the study if they (1) had an undetectable hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
ribonucleic acid (RNA) level at the end of a prior course of Peg-IFN/RBV therapy but did not achieve 
sustained virologic response (SVR) (prior relapsers), or (2) never had an undetectable HCV RNA level 
during or at the end of a prior course of Peg-IFN/RBV therapy (prior non-responders).  
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 10/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Study Design 
The main efficacy variable was SVR, defined as having undetectable HCV RNA 24 weeks after the last 
planned dose of study drug SVR24planned.  
Approximately half the patients were prior relapsers and half non-responders, with a balanced 
distribution between treatment arms. 89% had baseline HCV RNA levels > 800,000 IU/ml; 22% had 
bridging fibrosis; 26% had cirrhosis; 54% had HCV genotype 1a; and 46% had HCV genotype 1b. 
Primary endpoint (SVR) 
Table 6.  SVR24 planned Rates and Statistical Comparison (Logistic Regression) for  
SVR24 planned – Overall Population, FA Set 
As the treatment duration was similar in all treatment groups, the planned assessment was at study 
week 72 (24 weeks after the end of therapy) for all patients. The superiority of both immediate and 
delayed start telaprevir based regimens over placebo was demonstrated, with point estimates for SVR 
in the full treatment population of 64% (telaprevir immediate start), 66% (telaprevir, delayed start) 
and 17% (peginterferon+ribavirin+placebo). Statistically significant superiority was demonstrated for 
each telaprevir regimen over placebo in the three subcategories of prior response patterns, relapsers, 
partial responders (at least 2 log 10 decline at week 12 of prior therapy with peginterferon+ribavirin) 
and null responders less than 2 log 10 decline at week 12 of prior therapy. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 11/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In prior relapsers, SVR rates in the telaprevir (immediate and delayed start) arms and in the control 
arm were 83%, 88% and 23.5% respectively. In prior partial responders, SVR rates in the telaprevir 
arms (immediate and delayed start) and in the control arm were 60%, 54% and 15% respectively. In 
prior null responders, SVR rates in the telaprevir (immediate and delayed start) arms and in the 
control arm were 30%, 33% and 5% respectively. The benefit of telaprevir appeared consistent over 
subgroups where n is large enough for direct conclusions, such as age, gender, viral subtype, baseline 
viral load, degree of fibrosis in the overall population. Though there is a likely advantage of telaprevir 
over placebo in all relevant subgroups, absolute SVR rates remain low in some population categories, 
despite the addition of telaprevir. These include, e.g., prior null responders with subtype 1a (27%) and 
prior null responders with cirrhosis (14%). 
Boceprevir 
While the bulk of the boceprevir development program was performed with peginteferon alfa-2b, the 
sponsor of that program conducted one pivotal trial to provide evidence for bridging assumptions with 
peginterferon alfa- 2a. 
Study P05685, A Phase 3 Safety and Efficacy Study of Boceprevir in Combination With Peginterferon 
Alfa-2a and Ribavirin in Subjects With Chronic Hepatitis C Genotype 1 Who Failed Prior Treatment With 
Peginterferon/Ribavirin 
This is a randomized, multicentre study, double-blinded for boceprevir or placebo in combination with 
open-label peginterferon alfa-2a / ribavirin, in adult subjects with hepatitis C genotype 1 who 
demonstrated interferon responsiveness but failed to achieve sustained virologic response on prior 
treatment with peginterferon/ribavirin. Patients with decompensated liver disease were not eligible for 
this study. 
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy of boceprevir in combination with peginterferon 
alfa-2a (PEG2a) plus ribavirin (PEG2a/R) to the same PEG2a/R regimen without boceprevir for 48 
weeks in adult subjects with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) genotype 1 with demonstrated interferon 
responsiveness who failed prior treatment with peginterferon/ribavirin. A secondary objective was to 
evaluate the safety of boceprevir when used in combination with PEG2a/R. 
Subjects with HCV (genotype 1) who failed to achieve SVR on prior adequate treatment with any 
peginterferon alfa and ribavirin but demonstrated interferon responsiveness (a decrease in hepatitis C 
virus-ribonucleic acid (HCV-RNA) viral load ≥2 log10 by treatment week (TW) 12 or undetectable HCV-
RNA at End of Treatment [EOT]) were selected for the study. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the achievement of SVR24. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 12/29 
 
 
 
A total of 202 subjects were randomized and 201 received at least one dose of PEG2a/R, including 67 
randomized to PEG2a/R control and 134 randomized to BOC/PEG2a/R. 
In this study, 70% (140/201) of the treated randomized subjects were male and 90% (181/201) were 
non-black. The mean age was 53 years (range, 29-70 years), and the mean weight was 85 kg. All 
subjects had genotype 1 (45% [90/201] subtype 1a, 47% [95/201] subtype 1b by TRUGENE™ assay), 
and 77% (155/201) had high viral load (>800,000 IU/mL), with a 6.32 mean log10 baseline viral load.  
16% of patients had F4 cirrhosis. 
Efficacy outcomes (SVR rates) in the full analysis set, including all patients randomised and treated, 
were as follows: 
Thus, the addition of boceprevir to the PEG2a/R backbone led to a significant increase in SVR from 
21% to 64%. Using historical classification of previous response, both relapsers (SVR=70%) and non 
responders (SVR=47%) had large increases in SVR compared with controls (28% and 5%, 
respectively). No subgroup of subjects was identified for whom PEG2a/R therapy was superior to triple 
therapy with boceprevir plus PEG2a/R. 
The efficacy results of the P05685 study, which was performed in a treatment experienced population, 
supported the a priori hypothesis that using boceprevir and ribavirin with peginterferon alfa-2a would 
be at least equally effective as the use of the same drugs with peginterferon alfa-2b.  
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 13/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Clinical efficacy 
The NS3/4A inhibitors telaprevir and boceprevir are indicated for use with either of the alfa-
peginterferons and ribavirin, and have been studied in such combinations in the trials pivotal to their 
approval. To support the proposed extension of the indication of peginterferon alfa-2a to reciprocally 
include such combination use, the applicant refers to these pivotal studies. The relevant trials have 
previously been assessed by European regulators within the context of the approval procedures for 
telaprevir (19/09/2011) and boceprevir (18/07/2011). These trials indicate that the SVR rate in 
treatment naive patients that get peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin bitherapy is somewhat higher than 
40%, which is in agreement with other results obtained with such regimens. Furthermore, in treatment 
naive patients, the addition of telaprevir led to an absolute increment in response rates of more than 
30 percent. 
 In patients that have previously failed on peginterferon alfa+ribavirin therapy, and thus are 
preselected “poor interferon responders”, the absolute response rates when using peginterferon alfa-
2a+ribavirin bitherapy in the control arms of the abovementioned pivotal trials was lower, as 
anticipated. Also, the absolute response rates to triple therapy including telaprevir or boceprevir in 
studies of such patients were lower than in studies of treatment naive patients. However, the 
proportional increment in SVR rates when adding a NS3/4A inhibitor to peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin 
in such poorer interferon responders tended to be higher than seen in the treatment naive. 
The safety of peginteferon alfa-2a in combination with a first generation NS3/4A inhibitor 
and ribavirin 
Safety in combination with telaprevir 
The pooled placebo-controlled phase II/III studies with telaprevir, forming the core of the safety 
database at the time of approval of this drug, included 1823 subjects that received a telaprevir 
regimen of 8, 12 or 24 weeks. Median time on telaprevir was 12.1 weeks. Thirty six percent of the 
patients were female, 11% were non-white, 1.5% were >65 years of age, 13.3% had cirrhosis. 
Virtually no patients had CrCL <50 ml/min.  
Adverse events 
Treatment-emergent treatment-related AEs reported more frequently when telaprevir is added to 
peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin include rash, pruritus, anemia, nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, dysgeusia 
and haemorrhoids. 
Serious adverse events, deaths and other significant events 
The incidence of serious adverse events on telaprevir treatment was 6.6%, compared to 2.9% in the 
placebo group. The most frequently reported SAEs in the T12/PR group were anemia (1.6%) and rash 
(0.7%). 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 14/29 
 
 
 
Table 7.  Placebo-Controlled Phase 2-3 Studies: Incidence of Serious Adverse Events That Occurred in 
More than 0.5% of Subjects in any Treatment Group by System Organ Class and Preferred Term – 
Telaprevir/Placebo Treatment Phase 
There were no deaths during telaprevir treatment. 
Rash is the most important side effect of telaprevir, and the most important adverse effect cause of 
discontinuation. In the phase III studies, the applicant implemented a “rash management plan”, which 
remains the basis for recommendations in the extant SmPC for Incivo.  
The other clinically major side effect is an additive effect on the anemia seen with peginterferon alfa-
2a+ribavirin treatment which, if needed, is usually managed by ribavirin dose reduction.  
Table 8.  Placebo-Controlled Phase 2-3 Studies: Summary of Anemia SSC Events – Telaprevir/Placebo 
Treatment Phase 
Also, there is an additive effect on peginterferon platelet decrease and lymphopenia, but not on 
neutrophil counts.  
When treating with telaprevir there was a transient and reversible rise in serum creatinine. It remains 
unclear whether the increase in creatinine represents a decreased glomerular filtration or an otherwise 
altered creatinine disposition, though the identification of older age and hypertension as risk factors 
may indicate the former. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 15/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothyroidism is a well-known side effect of peginterferon alfa, which occurs in up to 5% of patients 
treated with peginterferon alfa+ribavirin in clinical trials. Increased TSH levels were more common 
when treating with telaprevir than with placebo, in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a and 
ribavirin. Also, “hypothyroidism” was reported at a considerably higher frequency in telaprevir-treated 
patients – and at a comparably low rate in patients treated with peginterferon and ribavirin. As the 
frequency of TSH increases overall with telaprevir or placebo in the regimen is similar, it may be that 
TSH increases occur earlier with telaprevir therapy. Furthermore, most cases pertain to patients with a 
history of thyroid disease and/or thyroid replacement therapy. Thus it may be that telaprevir affects 
the disposition of T3 and T4. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Approximately 10% of patients treated with telaprevir+peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin discontinued 
their entire treatment regimen due to adverse effects, compared to 7% in the control group treated 
only with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin. Approximately 15% discontinued telaprevir due to AE, 
while 4% discontinued placebo.  
Safety in combination with boceprevir 
The safety profile of boceprevir was investigated in over 2800 subjects. At the approved dose, 800 mg 
three times daily, 1900 subjects had been exposed in Boceprevir including 66% of them for at least 24 
weeks. 
The bulk of the boceprevir drug development program was performed in combination with 
peginterferon alfa-2b rather than -2a. However, the application dossier included the aforementioned 
P05685 study, which served to bridge data for the use of boceprevir in combination with either 
peginterferon, which is how the label for Victrelis is stated.  
Adverse events 
In the P05685 study, where boceprevir was used in combination with peginteferon alfa-2a, the most 
common AEs were those previously reported with peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin therapy, such as, 
e.g., fatigue, myalgia, influenza-like symptoms, cytopenias. Treatment-emergent treatment-related 
AEs reported more frequently in the boceprevir-containing arm compared with the control arm were 
blood and lymphatic system disorders, including anemia, neutropenia, and leukopenia; rash; myalgia; 
and gastrointestinal disorders, including dysgeusia, nausea, diarrhoea, and vomiting.  
Serious adverse events, deaths and other significant events 
Serious adverse events were reported with similar frequency in the boceprevir-containing and control 
arms (13% vs 10%, respectively). Only the SAE of neutropenia was reported in more than one subject 
(n=2), both in the boceprevir+peginteferon alfa-2a+ribvairin arm. Various different infection SAEs 
were reported in 7 of the 134 subjects in the boceprevir-containing arm and none of the 67 in the 
control arm; however, 2 of these 7 subjects with infections were assigned to receive boceprevir but 
had only received PEG2a/R before the development of their infections. No subject had Grade 3 or 4 
neutropenia within 14 days of the onset of a severe or life-threatening infection.  
There were two deaths on study, both in the BOC/PEG2a/R arm: one due to cardiac failure, which the 
investigator considered unlikely related to study medication, and one due to multi-organ failure 
secondary to Staphylococcal pneumonia, which was considered possibly related to study medication. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 16/29 
 
 
 
 
The following table illustrates comparative safety when boceprevir was used with peginterferon alfa-2a 
in treatment experienced patients in the P05685 study, and when used in a similar population with 
peginterferon alfa-2b in the pivotal P05101 study. 
Study P05685 
Study P05101 
PegIFN 
PegIFN alfa 
PegIFN 
PegIFN 
alfa2a/RBV 
2a/RBV/BOC 
alfa2b/RBV 
alfa2b/RBV/BOC 
N=67 
N=334 
N= 80 
N= 161 
Treatment duration (mean)  105 days 
334 days 
104 days 
336 days 
AE 
SAE 
Death 
Drug discontinuation 
Dose modification 
Anaemia as AE 
Hb<10g/dl 
Hb<8.5g/dl 
Use of EPO 
Dysgueusia 
Neutropenia as AE 
Neutrophils<750/mm3 
Grade3-4  
Neutrophils<500/mm3 
Grade4 
Thrombocytopenia as AE 
Platelets < 50 (Grade3) 
Platelets <25 (Grade 4) 
100% 
100% 
96% 
10% 
13% 
0 
2 (1%) 
5% 
0 
100% 
14% 
0 
4% 
22% 
33% 
22% 
4% 
30% 
25% 
18% 
18% 
3% 
6% 
7% 
0 
17% 
43% 
50% 
37% 
13% 
47% 
39% 
31% 
28% 
14% 
7% 
10% 
1% 
3% 
14% 
20% 
24% 
1% 
21% 
11% 
10% 
9% 
4% 
0% 
0 
0 
12% 
33% 
47% 
35% 
14% 
46% 
45% 
14% 
20% 
7% 
6% 
5% 
0 
The most salient aspect of the safety profile of the drug is marked by the high rate of anaemia and 
dysgueusia that occurred in 49% and 37% of boceprevir-treated subjects respectively, versus 29% 
and 17% of patients treated only with peginterferon alfa-2b and ribavirin. Thus, overall, the main 
adverse effect burden associated with the use of boceprevir is due to the marked increase of anemia as 
compared to the already significant rate of anemia with peginterferon+ribavirin.  
The risk of neutropenia (including grade3/4) is markedly increased when boceprevir is combined to alfa 
2a. As a consequence, the Victrelis SmPC contains a statement that, as compared to the combination 
of Victrelis with peginterferon alfa–2b and ribavirin, the combination of Victrelis with peginterferon 
alfa–2a and ribavirin was associated with a higher rate of neutropenia (including grade 4 neutropenia) 
and a higher rate of infections.  
Of note, neutropenia is an identified risk as per the RMP of Victrelis. In September 2013 var II/19 was 
adopted, approving recommendations on additional monitoring of neutrophils while treated with 
boceprevir-based triple therapy. This was not prompted by any specific concerns relating to the use of 
peginterferon alfa-2a rather than -2b, but was based on further analysis of data from trials where the 
latter was used. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 17/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common AEs that resulted in discontinuation included events known to be associated with PEG2a/R 
therapy, including asthenia and fatigue. Although there was an increased incidence of treatment-
related anemia in boceprevir-treated subjects compared with control subjects (50% vs 33%, 
respectively), none of the anemia AEs was considered serious, and only one resulted in drug 
discontinuation. 
Conclusion on clinical safety 
The two first NS3/4A inhibitors both have an additive impact to well-known haematological adverse 
effects attributed to the combination of peginterferon+ribavirin, and in particular anemia. Furthermore, 
there are additional side effects characteristic of each NS3/4A inhibitors such as rash (telaprevir), anal 
complaints (telaprevir) and dysgeusia (boceprevir). In summary, the documentation submitted by the 
company for this application does not contain any data that have not been thoroughly assessed by 
European regulators within the approval procedures of telaprevir and boceprevir. According to the 
outcome of these, as well as through subsequent PSUR cycles, the benefit-risk of co-administering 
these drugs with peginterferon alfa-2a, according to the labels of Incivo and Victrelis, has been 
deemed positive.  
Risk management plan 
PRAC Advice: 
Based on the PRAC review of the Risk Management Plan version 5, the PRAC considers by consensus 
that the risk management system for peginterferon alfa-2a (Pegasys) in the proposed indication is 
acceptable.  
Safety concerns 
There are no new identified or potential risks since the previous revision of the RMP.  The data in 
support for an extension of indication for use in combination with NS3/4A protease inhibitors do not 
indicate any new risks to be required for inclusion into the RMP. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 18/29 
 
 
 
PhV Plan  
Table 9.  Table of on-going and planned studies in the Post-authorization Pharmacovigilance 
Development Plan 
The PRAC having considered the data submitted, is of the opinion that the proposed post-authorisation 
PhV development plan is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk 
minimization measures 
Additional 
risk 
minimizat
ion 
measures 
Important identified risks: 
Psychiatric and 
Because of the potential for psychiatric or CNS reactions, Section 4.4 of 
None 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 19/29 
 
 
 
 
CNS Adverse 
the Pegasys SPC contains a black box  describing the spectrum of 
proposed 
Events 
neuropsychiatric reactions:  
Psychiatric and Central Nervous System (CNS): Severe CNS effects, 
particularly depression, suicidal ideation and attempted suicide have been 
observed in some patients during Pegasys therapy, and even after 
treatment discontinuation mainly during the 6-month follow-up period. 
Other CNS effects including aggressive behavior (sometimes directed 
against others such as homicidal ideation), bipolar disorders, mania, 
confusion and alterations of mental status have been observed with alpha 
interferons. All patients should be closely monitored for any signs or 
symptoms of psychiatric disorders. In particular, pediatric patients with a 
prior history of or concurrent psychiatric disorders should be monitored 
for evidence of depression. If symptoms of psychiatric disorders appear, 
the potential seriousness of these undesirable effects must be borne in 
mind by the prescribing physician and the need for adequate therapeutic 
management should be considered. If psychiatric symptoms persist or 
worsen, or suicidal ideation is identified, it is recommended that 
treatment with Pegasys be discontinued, and the patient followed, with 
psychiatric intervention as appropriate. 
Patients with existence of, or history of severe psychiatric conditions: If 
treatment with Pegasys is judged necessary in patients with existence or 
history of severe psychiatric conditions, this should only be initiated after 
having ensured appropriate individualized diagnostic and therapeutic 
management of the psychiatric condition. 
In addition, all above adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Blood and 
Lymphatic 
System Adverse 
Events  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of 
None 
hematological abnormalities, and recommendations for  management: 
proposed 
“Prior to beginning Pegasys therapy, standard hematological and 
biochemical laboratory tests are recommended for all patients. 
The following may be considered as baseline values for initiation of 
treatment: 
- 
Platelet count ≥ 90,000/mm3 
-       Absolute neutrophil counts ≥ 1500/mm3 
Hematological tests should be repeated after 2 and 4 weeks and 
biochemical tests should be performed at 4 weeks. Additional testing 
should be performed periodically during therapy. 
In clinical trials, Pegasys treatment was associated with decreases in both 
total white blood cell (WBC) count and absolute neutrophil count (ANC), 
usually starting within the first 2 weeks of treatment (see Section 4.8). 
Progressive decreases after 8 weeks of therapy were infrequent. The 
decrease in ANC was reversible upon dose reduction or cessation of 
therapy (see Section 4.2), reached normal values by 8 weeks in the 
majority of patients and returned to baseline in all patients after about 16 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 20/29 
 
 
 
weeks. 
Pegasys treatment has been associated with decreases in platelet count, 
which returned to pre-treatment levels during the post-treatment 
observation period (see Section 4.8). In some cases, dose modification 
may be necessary (see Section 4.2). 
The occurrence of anemia (hemoglobin <10 g/dl) has been observed in 
up to 15% of chronic hepatitis C patients in clinical trials on the combined 
treatment of Pegasys with ribavirin. The frequency depends on the 
treatment duration and the dose of ribavirin (see Section 4.8,). The risk 
of developing anemia is higher in the female population. 
As with other interferons, caution should be exercised when 
administering Pegasys in combination with other potentially 
myelosuppressive agents. 
The use of Pegasys and ribavirin combination therapy in chronic hepatitis 
C patients who failed prior treatment has not been adequately studied in 
patients who discontinued prior therapy for hematological adverse 
events. Physicians considering treatment in these patients should 
carefully weigh the risks versus the benefits of re-treatment.” 
Instructions in Section 4.2 of the SPC discuss the occurrence of the 
hematological event, and provide recommendations for dose 
management based upon changing hematological parameters. 
Endocrine 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of such 
None 
System Adverse 
disorder: 
proposed 
Events 
“Thyroid function abnormalities or worsening of pre-existing thyroid 
disorders have been reported with the use of alpha interferons, including 
Pegasys. Prior to initiation of Pegasys® therapy, TSH and T4 levels should 
be evaluated. Pegasys treatment may be initiated or continued if TSH 
levels can be maintained in the normal range by medication. TSH levels 
should be determined during the course of therapy if a patient develops 
clinical symptoms consistent with possible thyroid dysfunction (see 
Section 4.8). As with other interferons, hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia and 
diabetes mellitus have been observed with Pegasys® (see Section 4.8). 
Patients with these conditions who cannot be effectively controlled by 
medication should not begin Pegasys monotherapy or Pegasys/ribavirin 
combination therapy. Patients who develop these conditions during 
treatment and cannot be controlled with medication should discontinue 
Pegasys or Pegasys/ribavirin therapy.” 
In addition, these adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Cardiovascular  
Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the SPC indicates: A history of severe 
None 
Adverse Events 
pre-existing cardiac disease including unstable or uncontrolled cardiac 
proposed 
disease in the previous six months. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of  such 
disorders: 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 21/29 
 
 
 
Hypertension, supraventricular arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, 
chest pain and myocardial infarction have been associated with alpha 
interferon therapies, including Pegasys. It is recommended that patients 
who have pre-existing cardiac abnormalities have an electrocardiogram 
prior to initiation of Pegasys therapy. If there is any deterioration of 
cardiovascular status, therapy should be suspended or discontinued. In 
patients with cardiovascular disease, anemia may necessitate dose 
reduction or discontinuation of ribavirin. 
In addition, above cardiovascular adverse events are listed in SPC 
Section 4.8 (undesirable effects). 
Ischemic Cardiac 
Events in Setting 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Copegus®  SPC describing the spectrum of 
ischemic cardiac events as a result of anemia, and suggestions for 
None 
proposed 
of Ribavirin-
management: 
induced Anemia  
“Although ribavirin has no direct cardiovascular effects, anemia 
associated with Copegus may result in deterioration of cardiac function, 
or exacerbation of the symptoms of coronary disease, or both. Thus, 
Copegus must be administered with caution to patients with pre-existing 
cardiac disease. Cardiac status must be assessed before start of therapy 
and monitored clinically during therapy; if any deterioration occurs, stop 
therapy (see section 4.2). Patients with a history of congestive heart 
failure, myocardial infarction, and/or previous or current arrhythmic 
disorders must be closely monitored. It is recommended that those 
patients who have pre-existing cardiac abnormalities have 
electrocardiograms taken prior to and during the course of treatment. 
Cardiac arrhythmias (primarily supraventricular) usually respond to 
conventional therapy but may require discontinuation of therapy.” 
Instructions in Section 4.2 of the SPC discuss the occurrence of the 
hematological event, and provide recommendations for dose 
management based upon cardiovascular events. 
Hepatobiliary 
Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the SPC indicates:  
Adverse Events 
•  Autoimmune hepatitis 
None 
proposed 
•  Severe hepatic dysfunction or decompensated cirrhosis of the 
liver 
• 
Initiation of Pegasys is contraindicated in HIV-HCV patients with 
cirrhosis and a Child-Pugh score >6, except if only due to indirect 
hyperbilirubinemia caused by drugs such as atazanavir and 
indinavir. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of  
occurrence of the liver decompensation, and suggestions for 
management: 
“In patients who develop evidence of hepatic decompensation during 
treatment, Pegasys should be discontinued. As with other alpha 
interferons, increases in ALT levels above baseline have been observed in 
patients treated with Pegasys, including patients with a viral response. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 22/29 
 
 
 
When the increase in ALT levels is progressive and clinically significant, 
despite dose reduction, or is accompanied by increased direct bilirubin, 
therapy should be discontinued (see Sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
In chronic hepatitis B, unlike chronic hepatitis C, disease exacerbations 
during therapy are not uncommon and are characterized by transient and 
potentially significant increases in serum ALT. In clinical trials with 
Pegasys in HBV, marked transaminase flares have been accompanied by 
mild changes in other measures of hepatic function and without evidence 
of hepatic decompensation. In approximately half the case of flares 
exceeding 10 times the upper limit of normal, Pegasys dosing was 
reduced or withheld until the transaminase elevations subsided, while in 
the rest therapy was continued unchanged. More frequent monitoring of 
hepatic function was recommended in all instances.” 
Instructions in Section 4.2 of the SPC discuss the occurrence of the 
event, and  provide recommendations  for dose management based upon 
liver function parameters: 
In addition, these adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
None 
proposed 
Hypersensitivity 
Contraindication in Section 4.3 of the SPC indicates: 
Reaction Adverse 
Events 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, alpha interferons, or to any of 
the excipients. 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC: 
“Serious, acute hypersensitivity reaction (eg, urticaria, angioedema, 
bronchoconstriction, anaphylaxis) have been rarely observed during 
alpha interferon therapy. If this occurs, therapy must be discontinued 
and appropriate medical therapy instituted immediately. Transient rashes 
do not necessitate interruption of treatment.” 
In addition, these adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Autoimmune  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the possibility of 
None 
Adverse Events 
development of auto-antibodies and autoimmune disorder during alpha-
proposed 
interferon monotherapy or Pegasys/ ribavirin combination therapy: 
“The development of auto-antibodies and autoimmune disorders has 
been reported during treatment with alpha interferons. Patients 
predisposed to the development of autoimmune disorders may be at 
increased risk. Patients with signs or symptoms compatible with 
autoimmune disorders should be evaluated carefully, and the benefit-risk 
of continued interferon therapy should be reassessed.” 
In addition, these types of adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Ocular  Adverse 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of occurrence 
None 
Events 
of the ocular events, and suggestions for management: 
proposed 
“As with other interferons retinopathy including retinal hemorrhages, 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 23/29 
 
 
 
cotton wool spots, papilloedema, optic neuropathy and retinal artery or 
vein obstruction which may result in loss of vision have been reported in 
rare instances with Pegasys. All patients should have a baseline eye 
examination. Any patient complaining of decrease or loss of vision must 
have a prompt and complete eye examination. Patients with preexisting 
ophthalmologic disorders (eg, diabetic or hypertensive retinopathy) 
should receive periodic ophthalmologic exams during Pegasys® therapy. 
Pegasys treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new 
or worsening ophthalmologic disorders.” 
In addition, above ocular adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Pulmonary 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of such events 
None 
Adverse Events 
and recommendation to discontinue treatment if events persist or are 
proposed 
unexplained. 
“As with other alpha interferons, pulmonary symptoms, including 
dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrates, pneumoniae, and pneumonitis have been 
reported during therapy with Pegasys. In case of persistent or 
unexplained pulmonary infiltrates or pulmonary function impairment, 
treatment should be discontinued.” 
In addition, above adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Serious and 
Safety information in Section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Severe Infections 
(bacterial, viral, 
fungal) Adverse 
Events  
“While fever may be associated with the flu-like syndrome reported 
commonly during interferon therapy, other causes of persistent fever, 
particularly serious infections (bacterial, viral, fungal) must be ruled out, 
especially in patients with neutropenia. Serious infections (bacterial, viral, 
fungal) and sepsis have been reported during treatment with alpha 
interferons including Pegasys. Appropriate anti-infective therapy should 
be started immediately and discontinuation of therapy should be 
considered.” 
In addition, above adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
None 
proposed 
Skin Disorder 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC describing the spectrum of such events 
None 
and recommendation to discontinue treatment if events persist or 
proposed 
worsen: 
“Use of alpha interferons has been associated with exacerbation or 
provocation of psoriasis and sarcoidosis. Pegasys must be used with 
caution in patients with psoriasis, and in cases of onset or worsening of 
psoriatic lesions, discontinuation of therapy should be considered.” 
In addition, skin adverse events are listed in SPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Teratogenic and 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the Copegus SPC discussing the need of using 
None 
Carcinogenicity 
contraception during treatment with ribavirin.  
proposed 
Risk Adverse 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 24/29 
 
 
 
Events 
“Prior to initiation of treatment with ribavirin the physician must 
comprehensively inform the patient of the teratogenic risk of ribavirin, 
the necessity of effective and continuous contraception, the possibility 
that contraceptive methods may fail and the possible consequences of 
pregnancy should it occur during treatment with ribavirin. For laboratory 
monitoring of pregnancy please refer to Laboratory tests.” 
Carcinogenicity:  
Ribavirin is mutagenic in some in vivo and in vitro genotoxicity assays. A 
potential carcinogenic effect of ribavirin cannot be excluded (see Section 
5.3). 
Additional safety information about pregnancy and lactation are listed in 
SPC Section 4.6 (pregnancy and lactation). 
Potential Risks: 
Possible 
Because of the potential for psychiatric or CNS reactions, Section 4.4 of 
None 
persistence or de 
the Pegasys SPC contains a black box  describing the spectrum of 
proposed 
novo 
neuropsychiatric reactions 
development of 
neuropsychiatric 
events after 
stopping 
treatment. 
Possible 
The Pegasys USPI has been updated with information on growth 
None 
persistence or de 
impairment in the pediatric population. The following proposed boxed  
proposed 
novo 
warning in the SPC describing the pediatric growth impairment findings 
development of 
on treatment,  based on the safety results from the PEDS-C study: 
thyroid 
dysfunction after 
Growth and development (children and adolescents):  
stopping 
During the course of therapy lasting up to 48 weeks in patients aged 5 
treatment and its 
through to 17 years, weight loss and growth inhibition were common (see 
potential impact 
sections 4.8 and 5.1).  
on growth. 
At 2 years post-treatment with Pegasys, 16% of pediatric subjects 
remained 15 percentiles or more below their baseline weight curve and 
11% remained 15 percentiles or more below their baseline height curve. 
Case by case benefit/risk assessment in children 
The expected benefit of treatment should be carefully weighed against 
the safety findings observed for children and adolescents in the clinical 
trials (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
- It is important to consider that the combination therapy induced a 
growth inhibition, the reversibility of which is uncertain. 
- This risk should be weighed against the disease characteristics of the 
child, such as evidence of disease progression (notably fibrosis), co-
morbidities that may negatively influence the disease progression (such 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 25/29 
 
 
 
 
as HIV co-infection), as well as prognostic factors of response (HCV 
genotype and viral load). 
Whenever possible the child should be treated after the pubertal growth 
spurt, in order to reduce the risk of growth inhibition. There are no data 
on long term effects on sexual maturation. 
Medication Errors 
Dosing by BSA category and dosing graph included in the EU SmPC. 
None 
in Pediatrics 
Missing Information: 
proposed 
Efficacy and 
Section 4.2 of the EU SmPC states “Only limited safety and efficacy data 
None 
safety of 
are available in children and adolescents (6-18 years)” 
proposed 
Pegasys/ribavirin 
in pediatric HCV 
patients who are 
3 to 5 years old 
Efficacy and 
Section 4.2 of the EU SmPC states “Only limited safety and efficacy data 
None 
safety of 
are available in children and adolescents (6-18 years)” 
proposed 
Pegasys/ribavirin 
in pediatric 
patients with 
HIV/HCV 
coinfection 
Efficacy and 
Section 4.2 of the EU SmPC states “Only limited safety and efficacy data 
None 
safety of 
are available in children and adolescents (6-18 years)” 
proposed 
Pegasys/ribavirin 
in pediatric HCV 
patients in whom 
previous 
treatment has 
failed 
Use of Pegasys in 
Section 4.2 of the EU SmPC states “Only limited safety and efficacy data 
None 
pediatric patients 
are available in children and adolescents (6-18 years)” 
proposed 
with renal 
impairment 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed risk 
minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication. 
Summary of activities in the risk management plan by medicinal product 
There has been the addition of information related to the use of Pegasys with NS3/4A protease 
inhibitor for adults with chronic hepatitis C caused by genotype 1 virus in the summary of treatment 
benefits as well as in the summary of unknowns regarding benefit. The Revisions are endorsed by 
PRAC. 
The CHMP endorsed the PRAC Advice without changes. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 26/29 
 
 
 
 
 
PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged 
2.5.  Update of the Product information   
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1 and 4.2, of the SmPC have been updated.  
In addition the CHMP took the opportunity of this variation to request that information pertaining to 
liver histology prior to therapy be deleted. Given the evolution of the hepatitis C treatment field, 
including the widespread use of non-invasive methods for the evaluation of degree of fibrosis, the 
information is no longer relevant (EASL guidelines 2012). 
The full product information is included in Attachment 1 to this report. The wording of the new 
indication is specified hereafter: 
Section 4.1 Therapeutic indications 
Pegasys is indicated in combination with other medicinal products, for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis C (CHC) in patients with compensated liver disease (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).  
For hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.2 and 5.1.  
Of note information which further defines the target population, notably patients with compensated 
liver disease is retained in the updated indication. The CHMP supports this inclusion as the specification 
of compensated liver disease correlates with the corresponding and extant contraindication in 
decompensated liver disease. 
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The addition of first generation NS3/4A inhibitor telaprevir to peginterferon alfa-2a in treatment naive 
patients increases response rates from around 40-50% with peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin to 70-80% 
as seen with telaprevir+peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin. Studies where boceprevir is added to 
peginterferon alfa-2b, which mainly differs from peginteferon alfa-2a insofar that the PEG-moiety has a 
lower molecular weight and half-life therefore is shorter, have shown similar increases in SVR rates 
with boceprevir is added to peginterferon alfa-2b+ribavirin in treatment naive patients. 
 In patients with experience of previous failure to reach SVR with peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin (and 
thus preselected as a subpopulation with lower response to peginterferon), that are retreated with 
telaprevir or boceprevir in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a or ribavirin, the absolute response 
rates are lower than in a treatment naive patients; however, the proportional increment in SVR rates 
tends to be greater, as illustrated by an absolute increment of more than 40 percentage units in the 
full populations of the studies pivotal to the present variation. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Both telaprevir and boceprevir add to the haematological side effects that are characteristic of 
peginterferon alfa-2a+ribavirin treatment. Furthermore, they add some other adverse reactions to the 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 27/29 
 
 
 
total side effects burden, the most important of which is telaprevir-associated rash. The product 
information for peginterferon alfa-2a contain a considerable section the selection of patients for 
treatment and on the management of haematological adverse effects. Further information of the 
appropriate selection of patients, as well as on monitoring and management of such events are found 
in the SmPCs for Incivo and Victrelis, to which cross reference is proposed. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The benefit risk balance of the combination of an NS3/4A inhibitor and ribavirin with peginterferon 
alfa-2a has been previously evaluated by the CHMP in the context of the evaluations of the Marketing 
Authorisations of Incivo and Victrelis and has been found positive according to the conditions specified 
in the EPAR’s and product information for these products. Therefore, the benefit-risk of combining 
peginterferon alfa-2a with ribavirin and an NS3/4A inhibitor (two of which are presently approved) is 
considered to be positive.  
Very considerable changes have taken place in the field of HCV therapeutics within the last few years. 
The combination of a pegylated alfa-interferon and ribavirin was considered the standard of care for 
HCV genotype 1 (GT1) infection until 2011, when boceprevir and telaprevir were approved, and for the 
other HCV genotypes until the very recent approval of Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) the NS5B inhibitor which 
received approval by the European commission in January 2014. One recommended regimen for the 
use of Sovaldi is in combination with peginterferon and ribavirin. 
The first DAAs approved, telaprevir and boceprevir, had exclusively been investigated in phase II/III 
trials in genotype 1 at the time of licensure. Both of these drugs have salient side effect profiles that 
need to be balanced against incremental efficacy. Furthermore, at least telaprevir is clearly not 
pangenotypically active. Hence, the CHMP adopted a specific indication for those products (i.e. GT1 
infected patients, in combination with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin). 
 To further understand the rationale for this indication, it must be considered that, at the time of 
approval of these drugs in Europe, it had only very recently been demonstrated for products in 
development that SVR could be reached without an interferon (Lok et al, abstract presented at EASL, 
Berlin, March 2011, and subsequently published in N Engl J Med 2012), and there were no large 
studies on going with interferon-free regimens. Thus, the only drugs for which combination therapy 
could be relevant for these DAAs, were peginterferon alfa (-2a or -2b) and ribavirin, both of which 
were needed for reasonable efficacy.  
Presently there is evidence from compounds in development that numerous combination regimens, 
with or without interferon, can be used to obtain SVR. DAAs of four distinct classes (NS3/4A protease 
inhibitors, NS5A inhibitors, non-nucleoside and nucleos(t)ide inhibitors of the NS5B polymerase) are 
currently in phase III trials or approved. Developmental drugs of all of these classes have been studied 
in various combinations; agents of each class having shown efficacy contributions in the development 
phase when combined with the others. 
In this respect, the treatment landscape now bears similarity to that in HIV, where the beneficial 
antiviral effect of combining agents that lack evidence of cross resistance is well established. Also, it is 
anticipated that regimen selection for patients with experience of failure on regimens containing direct 
acting antivirals will be individualized based on an understanding of resistance and cross-resistance, 
like in the HIV field. In summary, the evolving field of hepatitis C therapeutics is similar to that of 
antiretroviral therapy in the following aspects: 
•  Combination therapy is anticipated in all cases 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
•  Agents with different mechanisms of action or lack of cross resistance consistently show additive 
antiviral effects 
•  Failure of antiviral therapy is in many cases associated with selection of drug resistant viral variants 
which may impact future therapeutic option. Furthermore, in hepatitis C, there are naturally 
occurring viral polymorphisms that impact the activity of some agents. 
•  Consequently, individual viral drug susceptibility will need to be taken into account when selecting 
an appropriate combination regimen 
Antiretrovirals used against HIV are generally approved for use “in combination with other agents”, 
with the particular information needed for rational regimen selection provided in relevant sections of 
the SmPC. The emerging treatment landscape indicates that the same approach would be appropriate 
for hepatitis C medicines. 
For these reasons the CHMP, has recommended in October 2013 that, in the general case, the 
indication (section 4.1. of the SmPC) for drugs against HCV infection should be as follows: 
“[TRADENAME] is indicated in combination with other agents for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C 
(CHC) in adults (see sections 4.2., 4.4. and 5.1.)” 
Further information relevant to viral genotypic specificity and to the appropriate and safe use of the 
drugs should be stated in the other sections of the SmPC. 
 Overall the benefit risk balance for the use of peginterferon alfa-2a in combination with ribavirin and 
an NS3/4A inhibitor is positive. The CHMP considers that the indication in adult patients with hepatitis 
C infection can be extended taking into account the above suggestion from the IDWP and the general 
format of the product information of recently approved products for the treatment of Hepatitis C.  
This expansion of the indication is based on an interpretation of the scope of the external validity of 
the proprietary data of the MAH, that is the extent to which the data can be generalized in relation to 
the current state of the field and present treatment paradigm for hepatitis C.  
Final Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends, the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
II 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one 
Extension of Indication for Pegasys to include the use of other products used for the treatment of 
Hepatitis C. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Pegasys 
Assessment report  
Page 29/29 
 
 
 
 
 
