ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pelmeg 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe   
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim* in 0.6 mL solution for injection. The 
concentration is 10 mg/mL based on protein only**. 
*Produced in Escherichia coli cells by recombinant DNA technology followed by conjugation with 
polyethylene glycol (PEG). 
** The concentration is 20 mg/mL if the PEG moiety is included. 
The potency of this product should not be compared to the potency of another pegylated or 
nonpegylated protein of the same therapeutic class. For more information, see section 5.1 
Excipient with known effect 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 mg sorbitol (E 420). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection 
Clear, colourless solution for injection. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients 
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia 
and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Pelmeg therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology and/or 
haematology. 
Posology 
One 6 mg dose (a single pre-filled syringe) of Pelmeg is recommended for each chemotherapy cycle, 
given at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim in children has not yet been established. Currently available 
data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with renal impairment 
No dose change is recommended in patients with renal impairment, including those with end stage 
renal disease. 
Method of administration 
Pelmeg is injected subcutaneously. The injections should be given into the thigh, abdomen or upper 
arm.  
For instructions on handling of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Limited clinical data suggest a comparable effect on time to recovery of severe neutropenia for 
pegfilgrastim to filgrastim in patients with de novo acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (see section 5.1). 
However, the long-term effects of Pelmeg have not been established in AML; therefore, it should be 
used with caution in this patient population. 
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and similar effects 
may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
The safety and efficacy of Pelmeg have not been investigated in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome, chronic myelogenous leukaemia, and in patients with secondary AML; therefore, it should 
not be used in such patients. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast 
transformation of chronic myeloid leukaemia from AML. 
The safety and efficacy of Pelmeg administration in de novo AML patients aged < 55 years with 
cytogenetics t (15;17) have not been established. 
The safety and efficacy of Pelmeg have not been investigated in patients receiving high dose 
chemotherapy. This medicinal product should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy beyond established dose regimens. 
Pulmonary adverse events 
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial pneumonia, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of pulmonary infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher 
risk (see section 4.8). The onset of pulmonary signs such as cough, fever, and dyspnoea in association 
with radiological signs of pulmonary infiltrates, and deterioration in pulmonary function along with 
increased neutrophil count may be preliminary signs of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome 
(ARDS). In such circumstances Pelmeg should be discontinued at the discretion of the physician and 
the appropriate treatment given (see section 4.8). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome 
Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after granulocyte-colony stimulating factor administration 
and is characterised by hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration. Patients 
who develop symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard 
symptomatic treatment, which may include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture, including some fatal 
cases, have been reported following administration of pegfilgrastim (see section 4.8). Therefore, 
spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A diagnosis of 
splenic rupture should be considered in patients reporting left upper abdominal pain or shoulder tip 
pain. 
Thrombocytopenia and anaemia 
Treatment with pegfilgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia because full 
dose myelosuppressive chemotherapy is maintained on the prescribed schedule. Regular monitoring of 
platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should be taken when administering 
single or combination chemotherapeutic agents which are known to cause severe thrombocytopenia. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients 
In the post-marketing observational study setting, pegfilgrastim in conjunction with chemotherapy 
and/or radiotherapy has been associated with development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in breast and lung cancer patients (see section 4.8). Monitor breast 
and lung cancer patients for signs and symptoms of MDS/AML. 
Sickle cell anaemia 
Sickle cell crises have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim in patients with sickle cell trait or 
sickle cell disease (see section 4.8). Therefore, physicians should use caution when prescribing Pelmeg 
in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease, should monitor appropriate clinical parameters 
and laboratory status and be attentive to the possible association of this medicinal product with splenic 
enlargement and vaso-occlusive crisis. 
Leukocytosis 
White blood cell (WBC) counts of 100 × 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 1 % of 
patients receiving pegfilgrastim therapy. No adverse events directly attributable to this degree of 
leukocytosis have been reported. Such elevation in white blood cells is transient, typically seen 24 to 
48 hours after administration and is consistent with the pharmacodynamic effects of this medicinal 
product. Consistent with the clinical effects and the potential for leukocytosis, a WBC count should be 
performed at regular intervals during therapy. If leukocyte counts exceed 50 × 109/L after the expected 
nadir, this medicinal product should be discontinued immediately. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have 
been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. Permanently discontinue Pelmeg in patients with 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer Pelmeg to patients with a history of 
hypersensitivity to pegfilgrastim or filgrastim. If a serious allergic reaction occurs, appropriate therapy 
should be administered, with close patient follow-up over several days. 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, has been reported rarely in 
association with pegfilgrastim treatment. If the patient has developed SJS with the use of 
pegfilgrastim, treatment with pegfilgrastim must not be restarted in this patient at any time.  
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rates of generation of 
antibodies against pegfilgrastim is generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF (see section 4.8). 
Other warnings 
The safety and efficacy of Pelmeg for the mobilisation of blood progenitor cells in patients or healthy 
donors has not been adequately evaluated. 
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient positive bone imaging findings. This should be considered when interpreting 
bone-imaging results. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 30 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe which is equivalent to 
50 mg/mL. The additive effect of concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or 
fructose) and dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium per 6 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Due to the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy‚ Pelmeg 
should be administered at least 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. In clinical 
trials, pegfilgrastim has been safely administered 14 days before chemotherapy. Concomitant use of 
Pelmeg with any chemotherapy agent has not been evaluated in patients. In animal models 
concomitant administration of pegfilgrastim and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or other antimetabolites has 
been shown to potentiate myelosuppression. 
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not been 
specifically investigated in clinical trials. 
The potential for interaction with lithium, which also promotes the release of neutrophils, has not been 
specifically investigated. There is no evidence that such an interaction would be harmful. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of Pelmeg have not been evaluated in patients receiving chemotherapy 
associated with delayed myelosuppression e.g., nitrosoureas. 
Specific interaction or metabolism studies have not been performed, however, clinical trials have not 
indicated an interaction of pegfilgrastim with any other medicinal products. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of pegfilgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Pelmeg is not recommended during 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
There is insufficient information on the excretion of pegfilgrastim/metabolites in human milk a risk to 
the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue  
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Pelmeg therapy taking into account the benefit of  
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Pegfilgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats at cumulative 
weekly doses approximately 6 to 9 times higher than the recommended human dose (based on body 
surface area) (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Pelmeg has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were bone pain (very common [≥ 1/10]) and 
musculoskeletal pain (common). Bone pain was generally of mild to moderate severity, transient and 
could be controlled in most patients with standard analgesics. 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions, including skin rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea, erythaema, 
flushing, and hypotension occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim (uncommon 
[≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100]). Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis can occur in patients 
receiving pegfilgrastim (uncommon) (see section 4.4). 
Capillary leak syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported as 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy following 
administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors; see section 4.4 and section “Description of 
selected adverse reactions” below. 
Splenomegaly, generally asymptomatic, is uncommon. 
Splenic rupture including some fatal cases is uncommonly reported following administration of 
pegfilgrastim (see section 4.4). Uncommon pulmonary adverse reactions including interstitial 
pneumonia, pulmonary oedema, pulmonary infiltrates and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported. 
Uncommonly, cases have resulted in respiratory failure or Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome 
(ARDS), which may be fatal (see section 4.4). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Isolated cases of sickle cell crises have been reported in patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell 
disease (uncommon in sickle cell patients) (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The data in the table below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical trials and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 
to < 1/1 000) 
(< 1/10 000) 
Aortitis 
Pulmonary 
hemorrhage 
(≥ 1/1 000 
to < 1/100) 
Myelodysplastic 
syndrome1 
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia1 
Sickle cell 
anemia with 
crisis2; 
Splenomegaly2; 
Splenic rupture2 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions; 
Anaphylaxis 
Elevations in 
uric acid 
Capillary leak 
syndrome1 
Acute 
Respiratory 
Distress 
Syndrome2; 
Pulmonary 
adverse 
reactions 
(interstitial 
pneumonia, 
pulmonary 
oedema, 
pulmonary 
infiltrates and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis) 
Haemoptysis 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10) 
Thrombocytope
nia1 
Leukocytosis1 
Headache1 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestina
l disorders 
Nausea1 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeleta
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
 urinary 
 disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Very 
common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 
to < 1/10) 
Bone pain  Musculoskeletal 
pain (myalgia, 
arthralgia, pain 
in extremity, 
back pain, 
musculoskeletal 
pain, neck pain) 
Injection site 
pain,  
Non-cardiac 
chest pain 1 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
(< 1/10 000) 
(≥ 1/10 000 
to < 1/1 000) 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome 
(≥ 1/1 000 
to < 1/100) 
Sweet’s 
syndrome (acute 
febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis)1,2; 
Cutaneous 
vasculitis1,2 
Glomerulo-
nephritis2 
Injection site 
reactions2 
Elevations in 
lactate 
dehydrogenase 
and alkaline 
phosphatase1; 
Transient 
elevations in 
LFT's for ALT 
or AST1 
1
2
 See section “Description of selected adverse reactions” below. 
 This adverse reaction was identified through post-marketing surveillance but not observed in randomised, controlled clinical 
trials in adults that supported the marketing authorisation. The frequency category was estimated from a statistical calculation 
based upon 1,576 patients receiving pegfilgrastim in nine randomised clinical trials. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Uncommon cases of Sweet’s syndrome have been reported, although in some cases underlying 
haematological malignancies may play a role. 
Uncommon events of cutaneous vasculitis have been reported in patients treated with pegfilgrastim. 
The mechanism of vasculitis in patients receiving pegfilgrastim is unknown. 
Injection site reactions, including injection site erythaema (uncommon) as well as injection site pain 
(common) have occurred on initial or subsequent treatment with pegfilgrastim. 
Common cases of leukocytosis (White Blood Count [WBC] > 100 × 109/L) have been reported (see 
section 4.4). 
Reversible, mild to moderate elevations in uric acid and alkaline phosphatase, with no associated 
clinical effects, were uncommon; reversible, mild to moderate elevations in lactate dehydrogenase, 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with no associated clinical effects, were uncommon in patients receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Nausea and headaches were very commonly observed in patients receiving chemotherapy. 
Uncommon elevations in liver function tests (LFTs) for ALT (alanine aminotransferase) or AST 
(aspartate aminotransferase), have been observed in patients after receiving pegfilgrastim following 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. These elevations are transient and return to baseline. 
An increased risk of MDS/AML following treatment with pegfilgrastim in conjunction with 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy has been observed in an epidemiological study in breast and lung 
cancer patients (see section 4.4). 
Common cases of thrombocytopenia have been reported. 
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported in the post marketing setting with granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor use. These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant 
diseases, sepsis, taking multiple chemotherapy medicinal products or undergoing apheresis (see 
section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The experience in children is limited. A higher frequency of serious adverse reactions in younger 
children aged 0-5 years (92 %) has been observed compared to older children aged 6-11 and 
12-21 years respectively (80 % and 67 %) and adults. The most common adverse reaction reported 
was bone pain (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses of 300 mcg/kg have been administered subcutaneously to a limited number of healthy 
volunteers and patients with non-small cell lung cancer without serious adverse reactions. The adverse 
events were similar to those in subjects receiving lower doses of pegfilgrastim. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunostimulants, colony stimulating factor; ATC Code: L03AA13 
Pelmeg is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a glycoprotein, which regulates the 
production and release of neutrophils from the bone marrow. Pegfilgrastim is a covalent conjugate of 
recombinant human G-CSF (r-metHuG-CSF) with a single 20 kd polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule. 
Pegfilgrastim is a sustained duration form of filgrastim due to decreased renal clearance. Pegfilgrastim 
and filgrastim have been shown to have identical modes of action, causing a marked increase in 
peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases in monocytes and/or 
lymphocytes. Similarly to filgrastim, neutrophils produced in response to pegfilgrastim show normal 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or enhanced function as demonstrated by tests of chemotactic and phagocytic function. As with other 
haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro stimulating properties on human endothelial 
cells. G-CSF can promote growth of myeloid cells, including malignant cells, in vitro and similar 
effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. 
In two randomised, double-blind, pivotal studies in patients with high risk stage II-IV breast cancer 
undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin and docetaxel, use of 
pegfilgrastim, as a single once per cycle dose, reduced the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia similarly to that observed with daily administrations of filgrastim (a median of 
11 daily administrations). In the absence of growth factor support, this regimen has been reported to 
result in a mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia of 5 to7 days, and a 30-40 % incidence of febrile 
neutropenia.  
In one study (n = 157), which used a 6 mg fixed dose of pegfilgrastim the mean duration of grade 4 
neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.8 days compared with 1.6 days in the filgrastim group 
(difference 0.23 days, 95 % CI −0.15, 0.63). Over the entire study, the rate of febrile neutropenia was 
13 % of pegfilgrastim-treated patients compared with 20 % of filgrastim-treated patients (difference 
7 %, 95 % CI of −19 %, 5 %). In a second study (n = 310), which used a weight-adjusted dose 
(100 mcg/kg), the mean duration of grade 4 neutropenia for the pegfilgrastim group was 1.7 days, 
compared with 1.8 days in the filgrastim group (difference 0.03 days, 95 % CI −0.36, 0.30). The 
overall rate of febrile neutropenia was 9 % of patients treated with pegfilgrastim and 18 % of patients 
treated with filgrastim (difference 9 %, 95 % CI of −16.8 %,−1.1 %). 
In a placebo-controlled, double blind study in patients with breast cancer the effect of pegfilgrastim on 
the incidence of febrile neutropenia was evaluated following administration of a chemotherapy 
regimen associated with a febrile neutropenia rate of 10-20 % (docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 
4 cycles). Nine hundred and twenty eight patients were randomised to receive either a single dose of 
pegfilgrastim or placebo approximately 24 hours (Day 2) after chemotherapy in each cycle. The 
incidence of febrile neutropenia was lower for patients randomised to receive pegfilgrastim compared 
with placebo (1 % versus 17 %, p < 0.001). The incidence of hospitalisations and IV anti-infective use 
associated with a clinical diagnosis of febrile neutropenia was lower in the pegfilgrastim group 
compared with placebo (1 % versus 14 %, p < 0.001; and 2 % versus 10 %, p < 0.001). 
A small (n = 83), Phase II, randomised, double-blind study in patients receiving chemotherapy for 
de novo acute myeloid leukaemia compared pegfilgrastim (single dose of 6 mg) with filgrastim, 
administered during induction chemotherapy. Median time to recovery from severe neutropenia was 
estimated as 22 days in both treatment groups. Long term outcome was not studied (see section 4.4). 
In a phase II (n = 37) multicentre, randomised, open-label study of paediatric sarcoma patients 
receiving 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim following cycle 1 of vincristine, doxorubicin and 
cyclophosphamide (VAdriaC/IE) chemotherapy, a longer duration of severe neutropenia 
(neutrophils < 0.5 × 109/L) was observed in younger children aged 0-5 years (8.9 days) compared to 
older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (6 days and 3.7 days, respectively) and adults. 
Additionally a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia was observed in younger children aged 
0-5 years (75 %) compared to older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (70 % and 33 %, 
respectively) and adults (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After a single subcutaneous dose of pegfilgrastim, the peak serum concentration of pegfilgrastim 
occurs at 16 to 120 hours after dosing and serum concentrations of pegfilgrastim are maintained 
during the period of neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The elimination of 
pegfilgrastim is non-linear with respect to dose; serum clearance of pegfilgrastim decreases with 
increasing dose. Pegfilgrastim appears to be mainly eliminated by neutrophil mediated clearance, 
which becomes saturated at higher doses. Consistent with a self-regulating clearance mechanism, the 
serum concentration of pegfilgrastim declines rapidly at the onset of neutrophil recovery (see 
figure 1). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Profile of median pegfilgrastim serum concentration and absolute neutrophil count 
(ANC) in chemotherapy treated patients after a single 6 mg injection 
)
l
/
m
g
n
(
.
c
n
o
C
m
i
t
s
a
r
g
l
i
f
g
e
P
m
u
r
e
S
n
a
d
e
M
i
)
l
/
9
0
1
x
s
l
l
e
c
(
t
n
u
o
C
l
i
h
p
o
r
t
u
e
N
e
t
l
u
o
s
b
A
n
a
d
e
M
i
Study Day 
Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. In an open label, single dose study (n = 31) 
various stages of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease, had no impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim. 
Elderly 
Limited data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim in elderly subjects (> 65 years) is 
similar to that in adults. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim were studied in 37 paediatric patients with sarcoma, who 
received 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of VAdriaC/IE chemotherapy. The youngest 
age group (0-5 years) had a higher mean exposure to pegfilgrastim (AUC) (± Standard Deviation) 
(47.9 ± 22.5 mcg·hr/mL) than older children aged 6-11 years and 12-21 years (22.0 ± 13.1 mcg·hr/mL 
and 29.3 ± 23.2 mcg·hr/mL, respectively) (see section 5.1). With the exception of the youngest age 
group (0-5 years), the mean AUC in paediatric subjects appeared similar to that for adult patients with 
high-risk stage II-IV breast cancer and receiving 100 mcg/kg pegfilgrastim after the completion of 
doxorubicin/docetaxel (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data from conventional studies of repeated dose toxicity revealed the expected 
pharmacological effects including increases in leukocyte count, myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, 
extramedullary haematopoiesis and splenic enlargement. 
There were no adverse effects observed in offspring from pregnant rats given pegfilgrastim 
subcutaneously, but in rabbits pegfilgrastim has been shown to cause embryo/foetal toxicity 
(embryo loss) at cumulative doses approximately 4 times the recommended human dose, which were 
not seen when pregnant rabbits were exposed to the recommended human dose. In rat studies, it was 
shown that pegfilgrastim may cross the placenta. Studies in rats indicated that reproductive 
performance, fertility, oestrous cycling, days between pairing and coitus, and intrauterine survival 
were unaffected by pegfilgrastim given subcutaneously. The relevance of these findings for humans is 
not known. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium acetate* 
Sorbitol (E 420) 
Polysorbate 20 
Water for injections 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
*Sodium acetate is prepared by mixing sodium acetate trihydrate and acetic acid. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, particularly with sodium 
chloride solutions. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Pelmeg may be exposed to room temperature (not above 30 ºC) for a maximum single period of up to 
96 hours. Pelmeg left at room temperature for more than 96 hours should be discarded. 
Do not freeze. Accidental exposure to freezing temperatures for two periods of less than 72 hours each 
does not adversely affect the stability of Pelmeg. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Pre-filled syringe (Type I glass), with a bromobutyl rubber stopper and a stainless steel needle with an 
automatic needle guard. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.6 mL of solution for injection. Pack size of one pre-filled syringe in 
a blistered packaging. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Before administration, Pelmeg solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter. Only a 
solution that is clear and colourless should be injected. 
Excessive shaking may aggregate pegfilgrastim, rendering it biologically inactive. 
Allow the pre-filled syringe to come to room temperature for 30 minutes before using the syringe. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mundipharma Corporation (Ireland) Limited,  
United Drug House Magna Drive, Magna Business Park,  
Citywest Road, Dublin 24, 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1328/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 20 November 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
3P BIOPHARMACEUTICALS SL 
C/ Mocholi 2, Poligono Industrial Mocholi 
31110 Noain 
Spain 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
PharmaKorell GmbH 
Georges-Köhler-Str. 2, 
79539 Loerrach 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTERED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pelmeg 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 0.6 mL (10 mg/mL) solution for injection. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium acetate, sorbitol (E 420), polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard (0.6 mL). 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
For subcutaneous use. 
Important: read the package leaflet before handling pre-filled syringe 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Avoid vigorous shaking. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mundipharma Corporation (Ireland) Limited,  
United Drug House Magna Drive, Magna Business Park,  
Citywest Road, Dublin 24,  
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1328/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Pelmeg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK WITH SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pelmeg 6 mg solution for injection 
pegfilgrastim 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mundipharma  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Logo 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Pelmeg 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.6 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
Mundipharma  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Pelmeg 6 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
pegfilgrastim 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their symptoms of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Pelmeg is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Pelmeg 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Pelmeg 
Possible side effects 
How to store Pelmeg 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Pelmeg is and what it is used for 
Pelmeg contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. Pegfilgrastim is a protein produced by 
biotechnology in bacteria called E. coli. It belongs to a group of proteins called cytokines, and is very 
similar to a natural protein (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor) produced by your own body. 
Pelmeg is used in adult patients to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low white blood cell count) and 
the occurrence of febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell count with a fever) which can be caused by 
the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy (medicines that destroy rapidly growing cells). White blood cells 
are important as they help your body fight infection. These cells are very sensitive to the effects of 
chemotherapy which can cause the number of these cells in your body to decrease. If white blood cells 
fall to a low level there may not be enough left in the body to fight bacteria and you may have an 
increased risk of infection. 
Your doctor has given you Pelmeg to encourage your bone marrow (part of the bone which makes 
blood cells) to produce more white blood cells that help your body fight infection. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Pelmeg 
Do not use Pelmeg 
• 
if you are allergic to pegfilgrastim, filgrastim, E. coli derived proteins, or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Pelmeg: 
• 
if you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), redness and flushing, skin rash and areas of the 
skin that itch. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing. This can be a sign of Acute 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). 
if you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects: 
- 
swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of 
tiredness. 
These could be symptoms of condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood 
to leak from the small blood vessels into your body. See section 4. 
if you get left upper abdominal pain or pain at the tip of your shoulder. This may be a sign of a 
problem with your spleen (splenomegaly). 
if you have recently had a serious lung infection (pneumonia), fluid in the lungs (pulmonary 
oedema), inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) or an abnormal chest x-ray (lung 
infiltration). 
if you are aware of any altered blood cell counts (e.g. increase in white blood cells or anaemia) 
or decreased blood platelet counts, which reduces the ability of your blood to clot 
(thrombocytopenia). Your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. 
if you have sickle cell anaemia. Your doctor may monitor your condition more closely. 
• 
•         if you are a patient with breast cancer or lung cancer, Pelmeg in combination with 
• 
• 
chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may increase your risk of a precancerous blood 
condition called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or a blood cancer called acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML). Symptoms may include tiredness, fever, and easy bruising or bleeding. 
if you have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the 
face, lips, tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing 
these could be signs of a severe allergic reaction. 
if you have symptoms of inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports 
blood from the heart to the body), this has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy 
donors. The symptoms can include fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased 
inflammatory markers. Tell your doctor if you experience these symptoms. 
Your doctor will check your blood and urine regularly as Pelmeg can harm the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys (glomerulonephritis). 
Severe skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been reported with the use of Pelmeg. Stop 
using Pelmeg and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms described in 
section 4. 
You should talk to your doctor about your risks of developing cancers of the blood. If you develop or 
are likely to develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Pelmeg, unless instructed by your 
doctor. 
Loss of response to pegfilgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with pegfilgrastim treatment, 
your doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise pegfilgrastim’s activity. 
Other medicines and Pelmeg 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. Pelmeg has not been tested in 
pregnant women. It is important to tell your doctor if you: 
• 
• 
are pregnant; 
think you may be pregnant; or 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
are planning to have a baby. 
If you become pregnant during Pelmeg treatment, please inform your doctor. 
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Pelmeg. 
Driving and using machines 
Pelmeg has no or negligible effect on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Pelmeg contains sorbitol (E 420) and sodium acetate 
This medicine contains 30 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe which is equivalent to 50 mg/mL. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium per 6 mg dose,  that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Pelmeg 
Pelmeg is for use in adults aged 18 and over. 
Always use Pelmeg exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are unsure. The usual dose is one 6 mg subcutaneous injection (injection under your 
skin) using a pre-filled syringe and it should be given at least 24 hours after your last dose of 
chemotherapy at the end of each chemotherapy cycle. 
Do not shake Pelmeg vigorously as this may affect its activity. 
Injecting Pelmeg yourself 
Your doctor may decide that it would be more convenient for you to inject Pelmeg yourself. Your 
doctor or nurse will show you how to inject yourself. Do not try to inject yourself if you have not been 
trained. 
For further instructions on how to inject yourself with Pelmeg, please read the section at the end of 
this leaflet. 
If you use more Pelmeg than you should 
If you use more Pelmeg than you should contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you forget to inject Pelmeg 
If you have forgotten a dose of Pelmeg, you should contact your doctor to discuss when you should 
inject the next dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately if you have any of the following or combination of the following 
side effects: 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, difficulty 
breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of tiredness. These 
symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion. 
These could be symptoms of an uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) condition called 
“Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood to leak from the small blood vessels into your body 
and needs urgent medical attention. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
bone pain. Your doctor will tell you what you can take to ease the bone pain. 
nausea and headaches. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
pain at the site of injection. 
general aches and pains in the joints and muscles. 
some changes may occur in your blood, but these will be detected by routine blood tests. Your 
white blood cell count may become high for a short period of time. Your platelet count may 
become low which might result in bruising. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
allergic-type reactions, including redness and flushing, skin rash, and raised areas of the skin 
that itch. 
serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face). 
increased spleen size. 
spleen rupture. Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal. It is important that you contact your 
doctor immediately if you experience pain in the upper left side of the abdomen or left shoulder 
pain since this may relate to a problem with your spleen. 
breathing problems. If you have a cough, fever and difficulty breathing please tell your doctor. 
Sweet’s syndrome (plum-coloured, raised, painful lesions on the limbs and sometimes the face 
and neck with fever) has occurred but other factors may play a role. 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin). 
damage to the tiny filters inside your kidneys (glomerulonephritis). 
redness at the site of injection. 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis). 
blood disorders (myelodysplastic syndrome [MDS] or acute myeloid leukaemia [AML]). 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2. 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage). 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which can appear as reddish target-like or circular patches often 
with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes 
and can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms. Stop using Pelmeg if you develop these 
symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention immediately. See also section 2. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Pelmeg 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the syringe label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C - 8 °C). 
You may take Pelmeg out of the refrigerator and keep it at room temperature (not above 30 °C) for no 
longer than 4 days. Once a syringe has been removed from the refrigerator and has reached room 
temperature (not above 30 °C) it must either be used within 4 days or disposed of. 
Do not freeze. Pelmeg may be used if it is accidentally frozen for two periods of less than 72 hours 
each. 
Keep the container in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy or there are particles in it. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Pelmeg contains 
• 
The active substance is pegfilgrastim. Each pre-filled syringe contains 6 mg of pegfilgrastim in 
0.6 mL of solution. 
The other ingredients are sodium acetate, sorbitol (E 420), polysorbate 20 and water for 
injections. See section 2. 
• 
What Pelmeg looks like and contents of the pack 
Pelmeg is a clear, colourless solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (6 mg/0.6 mL). 
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled glass syringe with an attached stainless steel needle and needle cap. 
The syringe is provided with an automatic needle guard. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mundipharma Corporation (Ireland) Limited,  
United Drug House Magna Drive, Magna Business Park,  
Citywest Road, Dublin 24,  
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
PharmaKorell GmbH 
Georges-Köhler-Str. 2, 
D-79539 Lörrach 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mundipharma BV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 358 54 68 
info@mundipharma.be 
Lietuva 
EGIS Pharmaceuticals PLC atstovybė 
Tel.:+ 370 5 231 4658 
info@egis.lt 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
ТП„Мундифарма Гезелшафт м.б.Х.“ 
Teл.: + 359 2 962 13 56 
mundipharma@mundipharma.bg 
Česká republika 
Mundipharma Gesellschaft m.b.H.,  
organizační složka   
Tel: + 420 296 188 338 
office@mundipharma.cz 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mundipharma BV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 358 54 68 
info@mundipharma.be 
Magyarország 
Egis Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel.: +36 1 803 5555 
mailbox@egis.hu 
Danmark 
Mundipharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 45 17 48 00 
nordics@mundipharma.dk 
Deutschland 
Mundipharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 69 506029-000 
info@mundipharma.de 
Eesti 
Medis Pharma Lithuania 
Tel: +37052512550 
medis.lt@medis.com 
Ελλάδα 
Mundipharma Corporation (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 353 1 206 3800  
España 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 3821870 
infomed@mundipharma.es 
France 
MUNDIPHARMA SAS 
Tél: +33 1 40 65 29 29 
infomed@mundipharma.fr 
Hrvatska 
Medis Adria d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 (0) 1 230 34 46 
medis.hr@medis.com 
Ireland 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Tel: +353 1 206 3800 
Malta 
Mundipharma Corporation (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +353 1 206 3800  
Nederland 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0)33 450 82 70 
info@mundipharma.nl 
Norge 
Mundipharma AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 51 89 00 
nordics@mundipharma.dk 
Österreich 
Mundipharma Gesellschaft m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 523 25 05-0 
info@mundipharma.at 
Polska 
Mundipharma Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + (48 22) 866 87 12 
biuro@mundipharma.pl 
Portugal 
Mundipharma Farmacêutica Lda 
Tel: +351 21 901 31 62 
med.info@mundipharma.pt 
România 
Egis Rompharma SRL 
Tel: +40 21 412 00 17 
office@egis.ro 
Slovenija 
Medis, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 158969 00 
medis.si@medis.com 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
icepharma@icepharma.is 
Italia 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals Srl 
Tel: +39 02 3182881 
infomedica@mundipharma.it 
Κύπρος 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22 815656 
info@mundipharma.com.cy 
Slovenská republika 
Mundipharma Ges.m.b.H.-o.z. 
Tel: + 4212 6381 1611 
mundipharma@mundipharma.sk 
Suomi/Finland 
Mundipharma Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 8520 2065 
nordics@mundipharma.dk 
Sverige 
Mundipharma AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)31 773 75 30 
nordics@mundipharma.dk 
Latvija 
EGIS Pharmaceuticals PLC parstavniecibas 
Tel: + 371 676 13 859 
info@egis.lv 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Tel: +353 1 206 3800  
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
Guide to parts 
Before use 
After use 
Before use 
Plunger 
Finger grips 
Syringe label 
Syringe barrel 
Syringe safety guard 
Needle safety spring 
After use 
Used plunger 
Syringe label 
Used syring barrel 
Used needle 
Used needle safety 
spring 
Needle cap on 
Needle cap off 
Important 
Before you use a Pelmeg pre-filled syringe with automatic needle guard, read this important 
information: 
• 
  It is important that you do not try to give yourself the injection unless you have received training 
from your doctor or healthcare provider. 
  Pelmeg is given as an injection into the tissue just under the skin (subcutaneous injection). 
  Do not remove the needle cap from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to inject. 
  Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface. Use a new 
• 
pre-filled syringe and call your doctor or healthcare provider. 
  Do not attempt to activate the pre-filled syringe prior to injection. 
  Do not attempt to remove the clear pre-filled syringe safety guard from the pre-filled syringe 
  Do not attempt to remove the peelable label on the pre-filled syringe barrel before administering 
your injection. 
Call your doctor or healthcare provider if you have any questions. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1: Prepare 
A 
Remove the pre-filled syringe tray from the package and gather the supplies needed for your 
injection: alcohol wipes, a cotton ball or gauze pad, a plaster and a sharps disposal container 
(not included). 
For a more comfortable injection, leave the pre-filled syringe at room temperature for about 30 minutes 
before injecting. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
On a clean, well-lit work surface, place the new pre-filled syringe and the other supplies. 
  Do not try to warm the syringe by using a heat source such as hot water or microwave. 
  Do not leave the pre-filled syringe exposed to direct sunlight. 
  Do not shake the pre-filled syringe. 
  Keep pre-filled syringes out of the sight and reach of children. 
B 
Open the tray, peeling away the cover. Grab the pre-filled syringe safety guard to remove 
the pre-filled syringe from the tray.   
Grab here 
For safety reasons: 
Do not grasp the plunger. 
Do not grasp the needle cap. 
C 
Inspect the medicine and pre-filled syringe. 
Medicine 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
  The medicine is cloudy or there are particles in it. It must be a clear and colourless 
liquid. 
  Any part appears cracked or broken. 
  The needle cap is missing or not securely attached. 
  The expiry date printed on the label has passed the last day of the month shown.  
• 
• 
• 
In all cases, call your doctor or healthcare provider. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 
Wash your hands thoroughly. Prepare and clean your injection site. 
Step 2: Get ready 
Upper arm 
Belly 
Upper thigh 
You can use: 
• 
• 
Upper part of your thigh. 
Belly, except for a 5 cm (2-inch) area right around your belly button. 
• 
Outer area of upper arm (only if someone else is giving you the injection). 
Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe. Let your skin dry. 
Do not touch the injection site before injecting. 
Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard. 
Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B 
Carefully pull the needle cap straight out and away from your body.   
C 
Pinch your injection site to create a firm surface. 
Its important to keep the skin pinched when injecting. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 
Hold the pinch. INSERT the needle into skin. 
Step 3: Inject 
Do not touch the cleaned area of the skin. 
B 
PUSH the plunger with slow and constant pressure until you feel or hear a “snap”. Push all the 
way down through the snap. 
“SNAP” 
It is important to push down through the “snap” to deliver your full dose. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C 
RELEASE your thumb. Then LIFT the syringe off skin.   
After releasing the plunger, the pre-filled syringe safety guard will safely cover the injection needle. 
Do not put the needle cap back on used pre-filled syringes 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Healthcare professionals only 
The trade name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded 
in the patient file. 
Remove and save the pre-filled syringe label 
Turn the plunger to move the label into a position where you can remove the syringe label 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 
Discard the used pre-filled syringe and other supplies in a sharps disposal container. 
Step 4: Finish 
Medicines should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
Keep the syringe and sharps disposal container out of sight and reach of children. 
Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
Do not recycle pre-filled syringes or throw them into household waste. 
B 
Examine the injection site. 
If there is blood, press a cotton ball or gauze pad on your injection site. Do not rub the injection site. 
Apply a plaster if needed. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
