EMA/95344/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005266 
Pemazyre (pemigatinib) 
An overview of Pemazyre and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pemazyre and what is it used for? 
Pemazyre is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with cholangiocarcinoma (biliary tract cancer or 
cancer of the bile ducts) when the cancer cells have an abnormal form of a receptor (target) called 
FGFR2 on their surface. Pemazyre is used when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body or 
cannot be removed by surgery and has worsened after previous treatment with at least one cancer 
medicine. 
Cholangiocarcinoma is rare, and Pemazyre was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 24 August 2018. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3182066. 
Pemazyre contains the active substance pemigatinib. 
How is Pemazyre used? 
Pemazyre is available as tablets to be taken by mouth. The medicine can only be obtained with a 
prescription and treatment must be started by a doctor experienced in diagnosis and treatment of the 
disease. It is taken in three-week cycles consisting of two weeks where Pemazyre is taken daily 
followed by a week without the medicine. Treatment can continue for as long as the patient benefits 
from it and side effects are manageable.  
For more information about using Pemazyre, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Pemazyre work? 
The active substance in Pemazyre, pemigatinib, belongs to a group of medicines called protein kinase 
inhibitors. It works by blocking the activity of receptors called fibroblast growth factor receptors 
(FGFRs). Abnormal FGFRs are found on the surface of cancer cells and are involved in the growth and 
spread of the cancer. By blocking their activity, Pemazyre reduces the growth and spread of the 
cancer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Pemazyre have been shown in studies? 
Pemazyre was effective in reducing the size of the cancer lesions in one main study involving 108 
patients with biliary tract cancer with abnormal FGFR2. Around 37% of patients had a shrinkage of 
their cancer that lasted on average for 8 months. 
What are the risks associated with Pemazyre? 
The most common side effects with Pemazyre (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are high or 
low levels of phosphate in the blood, alopecia (hair loss), diarrhoea, problems with the nails, tiredness, 
nausea (feeling sick), dysgeusia (taste disturbances), stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the 
mouth), constipation, joint pain, dry mouth, eyes and skin, rash and numbness on the palms and 
soles, low levels of sodium in the blood and high levels of creatinine in the blood, which could indicate 
kidney problems. 
Pemazyre must not be taken with the herbal medicine St John’s wort. For the full list of side effects 
and restrictions with Pemazyre, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Pemazyre authorised in the EU? 
Pemazyre is considered effective in patients with biliary tract cancer that progressed after at least one 
prior treatment and for whom there are no other authorised treatments. Patients can tolerate the side 
effects of the medicine when they are closely monitored and treated if needed. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Pemazyre’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Pemazyre has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Pemazyre? 
Since Pemazyre has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets the medicine will 
provide the final results of the main study on the safety and effectiveness of Pemazyre and the results 
of a study comparing Pemazyre with gemcitabine and cisplatin (other cancer medicines) in patients 
with newly diagnosed biliary tract cancer. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pemazyre? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pemazyre have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pemazyre are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Pemazyre are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Pemazyre 
Pemazyre received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Further information on Pemazyre can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pemazyre.  
Pemazyre (pemigatinib)  
EMA/95344/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Pemazyre (pemigatinib)  
EMA/95344/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
