PART VI  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR PEMAZYRE 
(PEMIGATINIB) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pemazyre.  The RMP details 
important risks of Pemazyre, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Pemazyre's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pemazyre's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pemazyre should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Pemazyre should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the EPAR.   
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pemazyre's 
RMP. 
I 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Pemazyre is authorised for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic 
cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or rearrangement 
that is relapsed or refractory after at least one line of systemic therapy.  Treatment should be 
continued as long as the patient does not show evidence of disease progression or unacceptable 
toxicity.   It contains pemigatinib as the active substance and it is given by either 4.5 mg, 9 mg, 
or 13.5 mg tablets once daily for 2 weeks followed by 1 week off therapy.   
Further information about the evaluation of pemigatinib's benefits can be found in pemigatinib's 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine's webpage link to the EPAR summary landing page on 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pemazyre). 
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of pemigatinib, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about pemigatinib 's risks, are outlined below. 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
  Recommendation for opthalmological examinations prior to initiation of therapy 
and every 2 months for the first 6 months of treatment, every 3 months 
afterwards, and urgently at any time for visual symptoms are included in the 
SmPC section 4.4. Dosage modifications for serous retinal detachment events are 
provided for the prescriber in the SmPC section 4.2 
  Recommendations for management of hyperphosphatemia include dietary 
phosphate restriction, administration of phosphate-lowering therapy, and dose 
modification when required are provided for the prescriber in the SmPC section 
4.2. 
  Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus.  Women of childbearing 
potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment with 
pemigatinib and for 1 week after the last dose.  These recommendations are 
included in the SmPC section 4.4 and section 4.6. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of pemigatinib, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed; including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of pemigatinib is not yet available, it is 
listed under 'missing information' below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of pemigatinib are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of pemigatinib.  Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table II.1:  Lists of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Serous retinal detachment 
Hyperphosphatemia 
Embryo-Fetal Toxicity 
Acute kidney injury 
Missing information 
None 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important Identified Risk: Serous retinal detachment 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Treatment-emergent adverse events of serous retinal detachment 
have been observed with administration of tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors and are attributed to disruption of the MAPK signalling 
cascade (van der Noll et al 2013, Velazquez-Villoria et al 2017).  
As pemigatinib intervenes with the MAPK pathway, an evaluation 
of serous retinal detachment events including the PTs listed above 
was performed.  Based on available information, the causal 
relationship between pemigatinib and the serous retinal detachment 
is plausible. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
At this time, the risk factors/groups for pemigatinib are unknown. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.4 
  SmPC section 4.8  
  Package Leaflet section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Identified Risk: Hyperphosphatemia 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
In rats, pemigatinib was administered on a 2-weeks-on/1-week-off 
schedule for 2 cycles in the 28-day study and QD continuously in 
the 3-month study; in monkeys, pemigatinib was administered daily 
in both studies.  One of the most prominent findings following 
repeat-dose exposure to pemigatinib in both rats and monkeys was 
hyperphosphatemia.  Consistent with the expected pharmacological 
effect of FGFR inhibition on serum phosphate levels, 
hyperphosphatemia was one of the most frequently occurring 
TEAEs in clinical trials.    
Risk factors and risk groups 
At this time, the risk factors/groups for pemigatinib are unknown. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.4  
  SmPC section 4.8 
  Package Leaflet section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Embryo/Fetal Toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Administration of pemigatinib to time-mated rats was associated 
with decreased fetal growth and malformations at 0.1 mg/kg per 
day and total early postimplantation loss at ≥0.3 mg/kg per day.  
These findings occurred at maternal plasma exposures below the 
recommended human dose. Based on the findings in an animal 
study, pemigatinib may cause fetal harm when administered to 
pregnant women.  There are no available data on pemigatinib use in 
pregnant women to inform the drug-associated risk.   
Risk factors and risk groups 
At this time, the risk factors/groups for pemigatinib are unknown. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.4  
  SmPC section 4.6  
  Package Leaflet section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Potential Risk: Acute kidney injury 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
In study 54828-202, serious TEAEs of blood creatinine increased 
and/or acute kidney injury occurred in 4 participants. The 
participants all had renal impairment at baseline. One of the serious 
TEAEs of acute kidney injury was considered related to 
pemigatinib by the investigator; the other events of blood creatinine 
increased/acute kidney injury were considered unrelated to 
pemigatinib by the investigator.  None of these events were fatal.  
Changes in creatinine values appeared to be isolated laboratory 
findings that were not accompanied by clinical symptoms (eg, 
concurrent kidney injury) for most participants, a conclusion that is 
further supported by the absence of discernible trends in BUN. 
Overall, the frequency, magnitude and pattern (rapid onset followed 
by rapid reduction post treatment break, without significant long 
term progression) of the mean increases in creatinine that were 
observed are typical of blockade of tubular secretion via OCT2.  
Given the seriousness of acute kidney injury and the potential to 
impact the benefit-risk of pemigatinib, acute kidney injury is 
considered an important potential risk. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
At this time, the risk factors/groups for pemigatinib are unknown. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.4  
  SmPC section 4.8 (Blood creatinine increased) 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
INCB 54828-302:  A Phase 3, Open-Label, Randomized, Active-Controlled, Multicenter Study 
to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Pemigatinib Versus Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin 
Chemotherapy in First-Line Treatment of Participants With Unresectable or Metastatic 
Cholangiocarcinoma With FGFR2 Rearrangement (FIGHT-302). 
Rationale and study objectives: 
To confirm efficacy and further characterize safety, a study in the first-line treatment of 
participants with unresectable or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 rearrangement is 
ongoing. 
Primary and Secondary Objective   
  Evaluate the efficacy of pemigatinib versus gemcitabine plus cisplatin in the first-line 
treatment of participants with cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 rearrangement. 
Study design: 
This is a Phase 3, open-label, randomized, active-controlled study of pemigatinib versus 
gemcitabine plus cisplatin chemotherapy as first-line treatment in participants with unresectable 
and/or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 rearrangement. The study will enroll 
approximately 432 participants in a 1:1 randomization ratio stratified by geographic region 
(Western [NA and EU] vs APAC vs ROW) and by tumor burden (locally advanced vs distant 
metastasis) into the following 2 treatment groups: 
  Treatment Group A: Pemigatinib (13.5 mg QD) administered as continuous therapy 
schedule (a cycle is 3 weeks). 
  Treatment Group B: Gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2) plus cisplatin (25 mg/m2) administered 
as intravenous infusion on Days 1 and 8 of every 3-week cycle for up to 8 cycles. 
Participants will be required to have documented FGFR2 rearrangement either through a local 
and/or central (FMI) genomics laboratory to confirm eligibility.  
Study objectives and endpoints include the safety and tolerability of pemigatinib and the 
occurrence of TEAEs and treatment-related AEs according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, physical 
findings, and vital sign, laboratory, and ECG changes.  
Participants will undergo regular safety assessments during treatment, as well as regular efficacy 
assessments. Participants will be allowed to continue administration in 3-week cycles until 
disease progression per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by an ICR or unacceptable toxicity is reported. 
Participants who progress on gemcitabine plus cisplatin may be considered for crossover to 
pemigatinib as second-line treatment.  The estimated duration of study participation is up to 35 
days for screening, continuous treatment in consecutive 21-day cycles as long as participants are 
receiving benefit and have not met any criteria for study withdrawal, and at least 30-35 days after 
the last dose of study treatment for follow-up. It is estimated that an individual will participate 
for approximately 12 months. 
The proposed PAES will provide a more robust characterization of the safety profile of 
pemigatinib in special populations (demographic covariates, including age, gender, and race). In 
the confirmatory INCB 54828-302 study, creatinine levels and BUN are monitored throughout 
the study as part of routine safety assessments and alternative markers of renal function can be 
performed if persistent elevations in serum creatinine are observed. An ad-hoc efficacy analysis 
from the INCB 54828-302 study will be performed on those participants taking PPIs versus those 
without PPIs, to assess if there is any impact on survival due to reduced bioavailability of 
pemigatinib secondary to increased stomach pH caused by PPI use. In this confirmatory study, 
pharmacokinetic samples will be obtained for participants randomized to the pemigatinib 
treatment group.  
The PAES will also provide more robust laboratory and adverse event data, as well as additional 
long term safety data. 
Study population: 
Male and female participants at least 18 years of age who have unresectable and/or metastatic 
cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 fusion or rearrangement 
Milestones: 
First site active - 13 DEC 2018 
First patient enrolled - 03 JUN 2019 
Last patient in - June 2024 
Last patient out - June 2026 
Final study report – December 2026 
INCB 54828-202: A Phase 2, Open-Label, Single-Arm, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the 
Efficacy and Safety of INCB054828 in Subjects With Advanced/Metastatic or Surgically 
Unresectable Cholangiocarcinoma Including FGFR2 Translocations Who Failed Previous 
Therapy (FIGHT-202) 
Rationale and study objectives: 
To evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of INCB054828 in subjects with 
advanced/metastatic or surgically unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 translocations, 
FGF/FGFR alterations and without FGF/FGFR alterations.  
Primary Objective: 
  The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of INCB054828 in subjects 
with advanced/metastatic or surgically unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with fibroblast 
growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2 translocation who have failed at least 1 previous 
treatment. 
Secondary Objectives: 
  To evaluate the efficacy of INCB054828 in subjects with advanced/metastatic or 
surgically unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with different molecular subgroups. 
  To evaluate the safety of INCB054828 in subjects with advanced/metastatic or surgically 
unresectable cholangiocarcinoma. 
 
  To identify and evaluate covariates that may influence the pharmacokinetics of 
INCB054828 in this subject population through population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Additionally, exposure-response analyses for key efficacy and safety parameters will also 
be considered if sufficient data are available. 
Study design: 
This is an open-label, monotherapy study of INCB054828 in subjects with advanced/metastatic 
or surgically unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 translocations, with other 
FGF/FGFR alterations, or who are negative for FGF/FGFR alterations. The study will enroll 
approximately 100 subjects into Cohort A (FGFR2 translocations), 20 subjects into Cohort B 
(other FGF/FGFR alterations), and 20 subjects into Cohort C (US only; negative for FGF/FGFR 
alterations). Subjects will receive a once daily (QD) dose of INCB054828 at 13.5 mg on a 2-
week-on therapy and 1-week-off therapy schedule. 
Subject eligibility can be based on local genomic testing results, if available. Confirmatory 
testing through the central genomics laboratory will be performed on all subjects.  
Genomic testing results will allow subjects to be assigned to a cohort: 
  Cohort A: FGFR2 translocations with a documented fusion partner in central laboratory 
report 
  Cohort B: other FGF/FGFR alterations 
  Cohort C (US only): negative for FGF/FGFR alterations 
Subjects enrolled based on a local sequencing report will be assigned to a cohort based on the 
local results. However, final cohort assignment for statistical analysis of primary and secondary 
endpoints will be done based on the central genomics testing results. Treatment will start on Day 
1. Subjects will undergo regular safety assessments during treatment as well as regular efficacy 
assessments. Subjects will be allowed to continue administration in 21-day cycles until 
documented disease progression or unacceptable toxicity is reported. 
Study population: 
Subjects with advanced/metastatic or surgically unresectable cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 
translocations, with other FGF/FGFR alterations, or who are negative for any FGF/FGFR 
alterations, who failed at least 1 previous treatment. 
Milestones: 
Final study report: December 2021 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for pemigatinib. 
 
 
 
