Summary of Risk Management Plan for Pemetrexed Baxter 100 mg powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion and Pemetrexed Baxter 500 mg powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion (pemetrexed disodium) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Pemetrexed Baxter 100 mg 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion and Pemetrexed Baxter 500 mg powder 
for concentrate for solution for infusion (hereafter Pemetrexed Baxter). The RMP 
provides details on the risks of Pemetrexed Baxter, how these risks can be minimized, 
and how more information will be obtained about the risks. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and Package Leaflet (PL) for Pemetrexed Baxter provide 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pemetrexed Baxter 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Pemetrexed Baxter should be read in the context of all 
other related information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all of which are part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
New safety concerns and/or changes to the current safety concerns will be included in 
future updates of the RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Pemetrexed Baxter is indicated for:
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
• Pemetrexed Baxter in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of
chemotherapy naïve patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Non-small cell lung cancer 
• Pemetrexed Baxter in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line
treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology;
• Pemetrexed Baxter is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than
predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease has not
progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy;
• Pemetrexed Baxter is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of
patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than
predominantly squamous cell histology.
It contains pemetrexed disodium as the active substance, and it is given by intravenous 
infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pemetrexed Baxter’s benefits can be found in 
the EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pemetrexed-baxter 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further
characterize the risks
There are no risks included in the RMP for Pemetrexed Baxter; however, measures to 
minimize the risks for any medicinal products may be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
•
• The authorized pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g.,
with or without prescription).
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including signal management activity and periodic 
safety update report assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of medicinal products are risks that need special risk management
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be
safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of medicinal 
products. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of the 
medicinal product is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs to be further monitored. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and further 
information may need to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).  
There are no safety concerns for Pemetrexed Baxter. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks and missing information
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference
medicinal product.
There are no safety concerns included in this RMP. All risks associated with the use of 
Pemetrexed are considered fully characterized and appropriately managed with routine 
risk minimization measures in the product information which are fully integrated into 
standard clinical practice. 
II.C Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific
obligations of Pemetrexed Baxter.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Pemetrexed Baxter.
