19 November 2015 
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pemetrexed Accord 
International non-proprietary name: Pemetrexed 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004072/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects ................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 16 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 16 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 16 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 16 
2.6. PSUR submission ............................................................................................... 19 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 19 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 19 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 20 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
ALT : Alanine aminotransferase  
AMP : Adenosine monophosphate  
AS: active substance 
ASMF: Active Substance Master File  
AST : Aspartate aminotransferase  
AUC : Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve  
BSA : Body surface area  
CFU :  Colony Forming Units 
Cmax : Maximum measured concentration of drug in plasma  
CR : Complete response  
CTC : Common toxicity criteria  
DNA : Deoxyribonucleic acid  
DR: Death receptor  
FT-IR  Fourier Transfom Infrared 
GC: Gas Chromatography 
h : Hour  
HDPE:  High Density Polyethylene 
HPLC:    High performance liquid chromatography 
ICH :    International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
IV / i.v. : Intravenous  
Kd : Dissociation constant  
Ki : Binding constant  
L : Litre  
LDPE: Low Density Polyethylene 
MAA : Marketing Authorization Application  
mg : Milligram  
min : Minute  
ml : Millilitre  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 3/21 
 
  
  
MPM : Malignant pleural mesothelioma  
NMR: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
NSCLC : Non-small-cell lung cancer  
OS : Overall survival  
PFS : Progression free survival  
Ph. Eur.: European Pharmacopoeia 
ppm: parts per million 
PR : Partial response  
PS : Performance status  
RD : Recommended dose 
RH:  Relative Humidity 
TGA: thermogravimetric analysis  
TLSB: triple laminate sunlight barrier bag  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 4/21 
 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare Ltd submitted on 5 November 2014 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pemetrexed Accord, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 September 2014. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union on the 
basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. There is no 
requirement for a bioequivalence study according to (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1).   
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in accordance 
with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: ALIMTA 100 mg, 500 mg, powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 5/21 
 
  
  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: ALIMTA 100 mg, 500 mg, powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Scientific advice  
Not applicable  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
John Joseph Borg 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 5 November 2014.  
The procedure started on 26 November 2014 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 February 2015.  
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 12 March 2015. 
During the meeting on 26 March 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 July 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 28 August 2015.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 10 September 2015 
During the CHMP meeting on 24 September 2015, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 19 
October 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 22 October 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated an updated Assessment Report to all CHMP members on  
5 November 2015 
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 6 November 2015 
• 
During the meeting on 19 November 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Pemetrexed Accord. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Pemetrexed Accord 100 mg, 500 mg or 1000 mg Powder for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion has the same 
active substance and the same excipients in comparable amounts the centrally approved reference medicinal 
product Alimta (EU/1/04/290/001-002).  
The claimed indications for this generic application are: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
  
  
As monotherapy or in combination with cisplatin the recommended dose of Pemetrexed Accord is 500 mg/m2 of 
body surface area (BSA) administered as an intravenous infusion over 10 minutes on the first day of each 
21-day cycle. 
Pemetrexed Accord must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. After reconstitution, each strength of 
the proposed product contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
About the product 
Pemetrexed is a multi-targeted anti-cancer antifolate agent that exerts its action by disrupting crucial 
folate-dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Mode of action 
In vitro studies have shown that pemetrexed behaves as a multitargeted antifolate by inhibiting thymidylate 
synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT), 
which are key folate-dependent enzymes for the de novo biosynthesis of thymidine and purine nucleotides. 
Pemetrexed is transported into cells by both the reduced folate carrier and membrane folate binding protein 
transport systems. Once in the cell, pemetrexed is rapidly and efficiently converted to polyglutamate forms by 
the enzyme folylpolyglutamate synthetase.  
The polyglutamate forms are retained in cells and are even more potent inhibitors of TS and GARFT. 
Polyglutamation is a time- and concentration-dependent process that occurs in tumour cells and, to a lesser 
extent, in normal tissues. Polyglutamated metabolites have an increased intracellular half-life resulting in 
prolonged drug action in malignant cells. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg/vial, 
500 mg/vial or 1000 mg/vial of pemetrexed (as disodium salt) as active substance. 
Other ingredients are: mannitol (E421) hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide, as described in section 6.1 of 
the SmPC. 
Pemetrexed Accord powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is available in Type I glass vial with grey 
silicon rubber stopper and an aluminium seal with flip off cap. The vial is covered with a shrink-wrapped plastic 
sleeve, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of the active substance pemetrexed disodium (hemipentahydrate) is L-Glutamic acid, 
N-[4-[2-(2-amino-4,7-dihydro-4-oxo-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)ethyl]benzoyl]-disodium salt, 
corresponding to the molecular formula C 20H19N5Na2O6•2.5H2O and has a molecular mass 516.41 g/mol. The 
active substance has the following structure: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 8/21 
 
  
  
H
N
O
H2N
N
HN
O
H
COONa
N
H
.
2.5 H2O
COONa
Figure 1: Pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate structure. 
The structure of the active substance (AS) has been confirmed by elemental analysis, FT-IR, 1H- and 13C-NMR, 
mass spectrometry and X-ray powder diffraction all of which support the chemical structure. 
It appears as a white to off-white, hygroscopic crystalline powder. It is freely soluble in water and insoluble in 
ethanol. 
Pemetrexed disodium contains a single chiral centre at carbon-4 with the absolute S configuration. The 
formation of desired isomer of pemetrexed is ensured through chirality control of key starting material and the 
route of synthesis, which is stereoselective. Test for specific optical rotation is one of the control parameters for 
the desired isomer. Enantiomeric purity is tested in the active substance by specific chiral HPLC. 
Pemetrexed disodium is known to exist in two crystalline hydrate forms, a 2.5 mole hydrate (hemipentahydrate) 
form and a 7 mole hydrate (heptahydrate) form. The different polymorphs can be differentiated by 
thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and X-ray diffraction. It has been demonstrated that the proposed synthetic 
route described in the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) yields the desired hemipentahydrate form. It has 
been also confirmed that polymorphism does not change during manufacture and that the desired polymorph is 
stable during storage. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls  
The information on the active substance is provided according to the ASMF procedure. 
Pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate is synthesized in a 10-step process from three well-defined starting 
materials with acceptable specifications. The starting materials were redefined during the evaluation so that 
critical steps are conducted under GMP. Following the redefinition of starting materials critical steps have been 
identified. Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control 
methods for starting materials, intermediate products and reagents have been presented.  
The  characterisation  of  the  active  substance  and  its  impurities  are  in  accordance  with  the  EU  guideline  on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were characterised and are well discussed 
with regards to their origin and fate.  
The active substance is packaged in nitrogen atmosphere in triple low-density polyethylene (LDPE) bags, which 
are placed into triple laminate sunlight barrier bag (TLSB) bag and heat sealed. A desiccant is placed in between 
secondary and tertiary bag. The latter bag is placed into a high-density polyethylene (HDPE) container. The primary 
packaging  material  is  of  food  grade  and  in  compliance  with  current  Ph.  Eur.  requirements  and  Commission 
Regulation 1183/2012. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 9/21 
 
 
  
  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests and limits for: description, appearance (colour and clarity) of 
solution (Ph. Eur.), solubility (Ph. Eur.), identity (Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph. Eur), specific 
optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), sodium content, heavy metals (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), 
chiral purity (D-isomer content) (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), microbial limits (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The specification of the active substance is based on Ph.Eur. monograph for Pemetrexed disodium 
heptahydrate. The principle is acceptable because the only difference is in the hydration degree. Potential 
genotoxic impurities have been sufficiently discussed and shown that they are not carried over in the final active 
substance.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information on the reference standards has been 
provided. 
Batch analysis results for three commercial scale batches manufactured by the proposed manufacturer were 
presented. The results comply with the proposed specification. 
Stability 
Stability data on three commercial scale batches packaged in packaging intended for marketing and stored for 
six months under accelerated (25 °C ± 2 °C / 60% RH ± 5% RH) and up to 36 months at long term condition 
5 °C ± 3 °C were presented.  Results from another four commercial scale batches stored for up to 36 months 
under long term conditions were also presented. Stability studies were conducted according to the ICH 
guidelines. 
The following parameters were tested: description, appearance (colour and clarity) of solution, identification, 
pH, water content, assay, related substances, chiral purity (D-isomer content), microbial limits and bacterial 
endotoxins. Analytical procedures used in stability studies are the same as described for release which were 
shown to be stability indicating. All tested parameters remained within the specification apart from an impurity 
which increased significantly and was out of specification at 36 months. 
Forced degradation (photo, thermal, high humidity, acid hydrolysis, base hydrolysis and oxidation conditions) 
and photostability studies have been carried out. The results obtained from these studies indicate that the AS is 
stable at high humid condition, thermal and light exposure (as per ICH) and acidic condition, but significant 
degradation was observed in alkaline and oxidative conditions.  
In conclusion, the proposed re-test period of 24 months at 2 °C to 8 °C when the active substance is stored 
under inert atmosphere (nitrogen) in the proposed packaging, in order to protect from moisture and humidity, 
is adequately supported by the stability data provided and is acceptable.   
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The objective of pharmaceutical development was to develop a product generic to Alimta powder for concentrate 
for solution for infusion.  The same pharmaceutical form has been developed as that of the reference product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 10/21 
 
  
  
The same active substance salt as the reference product is used.  
For the 100 mg /vial and the 500 mg /vial, a comparative profile of the test product and the reference product 
was  provided.  For  the  1000  mg  /vial  presentation  the  composition  is  proportional  to  that  of  the  approved 
presentations  of  the  reference  product.The  final  concentration  after  reconstitution  is  25  mg/ml  for  all  three 
presentations,  as  is  for  Alimta.  Compatibility  of  the  product  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  to  be  used  for 
reconstitution and dilution, at the recommended temperatures, has also been demonstrated. The reconstitution 
instructions are identical to those of the reference product.  
The excipients used are the same ones used in the reference product, Alimta. No preservatives or antioxidants 
are used. Excipients-active substance compatibility studies have not been performed, however, these are not 
deemed necessary since, as mentioned above, the same excipients are used in the reference product. 
The manufacturing process has been optimised with regard to the solubilisation of the active substance, the pH 
of the bulk solution, the headspace gas, the vial fill volume, the bulk holding and its compatibility with 
equipment. As a result of these studies the mixing conditions were established, the pH range of the bulk solution 
has been set, the use of nitrogen to minimise oxidation of the active substance has been decided, the fill volume 
and overfill have been defined to facilitate delivery of the labelled amount, holding time and conditions of the 
unfiltered and filtered pemetrexed bulk solution have been established and compatibility with the equipment 
was demonstrated. 
Further optimization studies were carried out particularly focusing on the lyophilisation cycle in order to 
establish suitable conditions followed by scaling up studies at the commercial manufacturing facility. 
The sterilisation method is aseptic filtration and it has been satisfactorily justified on the basis of the active 
substance chemical stability in line with the guideline CPMP/QWP/054/98 – “Decision trees for the selection of 
sterilization methods” (Annex to Note for Guidance on Development Pharmaceutics). The filters used in the 
aseptic filtration process have been validated with regard to microbial retention, compatibility, integrity and 
extractable substances. The nitrogen gas used in vials during filling is filtered through a 0.22μm filter to ensure 
its sterility. 
The product is packaged in clear, type I glass vials, silicon rubber stopper and aluminium flip-off cap. Integrity 
of the container and compatibility of the container, the stopper and the lyophilisate as well as the reconstituted 
solution has been confirmed on inverted vials of finished product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The main steps of the manufacturing process are: preparation of bulk solution, pre-filtration, sterile filtration of 
the bulk solution, aseptic filling of vials, lyophilisation and sealing of the vials. Water for injections is used as 
processing solvent during the manufacturing process and is evaporated during freeze-drying step and is not part 
of the final formula. Bioburden is checked before and after the first filtration and, filter integrity testing is 
performed pre and post filtration. Nitrogen is used as inert gas for solution preparation, filtration and closing of 
vials. Satisfactory information regarding the sterilisation of the primary packaging material has been presented.  
Steps and process parameters that are considered critical for the quality of the product were identified. The 
following process steps and respective process control parameters were defined as critical: preparation of the 
bulk solution, aseptic filtration and filling of vials and sealing of vials.  The bioburden limit prior to second 
filtration, filter integrity testing before and after filtration, fill weight during filling and filter integrity testing of 
the sterilizing filter used for nitrogen are all considered as critical parameters in the manufacturing process. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 11/21 
 
  
  
Adequate in-process controls are in place for this type of manufacturing process. The batch size for each 
strength has been clearly defined at the time of submission.  
In accordance with Annex II to the guideline on process validation the aseptic manufacturing process by sterile 
filtration in combination with a lyophilisation process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
Process validation has been performed on three commercial scale batches for each strength 100 mg/ vial, 500 
mg/ vial and 1000 mg/ vial for all proposed batch sizes. A media fill study is performed to evaluate the aseptic 
manufacturing, filling and lyophilization procedures. The media fill study is carried out to simulate aseptic 
filtration and the filling process at worst case conditions. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing 
process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for this kind of 
dosage form including appearance (visual), identification (HPLC, HPLC-DAD), identification of sodium (chemical 
reaction), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), oxygen headspace content, assay (HPLC), related substances 
(HPLC), water content (Ph. Eur.), clarity and colour of the reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), reconstitution time, 
pH of the reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), particulate matter (Ph. Eur.), sterility (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The limits of impurities are based on the maximum daily dose and are in line with ICH guideline Q3B(R2). It has 
been demonstrated that no isomer conversion occurs during the manufacturing process of the drug product. 
Thus the justification for not including the test for D-isomer in the finished product specification is considered 
acceptable. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with the 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards of active substance and impurities 
has been presented.  
Batch analysis data were provided on three commercial scale batches for each strength manufactured at 
proposed manufacturing site.  Additional batch analysis data were provided on two commercial scale batches for 
the 100 mg/vial and the 500 mg/vial strength.  Results were in line with proposed specifications and confirm the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been conducted on three commercial scale batches per strength manufactured at 
proposed manufacturing site and packaged in the proposed packaging in accordance with ICH requirements. 
Stability results were provided for samples stored in upright position for up to 36 months at long-term conditions 
(25 ºC / 60% RH) and for six months under accelerated conditions (40 °C/75% RH). 
Stability data were also provided for another four commercial scale batches for the 100 mg /vial and 
500 mg /vial two in the proposed packaging and manufactured at the proposed manufacturer for up to 
24 months at long-term conditions. Finally three additional batches of the 500 mg /vial strength manufactured 
at an alternative larger batch size have been studied for up to 9 months stored in upright and inverted position 
under long term conditions. 
The parameters tested as per the stability protocol were: appearance of the powder, particulate contamination 
of the reconstituted solution, colour and clarity of the reconstituted solution, water content, reconstitution time, 
pH of the reconstituted solution, assay, related substances, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. Analytical 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 12/21 
 
  
  
procedures used in stability studies are the same as described for release. All the results met the specification 
and did not show any trend under any storage condition.  
Forced degradation studies were also performed where samples were stress tested under heat, moisture, acidic, 
alkaline, oxidative and light conditions. It has been demonstrated that the product does not show significant 
degradation when exposed to heat, water, UV and fluorescent light. Significant degradation occurred when the 
product was exposed to acidic, alkaline, oxidative conditions. Based on this study the analytical methods were 
shown to be stability indicating. 
Photostability studies 
A photostability study has been carried out on one batch of the 500 mg/vial strength as per ICH requirement. 
The results showed no significant impact of light on the product and suggest that the product is not sensitive to 
light. 
In-use stability studies 
Reconstitution: Since the nominal concentration of the reconstitution solution is the same for all the strengths, 
a reconstitution study was performed with one strength (500 mg /vial). Pemetrexed Accord was reconstituted 
with  0.9%  Sodium  Chloride  as  per  the  SmPC  instructions  in  section  6.6.  The  reconstituted  solutions  were 
observed at 25 °C and 2-8 °C temperature for signs of discoloration and/or precipitation at suitable intervals for 
a period of initial, 24, 48 and 72 hrs. The solutions were analysed for assay, related substances, particulate 
matter and pH. The results showed that the reconstituted product is well stable up-to recommended time points 
when reconstituted as indicated in the SmPC. Dilution: Pemetrexed Accord concentrate was further diluted as 
per the SmPC instruction in section 6.6. The diluted solution was stored at 20-30 °C (immediately and after 24 
hrs) & 2-8 °C (immediately and after 24, 48 and 72 hrs) and analysed respectively. The data showed that the 
product upon further dilution of the reconstituted solution with recommended dilution procedure is well stable up 
to recommended time points when diluted as indicated in the SmPC.  
Considering  that  Pemetrexed  Accord  is  identical  in  qualitative  composition  to the  reference  product  and  the 
solution to be used for reconstitution / dilution is the same one used for the reference product, the in-use / 
compatibility study performed is considered sufficient. 
On  the  basis  of  the  overall  available  stability  data,  the  shelf  life  of  36  months  without  any  special  storage 
conditions as stated in section 6.3 and 6.4 of the SmPC is accepted. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The proposed starting materials as they have been redefined and the overall 
control strategy of the active substance are acceptable. Pemetrexed Accord can be considered pharmaceutically 
comparable with the reference product. The product is manufactured by aseptic processing which is considered 
as a non-standard process and therefore full process validation data have been provided confirming the 
manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product to the intended quality in a reproducible 
manner. The choice of the sterilisation method has been sufficiently justified and supported by data. The results 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 13/21 
 
  
  
of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in 
turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to generate 
additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical aspects of the 
SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was 
considered acceptable.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
Pemetrexed Accord manufactured by Accord Healthcare Limited, UK comprises of 100 mg powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion; 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion and 1000 mg 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion which are substitutable versions of the previously approved 
reference products Alimta; Eli Lilly Nederland B.V..  Therefore, it is considered unlikely to result in any significant 
increase in the combined sales volumes for all pemetrexed containing products and the exposure of the 
environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of pemetrexed are well known. No non-clinical 
data were submitted with this application. Published literature has been reviewed and is considered of suitable 
quality. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 14/21 
 
  
  
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing pemetrexed.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of pemetrexed based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
Pemetrexed Accord has the same active substance, indications, route of administration, method of 
administration, instructions for reconstitution with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection 
without preservatives, dosage form and posology as Alimta.  
Alimta is available in two presentations in the European market: 100 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial of pemetrexed 
(as pemetrexed disodium). 
The proposed presentations of Pemetrexed Accord are: 100 mg/vial, 500 mg/vial and 1000 mg/vial. 
The composition of Pemetrexed Accord 100 mg and 500 mg vial and Alimta 100 mg and 500 mg vial are similar. 
Excipients used in the 100 and 500 mg formulations are qualitatively the same than the originator. A 
quantitative composition comparison of the applied and the reference product is provided below. 
The 1000 mg formulation is not available for the originator product but the qualitative composition of the new 
presentation, 1000 mg/vial, is comparable to the composition of the 100 mg and 500 mg vials. 
All the formulations should be reconstituted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, without 
preservative, resulting in a solution containing 25 mg/ml pemetrexed. 
Biowaiver 
No bioequivalence studies have been submitted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
  
  
According to the Guideline on the Investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), bioequivalence 
studies are generally not required if the product is to be administered as an aqueous IV solution containing the 
same active drug substance in the same concentration as the currently authorised product. Pemetrexed solution 
is intended for IV use and contains the same active drug substance in a concentration (25 mg/mL) similar to the 
concentration of 100 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial presentations of Alimta and therefore, no bioequivalence studies 
are required. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were submitted. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were submitted.. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data were submitted. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Pemetrexed Accord, 100 mg and 500 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, has the same active 
substance and the same excipients in comparable amounts as the reference medicinal product, Alimta. 
Furthermore, Pemetrexed Accord has the same indications, posology, pharmaceutical form, route of 
administration and strength after reconstitution as Alimta. 
There are no concerns with Pemetrexed Accord from a clinical efficacy point of view. 
No new studies have been conducted and none are required under the provisions of the Note for Guidance on the 
investigation of Bioequivalence and Bioavailability (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev. 1): “Bioequivalence studies 
are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing 
the same active substance as the currently approved product”. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Pemetrexed Accord and justifications that the active 
substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product 
was provided and is deemed acceptable and sufficiently up-to-date. This is in accordance with the relevant 
guideline and additional clinical/bioequivalence studies were not considered necessary. The CHMP considers that 
the clinical information provided is adequate to support the approval of Pemetrexed Accord 100 mg, 500 mg and 
1000 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
The PRAC considered that the RMP version 1.0 (dated 03 November 2014) could be acceptable if the applicant 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 16/21 
 
  
  
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report 
dated 12 March 2015.  
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and CHMP. 
The CHMP endorsed the RMP version 3.0 (dated 15 October 2015) with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Bullous skin reactions including SJS and TEN 
•  Gastrointestinal disorders 
• 
•  Noncompliance with folic acid and vitamin B12 regimens, manifested 
Interstitial pneumonitis  
mainly as haematological and gastrointestinal toxicities  
•  Radiation pneumonitis  
•  Radiation recall 
•  Sepsis  
•  Renal disorders 
•  Bone marrow suppression 
Important potential risks 
N/A 
Missing information 
N/A 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product.  
The 1000 mg strength does not exist for the reference originator Alimta. Therefore, PRAC and CHMP estimate 
that, even if not listed as a specific risk in the RMP of Pemetrexed Accord, the risk of medication error should be 
under specific surveillance by the MAH. Should a significant increase in the frequency of reported medication 
errors be detected, the MAH should report this as a signal. 
The PRAC also considered that routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
Risk minimisation measures 
The  PRAC,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  proposed  risk  minimisation 
measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication(s). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important Identified Risks 
Bullous skin reaction including SJS 
Text in SmPC section 4.8, and PIL.  
None 
and TEN 
Prescription only medicine. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Text in SmPC sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 
None 
and PIL.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Text in SmPC section 4.8, and PIL.  
None 
Prescription only medicine. 
Noncompliance with folic acid and 
Text in SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 5.2, 
None 
vitamin B12 regimens, manifested 
and PIL.  
mainly as hematological and 
gastrointestinal toxicities 
Prescription only medicine. 
Radiation pneumonitis 
Text in SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8, and 
None 
PIL.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Radiation recall 
Text in SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8, and 
None 
PIL. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Sepsis 
Text in SmPC section 4.8, and PIL.  
None 
Prescription only medicine. 
Renal disorders 
Text in SmPC sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 
None 
and PIL.   
Prescription only medicine. 
Bone marrow suppression 
Text in SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8, 4.9, 
None 
and PIL.   
Prescription only medicine.  
Important potential risks 
N/A 
N/A 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 18/21 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important Identified Risks 
Missing information 
N/A 
N/A 
2.6.  PSUR submission 
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports is not 
required for this medicinal product. However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety 
update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) 
provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83 and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the basis of a 
bridging report making reference to Alimta, Zoledronic Acid Accord and Levetiracetam Accord. The bridging 
report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
reference product Alimta is indicated for  
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
  
  
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease has not progressed 
immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as the efficacy and safety of the active substance. However, the applicant provided a clinical overview on these 
clinical aspects based on information from published literature which was considered sufficient. 
Bioequivalence testing with the reference product is not required under the provisions of the Guideline on the 
investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1) since the product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance in the same concentration as the currently 
authorised product. 
Although a new presentation of 1000 mg is introduced by the Applicant compared to the reference product, the 
application is still considered to be a generic application as the reconstituted product has the same 
concentration as the reference product regardless of the presentation. Therefore, the introduction of the 1000 
mg presentation is considered acceptable. 
A positive benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product Alimta can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Pemetrexed Accord in the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 20/21 
 
 
  
  
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Not applicable. 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/828561/2015 
Page 21/21 
 
 
  
  
