22 March 2018 
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pemetrexed Krka  
International non-proprietary name: pemetrexed 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003958/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 11 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development .......................................... 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 15 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16 
2.3.3. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects ................................................ 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 17 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 17 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 17 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 17 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 18 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 18 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 19 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 20 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 2/21 
 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
API 
Active pharmaceutical ingredient 
ASMF    
Active Substance Master File = DMF 
BSA 
Body Surface Area  
CHMP 
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
DMF 
DSC 
EC  
EMA 
EU  
GC  
GI 
Drug master File 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Commission 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
Gas chromatography 
Gastrointestinal 
HDPE    
High density polyethylene 
HPLC(-DAD)  High performance liquid chromatography (-diode array detector) 
ICH  
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
ICP-OES 
Inductively coupled plasma –optical emission spectrometry 
IPC 
IR 
KF  
In process Control 
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
LDPE 
Low density polyethylene 
LoD 
LoQ 
MAA 
NfG 
NIR 
NMR 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantification 
Marketing authorisation application 
Note for Guidance 
Near infrared spectroscopy 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Ph. Eur.  
European pharmacopoeia 
PRAC 
QTPP 
Pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee 
Quality target product profile 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 3/21 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
RH  
RMP 
SJS 
Relative humidity 
Risk Management Plan 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
TEN 
TGA 
USP 
UV  
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 4/21 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant KRKA d.d., Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia submitted on 24 May 2017 an 
application for marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pemetrexed Krka, 
through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a 
Centrally authorised product’.. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the 
EMA/CHMP on 17 December 2015. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the second-line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Alimta instead of non-clinical and clinical unless 
justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 5/21 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta, 500 mg, Powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: (22-09-2004) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta, 100 mg, Powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: (22-09-2004) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/002 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and  appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Kolbeinn Gudmundsson  
Co-Rapporteur: N/A 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 24 May 2017.  
The procedure started on 15 June 2017. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 31 August 2017.. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 12 September 2017. 
•  During the meeting on 12 October 2017, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 November 
2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 19 December 2017.  
•  During the PRAC meeting on 8-11 January 2018, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on  25 January 2018, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
sent to the applicant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 6/21 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 15 
February 2018. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Outstanding 
Issues to all CHMP members on 6 March 2018.  
•  During the meeting on 19-22 March 2018, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Pemetrexed Krka. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, 
Pemetrexed Krka 100 mg or 500 mg Powder for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion which has the same 
active substance in comparable amounts to the centrally approved reference medicinal product Alimta 
(EU/1/04/290/001-002). After reconstitution, each vial contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
The claimed indication for Pemetrexed Krka is: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Krka must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. After reconstitution, each strength of 
the proposed product contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 7/21 
 
  
  
About the product 
Pemetrexed is a multi-targeted anti-cancer antifolate agent that exerts its action by disrupting crucial folate-
dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Mode of action 
In vitro studies have shown that pemetrexed behaves as a multitargeted antifolate by inhibiting thymidylate 
synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT), 
which are key folate-dependent enzymes for the de novo biosynthesis of thymidine and purine nucleotides. 
Pemetrexed is transported into cells by both the reduced folate carrier and membrane folate binding protein 
transport systems. Once in the cell, pemetrexed is rapidly and efficiently converted to polyglutamate forms 
by the enzyme folylpolyglutamate synthetase.  
The polyglutamate forms are retained in cells and are even more potent inhibitors of TS and GARFT. 
Polyglutamation is a time- and concentration-dependent process that occurs in tumour cells and, to a lesser 
extent, in normal tissues. Polyglutamated metabolites have an increased intracellular half-life resulting in 
prolonged drug action in malignant cells. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg/vial 
or 500 mg/vial of pemetrexed (as disodium salt hemipentahydrate) as active substance. After reconstitution, 
the two presentations result in 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
Other ingredients are: mannitol, hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
The product is available in transparent Type I glass vials with bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium cap 
with tear off part made of polypropylene (embossed with sign “FLIP OFF”) as described in section 6.5 of the 
SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate is N-[4-[2-(2-amino-4,7-dihydro-4-oxo-1H-
pyrrolo[2,3-d] pyrimidin-5-yl)ethyl]benzoyl]-L-glutamic acid disodium hemipentahydrate and has the 
following structure: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 8/21 
 
  
  
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The structure has been confirmed by elemental analysis, infrared (IR) spectroscopy, mass spectrometry 
(MS), nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR and 13C-NMR) spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy and identification 
by chiral HPLC. 
The active substance is white or almost white hygroscopic crystalline powder, soluble in water and methanol, 
slightly soluble in DMSO and practically insoluble in acetonitrile, ethyl acetate, DMF, THF, acetone, as well as 
methylene chloride. Its molecular weight is 516.4 gmol-1, corresponding to the general molecular formula 
C20H19N5O6Na2.2.5H2O.  
Pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate is an optically active compound due to the stereogenic centre of the 
glutaminic  acid  part  which  originates  in  one  of  the  starting  materials.  The  active  form  is  the  L-enantiomer. 
Enantiomeric  purity  is  controlled  routinely  by  chiral  HPLC.  Pemetrexed  disodium  can  exist  in  an  amorphous 
form  or  different  hydrated  forms  (pseudo-polymorphs).  The  most  relevant  crystalline  forms  are  the 
hemipentahydrate and the heptahydrate (which has a Ph. Eur. monograph). The form routinely produced by 
the  proposed  manufacturing  process  is  the  hemipentahydrate  form,  as  supported  by  XRPD  data.  The 
polymorphic form remains stable during storage of the active substance. 
The information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure.  
Manufacture 
The synthesis of pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate is documented in one ASMF supporting this 
procedure. 
There are two manufacturers employing different synthetic routes to make the intermediate . A third 
manufacturing site performs the remaining four stages to convert this intermediate to the final active 
substance.  All starting materials used throughout both synthetic routes have been well defined and 
acceptable specifications have been set (Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The 
specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been 
presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their 
origin and characterised. The potential elemental impurities likely to be introduced from the various sources 
such as starting materials/raw materials/reagents, equipment have been evaluated in pemetrexed disodium 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 9/21 
 
  
  
 
 
drug substance as per the requirements of ICH Q3D. Potentially genotoxic impurities were demonstrated not 
to be detected in the active substance and are thus not routinely tested for.  
The active substance is packaged in double heat-sealed LDPE bags with an intermediate silica gel pouch, 
packed inside a triple laminated sunlight barrier bag and stored inside an HDPE drum. All materials comply 
with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of 
the ASMFs and it was considered satisfactory. 
Specification 
The active substance specification is based on the Ph. Eur. monograph for pemetrexed heptahydrate salt and 
includes tests for appearance, solubility, identity (IR, HPLC, sodium test (Ph. Eur.)), water content (Ph. Eur.), 
clarity, appearance and pH of solution (Ph. Eur.), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), assay (HPLC),related 
substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.)  and microbial contamination (Ph. 
Eur.). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information on the reference standards has 
been provided. 
Batch analysis data on three commercial scale batches of the active substance were provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on three production scale batches of active substance stored in the packaging simulating the 
proposed commercial package for up to 36 months under long term conditions (5±3 ºC), for up to 12 months 
under intermediate conditions (15 ºC / 60% RH), and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (25 ºC 
/ 60% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
Samples were tested for appearance, identification (IR), water content, clarity and appearance of solution, 
pH, D-Isomer content, related substances, assay, bacterial endotoxin and microbial limits. 
The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. Out of specification 
results were observed for impurities under accelerated conditions, but no significant trends were observed 
under intermediate or long term conditions. Forced degradation studies including photostability studies 
following the ICH guideline Q1B were performed showing the active substance is sensitive to acid, base, light 
and oxidation but stable to thermal degradation. No racemisation occurred under any condition.  
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 36 months at 2-8ºC in the proposed 
container. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 10/21 
 
  
  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a finished product equivalent to Alimta powder 
for concentrate for solution for infusion, in two strengths: 100 and 500 mg.   
Pemetrexed Krka powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is a white to either light yellow or green-
yellow lyophilized cake or powder. The formulation is packed in clear glass vials (10 mL / 50mL) made of 
transparent glass type I (Ph.Eur.). The rubber stoppers are made of grey bromobutyl rubber (Ph. Eur.). The 
cap for fixation of the stopper on the vial is made of aluminium and the tear off part of the cap is made of 
polypropylene ivory colour. The tear off part is embossed sign “FLIP OFF”. As secondary packaging, the 
labelled vial is packed with the PIL into a printed folding box. After reconstitution, each vial contains 25 
mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
The qualitative composition of the finished product pemetrexed Krka 100 mg and 500 mg is provided in the 
following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 11/21 
 
  
  
Table 1: Qualitative composition of the drug product 100 mg 
Name of substance 
Function 
Pemetrexed 
disodium 
hemipentahydrate 
Active 
substance 
Mannitol 
Hydrocloric acid 
concentrated 
Tonicity 
agent vehicle 
Bulking 
agent 
pH adjuster 
Sodium hydroxide 
pH adjuster 
**eliminated during lyophilization process 
Water for 
injection** 
Solvent 
Nitrogen is used as process aid for inertisation during preparation of bulk solution and for purging during 
filling of vials and just before stoppering in lyophilization process. Nitrogen complies to Ph.Eur. standard.  
As mentioned above, the formulation contains the active substance pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate, 
whereas the reference product contains pemetrexed disodium heptahydrate. Since the active substance is 
fully solubilised during the manufacture of the finished product, the initial polymorphic form of the active 
substance does not influence the performance of the product. 
Critical attributes of the active substance that can affect product performance or manufacturability have been 
discussed.  The excipients used in the formulation of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion are mannitol as tonicity agent; sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid, which are used in small 
amounts for pH adjustment, and water for injection which is used as a vehicle during formulation. Water for 
injection is removed during the lyophilization step and is not included in the finished product. The excipients 
are the same as those used in the reference product. No alternative formulations were investigated.  
The manufacturing process development comprised evaluation and optimization of the different steps of the 
process. 
The data presented confirm the robustness and reproducibility of the formulation and the chosen 
manufacturing process. 
The choice of the sterilisation method was justified on the basis the reference product is known to be 
sensitive to terminal sterilisation and it is sterilized by filtration. This is considered acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 12/21 
 
  
  
 
 
The applicant performed a number of comparability studies to demonstrate that Pemetrexed Krka is 
equivalent to the reference product.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a non-standard process which involves five steps: 
1.  solution preparation/compounding  
2.  pre-filtration  
3. 
final sterile filtration  
4.  aseptic filling  
5. 
lyophilisation.  
Since the bulk solution is sensitive to oxygen, the whole manufacturing process is conducted in the presence 
of nitrogen. Terminal sterilisation was not appropriate for the formulation as it affected the quality of the 
product thus sterilisation by filtration (through bacterial retentive filter) followed by aseptic processing was 
developed.  
Compatibility studies with process components and equipment were conducted and were satisfactory. 
Before filtration samples are taken to test the bioburden (microbiological quality of prepared solution). Two 
sterile filtrations are conducted. The in-process controls have been described and are considered sufficient. 
Holding time studies for bulk solution of Pemetrexed 100 mg and 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution 
for infusion were performed.Based on the results from these studies, a holding time for the non-filtered bulk-
solution and a holding time for the filtered bulk-solution were defined and are considered acceptable. 
In addition, in order to study the effect of temperature variation on the product, likely to be encountered by 
the drug product during distribution, a cyclization test was performed for both product strengths. All results 
were within the specification limits and practically no differences were observed when compared to initial 
values. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies. Process validation 
data on three commercial scale batches of each strength have been presented. It has been demonstrated 
that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality in a 
reproducible manner.  
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance, 
identification (HPLC, UV), pH (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units 
(by mass variation) (Ph. Eur.), reconsititution time, clarity and degree ofopalescence of the solution (Ph. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 13/21 
 
  
  
Eur.), colour of the solution (Ph. Eur.), particulate matter (Ph. Eur), related substances (HPLC), bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur), sterility (Ph. Eur.)  and head space oxygen content (GC). 
As mentioned above, pemetrexed has one chiral center, therefore two enantiomers are possible. Pemetrexed 
active substance is L-enantiomer while D-enantiomer of pemetrexed is controlled.Analyses for elemental 
impurities were performed to evaluate all possible sources e.g. active substance, excipients, equipment, 
primary packaging material, process, purified water of inorganic impurities in the final product. Based on the 
results obtained there is no need to specify any elemental impurities in final active substance or finished 
product specification. 
Overall, the proposed specification is acceptable. The methods in the specifications for Pemetrexed KrKa 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion are all compliant with the Ph.Eur. and in-house methods have 
all been adequately described and validated.  
Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been 
presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches of each strength confirming the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from seven commercial scale batches of finished product (four batches of the 100 mg strength, 
and three batches of the 500 mg strength) manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site were included 
in the stability study. The batches stored for up to 12 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) 
and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided. The batches of Pemetrexed Krka are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in 
the primary packaging proposed for marketing. Vials were stored in upright position under long-term 
conditions and, to mimic worst case scenario, vials were also stored in inverted position under accelerated 
condition. 
Samples were tested for appearance, assay, clarity and degree of opalescence of the solution, colour of the 
solution, pH, reconstitution time, related substances (impurities and degradation products), water, LAL test 
(tested at the beginning and at the end of stability testing), sterility (tested at the beginning and at the end 
of stability testing. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating.  
All results of the samples stored at long term and accelerated storage conditions were well within the 
specifications and no general trends or signs of degradation were observed.  
A photostability test was performed on one batch of each strength, according to the ICH Guideline Q1B. The 
product did not show signs of degradation after exposure to light without the protection of the primary and 
secondary packaging materials. Therefore it was concluded that the finished product is not photo-sensitive. 
In addition, a stability study on the reconstituted solution in the inverted original vial at concentration 
25mg/ml of pemetrexed and diluted solution at concentration 0.25mg/ml of pemetrexed was performed on 
one batch of Pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 100mg, 500mg. 
Samples were stored for 24 hours at 2-8°C and 25°C. 
For the reconstituted and diluted solution appearance, assay, clarity and degree of opalescence of the 
solution, colour of the solution, pH, related substances (impurities and degradation products), LAL test 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 14/21 
 
  
  
(tested at the beginning and at the end of stability testing), sterility (tested at the beginning and at the end 
of stability testing) were monitored. 
The compatibility of the diluted solution of Pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 100 
mg, 500 mg was demonstrated with polyolefin-lined infusion bags. . Based on these results and additional   
justification provided it was concluded that polyvinyl chloride infusion bags can be used for Krka’s 
Pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 100 mg, 500 mg.  
No significant changes of the stability indicating parameters were observed in these studies. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months without special storage conditions, as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3), is acceptable. Chemical and physical in-use stability of reconstituted and 
infusion solutions of pemetrexed were demonstrated for 24 hours at 2-8°C (and 25°C). From a 
microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use 
storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would not be longer than 24 
hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 15/21 
 
  
  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
Pemetrexed Krka manufactured by KRKA, d.d. is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in 
the combined sales volumes for all pemetrexed containing products and the exposure of the environment to 
the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of pemetrexed are well known. Published 
literature has been reviewed and is considered of suitable quality. 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing pemetrexed.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of pemetrexed based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Relevant for the clinical assessment is the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98)  
Exemption  
The active substance contained in Alimta is pemetrexed disodium heptahydrate whereas the active substance 
contained in Pemetrexed Krka is pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate. The hydrate form of the drug 
substance does not affect bioavailability of the drug product since the drug substance is dissolved in water for 
injection during the formulation process and the drug product is administered as an intravenous infusion. 
Once dissolved in water and lyophilized, the final drug product is identical to the reference product Alimta. 
Pemetrexed Krka contains the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance, indications, 
route of administration, dosage form and posology as Alimta. 
Pemetrexed Krka does not contain a different salt, ester, ether, isomer, mixture of isomers, complex or 
derivative of an active substance than the reference medicinal product. 
The Applicant has provided information that the excipients contained in the proposed formulation are the 
same and in the same quantity as the ones contained in the reference product formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 16/21 
 
  
  
Both products are intended for intravenous use and must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. 
After reconstitution each presentation of both the proposed product and the originator product contains 25 
mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
Biowaiver 
No bioequivalence studies have been submitted. 
According to the Guideline on the Investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), bioequivalence 
studies are generally not required if the product is to be administered as an aqueous IV solution containing 
the same active drug substance in the same concentration as the currently authorised product. Pemetrexed 
solution is intended for IV use and contains the same active drug substance in a concentration (25 mg/ml) 
similar to the concentration of 100 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial presentations of Alimta and therefore, no 
bioequivalence studies are required. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Pemetrexed Krka, 100 mg and 500 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, has the same active 
substance and the same excipients as the reference medicinal product, Alimta. Furthermore, Pemetrexed 
Krka has the same indications, posology, pharmaceutical form, route of administration and strength after 
reconstitution as Alimta. 
There are no concerns with Pemetrexed Krka from a clinical efficacy point of view. 
No new studies have been conducted and none are required under the provisions of the Note for Guidance on 
the investigation of Bioequivalence and Bioavailability (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev. 1): “Bioequivalence 
studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous 
solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product”. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Pemetrexed Krka and justifications that the active 
substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference 
product was provided and is deemed acceptable and sufficiently up-to-date. This is in accordance with the 
relevant guideline and additional clinical/bioequivalence studies were not considered necessary. The CHMP 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 17/21 
 
  
  
considers that there are no objections to approval of Pemetrexed Krka 100 mg and 500 mg powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Non-compliance with folic acid and Vitamin B12 regimens manifested 
mainly as haematological and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities 
Bone marrow suppression 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Renal disorders 
Sepsis 
Bullous skin reaction including SJS and TEN 
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Radiation pneumonitis 
Radiation recall 
Important Potential Risks 
None 
Missing Information 
None 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine pharmacovigilance activities are considered sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the 
product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
The safety information in the product information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. Routine 
risk minimisation measures are considered sufficient to reduce the risks associated with the above safety 
concerns. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 18/21 
 
  
  
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet 
has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable as the format and layout of the 
package leaflet of pemetrexed 100 mg and 500 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, is 
consistent with the one of the originator. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The reference product Alimta is indicated for: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease has not 
progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology.  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
Bioequivalence testing with the reference product is not required under the provisions of the Guideline on 
the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1) since the product is to be 
administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance in the same 
concentration as the currently authorised product. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 19/21 
 
  
  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Pemetrexed Krka is favourable in the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Krka in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Krka is indicated as monotherapy for the second-line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1). 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation  subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 20/21 
 
  
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/225126/2018 
Page 21/21 
 
  
  
 
