EMA/520309/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Pemetrexed Sandoz (pemetrexed) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pemetrexed Sandoz, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Pemetrexed Sandoz is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Pemetrexed Sandoz, which can be found on Pemetrexed Sandoz’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Pemetrexed Sandoz is a cancer medicine used to treat two types of lung cancer, malignant pleural 
mesothelioma and advanced non-small-cell lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer of the lining of the lungs. It is associated with 
exposure to asbestos: observations from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Croatia, Spain, and Italy 
showed that the areas with high incidence of mesothelioma exactly correspond to the sites of 
industries with high asbestos use. Most patients with mesothelioma are diagnosed between 50 and 70 
years of age. This age profile may be related to the long delay between the exposure to asbestos and 
onset of the disease. The incidence of mesothelioma varies markedly from one country to another. 
Males are at a much higher risk for malignant mesothelioma than females. European findings from 118 
cancer registries in 25 countries demonstrate a great geographic variation in the annual incidence 
rates of mesothelioma; among men, rates range from around 8 per 100,000 in the United Kingdom 
and the Netherlands to rates lower than 1 per 100,000 in Spain and Poland. Among women, incidence 
is much lower and less variable, with only the United Kingdom and some Italian regions having rates 
higher than 1 per 100,000. Malignant pleural mesothelioma can also occur in children; however, these 
cases are not thought to be associated with asbestos exposure.  
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Lung cancer is the most common cancer worldwide. It is the leading cause of cancer deaths in men 
and the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women. In 2012, there were about 410,000 newly 
diagnosed lung cancer cases in Europe. There are 2 types of lung cancer: small cell lung cancer and 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Non-small cell lung cancer represents approximately 85% of all 
lung cancer cases. At diagnosis, the majority of patients have non-operable, locally advanced or 
metastatic disease (when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body). These patients have a 
very poor outlook, with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 6%. The incidence rates of NSCLC are 
often higher among males than females. 
Page 1/6 
 
 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Pemetrexed Sandoz contains the active substance pemetrexed. Pemetrexed Sandoz is a ‘generic 
medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European 
Union (EU) called Alimta.  
Because Pemetrexed Sandoz is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as those of the reference medicine. The company provided data from the published literature on 
pemetrexed. No additional studies were needed as Pemetrexed Sandoz is a generic medicine that is 
given by infusion and contains the same active substance as the reference medicine, Alimta. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is no information about the use of pemetrexed in children and in women who are pregnant or 
breastfeeding Pemetrexed is not recommended for use in children as safety and efficacy have not been 
established in this group of patients. Pemetrexed Sandoz should be avoided in pregnant women, and it 
must not be used in breastfeeding women. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Non-compliance with vitamin 
Treatment with pemetrexed is 
All patients treated with 
supplementation, manifested 
associated with blood disorders 
Pemetrexed Sandoz must take 
mainly as blood disorders and 
such as neutropenia (low levels 
gastrointestinal (stomach and 
of neutrophils, the white blood 
folic acid and vitamin B12, in 
order to reduce the occurrence 
gut) disorders 
cells that fight bacterial 
of blood and gut side effects 
infection), neutropenia with 
related to treatment with 
fever (febrile neutropenia), and 
pemetrexed. 
infection with severe 
neutropenia, and 
gastrointestinal disorders such 
as feeling or being sick and 
diarrhoea (treatment-related 
toxicity). In clinical trials, 
patients who received pre-
treatment with folic acid and 
vitamin B12 experienced less 
toxicity and less severe toxicity. 
Stomach and gut disorders  
When pemetrexed is given in 
Patients should receive adequate 
(gastrointestinal disorders) 
combination with cisplatin, 
treatment and appropriate 
infection or irritation of the 
hydration before and/or after 
stomach and intestine can 
receiving treatment with 
occur; severe dehydration has 
Pemetrexed Sandoz.  
been observed in these patients. 
Patients should inform their 
Feeling or being sick, diarrhoea, 
doctor immediately if they 
and constipation, are very 
develop signs of inflammation or 
common side effects (seen in 
irritation in the stomach. 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
more than 1 in 10 patients); 
All patients treated with 
stomach upset and heartburn 
Pemetrexed Sandoz must take 
are common side effects (seen 
in more than 1 in 100 patients). 
folic acid and vitamin B12, in 
order to reduce the occurrence 
of blood and gut side effects 
related to treatment with 
pemetrexed. 
Kidney problems  
Serious kidney problems, 
Patients should receive adequate 
(serious renal events)  
including acute kidney failure, 
hydration before and/or after 
have been reported with 
receiving treatment with 
pemetrexed alone or in 
Pemetrexed Sandoz. 
combination with other 
Patients should inform their 
chemotherapy medicines.  Many 
doctor immediately if they 
of the patients in whom these 
develop signs of kidney 
side effects occurred had 
problems, such as changes in 
underlying risk factors for the 
urination, swelling, pain in legs, 
development of kidney problems 
back and sides, abnormal blood 
including dehydration or pre-
tests. 
existing hypertension (high 
Patients’ kidney function should 
blood pressure) or diabetes. 
be closely monitored with each 
clinic visit. 
Lung disease causing 
In clinical trials, cases of lung 
No risk factors that can predict 
progressive scarring of the air 
disease with respiratory 
lung disease have been 
sacs of the lung 
insufficiency, sometimes fatal, 
identified in patients treated 
(interstitial pneumonitis) 
have been reported 
with pemetrexed. 
uncommonly (in less than 1 
Patients should inform their 
patient in 100) in patients 
doctor immediately if they 
treated with pemetrexed.  
develop signs of breathlessness, 
intense chest pain or cough with 
bloody sputum which may 
indicate a blood clot in the 
vessels of the lungs. 
Radiation-related scarring of the 
Cases of radiation pneumonitis 
Pemetrexed Sandoz is not 
air sacs of the lung  
(scarring of the air sacs of the 
currently authorised for use with 
(radiation pneumonitis) 
lung associated with radiation 
radiation therapy. Doctors 
therapy) have been reported in 
should pay particular attention 
patients treated with radiation 
to these patients and exercise 
either before, during or after 
caution when using other radio-
being treated with pemetrexed. 
sensitising agents. 
Patients should tell their doctor 
if they have had or are going to 
have radiation therapy, as there 
may be an early or late radiation 
reaction with Pemetrexed 
Sandoz. 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Inflammatory skin reaction that 
Rare cases of a severe skin 
Radiation recall with pemetrexed 
sometimes occurs when people 
reaction have been reported in 
is a rare reaction that cannot be 
receive chemotherapy after 
patients who received 
predicted. 
radiation therapy  
(radiation recall) 
chemotherapy (including 
treatment with pemetrexed) 
after they had undergone 
radiation therapy weeks or years 
previously.  
Patients must inform their 
doctor as soon as possible if 
they start experiencing any side 
effects such as skin rash, severe 
sunburn, prickling sensation or 
fever. 
Severe blood infection  
Severe blood infection (sepsis), 
Sepsis is an important risk with 
(sepsis)  
sometimes fatal, has been 
pemetrexed. One of the risk 
commonly reported during 
factors for sepsis is very low 
clinical trials with pemetrexed 
levels of neutrophils (severe 
(in more than 1 in 100 
neutropenia), the white blood 
patients).  
cells that fight bacterial 
Neutropenia (low levels of 
infection. Therefore, prevention 
neutrophils, a type of white 
of sepsis is to a great extent 
blood cells) is very common 
linked to the occurrence and 
following treatment with 
prevention of severe 
pemetrexed (seen in more than 
neutropenia. 
1 in 10 patients). 
Patient must inform their doctor 
immediately if they have a 
temperature of 38ºC or greater, 
are sweating or present other 
signs of infection since they 
might have neutropenia. Sepsis 
may be severe and could lead to 
death. All patients treated with 
Pemetrexed Sandoz must take 
folic acid and vitamin B12, in 
order to reduce the occurrence 
of blood and gut side effects 
related to treatment with 
pemetrexed. 
Rare, severe skin and mucous 
Skin reactions have been 
Doctors should be aware that 
membrane reactions  
reported with pemetrexed in 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and 
(including Stevens-Johnson 
patients not pre-treated with a 
toxic epidermal necrolysis may 
syndrome and toxic epidermal 
corticosteroid (anti-
occur during treatment with 
necrolysis) 
inflammatory) medicine.  
Pemetrexed Sandoz. Doctors 
Rare cases of severe skin 
should monitor patients for any 
reactions including Stevens-
signs of these conditions. 
Johnson syndrome and toxic 
Patients should inform their 
epidermal necrolysis have been 
doctor immediately if they 
reported with pemetrexed (seen 
experience a severe rash, 
in less than 1 in 1,000 patients), 
itching, or blistering.  
which in some cases were fatal. 
Pre-treatment with 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
dexamethasone (or equivalent) 
can reduce the incidence and 
severity of skin reactions. 
If patients experienced a skin 
reaction in the past, further 
exposure to the suspected 
inducing medicine should be 
strictly avoided. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Heart and blood vessels 
Some patients have experienced a heart attack, a stroke, or a 
problems 
“mini-stroke” while receiving pemetrexed, usually in combination 
(cardiovascular events)  
with other cancer medicines. 
Possible side effects of Pemetrexed Sandoz include chest pain 
(common, seen in more than 1 in 100 patients) or having a fast 
heart rate (uncommon, seen in less than 1 in 100 patients). 
Disease of the blood vessels 
Patients undergoing cancer treatment may be at increased risk of 
located outside the heart and 
peripheral vascular disease. Possible side effects include sudden 
brain that restricts blood flow 
breathlessness, intense chest pain, or cough with bloody sputum 
(peripheral vascular disease)  
which may indicate a blood clot in the blood vessels of the lungs). 
Hearing loss 
(hypoacusis) 
For the majority of cases of hearing loss seen during treatment 
with pemetrexed, there were other possible causes, including use 
of cisplatin/carboplatin, greater age of the patients, and significant 
medical history. Considering these factors, the hearing loss events 
are unlikely to be causally related to pemetrexed, and it is unclear 
what role pemetrexed may have played in the events. 
Missing information 
There is no missing information related to the use of Pemetrexed Sandoz. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Pemetrexed Sandoz can be found on Pemetrexed Sandoz’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable.  
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2015. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
