Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  pemetrexed 
Krka (pemetrexed) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Pemetrexed  Krka.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Pemetrexed Krka and how more information will be obtained about Pemetrexed 
Krka 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pemetrexed  Krka’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information  to healthcare  professionals and patients  on how Pemetrexed Krka  should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Pemetrexed Krka should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pemetrexed 
Krka's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Pemetrexed  Krka  is  authorised  for  treatment  of  two  types  of  lung  cancer,  malignant  pleural 
mesothelioma and advanced non-small-cell lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’. (see 
SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains  pemetrexed  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by 
infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Pemetrexed  Krka’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Pemetrexed  Krka’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available on  the  EMA  website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/003958/hum
an_med_002256.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Pemetrexed  Krka,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about Pemetrexed Krka's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
The medicine’s legal status  — the way a medicine is supplied to  the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Pemetrexed  Krka  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Pemetrexed Krka. Potential risks are concerns for 
which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers 
to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Non-compliance with vitamin supplementation manifested mainly 
as blood disorders and gastrointestinal (stomach and gut) 
disorders (Non-compliance with folic acid and Vitamin B12 
regimens manifested mainly as haematological and 
gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities) 
Decrease in production of blood cells 
(Bone marrow suppression) 
Stomach and gut disorders  
(Gastrointestinal disorders) 
Kidney problems  
(Renal disorders) 
Severe blood infection  
(Sepsis) 
severe skin and mucous membrane reactions  
(Bullous skin reaction including SJS and TEN) 
Lung  disease  causing  progressive  scarring  of  the  air  sacs  of  the 
lung  
(Interstitial pneumonitis) 
Radiation-related scarring of the air sacs of the lung  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Radiation pneumonitis) 
Inflammatory  skin  reaction  that  sometimes  occurs  when  people 
receive chemotherapy after radiation therapy  
(Radiation recall) 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Pemetrexed Krka. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Pemetrexed Krka. 
 
 
 
