EMA/646805/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Pemetrexed Hospira (pemetrexed) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pemetrexed Hospira, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Pemetrexed Hospira is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Pemetrexed Hospira, which can be found on Pemetrexed Hospira’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Pemetrexed Hospira is a cancer medicine used to treat two types of lung cancer, malignant pleural 
mesothelioma and advanced non-small-cell lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer of the lining of the lungs. It is associated with 
exposure to asbestos: observations from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Croatia, Spain, and Italy 
showed that the areas with high incidence of mesothelioma exactly correspond to the sites of 
industries with high asbestos use. Most patients with mesothelioma are diagnosed between 50 and 70 
years of age. This age profile may be related to the long delay between the exposure to asbestos and 
onset of the disease. The incidence of mesothelioma varies markedly from one country to another. 
Males are at a much higher risk for malignant mesothelioma than females. European findings from 118 
cancer registries in 25 countries demonstrate a great geographic variation in the annual incidence 
rates of mesothelioma; among men, rates range from around 8 per 100,000 in the United Kingdom 
and the Netherlands to rates lower than 1 per 100,000 in Spain and Poland. Among women, incidence 
is much lower and less variable, with only the United Kingdom and some Italian regions having rates 
higher than 1 per 100,000. Malignant pleural mesothelioma can also occur in children; however, these 
cases are not thought to be associated with asbestos exposure. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Lung cancer is the most common cancer worldwide. It is the leading cause of cancer deaths in men 
and the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women. In 2012, there were about 410,000 newly 
diagnosed lung cancer cases in Europe.There are 2 types of lung cancer: small cell lung cancer and 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Non-small cell lung cancer represents approximately 85% of all 
lung cancer cases. At diagnosis, the majority of patients have non-operable, locally advanced or 
metastatic disease (when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body). These patients have a 
very poor outlook, with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 6%. The incidence rates of NSCLC are 
often higher among males than females.  
Page 1/5 
 
 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Pemetrexed Hospira contains the active substance pemetrexed. Pemetrexed Hospira is a ‘generic 
medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European 
Union (EU) called Alimta.  
Because Pemetrexed Hospira is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as those of the reference medicine. The company provided data from the published literature on 
pemetrexed. No additional studies were needed as Pemetrexed Hospira is a generic medicine that is 
given by infusion and contains the same active substance as the reference medicine, Alimta. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is no information about the use of pemetrexed in children and in women who are pregnant or 
breastfeeding. Pemetrexed is not recommended for use in children as its safety and efficacy have not 
been established in this group of patients. Pemetrexed Hospira should be avoided in pregnant women, 
and it must not be used in breastfeeding women. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Non-compliance with vitamin 
Treatment with pemetrexed is 
All patients treated with 
supplementation manifested 
associated with blood disorders 
Pemetrexed Hospira must take 
mainly as blood disorders and 
such as neutropenia (low levels 
gastrointestinal (stomach and 
of neutrophils, the white blood 
folic acid and vitamin B12, in 
order to reduce the occurrence 
gut) disorders  
cells that fight bacterial 
of blood and gut side effects 
infection), neutropenia with 
related to treatment with 
fever (febrile neutropenia), and 
pemetrexed. 
infection with severe 
neutropenia, and 
gastrointestinal disorders such 
as feeling or being sick and 
diarrhoea (treatment-related 
toxicity). In clinical trials, 
patients who received pre-
treatment with folic acid and 
vitamin B12 experienced less 
toxicity and less severe toxicity. 
Stomach and gut disorders 
When pemetrexed is given in 
Patients should receive adequate 
(gastrointestinal disorders) 
combination with cisplatin, 
treatment and appropriate 
infection or irritation of the 
hydration before and after 
stomach and intestine can 
receiving treatment with 
occur; severe dehydration has 
Pemetrexed Hospira. Patients 
been observed in these patients. 
should inform their doctor 
Feeling or being sick, diarrhoea, 
immediately if they develop 
and constipation, are very 
signs of inflammation or 
common side effects (seen in 
irritation in the stomach. 
more than 1 in 10 patients); 
Page 2/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
stomach upset and heartburn 
All patients treated with 
are common side effects (seen 
Pemetrexed Hospira must take 
in more than 1 in 100 patients). 
folic acid and vitamin B12, in 
order to reduce the occurrence 
of blood and gut side effects 
related to treatment with 
pemetrexed. 
Kidney problems (renal 
Serious kidney problems, 
Patients should receive adequate 
disorders) 
including acute kidney failure, 
hydration before and after 
have been reported with 
receiving treatment with 
pemetrexed alone or in 
Pemetrexed Hospira. 
combination with other 
chemotherapy medicines. Many 
of the patients in whom these 
occurred had underlying risk 
factors for the development of 
kidney problems, including 
dehydration, hypertension (high 
blood pressure) or diabetes. 
Patients should inform their 
doctor immediately if they 
develop signs of kidney 
problems, such as changes in 
urination, swelling, pain in legs, 
back and sides, abnormal blood 
tests. 
Renal disorders may affect up to 
Patients’ kidney function should 
1 in 10 people. 
be closely monitored with each 
clinic visit. 
Lung disease causing 
In clinical trials, cases of lung 
No risk factors that can predict 
progressive scarring of the air 
disease with respiratory 
lung disease have been 
sacs of the lung (interstitial 
insufficiency, sometimes fatal, 
identified in patients treated 
pneumonitis) 
have been reported 
with pemetrexed. 
uncommonly (in less than 1 
patient in 100) in patients 
treated with pemetrexed. 
Patients should inform their 
doctor immediately if they 
develop signs of breathlessness, 
intense chest pain or cough with 
bloody sputum which may 
indicate a blood clot in the 
vessels of the lungs. 
Radiation-related scarring of the 
Cases of radiation pneumonitis 
Pemetrexed Hospira is not 
air sacs of the lung (radiation 
(scarring of the air sacs of the 
currently authorised for use with 
pneumonitis) 
lung associated with radiation 
radiation therapy. Doctors 
therapy) have been reported in 
should pay particular attention 
patients treated with radiation 
to these patients and exercise 
either before, during, or after 
caution when using radio-
being treated with pemetrexed. 
sensitising agents. 
Patients should tell their doctor 
if they have had or are going to 
have radiation therapy, as there 
may be an early or late radiation 
reaction with Pemetrexed 
Page 3/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Hospira. 
Inflammatory skin reaction that 
Cases of a severe skin reaction 
Radiation recall with pemetrexed 
sometimes occurs when people 
have been reported in patients 
is a rare reaction that cannot be 
receive chemotherapy after 
who received chemotherapy 
predicted. 
radiation therapy (radiation 
(including treatment with 
recall) 
pemetrexed) after they had 
undergone radiation therapy 
weeks or years previously. 
Patients must inform their 
doctor as soon as possible if 
they start experiencing any side 
effects such as skin rash, severe 
sunburn, prickling sensation or 
fever. 
Severe blood infection (sepsis) 
Severe blood infection (sepsis), 
Sepsis is an important risk with 
sometimes fatal, has been 
pemetrexed. One of the risk 
commonly reported during 
factors for sepsis is very low 
clinical trials with pemetrexed 
levels of neutrophils (severe 
(in more than 1 in 100 
neutropenia), the white blood 
patients).  
cells that fight bacterial 
Neutropenia (low levels of 
neutrophils, a type of white 
blood cells) is very common 
following treatment with 
pemetrexed (seen in more than 
infection. Therefore, prevention 
of sepsis is to a great extent 
linked to the occurrence and 
prevention of severe 
neutropenia. 
1 in 10 patients). 
Patients must inform their 
doctor immediately if they have 
a temperature of 38ºC or 
greater, are sweating or present 
other signs of infection since 
they might have neutropenia. 
Sepsis may be severe and could 
lead to death. All patients 
treated with Pemetrexed Hospira 
must take folic acid and vitamin 
B12, in order to reduce the 
occurrence of blood and gut side 
effects related to treatment with 
pemetrexed. 
Rare, severe skin and mucous 
Skin reactions have been 
Doctors should be aware that 
membrane reactions (including 
reported with pemetrexed in 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and 
patients not pre-treated with a 
toxic epidermal necrolysis may 
toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
corticosteroid (anti-
occur during treatment with 
inflammatory) medicine.  
Pemetrexed Hospira. Doctors 
Rare cases of severe skin 
reactions including Stevens-
Johnson syndrome and toxic 
epidermal necrolysis have been 
reported with pemetrexed (seen 
should monitor patients for any 
signs of these conditions. 
Patients should inform their 
doctor immediately if they 
experience a severe rash, 
Page 4/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
in less than 1 in 1,000 patients), 
itching, or blistering. Pre-
which in some cases were fatal. 
treatment with dexamethasone 
(or equivalent) can reduce the 
incidence and severity of skin 
reactions. 
If patients experienced a skin 
reaction in the past, further 
exposure to the suspected 
inducing medicine should be 
strictly avoided. 
Decreased ability of the bone 
Bone marrow suppression can 
Doctors should check the full 
marrow to produce blood cells 
occur in patients treated with 
blood count before each dose of 
(bone marrow suppression) 
pemetrexed. This results in low 
pemetrexed. Depending on the 
levels of red blood cells, white 
results of the blood test the 
blood cells and platelets; these 
doctor will decide how to 
side effects are very common 
continue the treatment. 
(seen in more than 1 in 10 
patients). 
Important potential risks 
No important potential risks related to the use of Pemetrexed Hospira have been identified. 
Missing information 
There is no missing information related to the use of Pemetrexed Hospira. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Pemetrexed Hospira can be found on Pemetrexed Hospira’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
