EMA/734632/2015 
EMEA/H/C/003970 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pemetrexed Hospira 
pemetrexed 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pemetrexed Hospira. It 
explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its 
conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Pemetrexed Hospira. 
For practical information about using Pemetrexed Hospira, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Pemetrexed Hospira and what is it used for? 
Pemetrexed Hospira is a cancer medicine used to treat two types of lung cancer:  
•  malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of the lungs that is usually caused by 
exposure to asbestos), where it is used together with cisplatin in patients who have not received 
chemotherapy before and whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery;  
• 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’, where it is used either 
in combination with cisplatin in previously untreated patients or on its own in patients who have 
previously received cancer treatment. It can also be used as a maintenance treatment in patients 
who have received a platinum-based chemotherapy.  
Pemetrexed Hospira is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Pemetrexed Hospira is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Alimta. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Pemetrexed Hospira contains the active substance pemetrexed. 
How is Pemetrexed Hospira used? 
Pemetrexed Hospira is available as a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a 
vein. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be given under the 
supervision of a doctor who is qualified in the use of chemotherapy.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The recommended dose is 500 mg per square metre of body surface area (calculated using the 
patient’s height and weight). It is given once every three weeks as an infusion lasting 10 minutes. To 
reduce side effects, patients should take a corticosteroid (a type of medicine that reduces 
inflammation) and folic acid (a type of vitamin), and receive injections of vitamin B12 during treatment 
with Pemetrexed Hospira. When Pemetrexed Hospira is given with cisplatin, an ‘anti-emetic’ medicine 
(to prevent vomiting) and fluids (to prevent dehydration) should also be given before or after the 
cisplatin dose. 
Treatment should be delayed or stopped, or the dose reduced, in patients whose blood counts are 
abnormal or who have certain other side effects. For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Pemetrexed Hospira work? 
The active substance in Pemetrexed Hospira, pemetrexed, is a cytotoxic medicine (a medicine that kills 
cells that are dividing, such as cancer cells), which belongs to the group ‘antimetabolites’. In the body, 
pemetrexed is converted into an active form that blocks the activity of the enzymes that are involved 
in producing ‘nucleotides’ (the building blocks of DNA and RNA, the genetic material of cells). As a 
result, the active form of pemetrexed slows down the formation of DNA and RNA and prevents the cells 
from dividing and multiplying. The conversion of pemetrexed into its active form occurs more readily in 
cancer cells than in normal cells, leading to higher levels of the active form of the medicine and a 
longer duration of action in cancer cells. This results in the division of cancer cells being reduced, while 
normal cells are only slightly affected. 
How has Pemetrexed Hospira been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on pemetrexed. No additional studies were 
needed as Pemetrexed Hospira is a generic medicine that is given by infusion and contains the same 
active substance as the reference medicine, Alimta. 
What are the benefits and risks of Pemetrexed Hospira? 
Because Pemetrexed Hospira is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Pemetrexed Hospira approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Pemetrexed Hospira has been shown to be comparable to Alimta. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for Alimta, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee 
recommended that Pemetrexed Hospira be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pemetrexed Hospira? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Pemetrexed Hospira is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Pemetrexed Hospira, including the appropriate precautions 
to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Pemetrexed Hospira  
EMA/734632/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Pemetrexed Hospira 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pemetrexed Hospira on 20 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Pemetrexed Hospira can be found on the 
Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment 
reports. For more information about treatment with Pemetrexed Hospira, read the package leaflet  
(also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Pemetrexed Hospira  
EMA/734632/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
