EMA/841935/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005848 
Pemetrexed Baxter (pemetrexed) 
An overview of Pemetrexed Baxter and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pemetrexed Baxter and what is it used for? 
Pemetrexed Baxter is used to treat two types of lung cancer: 
• malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of the lungs that is usually caused by
exposure to asbestos), where it is used together with cisplatin in patients who have not received
chemotherapy before and whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery;
•
advanced or metastatic (meaning it has spread to other parts of the body) ‘non-small-cell’ lung
cancer of the kind known as ‘non-squamous’, where it is used either in combination with cisplatin
in previously untreated patients or on its own in patients who have previously received cancer
treatment. It can also be used as a maintenance treatment in patients who have received a
platinum-based chemotherapy.
Pemetrexed Baxter is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Pemetrexed Baxter contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU 
called Alimta. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
Pemetrexed Baxter contains the active substance pemetrexed. 
How is Pemetrexed Baxter used? 
Pemetrexed Baxter can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be given under the 
supervision of a doctor who is qualified in the use of chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed Baxter is given once every three weeks as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting 10 
minutes. To reduce side effects, patients should take a corticosteroid (a type of medicine that reduces 
inflammation) and folic acid (a type of vitamin), and receive injections of vitamin B12 during treatment 
with Pemetrexed Baxter.  
Treatment should be delayed or stopped, or the dose reduced, in patients whose blood counts are 
abnormal or who have certain other side effects. 
For more information about using Pemetrexed Baxter, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
How does Pemetrexed Baxter work? 
The active substance in Pemetrexed Baxter, pemetrexed, is a cytotoxic medicine (a medicine that kills 
cells that are dividing, such as cancer cells). In the body, pemetrexed is converted into an active form 
that blocks the activity of the enzymes that are involved in producing ‘nucleotides’ (the building blocks 
of DNA and RNA). As a result, the active form of pemetrexed slows down the formation of DNA and 
RNA and prevents the cells from dividing and multiplying. The conversion of pemetrexed into its active 
form occurs more readily in cancer cells than in normal cells, leading to higher levels of the active form 
of the medicine and a longer duration of action in cancer cells. This results in the division of cancer 
cells being reduced, while normal cells are only slightly affected. 
How has Pemetrexed Baxter been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Alimta, and do not need to be repeated for Pemetrexed 
Baxter.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Pemetrexed Baxter. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Pemetrexed Baxter is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Pemetrexed Baxter is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into 
the bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Pemetrexed Baxter? 
Because Pemetrexed Baxter is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Pemetrexed Baxter authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Pemetrexed 
Baxter has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Alimta. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Alimta, the benefits of Pemetrexed Baxter outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pemetrexed Baxter? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pemetrexed Baxter have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pemetrexed Baxter are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Pemetrexed Baxter are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Pemetrexed Baxter 
Pemetrexed Baxter received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 2022. 
Further information on Pemetrexed Baxter can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pemetrexed-baxter. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Pemetrexed Baxter (pemetrexed) 
EMA/841935/2022  
Page 2/3 
This overview was last updated in 12-2022. 
Pemetrexed Baxter (pemetrexed) 
EMA/841935/2022  
Page 3/3 
