Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Pemetrexed  Accord 
100/500/1000 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
and  Pemetrexed  Accord  25  mg/ml  solution 
for 
infusion 
(Pemetrexed) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pemetrexed Accord 100/500/1000 mg 
powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord  25  mg/ml  solution  for 
infusion.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Pemetrexed  Accord,  how  these  risks  can  be 
minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Pemetrexed  Accord’s  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Pemetrexed  Accord  100/500/1000  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and 
Pemetrexed Accord 25 mg/ml solution for infusion’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflets give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Pemetrexed Accord should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Pemetrexed  Accord  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pemetrexed 
Accord 100/500/1000 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion and Pemetrexed Accord 
25 mg/ml solution for infusion's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Pemetrexed Accord contains pemetrexed (as pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate) as the active 
substance and it is given intravenously (as intravenous infusion). 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated for below indications: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy 
naïve patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients 
with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous 
cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced 
or  metastatic  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  other  than  predominantly  squamous  cell  histology  in 
patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed  Accord  is  indicated  as  monotherapy  for  the  second  line  treatment  of  patients  with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Pemetrexed  Accord  100/500/1000  mg  powder  for 
concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord  25  mg/ml  solution  for  infusion’s 
benefits can  be  found  in  Pemetrexed  Accord’s EPAR,  including  in  its plain-language summary, 
available 
on 
the 
EMA 
website, 
under 
the 
medicine’s 
webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pemetrexed-accord  
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
II. 
the risks 
Important risks of Pemetrexed Accord 100/500/1000 mg powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord  25  mg/ml  solution  for  infusion  together  with  measures  to 
minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Pemetrexed  Accord 
100/500/1000  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord 
25 mg/ml solution for infusion’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures,  information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed during  signal  management activity,  so that immediate action can  be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Pemetrexed Accord 100/500/1000 mg powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord  25  mg/ml  solution  for  infusion  are  risks  that  need  special  risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Pemetrexed  Accord 
100/500/1000  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  Pemetrexed  Accord  
25 mg/ml solution for infusion. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and  needs  further evaluation. Missing  information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks  
Missing information 
  None 
  None 
  None 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product.  
 
 
 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Pemetrexed  Accord  100/500/1000  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and 
Pemetrexed Accord 25 mg/ml solution for infusion. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Pemetrexed Accord 100/500/1000 mg powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion and Pemetrexed Accord 25 mg/ml solution for infusion. 
 
 
 
 
