Summary of risk management plan for Pemetrexed medac (Pemetrexed) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pemetrexed medac. The RMP details 
important risks of Pemetrexed medac, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Pemetrexed medac’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).  
Pemetrexed medac’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pemetrexed medac 
should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Pemetrexed medac should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pemetrexed 
medac’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Pemetrexed medac is authorised for malignant pleural mesothelioma (a cancer of the lining of 
the lungs), and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains Pemetrexed as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pemetrexed medac’s benefits can be found in 
Pemetrexed medac’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pemetrexed-medac  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Pemetrexed medac, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Pemetrexed medac’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Pemetrexed medac are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Pemetrexed medac. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
There are no safety concerns; therefore this section is not applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Pemetrexed medac. 
II.C.2 Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Pemetrexed medac. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
