26 May 2016 
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi 
International non-proprietary name: pemetrexed 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003895/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects ................................................ 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 16 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 16 
2.6. PSUR submission ............................................................................................... 18 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 18 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 18 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 18 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 19 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 2/20 
 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AS active substance 
ASMF  Active substance master file 
BET 
Bacterial endotoxin 
CHMP Committee for medicinal products for human use 
CQA 
Critical quality attribute 
DSC  Differential scanning calorimetry 
EU European Union 
FDM 
Freeze drying microscopy 
FK 
Fresenius Kabi (Applicant) 
GC Gas chromatography 
GMP Good manufacturing practice 
HDPE  High-density polyethylene 
HPLC High performance liquid chromatography 
ICH International conference on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of pharmaceuticals for 
human use 
ICP-MS Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry  
IPC 
In-process control 
IR Infrared 
KF Karl Fisher titration 
LCMS Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry 
LDPE  Low-density polyethylene 
MS Mass spectrometry 
NMR Nuclear magnetic resonance 
NMT  Not more than 
Ph. Eur. European Pharmacopoeia 
PL 
Package Leaflet 
QTPP  Quality target product profile 
SmPC Summary of product characteristics 
TLAP  Triple laminated aluminium pouch 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 3/20 
 
  
  
 
USP United States Pharmacopeia 
UV Ultraviolet  
XRPD X-ray powder diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 4/20 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc submitted on 21 May 2015 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility 
to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 November 2013. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis 
of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  other  than  predominantly  squamous  cell  histology  in  patients  whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced  or  metastatic  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  other  than  predominantly  squamous  cell  histology  (see 
section 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data instead of 
non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise. There is no requirement for bioequivalence testing according 
to CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in accordance 
with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta 100 mg/500 mg powder for concentrate for solution 
for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 5/20 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Date of authorisation: 20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta 100 mg/500 mg powder for concentrate for solution 
for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
Scientific advice  
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Karsten Bruins Slot 
CHMP Peer reviewer: Juris Pokrotnieks 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 21 May 2015.  
The procedure started on 25 June 2015. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 September 2015. 
The  PRAC  Rapporteur’s  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP/PRAC  members  on  25 
September. 
During the meeting on 22 October 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 27 January 2016. 
The CHMP/PRAC Rapporteurs’ circulated their joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP/PRAC members on 8 March 2016  
PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 17 March 2016. 
The  CHMP/PRAC  Rapporteurs’  circulated  their  updated  joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 6/20 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP/PRAC members on 23 March 2016.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  1  April  2016,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding  issues  to  be 
addressed in writing by the applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 26 April 
2016. 
The CHMP/PRAC Rapporteurs’ circulated their joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP/PRAC members on 11 May 2016.  
During the meeting on 26 May 2016, the CHMP, in  the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi 100 mg or 500 mg Powder for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion has the same 
active substance (different salt) and the same excipients in comparable amounts to the centrally approved 
reference medicinal product Alimta (EU/1/04/290/001-002). 
The claimed indication for Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is: 
“Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease has not 
progressed immediately following platinum based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology”. 
As monotherapy or in combination with cisplatin the recommended dose of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is 500 
mg/m2 of body surface area (BSA) administered as an intravenous infusion over 10 minutes on the first day of 
each 21-day cycle.  
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. After reconstitution, each 
strength of the proposed product contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
The difference in active substance salt form between the applied product and the reference product is therefore 
not relevant for the clinical efficacy and safety of the ready to use infusion. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 7/20 
 
  
  
 
About the product  
Pemetrexed is a multi-targeted anti-cancer antifolate agent that exerts its action by disrupting crucial 
folate-dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Mode of action 
In vitro studies have shown that pemetrexed behaves as a multitargeted antifolate by inhibiting thymidylate 
synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT), 
which are key folate-dependent enzymes for the de novo biosynthesis of thymidine and purine nucleotides. 
Pemetrexed is transported into cells by both the reduced folate carrier and membrane folate binding protein 
transport systems. Once in the cell, pemetrexed is rapidly and efficiently converted to polyglutamate forms by 
the enzyme folylpolyglutamate synthetase.The polyglutamate forms are retained in cells and are even more 
potent inhibitors of TS and GARFT.Polyglutamation is a time- and concentration-dependent process that occurs 
in tumour cells and, to a lesser extent, in normal tissues. Polyglutamated metabolites have an increased 
intracellular half-life resulting in prolonged drug action in malignant cells. 
The active substance in Fresenius Kabi’s Pemetrexed for Injection is pemetrexed diacid instead of pemetrexed 
disodium as in the originator product Alimta. Both products are intended for intravenous use and must be 
reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. When reconstituted and diluted for administration, the active 
moiety remains the same irrespective of the salt form.  
Excipients of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi differ from Alimta. The excipients used are well known and commonly 
used in aqueous intravenous solution available on the European market, and the differences are not expected to 
have any significant impact in properties with regards to bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy 
between these products. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg/vial and 
500 mg/vial of pemetrexed (as pemetrexed diacid) as active substance. After reconstitution, both presentations 
result in 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
The powder has to be reconstituted with 5% glucose intravenous infusion before administration. 
As described in section 6.1 of the SmPC, other ingredients are: mannitol (E421), hydrochloric acid concentrated 
(E507) (pH adjustment) and trometamol (pH adjustment). 
The finished product is presented in Type I glass vial with chlorobutyl rubber stopper and green or blue flip-off 
seal respectively, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of the active substance is N-{4-[2-(2-amino-4-oxo-4,7-dihydro-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-d] 
pyrimidin-5-yl) ethyl] benzoyl}-L-glutamic acid, corresponding to the molecular formula C20H21N5O6 and has a 
molecular mass of 427.41 g/mol. Pemetrexed diacid has the following structure (Figure 1): 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 8/20 
 
  
  
 
Figure 1. Molecular structure of Pemetrexed diacid. 
The structure of pemetrexed diacid has been confirmed by mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, proton 
nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-NMR), 13C-NMR and X-ray Powder Diffraction (XRPD). 
Pemetrexed diacid is a white to off-white coloured crystalline and highly hygroscopic powder that is soluble in 
dimethylformamide, dimethylsulphoxide and sodium hydroxide solution and insoluble in water.  
Pemetrexed diacid possesses one chiral centre in the structure. There are two optically active isomers: the R (or 
D) isomer is inactive and the S (or L) isomer is the active isomer. Pemetrexed diacid is manufactured as the 
single S (or L) isomer. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by chiral HPLC. 
Several polymorphic forms of pemetrexed diacid are reported in literature. Pemetrexed diacid produced by the 
active substance manufacturer is the crystalline form. As requested by the CHMP, a test to control polymorphism 
was included in the active substance specifications as a non-routine test.  
Pemetrexed as diacid is not described in Ph. Eur. A monograph exists however for pemetrexed as a disodium salt 
(heptahydrate).   
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the 
ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Pemetrexed diacid is manufactured in a nine stage process using five well defined starting materials.  As 
requested by the CHMP, the Applicant has redefined the initially proposed starting material as an intermediate 
to ensure that all critical steps of the synthetic process are described in the dossier.  Starting materials and 
intermediates are controlled by acceptable specifications. Adequate in-process controls are applied during the 
synthesis.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities including related substances, residual solvents, inorganic impurities and 
genotoxic impurities were appropriately discussed in the ASMF. In particular, possible carry-over of potential 
genotoxic impurities in pemetrexed diacid samples have been determined by LCMS scan. It has been 
demonstrated that these impurities are absent in pemetrexed diacid final active substance. In addition, since 
pemetrexed diacid is indicated for treatment of advanced cancer, the absence of a full discussion on genotoxic 
impurities is accepted in accordance with ICH-M7.  
The active substance is packed into a double polyethylene zipped bag (LDPE). It is further put into another 
polyethylene bag, heat sealed and then introduced into a triple laminated aluminium pouch (TLAP) and heat 
sealed. The TLAP is placed in a high density polyethylene (HDPE) opaque drum/ fibre board drum. The container 
closure system is in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monographs 3.2.2 and 3.1.3 and with the EU Regulation no 
1183/2012 (amending and correcting the Regulation (EU) No 10/2011). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 9/20 
 
  
  
 
Specification 
The active substance in-house release specification include: description, solubility, identity (HPLC and IR), water 
content (KF), residue on ignition (USP), heavy metals (USP), colour (Ph. Eur.), clarity (Ph. Eur.), residual 
solvents (GC and HPLC), related substances (HPLC), chiral purity (HPLC), assay (HPLC), bacterial endotoxins 
(Ph. Eur.), microbial limit test (Ph. Eur.), elemental impurities (ICP-MS) and polymorphism (XRPD).  
The purity requirements as defined in the active substance specification are sufficiently justified and considered 
acceptable. The absence of control of the active substance particle size in the specification was adequately 
justified based on the demonstration that it did not affect the dissolution rate of the drug substance. Studies 
showed that increased water content did not impact the quality of the active substance, so no test for water 
content is required. All analytical methods have been properly described and the in-house analytical methods 
have been adequately validated in line with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards used for the analytical validation of related substances and assay has been provided. 
The results of three validation (production scale) batches demonstrate compliance to the proposed active 
substance specifications and batch to batch consistency. 
Stability 
Stability studies on the first three commercial scale validation batches of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer stored in the intended commercial packaging over a period of 36 months at long-term storage 
conditions (30°C ± 2°C / 65% RH ± 5% RH) and over a period of 6 months at accelerated storage conditions 
(40°C ± 2°C / 75% RH ± 5% RH) were provided. The stability studies were performed according to the ICH 
Q1A(R2).  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, colour and clarity (2.5% w/v solution in 1N 
NaOH), water content, assay, bacterial endotoxins, microbial limit test, related substances and chiral purity. 
The analytical test methods used for stability studies are those followed at the time of release and were stability 
indicating. No trends were observed and all parameters remained within the proposed specification. 
Forced degradation studies were also conducted on one batch. The results showed that Pemetrexed diacid 
degrades in acid, base and oxidative stress conditions. The analytical test methods used for stability studies are 
those followed at the time of release and were stability indicating. Photostability testing following the ICH 
guideline Q1B was performed. Results did not show any significant change in the parameters studied. 
Based on the submitted stability data, the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is stable for 
36 months at long term conditions (30°C ± 2°C / 65% RH ± 5% RH) when packed in the intended container 
closure (see section “Manufacture, characterisation and process controls”). The retest period of 36 months when 
stored at controlled room temperature in the proposed container is acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a finished product generic to the reference medicinal 
product, Alimta (Eli Lilly Nederland B.V). The active substance in Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is pemetrexed 
diacid instead of pemetrexed disodium (Alimta). Since the active moiety in the solution for infusion remains the 
same irrespective of the salt form used for manufacture it has no impact.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 10/20 
 
  
  
The finished product Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi has the same pharmaceutical form as the reference product, 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg or 500 mg of pemetrexed per vial. It is 
presented in 10 ml (100 mg/vial) or 50 ml (500 mg/vial) glass vials sealed with rubber stoppers and flip off caps. 
The powder is described as white to off-white lyophilized powder or solid. Before administration, the finished 
product should be reconstituted with 5 % glucose intravenous infusion and further diluted with 5 % glucose 
intravenous infusion according to the instructions given in the product information. Further information on this 
diluent is provided in the clinical part of this report. No reconstitution solution is supplied with the finished 
product.  
Based on public information and characterisation studies on the reference product, as well as general 
requirements for the product type, a quality target product profile (QTPP) for the finished product was defined 
as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 mg or 500 mg pemetrexed per vial, meeting 
pharmacopoeial requirements for parenteral dosage forms, to be 100% bioavailable, with acceptable packaging 
that ensures an adequate shelf-life as packaged and an appropriate in-use shelf life following reconstitution and 
dilution. 
Based on the QTPP, compendial requirements, available information on the reference product and additional 
characterization studies, physicochemical properties of the drug substance and developmental studies 
conducted by Fresenius Kabi, critical quality attributes (CQAs) of the finished product were identified. These 
CQAs are  description/appearance, identification, water content, uniformity of dosage units, reconstitution time, 
description of reconstituted solution, completeness and clarity of solution after reconstitution, particulate matter 
(visible and sub-visible particles), pH, related substances, assay, bacterial endotoxins and sterility.  
Risk assessment was conducted on these CQAs to form the basis for product development studies in order to 
mitigate the risk through formulation and process design and control. The potential attributes affecting these 
CQAs were identified and their potential to impact any of the finished product CQAs was classified as low, 
medium or high risk. Based on the identified QTPP, CQAs and initial risk assessment, product development 
studies were conducted to identify a stable formulation and a manufacturing process to consistently produce a 
product of the intended quality. 
The suitability of all the excipients and their compatibility with the active substance was verified by stability 
studies. The excipients used in the formulation of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi are the same used in the reference 
product except sodium hydroxide, which is replaced by trometamol. Trometamol is a known buffering agent/pH 
adjuster and solubilizer. In addition, hydrochloric acid has been added as a pH adjusting agent. Mannitol is the 
main excipient used as a bulking agent during lyophilization process. The list of excipients is included in section 
6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 1.1.1 of this report. All excipient are of Ph. Eur. quality and suitable for 
parenteral formulations. 
The effects of temperature, pH, light and dissolved oxygen on the bulk solution stability during the 
manufacturing process were evaluated. Light protection of the liquid product and nitrogen purging and flushing 
to control oxygen level during manufacturing were then identified as critical process controls. Drug dissolution 
was also considered a critical step of the process. Complete dissolution was ensured by applying appropriate 
in-process controls.  
As the active substance is sensitive to oxidation and vulnerable to hydrolysis in aqueous environment it is 
formulated as a lyophilised powder, and stored under nitrogen in type I glass vials as the reference medicinal 
product. The finished product is manufactured by sterile filtration followed by aseptic processing. Sterile 
filtration was considered a critical step. This resulted in the performance of a test for filter integrity with the 
filters tested before and after filtration. In addition, a pre-filtration bio-burden test before sterile filtration was 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 11/20 
 
  
  
conducted to ensure that the bio-burden load was within acceptable limits. The lyophilisation process was 
developed based on the product’s critical temperatures as characterised by differential scanning calorimeter 
(DSC) and freeze drying microscopy (FDM). 
No bioequivalence study was deemed required as the finished product is to be administered as an aqueous 
solution containing the same active substance in the same concentration as the reference product. 
The primary packaging is Ph. Eur. Type-I, tubular glass vials (100 mg in 10 ml and 500 mg in 50 ml) closed with 
20 mm chlorobutyl rubber stopper and sealed with green or blue, respectively, aluminium flip-off over seal. The 
material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has been 
validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of three stages: bulk solution, aseptic filtration and filling/lyophilisation. 
The critical steps of the manufacturing process were properly described. The in-process controls are adequate 
for this type of manufacturing process.  
The manufacturing process is considered to be non-standard as the finished product is sterilised by sterile 
filtration followed by aseptic processing.  
Major steps of the manufacturing process (bulk solution, filtration, filling and lyophilisation and sealing) have 
been validated by a number of studies. Process validation has been performed with three commercial scale 
batches of each of the presentations (100 mg/ vial and 500 mg/ vial). It has been demonstrated that the 
manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner.  
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf-life specification includes appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form  
description (visual), identification (UV and HPLC),  water (KF, Ph.Eur.),  uniformity of dosage units (Ph.Eur.), 
reconstituted solution including reconstitution time, description of reconstituted solution(visual), completeness 
and  clarity  of  solution  (visual)  and  particulate  contamination  (visual),  colour  (Ph.Eur.),  particulate 
contamination (sub-visible particle, Ph.Eur.), pH (Ph.Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), bacterial 
endotoxins  (Ph.Eur.),  sterility  (Ph.Eur.)  and  seal  integrity  test(vacuum  decay  or  Dye  intrusion).The  finished 
product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional final product 
release testing. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with the 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information on the reference standards used for analytical validation, method 
transfer and release testing of the finished product has been provided.  
Batch analyses results for three full scale batches (process validation batches) for all the strengths confirming 
the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification 
have been provided. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of three commercial scale batches of each strength of the finished product packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing were provided. The batches of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi are identical to 
those proposed for marketing. The conditions applied were in line with the ICH guidelines and were the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 12/20 
 
  
  
following: accelerated conditions (40°C/75 % RH) for up to 6 months, intermediate conditions (30°C/65 % RH) 
and long term conditions (25°C/60 % RH) for 12 months.  
Samples were tested for: description, water, pH, assay (by HPLC), particulate contamination (sub-visible 
particles), reconstituted solution tests (reconstitution time, description of reconstituted solution, completeness 
and clarity of solution after reconstitution, particulate contamination – visible particles, pH, colour) bacterial 
endotoxins, sterility, related substances (by HPLC) and seal integrity test. 
The analytical methods used were the same as for the release and they are stability indicating.  
The results showed that Pemetrexed for Injection 100 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial, are chemically, physically and 
microbiologically stable. No significant changes were observed during the stability studies at any of the 
conditions tested and all parameters remained within the proposed specification.  
In addition, a photostability study was also performed according to ICH Q1B on one batch of each of the 
presentations. Samples were analyzed for description, assay, pH and related substances. All results remained 
within the specifications and no significant trends were observed, demonstrating that that the finished product 
is not light sensitive. Therefore, it can be concluded that no special protection from light is required for the drug 
product in the proposed primary packaging. 
A reconstitution stability study was also conducted on one batch of the 100 mg presentation after reconstitution 
with the prescribed volume of diluent (5% glucose). Samples were stored at room temperature (25°C±2°C) and 
at 2°C-8°C for up to 48 hrs. EU and US reference product was also studied for reconstitution stability for up to 
24 hrs. The reconstituted samples were analyzed for: description, assay, pH and related substances. No 
significant change in assay and impurity profile was observed on the reconstituted test product at any of the 
conditions studied. The reconstituted stability of the test product was found to be comparable to that of 
reference product. It is recommended to use reconstituted Fresenius Kabi’s Pemetrexed for Injection within 24 
hours at refrigerated temperature with the recommended diluent 5% Glucose intravenous infusion. 
Since reconstituted Pemetrexed for Injection is intended to be diluted before administration in 5% Glucose 
intravenous infusion, a dilution study was also conducted. Samples of 1 mg/ml and 9 mg/ml of Pemetrexed were 
stored for up to 48 hours at room temperature (25°C±2°C) and at 2°C-8°C. The samples were withdrawn at 
pre-defined time points and were analyzed for description, assay, related substances, pH and osmolality (initial 
time point only). The study demonstrated that the product developed is compatible with both diluents at the 
conditions tested. In light of the results it is recommended to use reconstituted Fresenius Kabi’s Pemetrexed for 
Injection within 24 hours at refrigerated temperature with the recommended diluent 5% Glucose intravenous 
infusion. 
Furthermore, in order to study the impact of extreme low temperature conditions, outside the labelled storage 
conditions, that may occur during finished product shipment, a thermal excursion study was performed. The 
results showed that short exposure of the product at -20 °C for 14 days and 60°C for 2 days does not have any 
deleterious effect on product stability.  
Finally, the impact of fluctuating environmental conditions that may occur during finished product distribution, 
thermal cycling study was also evaluated. Samples were stored at -20°C or 2°-8°C for 2 days, followed by 
40±2°C/75±5%RH for other 2 days. The results showed that short exposure of product to these conditions does 
not have any adverse effect on the product. 
Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf life of 24 months without any special storage conditions 
as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. Specific instructions for use have also been included in this 
section of the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 13/20 
 
  
  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. As requested by the CHMP, the applicant re-defined the proposed starting 
materials to ensure that all critical steps of the synthetic process are described in the dossier. The active 
substance in Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is pemetrexed diacid instead of pemetrexed disodium (Alimta). Since 
the active moiety in the solution for infusion remains the same irrespective of the salt form used for manufacture 
it has no impact.  The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have satisfactory and uniform 
performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
Not applicable.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided. The overview 
refers to 15 publications up to 2013. The overview justifies why there is no need to generate additional 
non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data, and that the different salt of the active 
substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product 
which is in accordance with relevant guidelines. The excipients, mannitol, hydrochloric acid and trometamol are 
widely used in parenteral products and have well-known safety profiles 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has 
been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction of 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi manufactured by Fresenius Kabi is considered unlikely to result in any significant 
increase in the combined sales volumes for all pemetrexed containing products and the exposure of the 
environment to the active substance. Thus, the environmental risk is expected to be similar and not increased. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 14/20 
 
  
  
2.3.3.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of pemetrexed are well known. No non-clinical 
data were submitted with this application. Published literature has been reviewed and is considered of suitable 
quality. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing pemetrexed.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
efficacy and safety of pemetrexed based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the 
reference product.  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product. 
Exemption 
Biowaiver 
No bioequivalence studies have been submitted.  
Referring to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **), 
the applicant claims that a bioequivalence study is not required for this application since Pemetrexed 100 mg 
and 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous 
solution containing the same active substance as the reference product Alimta powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion. Different salts, esters, ethers, isomers, mixtures of isomers, complexes or derivatives of an 
active substance are considered to be the same active substance, unless they differ significantly in properties 
with regard to safety and/or efficacy. 
The active substance in Fresenius Kabi’s Pemetrexed for Injection is Pemetrexed diacid instead of Pemetrexed 
disodium as in Alimta 100 mg/500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. Before use, the powder 
is reconstituted with 5 % Glucose solution to achieve a concentration of 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. The 
concentrate is further diluted before intravenous infusion. In the solution for intravenous infusion the active 
moiety remains same irrespective of the salt form. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 15/20 
 
  
  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data were submitted. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
According to Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **), 
bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous 
intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product. The different 
salts, esters, ethers, isomers, mixtures of isomers, complexes or derivatives of an active substance are 
considered to be the same active substance, unless they differ significantly in properties with regard to safety 
and/or efficacy. 
The active substance in Fresenius Kabi’s Pemetrexed for Injection is Pemetrexed diacid instead of Pemetrexed 
disodium as in Alimta 100 mg/500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. When reconstituted and 
diluted for administration, the active moiety remains the same irrespective of the salt form. Accordingly, both 
medicinal products are considered to contain the same active substances. 
Trometamol is a known buffering agent/pH adjuster used in formulations available in Europe and US. It is agreed 
that the quantity used in Fresenius Kabi’s formulation is less than the required quantity to produce 
pharmacological action and would not be expected to cause any adverse effects of its own. The other excipients 
are well known and commonly used in aqueous intravenous solution available on the European market. The 
existing differences in the excipients of the applied product as compared to the reference product are not 
expected to have any significant impact in properties with regards to bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, safety 
and efficacy between these products. 
Taking into account all aforementioned, the requirements set out in the bioequivalence guideline are considered 
met, and a waiver of bioequivalence study is considered acceptable from a clinical point of view, provided the 
product is deemed to be essentially similar to the reference product based on the pharmaceutical assessment. 
The clinical overview supports the indications and covers adequately the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and 
safety of the product.  
The proposed SmPC of the applied product is in line with the SmPC of Alimta. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi and justifications that the 
different salt of the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy 
of the reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant 
guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 16/20 
 
  
  
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Non-compliance with folic acid and vitamin B12 
regimens manifested mainly as haematological and 
gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities 
Renal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Radiation pneumonitis 
Radiation recall 
Sepsis 
Bullous skin reaction including Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
Bone marrow suppression 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
None 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product.  
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk minimisation 
measures. 
Risk minimisation measures 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed risk minimisation 
measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indication(s).  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Noncompliance with folic acid and 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 
None 
vitamin B12 regimens manifested 
4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
mainly as haematological and 
gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities 
Renal disorders 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 
None 
4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 4.4 
None 
and 4.8  
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 17/20 
 
  
  
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
Radiation pneumonitis 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 4.4 
None 
and 4.8  
Radiation recall 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 4.4 
None 
and 4.8  
Sepsis 
Proposed text in SmPC section 4.8   None 
Bullous skin reaction including 
Proposed text in SmPC section 4.8   None 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) 
and toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) 
Bone marrow suppression 
Proposed text in SmPC sections 
None 
4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 18/20 
 
  
  
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
reference product Alimta is indicated for: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease has not progressed 
immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects 
based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
Bioequivalence testing with the reference product is not required under the provisions of the Guideline on the 
investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1) since the product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance in the same concentration as the currently 
authorised product. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product Alimta can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi in the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 19/20 
 
  
  
 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed Fresenius Kabi is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/407425/2016 
Page 20/20 
 
  
  
