22 July 2022 
EMA/OD/0000063986 
EMADOC-1700519818-880411 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Pepaxti (melphalan flufenamide) 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma 
EU/3/15/1463 
Sponsor: Oncopeptides AB 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................ 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation .............................................................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 7 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance 
Melphalan flufenamide 
Other names 
-  
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Melphalan flufenamide 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Pepaxti 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma  
Oncopeptides AB   
Vastra Tradgardsgatan 15 
Stockholms  
111 53 Stockholm  
Stockholms Lan 
Sweden  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Oncopeptides AB  
12 February 2015 
19 March 2015 
EU/3/15/1463 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Paula Boudewina van Hennik, Elita Poplavska 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Oncopeptides AB   
15 April 2021 
20 May 2021 
EMA/H/C/0005681 
Pepaxti 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Pepaxti is indicated, in combination with dexamethasone 
in the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma 
who have received at least three prior lines of therapies, 
whose disease is refractory to at least one proteasome 
inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and one anti 
CD38 monoclonal antibody, who have demonstrated 
disease progression on or after the last therapy. For 
patients with a prior autologous stem cell transplantation, 
the time to progression should be at least 3 years from 
transplantation (see section 5.1) 
Further information on Pepaxti can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/P
epaxti 
CHMP opinion 
23 June 2022 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Karri Penttila / Elisabeth Johanne Rook 
Sponsor’s report submission 
4 June 2021 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
14-16 June 2022 
questions  
Sponsor’s removal request  
22 June 2022 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2015 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
“Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the 
following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing melphalan flufenamide 
was considered justified based on preclinical data in relevant models of the condition showing 
prolongation of survival and preliminary clinical data showing responses in patients who had 
relapsed or were refractory to previous treatment; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcaemia, 
renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of up to 
approximately 6 years; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 3.6 in 10,000 people in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made. 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing melphalan flufenamide may be of significant benefit to those affected by the 
condition. The sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data that show clinical responses in patients 
who had relapsed or were refractory to previous treatments. The Committee considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing melphalan flufenamide as an orphan medicinal 
product for the orphan indication: treatment of plasma cell myeloma”. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
Condition 
Multiple myeloma (MM) (or plasma cell myeloma, as for this designation) is a debilitating malignancy 
part of a spectrum of diseases ranging from monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS) 
to plasma cell leukaemia (PCL).     
The aetiology of multiple myeloma is unknown. The disease is often asymptomatic for a long period of 
time and therefore is often advanced at the time of diagnosis. MM is most frequently diagnosed among 
people >65 years of age and the median age at onset in Europe is 72 years. The incidence rates 
increase with age, particularly after the age of 40 years, and men are more likely to develop the 
disease than women.  
The clinical course of MM can be highly variable. Multiple myeloma is a heterogeneous disease with 
some patients progressing rapidly despite treatment and others remaining stable without therapy for a 
number of years. Myeloma cells produce and secrete large quantities of one 
specific immunoglobulin (Ig) called monoclonal (M) protein, which can be measured in plasma, and 
serve as a reflection of the disease burden over time.  The accumulation of excess of plasma cells in 
the bone marrow leads to inhibition of the production of normal blood cells, and as a result, 
patients frequently present with cytopenias (especially anaemia, but also thrombocytopenia, and 
neutropenia). Decreased production of antibodies leads to infections. In addition, patients develop 
osteolytic lesions in the bone that may lead to pathologic fractures (~75%), and to hypercalcemia. 
Renal impairment is also frequently associated with MM due to the protein overload.    
The sponsor described the characteristics of the condition, which has been previously accepted by the 
COMP for an orphan designation.    
The intended therapeutic indication “Pepaxti is indicated, in combination with dexamethasone in the 
treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior lines of 
therapies, whose disease is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory 
agent, and one anti CD38 monoclonal antibody, who have demonstrated disease progression on or 
after the last therapy. For patients with a prior autologous stem cell transplantation, the time between 
transplantation and progression should be at least 3 years (see section 5.1)” falls within the scope of 
the designated orphan condition “treatment of plasma cell myeloma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility to be confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The most common presenting symptoms of MM are fatigue, persistent bone pain, especially in the 
lower back or thorax, and opportunistic infections (often pneumococcal). Other common symptoms 
include pathologic fractures, spinal cord compression (from pathologic fracture), weakness, malaise, 
anaemia and/or bleeding, hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, and neuropathies (Shah and Besa, 2018). 
Clinical complications of progressive MM include recurrent infections due to decreased production of 
antibodies, cytopenias (especially anaemia, but also thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia), renal failure 
due to the protein overload, hyperviscosity syndrome, hypercalcemia, bone pain, and pathologic 
fractures (Munshi et al., 2012).  
At the stage of triple class refractoriness there is a limited number of approved agents available. 
Median overall survival (OS) in 1 study in patients who were refractory to 1 anti CD38 monoclonal 
antibody (mAb), 1 PI and 1 IMiD was 5.3 months (Benyamini 2018). In another study, median OS in 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
patients refractory to anti CD38 mAbs was found to be only 4.5 months (Varnado et al 2018). Of note, 
patients with RRMM and EMD, a sign of advanced MM when the disease has manifested itself outside 
the bone marrow, who were also refractory to anti CD38 mAbs had particularly poor outcomes (Pick et 
al 2018). Further, in a study with heavily pretreated patients, the reported median OS was 6.6 months 
and 3.5 months in a subgroup of patients who progressed on daratumumab-based therapy (Pick et al 
2018). 
Patients whose disease has become triple refractory are in their late stage of the disease, are typically 
frail and have multiple comorbidities. Given the limited survival, as well as the inevitable aggressive 
relapses in patients with refractory disease, new drugs are needed. 
The COMP concluded that the condition is chronically debilitating and life-threatening due to 
development of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia, bone lesions, and reduced life expectancy. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
At time of initial orphan designation in November 2014, the COMP concluded that the condition was 
estimated to be affecting approximately 3.6 in 10,000 persons in the European Union. 
The Sponsor’s position remains that multiple myeloma is an orphan disease, affecting not more than 5 
in 10,000 in the EU, which is below the threshold for orphan designation. This was based on two 
different sources Globocan 2020 and NORDCAN, 2019 presented in Table 1 below: 
Table 1. Prevalence of multiple myeloma in the EU 
Source 
Prevalence proportion per 
10,000 
Globocan 2020 
Prevalence calculated based on 
1.2 – 2.3 
age-standardised incidence rates 
Globocan 2020 
Prevalence calculated based on 
3.9 
5-year prevalence 
NORDCAN, 2019 
4.6 
However, the sponsor did not conclude on a specific estimate of the prevalence. 
The sponsor should provide a revised estimate for the prevalence. This estimate should be justified 
based on recent published epidemiological data including registries and supported by an indirect 
estimation of the prevalence. 
It should be highlighted that recently the COMP accepted OS data of 5.8 years based on the the 
following publications (Greipp 2005; Cho 2017; Kastritis 2017; Usmani 2018). Based on these data, 
the median OS for International Staging System (ISS) stage I/II patients, who represent 60-70% of all 
MM patients, is approximately 7 years. For ISS stage III patients, who represent 30-40% of all MM 
patients, the median OS is approximately 1-4 years, i.e. using a 7-year mOS for ISS stage I/II, 
representing 60% of the population and 4-year mOS for ISS stage III, representing 40%. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Current treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) includes glucocorticoids (dexamethasone, prednisolone, 
methylprednisolone), chemotherapy, primarily alkylating agents (such as bendamustine, 
cyclophosphamide and melphalan), including high dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell 
transplantation (ASCT), proteasome inhibitors (PIs, such as bortezomib, carfilzomib and ixazomib), 
immunomodulatory agents (IMiDs, such as thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide), monoclonal 
antibodies (mAbs, such as daratumumab, isatuximab, elotuzumab), the histone deacetylase inhibitor 
panobinostat, the antibody drug conjugate, belantamab mafodotin, the selective inhibitor of nuclear 
export (SINE) selinexor and autologous CAR-T-cell immunotherapy agent idecabtagene vicleucel, a 
genetically modified B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-directed therapy.  
As per the European society for medical oncology (ESMO) guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of 
multiple myeloma in later line treatment, the choice of therapy depends on several parameters such as 
age, performance status, comorbidities and the type, effects and tolerability of previous treatments 
(Dimopoulos et al 2021).  
For the R/R MM setting in the EU the below medicinal products are authorised: 
•  Second- and later lines: bortezomib, carfilzomib, ixazomib, lenalidomide, pomalidomide, 
daratumumab, isatuximab, elotuzumab. 
• 
• 
• 
Third- and later lines: pomalidomide, daratumumab, isatuximab, elotuzumab, Panobinostat. 
Fourth- and later lines: idecabtagene vicleucel (ide-cel), ciltacabtagene autoleucel. 
Fifth- and later lines: belantamab and Selinexor. 
The proposed indication for melphalan flufenamide is the following: 
Pepaxti is indicated, in combination with dexamethasone in the treatment of adult patients with 
multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior lines of therapies, whose disease is refractory 
to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and one anti CD38 monoclonal 
antibody, who have demonstrated disease progression on or after the last therapy. For patients with a 
prior autologous stem cell transplantation, the time between transplantation and progression should be 
at least 3 years (see section 5.1).  
The sponsor considered belantamab, selinexor and idecabtagene vicleucel as satisfactory methods.  
However, both belantamab and selinexor are authorised for R/R MM after 4 prior lines of treatment, 
therefore as fifth and later lines of therapy in the triple-class (PIs, IMiDs, anti-CD38 mAbs) patient 
population. Therefore, melphalan flufenamide covers a broader patient population, which is not 
covered by belantamab and selinexor.  
Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior therapies, including an 
immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have demonstrated 
disease progression on the last therapy. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Carvykti (ciltacabtagene autoleucel) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including 
an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Therefore, for the significant benefit idecabtagene vicleucel and ciltacabtagene autoleucel should be 
considered as satisfactory methods. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor claimed the significant benefit based on safety and a major contribution to patient care as 
compared to the authorized CAR-T therapy ide-cel. The sponsor claims that treatment with ide-cel has 
limitations due to applicability and accessibility that may prevent it from being practical and clinically 
appropriate for all patients with heavily pretreated MM.  
According to the sponsor, in order to qualify for CAR-T and related treatments, patients should be 
relatively fit (ECOG 0-1), without CNS-disorder, inadequate renal, cardiac and pulmonal function, 
further active infections, inflammatory disease are contraindications for use and viral re-activation of 
CMV and HBV with fatal outcome has occured and theoretically, patients should also be eligible for a 
second treatment. Further, due to the complex and highly advanced production process of ide-cel, 
drug availability is at least 4-5 weeks. Consequently, patients with progressing disease will not be 
subjects for such therapy, unless bridging treatment with other, readily available treatments to which 
the disease is not resistant nor the patient is intolerant or have developed intolerance to, can be 
utilized. In addition, ide-cel, like other CAR-T cell therapies, will only be available in academic hospitals 
with transplant/CAR-T cell capabilities, including participating in a mandatory educational programme 
for both HCPs and patients and the individualized and complex production and treatment associated 
with high costs, will limit the number of patients who can receive this type of treatment. In addition, 
only health care professionals specifically trained in cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and neurological 
toxicities (common adverse events with ide-cel) can administer ide-cel to patients, and the facilities 
treating patients with ide-cel should be certified for the Ide-cel administration and monitoring. The 
patients are also required to stay at the certified facility for at least 4 weeks after treatment with ide-
cel due to serious and life-threatening adverse events such as CRS, neurologic toxicities and 
haemophagocytic lympohistiocytosis (HLH). As the majority of R/R MM patients are treated outside of 
this setting, ide-cel will probably only be available to a limited subset of patients, while Pepaxti will be 
widely available with its 30-minute monthly infusion and with a manageable safety profile.  
The COMP acknowledged the above sponsor’ s arguments that melphalan flufenamide will provide a 
major contribution to patient care as compared to the authorized CART therapy ide-cel, as it has 
limitations with regards to eligibility, safety and accessibility considerations that may prevent them 
from being practical and clinically appropriate for all patients with heavily pretreated multiple 
myeloma. However, from a regulatory perspective within the remits of this procedure, the sponsor is 
reminded that the (minimal) prerequisite for a significant benefit based on a major contribution to 
patient care is the demonstration of the product’s equivalence in terms of efficacy, safety and 
benefit/risk balance as compared with the relevant authorized medicinal products. Reference is made 
to the “Commission notice on the application of Articles 3, 5 and 7 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on 
orphan medicinal products”  https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=OJ:JOC_2016_424_R_0003&from=EN 
In conclusion the COMP considers that the significant benefit of melphalan flufenamide over the 
authorized CAR T therapy idecabtagene vicleucel has not been established based on the data 
presented. The sponsor is requested to provide indirect comparisons based on the available updated 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical data between melphalan flufenamide and the authorised CAR-T cell therapies idecabtagene 
vicleucel and ciltacabtagene autoleucel. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
• 
Prevalence 
The sponsor should provide a revised estimate for the prevalence. This estimate should be justified 
based on recent published epidemiological data including registries and supported by an indirect 
estimation of the prevalence. 
For the estimation and presentation of the prevalence estimate the sponsor is advised to refer to 
the “Points to Consider on the Estimation and Reporting of a Prevalence of a Condition for Orphan 
Designation”. 
•  Significant benefit  
The sponsor should discuss the significant benefit of melphalan flufenamide over the authorised 
medicinal product Carvikty (ciltacabtagene autoleucel) based on the updated data. 
The significant benefit of melphalan flufenamide over Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel) is not 
considered established, based on the data presented. Therefore, the sponsor is requested to further 
justify the assumption of significant benefit of melphalan flufenamide over idecabtagene vicleucel 
based on indirect comparisons of the available updated clinical data. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000063986 
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
