Summary of risk management plan for Pepaxti (melphalan 
flufenamide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pepaxti. The RMP details 
important risks of Pepaxti, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Pepaxti’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pepaxti’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pepaxti should be used. 
This summary of the RMP of Pepaxti should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European public assessment report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Pepaxti’s RMP. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
I. 
Pepaxti is indicated, in combination with dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult patients 
with multiple myeloma who have received at least 3 prior lines of therapies, whose disease is 
refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and one anti-
CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease progression on or after the 
last therapy. For patients with a prior autologous stem cell transplantation, the time to 
progression should be at least 3 years from transplantation (see SmPC for the full indication). 
It contains melphalan flufenamide as the active substance, and it is given by intravenous 
infusion after reconstitution and dilution. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pepaxti’s benefits can be found in Pepaxti’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pepaxti 
II 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Pepaxti, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about melphalan flufenamide's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Pepaxti is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Pepaxti are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Pepaxti. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. use in patients with severely impaired kidney 
function). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Missing information 
Use in patients with severely impaired kidney function 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Use in patients with severe renal impairment 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 stating that there are insufficient data in patients with 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
estimated kidney function/glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 
<30 mL/min/1.73 m2 to support a dose recommendation. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Study OP-107 (BRIDGE): Pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of 
melflufen in patients with relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma and impaired 
kidney function (eGFR <45 mL/min). 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the postauthorisation 
development plan. 
II.C  Postauthorisation development plan 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
II.C.1 
There are no planned studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Pepaxti. 
II.C.2 
BRIDGE (OP-107) 
Other studies in postauthorisation development plan 
 
 
 
 
