SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. Introduction 
This is a centralised procedure for the marketing authorisation application for Pergoveris, which is a 
fixed dose combination of recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (r-hFSH; INN: follitropin 
alfa) and recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH; INN: lutropin alfa) presented as a powder 
and solvent for solution for injection. The strength of the active ingredients of Pergoveris is 150 IU for 
follitropin alfa and 75 IU for lutropin alfa. In this application, the results from the following clinical 
trials  have  been  presented:  two  Phase  II/III  efficacy  studies  (GF6253  and  GF6905),  two 
biopharmaceutical studies (IMP23718 and IMP23722).  Additional data from the following studies has 
been summarised: five clinical pharmacology studies (GF5007, GF5117, GF6135, GF6136, GF6137), 
one pharmacokinetic study (GF6137), four additional efficacy studies (GF7798, GF8297, IMP21008 
and IMP21415). 
Hypogonadotropic  hypogonadism  (HH)  is  a  rare  disorder  of  reproductive  function  and  describes 
absent or decreased function of the gonads in both men and women. The dysfunction is characterized 
by the absence of effective hypothalamic occurring -pituitary secretory activity resulting in stopped or 
attenuated gonadal function. In women, the disorder may therefore be characterised by the failure to 
undergo the usual physical and reproductive changes of puberty or, if occurring after puberty, may by 
secondary  amenorrhea  (absence  of  menses).  Amenorrhea  is  a  manifestation  of  low  oestrogen 
production and is associated with similar adverse health conditions as those seen in postmenopausal 
women: bone mineral abnormalities, altered lipid profiles and accelerated cardiovascular disease. The 
additional  consequence  of  stopped  ovarian  function  is  anovulation  and  infertility.  From  the  clinical 
perspective,  the  diagnosis  of  HH  is  confirmed  by  endocrine  testing  that  demonstrates  low 
gonadotropin serum levels and low oestrogen levels. Ovulation is the result of a well-defined sequence 
of  events  that  includes  the  combined  effect  of  pituitary  gonadotropins  FSH and LH. Any functional 
disorder  of  the  hypothalamic-pituitary  ovarian  axis  may  lead  to  absence  or  inadequate  ovulation, 
resulting  in  infertility.  Anovulation  is  estimated  to  account  for  up  to  24  %  of  human  infertility 
problems. 
The product will be marketed in a vial containing 150 IU of follitropin alfa and 75 IU of lutropin alfa 
in a fixed ratio. The approved indication for Pergoveris is the stimulation of follicular development in 
women  with  severe  LH  and  FSH  deficiency.  In  clinical  trials  these  patients  were  defined  by  an 
endogenous  serum  LH  level  <1.2  IU/L.  It  should  be  noted  that  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are 
marketed as individual products by the same Company. 
2. Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Pergoveris is a new fixed combination product whose active substances, follitropin alfa and lutropin 
alfa  are  also  individually  marketed  as  part  of  the  centrally  authorised  products  Gonal-f  and  Luveris 
respectively. 
Follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  produced  from  genetically  engineered  CHO  cells.  They  are 
manufactured  using  a  continuous  perfusion  mode  and  purified  by  a  series  of  chromatography  and 
filtration steps (different steps for follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa). The resulting active substances are 
combined and formulated, and then lyophilised to obtain Pergoveris finished product. 
Pergoveris  is  intended  to  be  administered  by  subcutaneous  injection  following  reconstitution  with 
sterile water for injections (supplied with Pergoveris). 
1/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substances 
Nomenclature 
INN Name:  
Compendial Name:  
Chemical Name:                      Recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (r-hFSH) 
Follitropin alfa/lutropin alfa 
Not Applicable 
Laboratory Code:  
USAN/BAN/JAN Name:  
CAS Registry Number:  
WHO Number:  
Recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH) 
Not applicable 
Follitropin alfa/lutropin alfa 
R-hFSH: 146479-72-3; r-hLH: 152923-57-4 
8313 
Description of the active substances 
Follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa are glycoprotein hormones consisting of two non-covalently linked 
subunits:  an  alfa  subunit  of  92  amino  acids  which  is  common  to  different  glycoprotein  hormones 
(FSH,  LH,  TSH,  hCG),  and  a  specific  beta  subunit  (111 amino acids for follitropin alfa, 121 amino 
acids for lutropin alfa) leading to specific biological properties. 
The alfa subunit contains two N-linked glycosylation sites (Asn 52 and Asn 78) and five disulphide 
bonds. The beta subunit contains six disulphide bonds and one (lutropin alfa) or two (follitropin alfa) 
N-linked glycosylation sites.  
The oligosaccharides attached to the alfa and beta subunits of r-hFSH and r-hLH are of complex type, 
with  bi-,  tri-,  tetra-  or  penta-antennary  forms  containing  N-acetylglucosamine,  mannose,  galactose, 
sialic acid (at variable rates) and fucose residues. 
The molecular masses of the alfa and beta subunits are approximately 14 kDa and 17 kDa (follitropin 
alfa)/15 kDa (lutropin alfa) respectively. 
•  Manufacture 
Follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  manufactured  at  Laboratoires  Serono,  Z.I  de  l’Ouriettaz, 
Aubonne,  Switzerland.  This  facility  is  operated  according  to  current  Good  manufacturing  Practices, 
with standard operating procedures in place to describe all procedures and controls. 
Development genetics 
The  genomic  DNA  fragments  encompassing  sequences  for  the  α-  and  β-units  of  human  FSH  and 
human LH were isolated from a gene library carrying DNA from cells from human fetal liver. 
The  host  cell  line  used  for  the  production  of  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  is  an  anchorage 
dependent  CHO  cell  line  isolated  from  a  CHO-K1  cell  line  with  deficient  dihydrofolate  reductase 
(DHFR) activity. The CHO cells were co-transfected with two plasmids, one containing the α-hFSH or 
α-hLH gene and a DHFR selective marker gene, and the other containing the β-hFSH or β-hLH gene 
and an ornithine decarboxylase selectable marker.  
A subclone was selected as the cell line to be expanded for the preparation of the Master Cell Bank 
(MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB). 
Cell bank system 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  MCB  and  WCB  has  been  developed  and  maintained  in 
accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines.  
For each active substance, the MCB was prepared from a single vial of the above-mentioned subclone 
which was thawed and expanded by subcultivation in a growth medium. The WCB was prepared from 
one vial of MCB, based on the same principles as for the MCB. 
MCB and WCB are stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen. 
Procedures followed in the preparation of MCB and WCB were appropriately described. An extensive 
range of tests was performed for their characterisation, in accordance with ICH guidelines, including 
identity, viability, stability, presence of adventitious agents. 
Fermentation process 
2/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One  vial  from  the  WCB  is  thawed  and  seeded  into  roller  bottles  or  tissue  culture  flasks.  Following 
sub-passages, the expanded cells are transferred into a bioreactor. Microcarriers are introduced into the 
bioreactor  and  are  used  as  cell  support  during  the  bioreactor  expansion  and  production  phases. 
Harvests are collected and stored for the purification process. 
Cell  culture  conditions  and  in-process  controls  (IPC)  were  sufficiently  described  and  are  considered 
appropriate. 
Purification process 
Follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  purified  using  a  series  of  chromatography  and  viral  filtration 
steps. 
Each  step  has  been  sufficiently  described,  including  description  of  the  elution  buffers,  exchange 
buffers,  column  regeneration  and  storage  conditions  of  both  columns  and  product  after  each  step. 
Suitable IPCs are in place, with acceptable limits. 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
Between the authorisation of Gonal-f and Luveris and the submission of the marketing authorisation 
application for Pergoveris, a number of changes  to the manufacturing process of follitropin alfa and 
lutropin  alfa  active  substance  were  implemented.  Major  changes  concerned  follitropin  alfa  and 
consisted in the introduction of a scaled up cell culture and purification process. 
The scaled up process for follitropin alfa was validated and the results of four production runs were 
consistent. The outcome of the comparability exercise between the two follitropin alfa processes was 
satisfactory. The overall performance of the two fermentation scales is similar. 
The  two  follitropin  alfa  purification  processes  were  adequately  validated.  Column  lifetimes  are 
defined according to relevant performance criteria.  
Validation  of  the  lutropin  alfa  process  was  performed  by  analysing  relevant  parameters  of  four 
consecutive full-scale batches throughout the cell culture process and purification process. 
Process  validation  for  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  is  acceptable.  It  was  demonstrated  that  the 
follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa processes are capable of consistently producing the active substances 
and consistently removing the product- and process-related impurities. 
Characterisation 
Extensive  characterisation  was  undertaken, 
including  peptide  mapping,  mass  spectroscopy, 
carbohydrate content analysis, sialylation, N-terminal sequencing, iso-electric focusing, biological and 
immuno-activity.    Follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  complex  molecules  existing  in  a  variety  of 
different glycosylated and truncated forms. However, batch data showed consistency with respect to 
physico-chemical characteristics, immunological and biological activity.  
The impurity profile of the active substances has also been assessed with respect to  
-  Potential  process-related  impurities,  which  includes  host  cell  DNA,  cell  culture-derived  protein 
contaminants,  potential  microbiological  contaminants,  potential  viral  contamination,  purification-
derived impurities; 
- Product-related impurities, which includes oxidised forms, aggregates, free α- and β-subunits. 
The data provided is acceptable, giving confidence that the product structure is well understood and 
that the impurity profile is adequately controlled. 
•  Specification 
The  release  specifications  of  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  active  substances  are  unchanged 
compared to the currently authorised specifications for follitropin alfa in Gonal-f and lutropin alfa in 
Luveris. 
•  Stability 
3/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability  data  confirmed  the  36-month  60-month  shelf  life  for  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa 
respectively  
Finished Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The excipients used in Pergoveris formulation are sucrose, polysorbate 20, L-methionine, a phosphate 
buffer.  
The  pharmaceutical  development  of  the  finished  product  is  based  on  the  experience  gained  from 
Gonal-f and Luveris finished products. The excipients used in Pergoveris formulation are those found 
in these two medicinal products: sucrose, polysorbate 20, L-methionine, a phosphate buffer.  
The results of the compatibility studies of the combined r-hFSH and r-hLH with the container closure 
adequately justify the proposed overages in the final formulation of both follitropin alfa and lutropin 
alfa. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process of Pergoveris finished product  include the preparation of the compounded 
solution  including  excipients  solution  and  the  calculated  amount  of  active  substances,  which  is 
subsequently  sterile  filtered  and  filled  into  vials  under  aseptic  conditions  before  freeze-drying, 
stoppering and capping, labelling and packaging of the vials. 
Process  validation  was  completed  by  carrying  out  3  manufacturing  runs  with  different  batches  of 
finished product, at full manufacturing scale. The data provided were generally considered acceptable. 
However,  the  applicant  committed  to  provide  Quality  Control  release  data  from  the  first  drug 
production batch at full scale to support the validation of the lyophilisation process. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  water  for  injections  was  adequately  described  and  appropriately 
controlled. 
•  Product Specifications 
The  specifications  that  have  been  set  are  based  on  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for 
parenteral products, the impurity profile with respect to product degradation, active substance content 
and biological activity, as well as the microbial purity and sterility.  The specifications for all release 
tests are in general suitably justified.  
The specifications for the solvent water for injections meet the Ph. Eur. requirements. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data of accelerated and long-term studies have been provided and confirmed that the finished 
product corresponding to the combined follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa active substance is stable over 
the proposed 36 month shelf-life. All results are within the required specifications. 
Adventitious Agents 
The raw materials of animal origin used in the manufacturing process of follitropin alfa and lutropin 
alfa  active  substances  are  FBS  at  different  stages  of  the  cell  culture  process  and  for  which  TSE 
certificates  were  provided,  microcarrier  beads  (porcin  collagen)  and  porcine  trypsin.  These  raw 
materials are provided from qualified suppliers.  
Adequate  process  controls  are  in  place  to  ensure  virological  control  (on  the  bulk  harvest)  and 
microbial  control  (throughout  the  manufacturing  process).    Both  purification  processes  have  been 
suitably validated for their ability to remove and/or inactivate potential viral contaminants. 
4/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The source, history and generation of the cell substrate, including generation and characterisation of 
the MCB and WCB have been well described and documented. 
The upstream and downstream processes have been adequately described. IPCs are in place, ensuring 
consistency of the follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa manufacturing processes. 
The  purification  process  includes  a  membrane  filtration  step  shown  to  reproducibly  remove  viruses 
based on size exclusion and not adsorption. 
Non-viral and viral safety of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa is considered to be assured.  
The active substances were thoroughly characterised using state-of-the-art methods, giving confidence 
that structure of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa is well understood.  
The impurity profile is adequately controlled. 
The  active  substance  release  specifications  are  unchanged  compared  to  those  of  follitropin  alfa 
contained in Gonal-f and of lutropin alfa contained in Luveris.  
Stability  data  support  the  36-month  shelf  life  for  follitropin  alfa  and  the  60-month  shelf  life  for 
lutropin alfa, and the 36-month shelf life for the finished product. 
The manufacturing process and IPCs for Pergoveris finished product and WFI have been adequately 
described. Process validation is considered satisfactory. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  Pergoveris  are  of  pharmacopoeial  quality.  There  are  no 
excipients of human or animal origin. 
The finished product specifications have been adequately justified. The applicant committed to review 
these specifications when a statistically significant number of batches will have been manufactured. 
3. Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  two  biotechnological  drug  substances  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  have  been  characterised 
separately by the applicant with non-clinical tests appropriate to the nature, the intended dosage and 
duration of administration of follitropin alfa/lutropin alfa. Human bioavailability studies have shown 
that  there  is  no  discernable  change  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  individual  follitropin  alfa  and 
lutropin alfa when administered in combination. In addition, clinical experience using co-administered 
follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa did not give rise to any safety or efficacy concerns. Therefore, it is 
considered unlikely that a full non-clinical testing program conducted with drug product would extend 
the  scientific  knowledge  already  gained  with  the  individual  hormones  in  the  claimed  therapeutic 
indication. Repeating the same studies by exposing a large number of animals is considered unethical. 
However,  as  follitropin  alfa/lutropin  alfa  is  a  new  product,  a  new  local  tolerability  study  was 
performed with the intend-to-market formulation. Detailed descriptions of results obtained in the non-
clinical programs conducted with the individual constituents of the Pergoveris formulation are given in 
the appropriate sections of the present application. 
Pharmacology  
The  pharmacology  of  follitropin  alfa  and  of  lutropin  alfa  has  been  extensively  described  by  the 
applicant.    The  patient  population  targeted  by  the  product  benefits  from  the  presence  of  both 
constituents  in  the  product  and  this  population  is  presently  treated  with  each  constituent  given 
separately. CHMP was of the opinion that no additional pharmacology studies in animals are required. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In  normal,  sexually  mature  women  the  sex  hormones  are  released  in  a  cyclical  manner  under  the 
control  of  the  hypothalamo-pituitary  axis.  Hypothalamic  neurones  secrete  Gonadotrophin  Releasing 
5/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hormone (GnRH) that, in turn, stimulates the anterior pituitary to release follicle-stimulating hormone 
(FSH)  into  the  systemic  circulation  (Catt  and  Pierce  1986).  FSH  binds  to  a  specific  transmembrane 
receptor  located  on  the  ovarian  granulosa  cells  that  surround  the  oocyte  and  activates  a  receptor-
associated  adenylate  cyclase  system,  which  in  turn,  increases  cyclic  AMP  (cAMP)  production.  This 
change in cAMP levels is responsible for the activation of protein kinases and the phosphorylation of 
regulatory  protein substrates involved in hormone action. Receptor activation triggers granulosa cell 
mitosis, induction of oestradiol (E2) -producing enzymes and the acquisition of luteinising hormone 
(LH) receptors on the granulosa cells. Concomitantly, LH activity leads to maturation of the Graafian 
follicle and the ripening and release of a single oocyte per menstrual cycle. The corpus luteum formed 
after extrusion of the oocyte releases additional growth factors and steroids (including progestogens) 
that  control  the  progestational  phase  of  the  reproductive  cycle.  The  majority  of  female  HH  patients 
have an LH deficiency that precludes optimal follicular development and steroidogenesis unless LH is 
co-administered  with  FSH.  Inadequate  E2  secretion  leads  to  impaired  endometrial  growth  and  the 
follicles  do  not  form  a  functional  corpus  luteum  when  exposed  to  Chorionic  Gonadotropin  (hCG). 
Administration of FSH and LH has been used successfully to treat infertility problems in women. In 
fact, complete or partial deficiency in LH and FSH or dysynchrony of LH and FSH secretion may lead 
to  absent  or  abnormal  ovulation  (i.e.,  dysovulation).  Anovulation  and  dysovulation  are  common 
causes  of  infertility  in  women.  Dysovulation  probably  accounts  for  up  to  20%  of  human  infertility 
problems. 
A  series  of  pharmacology  studies  intended  to  fully  characterise  the  pharmacodynamics  of  the  two 
active  substances,  including  receptor  binding  affinity  and  activity  in  rodents  and  primate  models  of 
ovulation, have been conducted by the applicant with the individual recombinant hormones follitropin 
alfa and lutropin alfa. Non-clinical studies allowed confirming that follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa do 
exert  the  normal  expected  pattern  of  biological  responses  in  relevant  animal  model  systems.  The 
primary  pharmacodynamic  response  after  concomitant  exposure  to  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa 
was  assessed  through  two  pharmacodynamic  studies.  These  studies  demonstrate  that  follitropin  alfa 
and lutropin alfa exerted an additive effect on maturation of ovarian follicles in vitro (rats) and on the 
promotion  of  follicle  growth  and  E2  production  in  vivo  (monkeys).  This  finding  is  consistent  with 
clinical experience on the efficacy of the combined administration of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa 
for  achieving  adequate  follicular  development,  follicular  E2  production,  endometrial  growth  and 
formation of a functional corpus luteum in response to hCG in the target population of women with 
severe FSH and LH deficiency. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Extensive experimental work has been conducted with the individual follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa 
active substances contained in final product, through the standard battery of safety pharmacology tests 
including  cardiovascular,  central  nervous  and  respiratory  systems.  Additional  safety  pharmacology 
screening was performed: body temperature, sleeping time, locomotor activity, anticonvulsant activity, 
gastrointestinal  motility,  effects  on  isolated  ileum,  uterine  motility  and  urine  electrolyte  excretion. 
These  later  tests  allowed  concluding  that  except  for the  predicted  pharmacological  effects  related  to 
interactions  with  the  appropriate  specific  receptor  expressed  on  the  target  cells,  no  other  effect  is 
expected. This finding is consistent across the preclinical and clinical experience gained.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Potential pharmacokinetic interactions when follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa are co-administered are 
assessed by the clinical pharmacology studies. Comparison of the pharmacokinetic parameters for 
each of the active substances when administered in combination, as compared to separate 
administrations has been established in humans. Based on the results obtained, it was considered that 
no additional information would be gained by repetition of such tests in animals with Pergoveris. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  each  individual  recombinant  hFSH  and  hLH  has  been  fully 
characterised  by  the  applicant  following  single  and  7-day  repeat  administration  in  the  monkey. 
Disposition of the radio-labelled (125I) gonadotropins has been assessed through rat ADME studies. 
In summary, mean absolute bioavailability in the monkey was 71% (follitropin alfa) and 48% (lutropin 
alfa) after single SC dosing and slightly higher to 77% (follitropin alfa) and 61% (lutropin alfa) after 
single  IM  dosing.  Elimination  half-life  was  around  20  h  (follitropin  alfa)  and  11  h  (lutropin  alfa). 
6/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon repeat dosing FSH Cmax on day 7 was about twice the one after the first administration; there 
was  no  accumulation  of  lutropin  alfa.  Tissue  distribution  studies  showed  presence  or  significant 
concentrations  of  radioactivity  in  the  ovaries and in organs like the kidney consistent with expected 
route  of  elimination.  There  was  no  radioactivity  pattern  suggesting  extensive  binding  to  or 
accumulation  in  tissues  not  expressing  the  relevant  receptors  (with  the  exception  of  the  thyroids). 
Although  no  metabolism  data  were  obtained  from  these  studies,  clearance  of  both  gonadotropins  is 
expected  to  occur  through  the  common  mechanisms  in  which  glycoprotein  hormones  (like  the 
naturally  occurring  FSH  and  LH)  are  cleared  from  the  body.  Most  of  the  radioactive  material  was 
excreted  in  urine  as  low  molecular  weight  fractions,  which  means  that  it  is  no  longer  composed  of 
intact  molecules.  Since  no  differences  were  observed  in  the  human  PK  profile  of  the  two  active 
substances  when  administered  in  combination  compared  to  separate  administrations,  it  is considered 
unnecessary to repeat animal PK studies. 
Toxicology 
Gonadotropin receptor expression is strictly restricted to gonads and highly cell-specific. Expression 
of the FSH receptor is limited to granulosa cells in ovaries and Sertoli cells in testis while that of the 
LH/HCG receptor is restricted to differentiate granulosa cells, theca cells and corpus luteum in ovaries 
and Leydig cells in testis. Therefore, each gonadotropin will exert its full range of biological activities 
without  any  other  direct  effects  on  cells  devoid  of  specific  receptor.  Co-administration  of  the  two 
gonadotropins  is  thus  expected  to  result  in  biological  effects  related  to  their  binding  to  the  specific 
membrane-bound  receptor  and  their  pharmacodynamic  actions.  Findings  in  the  toxicological 
experiments  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  as  individually  assessed  are  consistent  with  the 
predictable  extension  of  their  pharmacodynamic  activities.  However,  it  was  shown  that  long-term 
animal  experimentation  has  limits  related  to  the  development  of  antibodies  to  the  human  proteins 
injected. Although this resulted in decreased exposures, the expected pharmacodynamic actions were 
not prevented.  
Historical experience with human menopausal gonadotropin containing FSH and LH include two four-
weeks toxicity studies conducted in rats and monkeys with one parallel group receiving hMG  (human 
menopausal gonadotropin) at a very high dose level, 1000 IU/kg/day. These experiments showed that 
hMG-induced changes were as expected from the high dose and prolonged administration period and 
were consistent with its combined FSH/LH pharmacodynamic activities. In rats, the overall pattern of 
effects observed was consistent with an extension of the combined FSH/LH activities on the gonads 
and their secondary endocrinological consequences. In females there was an increase in follicular cysts 
and  corpora  lutea  and,  most  probably  due  to  the  consequential  steroid  production,  hyperplasia  of 
uterine mucosa, anterior pituitary and mammary gland acini. In males, interstitial cell hyperplasia and 
seminiferous  tubule  degeneration  were  the  prominent  histological  finding  in  testes.  The  latter  could 
again  be  ascribed  to  negative  feedback  mechanisms  induced  by  the  secondary  production  of  sex 
steroids, which reflected in the observed epithelial hyperplasia of the prostate gland. In monkeys the 
ovary  weights  of  all  treated  animals  exceeded  the  control  values.  At  the  microscopic  level  these 
changes correlated with an increased number of follicular cysts (sometimes haemorrhagic) and with an 
increased incidence of degenerated corpora lutea (sometimes with haemorrhages). The testes showed a 
treatment-related increase in weight. Microscopically this correlated with a slight increase in tubular 
diameter.  
•  Single and repeat dose toxicity 
The safety of Pergoveris is supported by an extensive toxicity programme performed by the applicant 
with  the  individual  drug  substances  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  present  in  the  drug  product 
formulation. In these studies encompassing single dose, subacute and subchronic toxicity experiments, 
no signs of intrinsic toxicity were detected in the relevant rodent and non-human primate species with 
either hormone at doses up to 1000 IU/kg/day (follitropin alfa) or 5000 IU/kg/day (lutropin alfa) for 4 
weeks  or  1000  IU/kg/day  (both  gonadotropins)  for  13  weeks; these doses are several hundred times 
higher than those planned to be administered in women. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The  complete  series  of  genetic  toxicology  testing  following  in  vitro  exposure  (bacterial  and 
mammalian  cells)  and  in  vivo  administration  (mouse)  did  not  reveal  any  potential  to  induce  genetic 
damage. 
7/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
With respect to carcinogenicity, in accordance with ICH S6, no in vivo studies have been conducted 
with either the follitropin alfa/lutropin alfa combination product or each of the individual recombinant 
hormones  because  as  for  products  of  biotechnological  origin  these  assays  are  generally  regarded  as 
inappropriate.  Moreover,  carcinogenicity  testing  of  such  human  gonadotropins  in  animals  would  be 
extremely difficult to perform because as shown in the subchronic toxicity tests, antibodies against the 
human proteins developed by rodents following prolonged exposure are likely to affect the activity of 
the  hormone.  Carcinogenicity  bioassays  in  rodents  are  therefore  considered  irrelevant.  In  addition, 
there are a number of good reasons why the combination product is not expected to cause an increased 
risk  of  reproductive  tumours  in  patients:  (1)  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  both  recombinant 
form  of  the  corresponding  native  glycoprotein  hormones,  (2)  comprehensive  programme  of 
genotoxicity  studies  was  performed,  (3)  these  studies  showed  that,  even  at  conditions  of  extremely 
supraphysiological exposure to follitropin alfa or lutropin alfa there was no evidence of mutagenicity 
or  clastogenicity,    (4)  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  did  not  indicate  any 
potential for accumulation or the presence of any premonitory changes, despite the use of doses that 
exceeded the proposed clinical use by a very large margin, (5) the proposed clinical use of the product 
envisages only short-term use. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The  full  set  of  reproductive  toxicity  experiments  carried  out  in  rats  and  rabbits  highlighted  the 
predictable consequences of the hormonal imbalance induced by the untimely administration of high 
doses  of  such  potent  gonadotropins  affecting  fertility,  implantation,  parturition  and  foetal  viability, 
though  no  teratogenicity  was  observed.  However  the  No  Observed  Adverse  Effect  Level  (NOAEL) 
could be set in rats for each individual gonadotropin to at least 5 IU/kg/day. Within the reproductive 
toxicity experiments, hMG, 320 IU/kg/day was administered to parallel groups of rats (Segment I, II 
and III) and rabbits (Segment II). In this case the negative effects resulting from the association of the 
two  gonadotropins  were  largely  superimposable  to  those  already  known  for  each  of  the  individual 
recombinant hormones and with the published literature on HMG in rat pregnancy (Espey et al. 1997). 
In the fertility and early embryonic development study (Segment I), hMG-related effects were seen on 
both  male  and  female  parent  gonads  i.e.  in  males:  interstitial  cell  hyperplasia  and  tubule  atrophy 
reflecting on decreased or degenerated spermatic elements in epidydimides, and in females: increased 
number of corpora lutea with degenerative aspects and uterine atrophy. And hormonal imbalance was 
clearly  produced  in  dams  (high  frequency  of  females  with  irregular  estrous  cycles)  and  none  of  the 
dams  was  found  to  be  pregnant  at  term.  In  the  embryo-foetal  development  studies  (Segment  II), 
increased  number  of  corpora  lutea,  post-implantation  losses  (most  of  the  dams  had  only  resorptions 
and none delivered any pup) were seen in rats. Only resorptions, increased number of corpora lutea, 
and follicle haemorrhages and corpora lutea degeneration were found at ovary histology in rabbits. In 
the  pre-  and  post-natal  development  study  (Segment  III)  there  was  a  prolonged  gestational  period, 
dystocic parturition and intrauterine death. 
The observed adverse events are the predictable consequences of inappropriate exposures of animals 
to  high  doses  of  FSH  and  LH  leading  to  deep  interferences  on  the  hormonal  balance  from  which 
occurrence  of  pregnancy  in  the  studied  animal  species  depends.  However,  these  findings  are  of  a 
limited  value  in  terms  of  human  risk  assessment  as  it  would  be  irrelevant to administer r-hFSH and 
lutropin  alfa  either  alone  or  in  combination  during  pregnancy.  Monitoring  of  the  follicular 
development  and  hormonal  changes  during  the  ovarian  stimulation  therapy  is  a  well  consolidated 
practice  ensuring  that  treatment  is  initiated  and  discontinued  in  a  timely  manner  according  to  the 
patient’s response. 
8/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Concerning the animal studies, reference is made to two single dose pharmacokinetic studies in the 
monkey, taking into account that for rats no kinetic studies with follitropin alfa other than those 
obtained with the radio-labelled compound were performed, and that exposure is complicated by the 
inconsistent and generally low concentrations of the gonadotropins in serum after multiple doses.  
Follitropin alfa: assuming dose-proportional exposures, the single dose comparison clearly shows that 
the  peak  serum  levels  in  monkeys  at  the  NOAEL  identified  in  the  13-weeks  toxicity  study  (1000 
IU/kg/day)  were  over  150-fold  higher  than  a  clinically  relevant  plasma  level  in  human  subjects. 
However, the clinical regimen considered for the intend-to-market product is 150 IU. Using the above 
calculation this would still indicate a margin of about 150-fold (as AUC) between this and the primate 
toxicity  study.  This  multiple  indicates  that  a  substantial  safety  margin  exists  with  regard  to  human 
subjects given follitropin alfa therapeutically.  
Lutropin  alfa:  the  data  indicates  a  difference  of  about  10-fold  between  exposure  in  humans  and 
exposure  in  primate,  suggesting  a  reasonable  margin  of  safety.  In  the  human  clinical  pharmacology 
study 23722 a dose of 450 IU was used, whereas in the intended clinical formulation a dose of 75 IU 
of LH will be administered. The safety margin is thus increased by a further 5 to 6-fold. In addition, 
the NOEL in the 13-week primate study was set at 1000 IU/kg, which increases the apparent safety 
margin of a further 2.5-fold. It therefore seems reasonable to define the safety margin as higher than 
150-fold, assuming that exposures would remain linear with dose over these ranges. Biological actions 
of  follitropin  alfa  or  lutropin  alfa  are  consequent  to  binding  to  their  specific  receptor.  There  is  no 
experience  or  knowledge  that  activation  by  concomitant  administration  would  represent  a  specific, 
new risk to human subjects. 
•  Local tolerance  
Although follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa drug products were already shown to be devoid of irritating 
potential, the local tolerability of Pergoveris was investigated in order to support the planned human 
bioavailability  study  to  be  carried  out  at  high  dose  levels  (900  IU  follitropin  alfa  +  450  IU  lutropin 
alfa), to offer reassurance on the tolerability after repeat dosing at the dose/volume and concentration 
of the new  product as foreseen in human therapy (150 IU follitropin alfa + 75 IU lutropin alfa in 1 mL 
of  Water  for  Injection).  A  local  tolerance  study  was  conducted  in  the  rabbit  using  Pergoveris.  This 
study showed no evidence of an adverse local effect. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Allergenic and Immunogenic potential have been evaluated for the individual recombinant hormones. 
These studies showed that the gonadotropins are able to act as moderate sensitizers after intradermal 
challenge  in  the  guinea  pig  maximization  test;  lutropin  alfa  is  mildly  allergenic  in  guinea  pig  and 
mouse  anaphylaxis  models.  Such  results  are  expected  from  the  administration  of  a  foreign  (human) 
protein to animals. Considering the homology of the recombinant and natural human gonadotropins, 
the relevance of these findings in animals for the human clinical context is limited. Furthermore, there 
have  been  no  reports  in  the  clinical  studies  of  antibodies  to  either  follitropin  alfa  or  lutropin  alfa. 
Therefore,  no  studies  intended  to  address  the  potential  allergenicity  and  immunogenicity  were 
performed with Pergoveris. 
With  respect  to  bioavailability,  in  order  to  allow  comparative  exposure  assessment  between  animals 
and  humans,  two  studies  were  performed  that  evaluate  the  bioavailability  of  follitropin  alfa  and 
lutropin  alfa  in  healthy  female  subjects  following  single  s.c.  injection  of  the  combination  product 
(IMP23718, IMP23722). In the first study the human subjects received doses of 300 IU of follitropin 
alfa in combination with 150 IU lutropin alfa. In the second study, the human subjects received doses 
of 450 IU lutropin alfa in combination with 900 IU of follitropin alfa. As an approximation, in the case 
of a 50 kg subject this would be equivalent to a r-h FSH dose of 6 IU/kg (first study) and to a lutropin 
alfa dose of 9 IU/kg. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  ERA  has  been  submitted.  Due  to  the  nature  of  Pergoveris,  and  in  accordance  with  the  CHMP 
guideline (CHMP/SWP/4777/00draft), no risk to the environment is expected. 
9/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions on the non-clinical aspects 
It  is  concluded  that  clinical  use  of  Pergoveris  product  would  not  expose  patients  to  any  undue  risk. 
This is supported by the safety profile showed through the post-marketing experience gained by the 
applicant  with  both  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa.  It  was  therefore  considered  that  additional 
toxicological  studies  with  r-hFSH/r-hLH  would  have  added  little  value  to  the  clinical  risk-benefit 
assessment, especially when so much is already known about the pharmacology and toxicology of the 
individual  hormones  in  man  and  in animals. Due to the extent of preclinical and clinical experience 
with  the  individual  recombinant  hormones  and  to  the  documented  safety  of  the  simultaneous 
administration of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa as shown from the clinical trials, it is considered as 
not justifiable to conduct additional toxicology studies with the intend-to-market product. Additional 
non-clinical  studies  are  not  expected  to  result  in  new  information useful for human risk assessment, 
and are considered as unethical, as they would lead to unnecessary use of animals. The non-clinical 
sections of the proposed SPC are in line with the SPCs of the two individual substances. 
4. Clinical aspects  
Introduction 
Pergoveris is a new product containing a fixed combination of 150 IU of follitropin alfa and 75 IU of 
lutropin alfa intended for the stimulation of follicular development in women with severe LH and FSH 
deficiency    (WHO  type  I  anovulation,  Hypogonadotropic  Hypogonadism,  HH).  These  patients  are 
characterized  by  the  absence  of  effective  hypothalamic-pituitary  activity  resulting  in  arrested  or 
attenuated gonadal function, and they do not have the necessary threshold levels of endogenous LH 
required  to  achieve  optimal  follicular  development  and  steroidogenesis  when  given  FSH  alone,  and 
therefore a combination therapy that ensures adequate doses of both FSH and LH in an optimal ratio is 
beneficial in order to restore fertility. Based on the data from clinical trials of ovulation induction in 
the WHO group I population, the addition of lutropin alfa to follitropin alfa in patients with profound 
LH deficiency is aimed at increasing ovarian sensitivity to follitropin alfa, promoting E2 secretion by 
the pre-ovulatory follicle, resulting in normal endometrial growth, and promoting later luteinisation of 
follicles resulting in normal luteal phase progesterone levels. The clinical experience has shown that 
the  level  of  efficacy  achieved  is  clinically  and  statistically  above  that  of  h-rFSH  alone.  The  clinical 
studies have demonstrated that the 2:1 ratio (150 IU r-hFSH/75 IU r-hLH) is the most appropriate for 
this  indication.  Both  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  currently  individually  available  on  the 
market.  At  present  r-hFSH  is  approved  for  co-reconstitution  with  reconstituted  lutropin  alfa  and  co-
administered  as  a  single  injection.  Likewise  lutropin  alfa  is  approved  for  mixing  with  r-hFSH  as  an 
alternative  to  injecting  each  product  separately.  A  new  product  which  simplifies  the  reconstitution 
procedure is likely to reduce the risk of errors during manipulation, as well as it may provide a more 
convenient procedure for patients, hence increasing the chance for good compliance.  
To support the registration of Pergoveris, the relative bioavailabilities of the constituent gonadotropins 
were  compared  to  their  currently  marketed  counterparts:  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  in 
biopharmaceutical studies (IMP23718 and IMP23722). The pharmacokinetics of healthy volunteers 
was  studied  in  key  clinical  pharmacology  studies  of  follitropin  alfa  (GF5007  and  GF5117)  and 
separately  of  lutropin  alfa  (GF6135,  GF6136  and  GF6137)  submitted  to  support  this  application.  
Clinical efficacy and safety of lutropin alfa administered in free combination with follitropin alfa in 
HH women were demonstrated in two phase II/III studies (6253 and 6905). Study 6253 is the pivotal 
study  with  a  study  patient  population  representative  of  the  targeted  population  for  this  application. 
Study 6905 is a supportive study in which a broader population was assessed, including patients with 
less  severe  LH  and  FSH  deficiency.  The  two  studies  had  a  similar  prospective,  randomised,  dose-
finding  design.  Both  studies investigated three doses of lutropin alfa and included a placebo-control 
group.  Additionaly  safety  data  has  been  summarised  from  four  additional  efficacy  studies  (GF7798, 
GF8297, IMP21008 and IMP21415). 
GCP 
The  applicant  declares  that  the  two  clinical  efficacy  studies  presented  in  this  submission  were 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  ethical  principles  that  have  their  origins  in  the  Declaration  of 
Helsinki.  The  standards  of  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP)  were  applied  with  respect  to  IRB/IEC 
procedures,  informed  consent,  protocol  adherence,  administrative  documents,  drug  accountability, 
data  collection,  patient  records  (source  documents),  adverse  event  reporting,  inspection  and  audit 
preparation and record detention. 
10/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
BIOPHARMACEUTICAL STUDIES 
Bioavailability  
To support the registration of Pergoveris, the relative bioavailabilities of the constituent gonadotropins 
were  compared  to  the  individually  approved  products  containing  separately  follitropin  alfa  and 
lutropin alfa in biopharmaceutical studies (IMP23718 and IMP23722). These two new clinical studies 
were  run  in  healthy  female  subjects  to  allow  separate  investigations  of  bioavailability for follitropin 
alfa and lutropin alfa. In study IMP23718 the relative bioavailability of 300 IU of follitropin alfa in 
combination  with  150  IU  of  lutropin  alfa  was  compared  to  that  of  300  IU  of  follitropin  alfa.  The 
relative bioavailability of lutropin alfa at a dose of 450 IU in combination with 900 IU of follitropin 
alfa was compared to 450 IU of lutropin alfa in study IMP23722.  
Study IMP23718 
Study  IMP23718  was  conducted  in  order  to  assess  the  relative  bioavailability  of  FSH  when 
administered  as  the  combination  of  follitropin  alfa/lutropin  alfa  compared  to  r-hFSH.  This  was  a 
randomized,  double-blind,  2  way  cross-over  study  in  which  36  healthy  female  subjects  were  down-
regulated  using  the  GnRH-agonist  goserelin  (one  subcutaneous  injection  of  3.6  mg).  Each  down-
regulated subject received, in a randomised order, a single injection of r-hFSH (300 IU) and a single 
injection of the fixed combination product containing: 300 IU of follitropin alfa and 150 IU of lutropin 
alfa.  Treatments  were  separated  by  a  washout  period  of  at  least  7  days.  Blood  samples  for 
determination  of  the  concentrations  of  FSH  in  serum  were  taken  at  predetermined  time-points.  The 
measured FSH serum concentration versus time profiles after subcutaneous administration of 300 IU 
of follitropin alfa alone (reference) or as follitropin alfa in fixed combination with 150 IU of lutropin 
alfa  (test)  were  assessed  using  non-compartmental  analysis  and  the  following  parameters  were 
computed:  (1)  Area  under  the  serum  concentration  vs.  time  curve  from  zero  to  the  last  measurable 
concentration  by  using  the  log-linear  trapezoidal  rule  (AUClast),  (2)  Peak  serum  concentration 
(Cmax),  (3)  Time  of  peak  serum  concentration  (tmax).  No  AUC  to  infinity  was  calculated  as 
endogenous  concentrations  were  present  at  baseline  for  all  subjects  and  many  profiles  approached  a 
flat  line  towards  the  end  of  the  profile,  indicating  that  endogenous  FSH  levels  were  increasing  in 
response to the loss of down-regulation over time. After administration of 300 IU follitropin alfa as r-
hFSH (reference) or in combination with 150 IU of r-hLH (test), the median FSH profiles were very 
similar  for  both  treatments.  The  mean  Cmax  was  identical  (10.3  IU/L),  the  mean  AUClast  was 
comparable (918 IU·h/L and 925 IU·h/L for R-hFSH and the combination, respectively). The median 
tmax values were comparable for both treatments (12 h). Total variability (CV %) was around 20 % 
for both Cmax and AUClast for both treatments. One subject in the analysis data set showed a 5 to 10 
fold higher peak than all other individuals following administration of the fixed combination, with a 
typical profile for LH. No explanation could be found for this unexpected occurrence; neither in the 
clinical unit nor in the laboratory at sample analysis was anything unusual noted. A repeated analysis 
of  the  back-up  samples  for  that  subject  confirmed  the  measured  serum  concentrations.  This  subject 
was excluded from the bioequivalence analysis. In conclusion, bioequivalence of the dose of 300 IU of 
r-hFSH received from r-hFSH 150 IU / r-hLH 75 IU fixed monodose combination (test) and R-hFSH 
150 IU (reference) is concluded as the 90% confidence interval of the ratios of their means for both 
AUClast and Cmax, calculated from the ANOVA (or ANCOVA), were within the range (0.8,1.25). 
Study IMP 23722 
Study  IMP  23722  was  conducted  in  order  to  assess  the  relative  bioavailability  of  LH  when 
administered as the fixed combination of r-hFSH/r-hLH compared to r-hLH. This was a 2 arm-cross-
over,  open-label  study  in  which  81  healthy  female  subjects  were  down-regulated  using  a  GnRH-
agonist (3.6 mg of goserelin). Each down-regulated subject received, in a randomised order, a single 
injection of r-hLH (450 IU) and a single injection of the fixed combination product containing 900 IU 
r-hFSH and r-hLH, separated by at least 21 days. The administration of GnRH-agonist was repeated 
prior to the second study period in order to ensure the maintenance of down-regulation throughout the 
study. A total of 40 evaluable subjects were planned in one investigational site, however due to slow 
recruitment this was raised to 55 – 60 evaluable subjects over two investigational sites. 81 healthy pre-
menopausal  female  subjects  entered  the  treatment  phase  over  the  two  investigational  sites  and  were 
included in the safety analysis. 18 subjects were withdrawn from the study prior to Period 2, mainly 
due  to  failure  of  down-regulation.  A  total  of  63  subjects  successfully completed the study and were 
11/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
included in the evaluation of bioequivalence. All available data from all subjects were included in the 
pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The  median  LH  serum  profiles  were  similar  in  shape  for  both 
investigational products but with a lower Cmax for the fixed combination (mean 8.6 vs 9.3 mIU/mL 
for r-hLH). AUC0-last was also lower for the fixed combination (mean 208 vs 235 mIU·h/mL for R-
hLH). The median tmax was shorter for the fixed combination (6.13 vs 8.92 h for R-hLH). Variability 
was rather high with 35.5 % (R-hLH) / 37.1 % (combination) for Cmax and 58.3 % (R-hLH) / 56.8 % 
(combination) for AUC0-last. 
In conclusion, bioequivalence of 450 IU r-hLH in fixed combination with 900 IU r-hFSH (test) and 
450 IU r-hLH as R-hLH (reference) is concluded, as the 90% confidence intervals of the ratios of their 
means for both AUC0-last and Cmax, calculated from the ANOVA (or ANCOVA), were within the 
range 0.8,1.25. 
CHMP was of the opinion that the bioequivalence after a single injection of Follitropin alfa (300 IU) 
and a single injection of the fixed combination product containing: 300 IU of follitropin alfa and 150 
IU  of  lutropin  alfa  is  identical  (Study  IMP23718).  CHMP  believed  that  the  bioequivalence  after  a 
single  injection  of  lutropin  alfa  (450  IU)  and  a  single  injection  of  the  fixed  combination  product 
containing 900 IU follitropin alfa and 450 IU lutropin alfa is identical (Study IMP23722). A dose of 
450IU was chosen for Study 23722 as at this dose serum LH concentrations lie in the optimal range of 
the  method  used  to  determine  serum  LH  levels  and  stay  in  the  range  long  enough  to  adequately 
characterize  the  serum  LH  concentration-time  profile  to  enable  bioequivalence  comparisons  to  be 
made. The same reason was behind the choice of a dose of 300IU of rhFSH for study 23718. CHMP 
was of the opinion that it was reasonable to assume that results from these doses can be extrapolated to 
the dosing applied for. 
•  Analytical methods 
In studies IMP23718 and IMP23722 LH and FSH bioanalysis was performed using the commercially 
available assays respectively MAIA clone immunoradiometric (Manufacturer: Adaltis Italia, Italy) and 
SPAC-S (Manufacturer: Daiichi Radioisotope Labs Ltd, Tokyo, Japan). These same assays have also 
been  used  to  support  the  individual  recombinant  gonadotropin  clinical  pharmacology  and 
biopharmaceutics programs. Reports of Bioanalytical and Analytical Methods were not given. In order 
to assess the relative bioavailability of the respective hormones in question, larger doses were given 
than the ones intended for the final formulation. This design was due to difficulties in measuring the 
low serum values. 
•  Comparison and analyses of results across studies 
R-hLH shows linear pharmacokinetics after i.v. doses ranging from 300 IU to 40,000 IU, as assessed 
by the AUCs which are directly proportional to the dose administered and the clearance which remains 
almost constant throughout studies. Around 5 % of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. This is 
not  shown  for  s.c.  injection.  The  terminal  half-life  of  r-hLH  administered  s.c.  is  around  half  a  day. 
This is best estimated when high doses are injected, as those obtained with much lower doses are less 
precise  given  the  larger  impact  of  fluctuations  in  baseline.  However,  this  makes  it  more  difficult  to 
evaluate  the  impact  of  the  results.  Study  GF6137  demonstrates  that  there  is  no  pharmacokinetic 
interaction  between  r-hLH  and  r-hFSH.  After  repeated  s.c.  administration,  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
lutropin  alfa  are  comparable  to  those  found  after  single  s.c.  administration.  When  administered  s.c. 
concomitantly  at  the  dose  of  150  IU  per  day,  lutropin  alfa  does  not  markedly  affect the response to 
follitropin  alfa.  This  was  confirmed  in  study  IMP  23722  where  in  the  fixed  dose  combination  of  r-
hFSH / r-hLH formulation, r-hLH has no effect on the PK of r-hFSH.  
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
•  Pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  have  been  described  in  studies  that  were 
conducted  as  part  of  their  respective  development  programmes.  The  clinical  study  pharmacology 
programme  consists  of  five  clinical  pharmacology  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  (GF5007,  GF5117, 
GF6135, GF6136, GF6137).  
Study GF5007 
Study  GF5007,  was  a  Phase  I,  balanced,  random-order,  cross-over  study  to  determine  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  urinary  human  FSH  150  IU,  highly  purified  human  FSH  150  IU  and  r-hFSH 
12/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150IU  given  intravenously.  The  study  was  performed  in  12,  pituitary  desensitised,  healthy,  female 
volunteers. During the clinical phase of the study, each subject received by i.v. route, separated by a 
washout  period  of  one  week,  the  following  four  treatments:  urinary  human  FSH  150  IU;  highly 
purified  human  FSH  150  IU,  r-hFSH 150IU, and r-hFSH 300 IU in random order. The study lasted 
eight weeks and included four treatment weeks, each separated by a washout period of one week. The 
mean serum FSH concentration-time profiles after a single 150 IU dose i.v. of urinary human FSH 150 
IU,  highly  purified  human  FSH  150  IU,  r-hFSH  150IU  were  superimposable  and  the  mean  profile 
after  a  single  300  IU dose IV of r-hFSH was double that of the 150 IU dose. The data for the FSH 
preparations,  following  i.v.  administration,  were  well  described  by  a  biexponential  equation.  Total 
clearance of the preparations was comparable, judging from the immunoassay (0.5 Lh-1) and bioassay 
(0.15 Lh-1) data. Based on the immunoassay data, renal clearance of u-hFSH was 0.1 Lh-1 while for 
follitropin alfa it was slightly lower, 0.07 Lh-1, indicating that less than one-fifth of the administered 
dose was excreted in the urine. Immunoassay data showed that the FSH preparations were similar in 
terms  of  initial  and  terminal  half-lives  (2  hours  and  17  hours  respectively).  The  volumes  of 
distribution  at  steady  state  (11  L)  were  similar.  The  results  of  the  in  vitro  bioassay  confirmed  this 
pharmacokinetic  analysis.  This  study  indicates  that  (i)  the  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of 
follitropin alfa are similar to those of u-hFSH, (ii) the terminal half-life of exogenous human FSH is 
about one day. 
Study GF5117 
Study GF5117, was a Phase I study to evaluate single and repeated administration of r-hFSH in 
twelve healthy pituarity down-regulated female volunteers and was performed in two stages. 
Part  I:  balanced,  random-order,  cross-over  administration  to  determine  the  pharmacokinetics  of  a 
single r-hFSH dose given via i.v., i.m., and s.c. routes. Part II: daily s.c. administration over one week 
to  determine  the  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  r-hFSH.  R-hFSH  was 
administered  in  a  balanced,  random-order,  cross-over  sequence  as  a  single  dose  (150  IU)  on  three 
occasions: i.v., i.m. and s.c., each separated by a one week washout period. This was followed by a 
daily  s.c.  administration  for  seven  days.  The  study  lasted  three  weeks  and  each  subject received the 
study  medication  on  three  successive  occasions,  separated  by  a  washout  period  of  one  week,  plus  a 
daily  administration  over  one  week  (fourth  treatment  week).  After  single  administration,  the 
pharmacokinetics of follitropin alfa were well described by a two-compartment model following i.v. 
administration  and  by  a  one-compartment  model  with  first-order  absorption  following  i.m.  or  s.c. 
administration.  After  i.v.  administration,  FSH  total  clearance  was  approximately  0.6  Lh-1  and  renal 
clearance  accounted  for  one-tenth  of  the  total  elimination.  The distribution half-life was around two 
hours and the terminal half-life was nearly one day when estimated either by modelling the i.v. data 
set or from analysis of the terminal phase of the steady state pharmacokinetic curve or from the time 
taken  to  reach  steady  state  after  repeated  s.c.  administrations.  After  a  single  i.m.  or  s.c.  injection, 
around two-thirds of the administered dose was available systemically. The accumulation factor after 
repeated  s.c.  administration  was  around  three  when  steady  state  was  reached.  The  in  vitro  FSH 
bioassay  data  confirmed  these  estimations.  Two  thirds  of  volunteers  developed  significant  follicular 
growth, inhibin and E2 secretion. The first pharmacodynamic marker of the ovarian response to FSH 
was serum inhibin, followed by plasma E2 and then follicular growth (measured in this case by total 
volume  of  follicles  >10  mm  in  diameter).  When  FSH  administration  was  stopped,  inhibin  levels 
dropped, while E2 continued to rise for one day and follicle size further increased during four days. 
No correlation was found between maximal serum FSH concentrations during r-hFSH administration 
and  the  maximal E2 responses, inhibin responses and follicular growth responses. This study shows 
that a fixed dose of r-hFSH administered during a limited period of time, stimulated ovarian follicular 
development  in  a  majority  of  female  volunteers.  The  observed  large  inter-individual  variability  in 
response to treatment is related to differences in individual ovarian sensitivity to FSH rather than to 
differences  in  FSH  pharmacokinetics.  This  study  indicates  that  the  s.c.  and  i.m.  routes  of 
administrations are suitable for clinical use of r-hFSH. 
13/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
The  two  clinical  pharmacology  studies  of  follitropin  alfa  (GF5007  and  GF5117)  have  demonstrated 
that  the  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of  r-hFSH  are  very  similar  to  the  pharmacokinetic 
characteristics  of  u-hFSH  when  given  in  the  described  doses.  Subcutaneous  administration  is  a 
suitable route of administration for r-hFSH since it is associated with an absolute bioavailability of 70 
%. 
Study GF6135 
Study  GF6135,  was  a  Phase  I  study  to  assess  the  pharmacokinetics  of  r-hLH  after  single  i.v. 
administration  of  increasing  doses  compared  to  a  single  dose  of  hMG  in  twelve  healthy  female 
volunteers  down  regulated  with  goserelin.  This  study  was  carried  out  to  characterize  the  clinical 
pharmacology  profile  of  r-hLH  over  a  range  from  75  IU  to  40,000  IU,  using  contemporary  assay 
methodology. hMG and increasing doses of r-hLH (75, 300, 10,000 and 40,000 IU) were administered 
as  single  injections  in  twelve  down-regulated  healthy  female  volunteers,  according  to  an open, non-
randomised,  dose-escalating  and  comparative  design.  To  determine 
the  pharmacokinetics 
characteristics and linearity of lutropin alfa in 12 healthy female volunteers following administration 
of four doses of lutropin alfa given by i.v. bolus. To perform a comparison with u-hLH (contained in 
the hMG preparation). To assess the safety of lutropin alfa in hMP and increasing doses of r-hLH (75, 
300,  10,000  and  40,000  IU)  were  administered  as  single  injections,  according  to  an  open,  non-
randomised,  dose-escalating  and  comparative  design.  Study  drug  was  administered  as  a  single  i.v. 
bolus once per week separated by a period of one week. Five treatments were administered during the 
course of the study. The pharmacokinetic profiles of the two compounds are superimposable and no 
statistically significant difference is observed between them when parameters which do not require the 
dose for their computation (such as half-life), are considered. A difference was observed between u-
hLH  and  lutropin  alfa  in  the  fraction  excreted  unchanged  into  the  urine  with  less  than  5%  of  the 
administered dose excreted unchanged following lutropin alfa administration and around 25% of the 
dose excreted unchanged into the urine following treatment with u-hLH. 
Following i.v. injections of increasing doses of lutropin alfa, LH pharmacokinetics were described by 
a biexponential model which incorporated a baseline correction function. Lutropin alfa was eliminated 
with a half-life of approximately 10 hours, following a rapid distribution phase with an initial half-life 
of about one hour. Total body clearance was approximately 2 L·h-1 with less than 5 percent of the dose 
being  excreted  in  the  urine.  The  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  was  around  8  L.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  lutropin  alfa  were  linear  over  the  300  to  40,000  IU  dose  range.  A  statistically 
significant difference was observed between the dose (determined by immunoassay) normalised AUC 
of  u-hLH  and  r-hLH  (300IU  dose).  No  statistically  significant  difference  was  observed  however 
between  the  half-lives  of  the  two  compounds.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  FSH  following  i.v. 
administration  of  hMP  were  well  described  by  a  biexponential  model  incorporating  a  baseline 
correction  function.  Following  a  distribution  phase  with  an  initial  half-life  of  approximately  two 
hours,  u-hFSH  was  eliminated  with  a  terminal  half-life  of  approximately  17  hours.  Total  body 
clearance was approximately 0.3 L·h-1 with approximately 30% of the dose being excreted renally. The 
steady state volume of distribution was approximately 6l. This study indicates that irrespective of the 
dose, r-hLh is well tolerated and that the pharmacokinetics of r-hLH are linear over the 300 to 400 IU 
dose range. 
Study GF6136 
Study GF6136 was a phase I study to assess the pharmacokinetics of r-hLH, after single i.v., i.m., and 
s.c. administration in twelve healthy female volunteers down-regulated with goserelin. Twelve healthy 
female  volunteers  received  a  nominal  dose  of  10,000  IU  r-hLH  by  intravenous,  intramuscular  and 
subcutaneous  routes,  after  pituitary  desensitisation.  The  study  was  conducted  according  to  an  open, 
balanced,  random-order,  cross-over  design,  with  wash-out  periods  of  one  week.  Twelve  healthy 
female  volunteers  received  a  nominal  dose  of  10,000  IU  r-hLH  by  i.v.,  i.m.  and  s.c  routes,  after 
pituitary  desensitisation.  The  study  ran  for  three  months  and  study  treatment  was  administered  as  a 
single  dose  on  three  occasions,  separated  by  a  period  of  one  week.  A  two-compartment  model  was 
chosen,  with  elimination  from  the  central  compartment  for  the  i.v.  data.  There  was  no  significant 
difference  of  the  immunoassay  data  for  the  i.m.  and  s.c.  routes.  Estimates  of  Vss  and  t½  were  larger 
from the bioassay data than from those of the immunoassay data possibly due to a wider distribution 
of  bioactive  LH.  The  results  obtained  with  bioassay  data  generally  confirmed  those  issued  from  the 
immunoassay. The immunoassay data can therefore be used with confidence in the characterisation of 
r-hLH pharmacokinetics. 
14/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
Study GF6137 
Study GF6137 was a phase I study to assess the pharmacokinetics of r-hLH after single and repeated 
subcutaneous  administration  with  or  without  r-hFSH  in  twelve  healthy  female  volunteers  down 
regulated with goserelin. This was an open, balanced, randomised, cross-over study in which twelve 
volunteers were down-regulated to maintain endogenous LH and FSH level to basal levels. In a first 
phase, volunteers received each of the following three treatments separated by a one week wash-out. 
The treatment sequence was allocated at random: 150 IU of r-hLH, 150 IU of r-hFSH, 150 IU of r-
hLH/150  IU  of  r-hFSH  as  a  single  injection  (“combined  treatment”).  The  volunteers  received 
thereafter  the  combined  treatment  as  a  daily  s.c.  dose  for  7  days.  As  soon  as  down-regulation  was 
confirmed, a 24-hour baseline assessment of the LH and FSH serum and urinary levels was performed. 
There  were  following  objectives  of  the  study:  (1)  to  determine  the  pharmacokinetics  of  r-hLH  with 
and without r-hFSH in twelve healthy down-regulated female volunteers following s.c. administration 
of r-hLH, (2) to determine the pharmacokinetics of r-hFSH with and without r-hLH in twelve healthy 
down-regulated female volunteers following SC administration of r-hFSH, (3) to determine the steady 
state pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics following daily repeated s.c. administration of r-hLH 
combined  with  r-hFSH  for  one  week.  The  study  ran  for  three  and  a  half  months  and  volunteers 
received  single  doses  of  either  r-hLH,  r-hFSH  or  r-hLH/r-hFSH  combined  on  three  successive 
occasions separated by a washout period of one week. Subsequent to randomisation administration of 
the three single s.c. doses, all volunteers received repeated daily administration of the r-hLH/r-hFSH 
combination  over  a  one  week  period.  Lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa  pharmacokinetics  are 
adequately  described  by  a  one-compartment  pharmacokinetic  model  with  first-order  absorption 
following s.c. administrations. Following single dose administration of lutropin alfa or follitropin alfa, 
mean  values  for  baseline  corrected  parameters  were  not  different  from  those  obtained  following 
combined administration. Statistical analysis showed no differences for both LH and FSH following 
single  dose  administration  alone  or  in  combination,  indicating  that  there  is  no  pharmacokinetic 
interaction  between  lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa.  After  multiple  dosing,  there  was  a  low 
accumulation  of  LH  whereas  FSH  accumulated  around  threefold.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  both 
lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa  were  comparable  to  those  found  in  the  single  dose  phases.  Serum 
concentrations  were  corrected  for  baseline.  The  data  was  described  by  a  one  compartment 
pharmacokinetic  model  with  1st  order  absorption.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were 
observed in Cmax or AUC0-24 for either lutropin alfa or follitropin alfa when comparing administration 
alone  with  that  in  combination.  This  was  also  found  for  tmax,  indicating  that  there  is  no 
pharmacokinetic interaction between s.c. lutropin alfa and s.c. follitropin alfa, nor clinically relevant 
biopharmaceutical  interaction.  After  multiple  s.c.  administration  of  lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa 
given simultaneously, the pharmacokinetics of lutropin alfa and follitropin alfa were comparable with 
those found following single dose administration. No correlation was found between maximal serum 
concentration of FSH (steady-state values) and any of the four effects recorded. No relationship was 
observed  between  maximal  LH  serum  concentration  and  any  of  the  pharmacodynamic  markers. 
Estradiol as well as inhibin serum levels were found to be early markers of the follicle development. 
When  administered  concomitantly  at  the  dose  of  150  IU  per  day,  lutropin  alfa  does  not  markedly 
affect the response to follitropin alfa. The pharmacokinetics of r-hLH and r-hFSH were comparable to 
those  found  following  single  administration.  The  interference  of  endogenous  hormone  was  less 
marked following multiple dosing as the accumulation of recombinant product, especially r-hFSH, led 
to adequately high concentrations. 
In the opinion of CHMP these additional studies indicate that: the pharmacokinetic characteristics of 
follitropin alfa are similar to those of u-hFSH, the terminal half-life of exogenous human FSH is about 
one  day,  the  s.c.  and  i.m.  routes  of  administrations  are  suitable  for  clinical  use  of  r-hFSH,  the 
pharmacokinetics of r-hLH are linear over the 300 to 400 IU dose range, immunoassay can be used in 
the  characterisation  of  r-hLH  pharmacokinetics,  and  repeat  dose  pharmacokinetics  of  r-hLH  and  r-
hFSH were comparable to those after a single dose. 
•  Special populations 
The co-administration of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa were assessed in study GF6137, IMP 23718 
and IMP 23722 as described above. No additional special studies with the fixed dose formulation were 
deemed as necessary in line with current regulatory and ethical considerations. Therefore, the results 
of  studies  previously  performed  with  applicant’s  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  are  considered 
applicable to the product under evaluation. 
15/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Study efficacy data from studies GF6253 and GF6905, described below, provided evidence that LH 
administration  facilitates  the  action  of  FSH  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  This  is  suggestive  of  a 
significant pharmacodynamic interaction between lutropin alfa and follitropin alfa. 
CLINICAL EFFICACY  
•  Dose response studies and main studies 
Efficacy data included in this application are from two pivotal studies performed by the applicant 
using for the first time lutropin alfa along with follitropin alfa. The two phase II/III studies in this 
population used follitropin alfa 150 IU along with three different doses of lutropin alfa administered in 
free combination. The aim of both studies was to evaluate the efficacy of lutropin alfa and identify the 
minimal effective dose, in the treatment of women with HH. Both of these studies were submitted for 
recombinant human luteinising hormone registration. The first trial, Study GF6253, is the primary 
study, as the study patient population represents the targeted population for this application. The 
second, Study GF6905, is a supportive study in which a broader population was assessed, including 
patients with less severe LH and FSH deficiency 
Study 6253 
Study  GF6253  was  an  open,  randomised,  dose-finding,  multicentre,  pivotal  Phase  II/III  study  to 
determine the minimal effective dose and assess the safety of lutropin alfa to support follitropin alfa-
induced follicular development in LH and FSH deficient anovulatory women (WHO Group I). Thirty-
eight patients were enrolled  
The  objectives  were:  to  assess  the  need  for  and  efficacy  of  lutropin  alfa  for  inducing  ovulation  in 
women with HH, to determine the minimal effective dose of lutropin alfa to be administered during 
follitropin alfa stimulation of follicular development, to assess the safety of lutropin alfa administered 
subcutaneously (s.c.) to women for up to 20 days per cycle for a maximum of three cycles at a dose of 
up to 225 IU/day. 
•  Patient population 
Women with HH, aged 18-35 years, with a negative progesterone challenge test, serum LH<1.2 IU/L 
and FSH <5 IU/L, an ultrasound showing (i) a uterus with a midline echo, (ii) no ovarian tumor or cyst 
and (iii) ≤ 13 (if using a vaginal probe) or ≤ 10 (if using an abdominal probe) small follicles (mean 
diameter  ≤  10mm)  on  the  largest  section  through  each  ovary,  a  BMI  between  18.4  and  31.4,  no 
systemic diseases, using mechanical contraception if not wishing to conceive, having signed informed 
consent form. 
The mean age of the 38 patients was 28.7 years, with a range of 20 to 35 years; the majority of the 
patients  was  Caucasian  (97.4  %)  not  current  smokers  (84.2  %).  Amenorrhoea  was  primary  in  the 
majority of patients (73.7 %); 10 patients (26.3 %) had secondary amenorrhoea. Age of menarche for 
the 10 patients with secondary amenorrhoea ranged from 11 to 16 years. Infertility was primary in 23 
of the 28 patients (82.1 %) wishing to conceive and secondary in 17.9 %. Duration of infertility for the 
primary and secondary infertility patients ranged from 0.25 to 15 years and 1-5 years, respectively. A 
past pregnancy was reported by 23.7 % of patients.  
•  Method 
The FSH daily dose was fixed at 150 IU based upon clinical experience and to ensure that all patients 
would  be  above  their  threshold  needs.  Patients  were  to  administer  two  daily  s.c.  injections,  one  of 
lutropin  alfa  (25,  75  or  225  IU)  and  one  of  follitropin  alfa  (150IU).  Recombinant-hLH  was  to  be 
injected into the right side of the abdomen and follitropin alfa into the left side. Patients assigned to 0 
IU lutropin alfa were to receive only a daily injection of 150 IU r-hFSH. According to the protocol, 
patients were to be treated for one cycle (cycle A). If consenting, patients could be treated for a further 
optional one or two cycles with different doses of lutropin alfa (cycle B and C). The lutropin alfa dose 
16/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for cycle A was randomly allocated. The lutropin alfa dose for cycles B and C depended on the patient 
response during the previous cycle. 
•  Endpoints 
The study’s primary efficacy endpoint was follicular development as defined by three parameters (all 
of which were to be fulfilled): i. at least one follicle with a mean diameter of ≥ 17 mm, ii. preovulatory 
serum  E2  level  of  ≥  400  pmol/L,  iii.  mid-luteal  phase  serum  P4  level  of  ≥  25  nmol/L.  Secondary 
efficacy endpoints included: estradiol levels per follicle at mid-cycle, number of follicles at mid-cycle, 
endometrial thickness at mid-cycle and pregnancy. The safety assessment was based on the incidence 
and  severity  of  adverse  events,  local  tolerance  at  injection  sites,  anti-LH  antibodies,  pathological 
changes  in  clinical  laboratory  parameters,  and  pregnancy  outcome.  The  study  tested  four  doses  of 
lutropin alfa, 0IU, 25IU, 75IU, and 225IU per day.  
•  Sample size 
Thirty-eight patients were enrolled and randomised and treated for up to three cycles for a total of 52 
cycles (38 cycle A, nine cycle B, and five cycle C). The primary efficacy analysis was conducted on 
the A cycles. It included 34 A cycles: ten patients treated with 225 IU, nine treated with 75IU, seven 
treated with 25IU and eight treated with 0 IU r-hLH. Four patients were excluded from the efficacy 
analysis  for  major  protocol  violations.  All  patients  were  included  in  the  safety  analysis.  Of  the  38 
patients  at  cycle  A,  17  of  them  received  hCG  and  21  patients  did  not  receive  the  hCG  injection  (5 
presented a risk of OHSS, 14 failed to develop a follicle with a mean diameter of at least 17 mm and 
two withdrew consent after a few days of treatment). Out of the 17 patients who completed cycle A 
and  received  hCG,  nine  entered  the  optional  cycle  B.  During  this  cycle,  three  patients  received  the 
hCG  injection  and  six  did  not  due  to  insufficient  follicular  development.  Five  of  the  nine  patients 
entered and completed the optional cycle C. 
•  Results 
Primary efficacy analysis 
During cycle A, 17 patients received hCG, five did not receive hCG because of risk of OHSS, 15 did 
not  receive  hCG  because  of  insufficient  follicular  development  and  two  withdrew  consent.  Four  of 
these  patients  were  excluded  from  the  eligible  patients  analysis.  Primary  efficacy  analysis  was 
conducted on cycle A results and included 34 evaluable patients: eight patients in the 0 IU/day dose 
group, seven in the 25 IU/day group, nine in the 75 IU/day group and ten in the 225 IU/day group. In 
the low LH groups four patients had good or excessive follicular growth contrasting with the higher 
LH  groups  in  which  fifteen  patients  had  good  or  excessive  follicular  growth.  The  proportion  of 
patients who fulfilled the primary efficacy endpoint criteria (≥ 1 follicle ≥ 17mm; E2 ≥ 400 pmol/L; 
mid-luteal  phase  P4  ≥  25  nmol/L)  was  related  to  the  dose  of  r-hLH  both  when  excessive  follicular 
development was not included as a success (0.0%, 14.3%, 44.4% and 50.0% for treatment with 0, 25, 
75  and  225  IU  r-hLH  respectively;  p=0.0124)  and  when  excessive  follicular  development  was 
included as a success (0.0%, 14.3%, 66.7% and 80.0% for treatment with 0, 25, 75 and 225 IU r-hLH 
respectively;  p=0.0001).  When  only  patients  who  received  hCG  are  considered,  optimal 
steroidogenesis as defined in the protocol (i.e. preovulatory E2 and P4 values) was observed in 0.0%, 
33.3%, 80.0% and 100.0% for treatment with 0, 25, 75 and 225IU r-hLH respectively; p=0.0210).  
Secondary endpoint analyses 
Secondary endpoint analyses confirm the strong influence of r-hLH dose on E2 secretion, resulting in 
very different endometrial growth between the treatment groups.  
Estradiol per follicle at mid-cycle 
The  E2  level  per  follicle  ratio  was  highest  in  the  75  and  225  IU/day  dose  groups:  855  and  1598 
pmol/L  per  follicle,  respectively.  Results  in  the  0  and  25  IU/day  dose  groups  were  60  and  89, 
respectively. 
Follicle number at mid-cycle 
On the day of hCG administration, the number of follicles >10 mm in diameter was 1.0, 3.5, 5.0 and 
3.2 for the 0, 25, 75 and 225 IU/day dose groups respectively. Similarly, the number of follicles ≥15 
mm on the day of hCG administration were 1.0, 3.0, 2.0 and 2.0 for the 0, 25, 75 and 225 IU/day dose 
groups. 
Endometrial thickness at mid-cycle 
17/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
On the day of hCG administration, median endometrial thickness was 2.0, 4.0, 9.0 and 9.0 mm in the 
0, 25, 75 and 225 IU/day dose groups, respectively. 
Patient pregnancy rates 
Twenty-eight  of  the  38  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  desired  pregnancy  and  ten  were  volunteers. 
These 28 patients initiated a total of 39 treatment cycles, three of which resulted in pregnancy (7.7 % 
per cycle). No pregnancies occurred in the 0 or 25 IU dose groups. In the 75 and 225 IU dose groups, 
pregnancy  occurred  in  16.6  and  11.1  %  of  the  patients,  respectively.  Two  of  the  three  clinical 
pregnancies resulted in live births and one in a spontaneous abortion. Of the two live births, one was a 
singleton and the other a set of twins. 
In  terms  of  safety,  the  study  showed  that  LHadi  is  safe  at  a  dose  up  to  225IU  per  day  and  is  not 
immunogenic. Reported AEs are those usually recorded when stimulating follicular development with 
FSH  alone.  Recombinant-hLH  does  not  appear  to  modify  the  safety  profile  or  r-hFSH.  The  data 
showed an excellent local tolerance to s.c. administration of LHadi. 
Conclusions of the primary study 
This study demonstrated the efficacy of the first preparation of pure hLH available for clinical use, for 
supporting  FSH-induced  follicular  development  prior  to  triggering  ovulation  in  WHO  Group  I 
anovulatory  women.  R-hLH  promoted  in  a  dose-related  manner,  E2  secretion  and  luteinisability  of 
FSH-induced follicles. It enhanced ovarian sensitivity to FSH. Although individual requirement for r-
hLH varied, a daily dose of 75 IU r-hLH was effective in the majority of WHO Group I anovulatory 
patients. A dose up to 225IU/day could be necessary in a minority of patients. The study data suggest 
that  a  conservative  dosage  of  r-hFSH  should  be  used  in  association  with  r-hLH.  This  study 
demonstrates  a  clinically  and  statistically  significant  relationship  between  the  dose  of  lutropin  alfa 
administered  and  follicle  development.  This  finding  is  further  confirmed  when  the  risk  of  OHSS  is 
accepted  as  evidence  of  LH  efficacy.  The  study  also  shows  that  a  majority  of  HH  patients  respond 
adequately  to  a  daily  dose  of  75  IU  lutropin  alfa,  achieving  sufficient  but  not  excessive  follicular 
development and steroidogenesis with this dose. In summary, the data demonstrate that lutropin alfa is 
well-tolerated  and,  when  co-administered  with  follitropin  alfa,  does  not  appear  to  modify  the  safety 
profile of follitropin alfa. In addition it demonstrates that women with HH associated with severe LH-
deficiency who are seeking conception will benefit in a dose-response manner to co-administration of 
lutropin alfa with follitropin alfa. 
Study GF6905  
This  was  a  prospective,  randomised,  parallel  group,  dose-ranging  study  to  determine  the  minimal 
effective  dose  and  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  r-hLH  administered  s.c.  at  doses  up  to  225  IU/day  to 
support  stimulation  of  follicular  development  with  a  fixed  dose  of  150  IU/day  of  r-hFSH  in 
anovulatory women with HH. 
•  Objectives 
The  objectives  were:  to  assess  the  need  for  and  efficacy  of  r-hLH  for  inducing  ovulation  in  women 
with HH, to determine the minimal effective dose of r-hLH to be administered during follitropin alfa 
stimulation of follicular development, to assess the safety of r-hLH administered s.c. to women for up 
to 21 days per cycle for a maximum of three cycles at a dose of up to 225 IU/day. 
•  Patients population 
Premenopausal women with HH, aged 18-40 years, with low serum values of FSH (≤50th percentile of 
the normal range (≤10.85 IU/L), LH≤50th percentile of the normal range for the follicular phase (≤13.3 
IU/L)), and oestradiol (E2<60pg/mL); an ultrasound showing (i) a uterus with a midline echo, (ii) no 
ovarian  tumour  or  cyst  and  (iii)  ≤13  small  follicles  (mean  diameter  ≤10mm)  on  the  largest  section 
through each ovary; BMI between 18 and 35, no systemic disease, using mechanical contraception if 
not  wishing  to  conceive,  having  signed  informed  consent  form  were  eligible.  Patients  were 
randomised to one of four dose groups of r-hLH: 0 (control), 25 IU, 75 IU and 225 IU in cycle A. Two 
further treatment cycles were optional. Dose adjustment of r-hLH was to be considered for subsequent 
cycles based on the patient’s individual response. All patients received a fixed daily dose of 150 IU r-
hFSH  for  all  cycles,  A,  B  and  C  administered  s.c.  every  day  at  approximately  the  same  time  as  the 
lutropin  alfa.  Lutropin  alfa  at  doses  of  25,  75  or  225  IU  and  follitropin  alfa  at  150  IU  were  to  be 
administered once daily at the same time, as two separate s.c. injections into the anterior abdominal 
18/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
wall. Patients assigned to the 0 IU/day lutropin alfa dose group were to receive only the daily injection 
of 150 IU follitropin alfa. Administration of r-hLH and r-hFSH was not to exceed 21 days in any cycle 
unless  increased  E2  levels  and/or  follicular  growth  (follicle  >10mm)  indicated  imminent  follicular 
maturation. Patients could be treated for up to three cycles (cycles B and C were optional). 
•  Endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was follicular development as defined by: i. at least one follicle with a 
mean diameter of ≥17mm, ii. (pre-ovulatory serum E2 level ≥160 pg/mL, iii. mid-luteal phase P4 level 
≥10 ng/mL. Secondary efficacy endpoints included: estradiol levels per follicle of >15 mm on the day 
of  hCG  administration,  number  and  size  of  follicles  on  the  day  of  hCG  administration,  mid-luteal 
phase serum P4 levels, endometrial thickness and pregnancy. Safety: Incidence and severity of adverse 
events, local tolerance at injection sites, anti-LH antibodies, pathological changes in clinical laboratory 
parameters, and pregnancy outcome.  
Sample size 
Forty-three patients were randomised and 40 patients were treated for up to three cycles for a total of 
61  cycles  (40  cycle  A,  16  cycle  B,  and  5  cycle  C).  As  planned,  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  was 
conducted on the results of cycle A, the randomised cycle, and included all 40 patients: 11 patients in 
the 0IU/day dose group, nine in the 25 IU/day group, 11 in the 75 IU/day group and nine in the 225 
IU/day  group.  Safety  analyses  included  data  from  all  40  patients  treated  and  for  all  61  treatment 
cycles.  Three  patients  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  during  the  pre-treatment  period,  two  of  them 
were not eligible for inclusion and the third one chose to withdraw prior to treatment. The median age 
of  the  40  patients  was  30.5  years,  with  a  range  of  22  to  40  years;  the  majority  of  the  patients  were 
Caucasian  (77.5%)  and  not  current  smokers  (90.0%).  Amenorrhea  was  secondary  in  the  majority  of 
patients  (23/40,  57.5%);  17  patients  (42.5%)  had  primary  amenorrhea.  A  family  history  of  the 
condition  was  reported  by  10.0%  of  patients.  Median  age  of  menarche  for  the  23  patients  with 
secondary  amenorrhea  was  14.0  years.  Infertility  was  primary  in  57.5%  of  patients,  secondary  in 
32.5% and unknown in 10% of patients (volunteers). Median duration of infertility was 28.0 months 
and a past pregnancy was reported by 37.5% of patients. 
•  Results 
Primary efficacy analysis 
All patients were included. The primary efficacy endpoint in this study was follicular development, as 
defined  by  the  three  parameters  described  below.  In  cycle  A,  the  follicular  development  rate  was 
lowest  in  the  19IU/day  r-hLH  dose  group,  with  63.6%  of  the  11  patients  meeting  the  criteria  for 
follicular development. All nine patients in the 25 IU/day dose group, eight (72.7%) of 11 patients in 
the  75  IU/day  dose  group  and  six  (66.7%)  of  nine  patients  in  the  225IU/day  dose  group  achieved 
follicular development. A statistically significant dose-related trend was not observed. Because of the 
limited  number  of  patients  continuing  into  the  second  and  third  cycles  of  treatment,  no  conclusion 
regarding the minimal effective dose per patient was possible. 
There  was  not  a  statistically  significant  trend  in  the  proportion  of  patients  achieving  at  least  one 
follicle with a mean diameter of ≥17 mm (p = 1.000). The proportion of patients who had serum E2 
levels  ≥160  pg/mL  during  cycle  A  was  lowest  in  the  0  IU  lutropin  alfa/day  dose  group  (63.6  %). 
Among the 29 patients in the 25, 75 and 225 IU/day dose groups, all nine (100 %) patients in the 25 
IU/day dose group, nine (81.8 %) of 11 patients in the 75 IU/day dose group and six (66.7 %) of 9 
patients in the 225 IU/day dose group had a serum E2 level ≥160 pg/mL. There was not a statistically 
significant  trend  in  the  proportion  of  patients  achieving  this  endpoint  (p  =  0.458).  For  mid-luteal 
serum P4 levels, there was not a statistically significant trend in the proportion of patients achieving 
this endpoint (p = 0.442). 
19/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint analyses 
Oestradiol per follicle at mid-cycle 
There was a statistically significant difference among the dose groups for the assessment of median E2 
level (pg/mL) per follicle ≥15mm on the day of hCG administration (p=0.042), with the highest levels 
occurring in the 75 and 225IU dose groups (189.5 and 339.3 pg/mL, respectively). 
Follicle number at mid-cycle 
There were no statistically significant differences among the dose groups for the number of follicles 
>10 mm in diameter or for those ≥15 mm on day of hCG administration. 
Endometrial thickness at mid-cycle 
On the day of hCG administration, there was a statistically significant difference observed among the 
r-hLH  dose  groups  for  endometrial  thickness  with  the  highest  median  endometrial  thickness  of 
10.0mm observed in the 225IU/day dose group (p=0.041). 
Patient Pregnancy Rates 
Cycle A total pregnancy rates for all treated patients willing to conceive increased across the r-hLH 
dose  groups.  The  total  pregnancy  rates  were  20.0%,  25.0%,  30.0%  and  33.3%  in  the  0,  25,  75,  and 
225IU/day dose groups, respectively. During the entire course of the study, pregnancy occurred in 14 
(26.9%) of the 52 treatment cycles completed by patients wishing to conceive and clinical pregnancy 
in 12. Nine clinical pregnancies (75.0%) resulted in live birth and two (16.6%) spontaneous abortions 
were  reported.  Pregnancy  outcome  data  were  not  available  for  one  patient.  Five  of  the  nine  clinical 
pregnancies resulted in singleton birth and four patients had twins. 
Safety 
A higher proportion of patients who received r-hLH at doses of 25, 75, or 225 IU/day in combination 
with r-hFSh (84.4%) experienced adverse events as compared to those patients who received r-hFSH 
alone  (65.0%).  However,  there  did  not  appear  to  be  a  relationship  between  the  dose  of  r-hLH 
administered  and  the  adverse  event  rate  with  83.3%  of  patients  who  received  25IU/day,  75.0%  of 
patients who received 75IU/day and 69.2% of patients who received 225IU/day reporting at least one 
adverse event. Over the entire course of the study a total of 91 adverse events were reported. The most 
commonly  reported  events  included  ovarian  cyst,  abdominal  pain,  breast  pain,  dysmenorrhea, 
headache  and  nausea.  Over  96%  of  all  events  were  judged  to  be  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  No 
serious adverse events were reported during the study and none of the patients discontinued the study 
due to adverse events. Local tolerance at the injection site was good with 98% or more of the r-hLH 
injections having no or only mild itching, redness, swelling, bruising or pain reported. There were no 
clinically  significant  changes  from  baseline  to  post-treatment  observed  in  clinical  chemistry, 
haematology or urinalysis parameters. No study patients developed antibodies to LH or FSH. 
•  Conclusions 
Study  GF6905  demonstrated  that  r-hLH  is  well-tolerated  and,  when  co-administered  with  r-hFSH, 
presents a similar profile of safety to r-hFSH administered alone. In this study, although some efficacy 
trends  were  apparent,  no  statistically  significant  effect  of  addition  of  r-hLH  was  demonstrated  on 
follicular development in HH patients. The overall study results confirm that some patients with HH 
may respond to FSH alone, however, an LH deficiency was evident in some of the secondary efficacy 
parameters  consistent  with  the  two-cell  theory  of  gonadotropins  and  follicle  function.  When  the 
population  of  HH  patients  with  a  more  severe  endocrine  deficiency  was  analysed,  the  need  for  co-
administration  of  r-hLH  with  r-hFSH  was  clear.  In  this  population  patients  randomised  to  r-hFSH-
alone,  the  0  IU/day  r-hLH  dose,  were  non-responders.  In  conclusion,  Study  GF6905  confirms  the 
heterogeneity  of  baseline  characteristics  and  response  patterns  of  patients  with  HH  and  supports  the 
need for co-treatment with LH and FSH in patients with severe gonadotropin deficiency. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Due to differences in inclusion criteria for study GF6905 and those of the pivotal study GF6253, the 
patient population investigated in study GF6905 included HH women with less severe LH and FSH 
deficiency  compared  to  those  enrolled  in  Study  GF6253.  Thirty-eight  patients  were  treated  in  study 
GF6253, and 40 in study GF6905. At screening, 36 patients in study GF6253 had LH levels below 1.2 
IU/L. In study GF6905, only 15 out of the 40 treated patients had a LH value <1.2 IU/L. 
These differences are shown in the table below: 
20/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding the demographics, both study populations fulfilled the criteria for HH, but study GF6253 
patients presented a more severe deficiency as documented by lower LH, FSH and E2 levels, a higher 
proportion of patients with LH <1.2 IU/L at baseline, and thinner endometrium.  
Primary and Secondary Efficacy Variables - Data Sets Analyzed 
Study GF6253 
For  efficacy  analysis,  the  data  set  (n=34)  included  all  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of 
FSH/LH except four patients who presented major deviations from the eligibility criteria and / or the 
treatment  regimen  /  study  procedures  described  in  the  protocol:  one  patient  did  not  receive  the 
prescribed dose of follitropin alfa, one discontinued treatment for personal reasons before any efficacy 
and  safety  assessments  were  carried  out,  and  two  had  LH  values  well  above  the  protocol  limit  at 
baseline and throughout treatment. For safety analysis, all 38 patients who received at least one dose 
of FSH/LH were included. 
Study GF6905 
For efficacy analysis two data sets were analyzed: the first of these was the data set including all 40 
patients who received at least one dose of FSH/LH. This set was used for analysing the primary and 
secondary efficacy endpoints, the second was the data set formed by patients with pre-study LH level 
<1.2 IU/L. This set was used only for analyzing the primary efficacy endpoint. For safety analysis, all 
40 patients who received at least one dose of FSH/LH were included. 
A highly significant statistical and clinical difference in patient response related to the dose of lutropin 
alfa  was  seen  in  study  GF6253.  No  difference was  observed, however, between treatment groups in 
study GF6905, with a majority of patients fulfilling the primary efficacy endpoint criteria.  
Analysis of the secondary efficacy endpoints supports the conclusion that LH promotes E2 secretion 
by  the  growing  follicles  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  This  dose  effect  is  highly  significant  in  study 
GF6253.  It  is  also  apparent  in  study  GF6905,  especially  when  the  E2  per  follicle  ratio  is  compared 
between  treatment  groups  (p=0.042).  In  agreement  with  this  observation,  the  endometrial  growth  in 
patients  who  received  75  and  225  IU/day  lutropin  alfa  is  maximal  and  comparable  with  the 
endometrial  thickness  observed  during  normal,  spontaneous  cycles.  In  study  GF6905  only  three 
patients in the control and 0-LH groups (9 %) had a clinical pregnancy, compared with eight patients 
in the 75 and 225 IU/day lutropin alfa groups (24 %). 
•  Supportive studies 
Four  additional  studies  have  been  conducted  utilizing  lutropin  alfa combined with follitropin alfa in 
women with severe LH and FSH deficiency. These studies support the recommendations for a daily 
administration of 75 IU lutropin alfa with 150 IU follitropin alfa in HH patients. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In the opinion of CHMP study GF6253 provided sufficient evidence to support the proposed dose of 
75  IU  of  lutropin  alfa  in  the  combined  product.  However,  study  GF6905  did  not  provide  adequate 
evidence to differentiate between doses of lutropin alfa, in that, there is clear evidence of efficacy for 
all doses studied (25, 75 and 225 IU/day) in patients with LH < 1.2 IU/L. Nevertheless, overall, it is 
reasonable  to  accept  that  a  starting  dose  of  75  IU  is  appropriate.  An  analysis  of  the  secondary 
endpoints, including pregnancy rates supports this position. CHMP was of the opinion that there were 
no  methodological  concerns  regarding  this  application.  Sufficient  evidence  of  bioequivalence  of  the 
two  active  components  of  when  given  in  combination,  to  the  individual  components,  when  given 
alone, has been provided.  
CLINICAL SAFETY 
Safety data for this application is mainly from two key clinical studies (GF6253 and GF6905) and the 
post-marketing experience for each of the two recombinant gonadotropins. Additional safety data from 
a  further  seven  studies,  four  efficacy  (GF7798,  GF8297,  IMP21008  and  IMP21415),  two 
21/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biopharmaceutic (IMP23718 and IMP23722) and one pharmacokinetic study (GF6137) on follitropin 
alfa co-administered with lutropin alfa, were also summarised.  
•  Patient exposure 
A total of 38 patients from study GF6253 and 40 from study GF6905 were included in the main safety 
analysis, representing a total of 114 cycles overall. During 83 of the 114 cycles at least one dose of r-
hLH was administered (42 cycles in study GF6253 and 41 cycles in study GF 6905). 
•  Adverse events  
Study GF6253 
The incidence of adverse events according to r-hLH  treatment groups are shown in the table below.  
A total of 42 AEs were reported with 32 AEs in 11/42 (26.2 %) lutropin alfa treatment cycles and ten 
AEs in 3/11 (27.2 %) control (lutropin alfa 0 IU) cycles. A total of 78.6% events were reported as mild 
and 19.0% events were reported as moderate in severity. One event of severe back pain (2.4 %) was 
reported in a patient receiving follitropin alfa only (control). The most frequent were headache, pelvic 
and abdominal pain, breast pain, nausea, somnolence and ovarian disorder. No symptoms suggesting 
immune  reactions  were  reported.  Two  SAEs  were  reported,  one  was  a  patient  in  shock  after  a  road 
accident, and the other was a patient who suffered a miscarriage. Three further patients presented with 
symptoms and ultrasound scans that suggested a risk of OHSS and were discontinued from the study. 
Study GF6590 
A total of 91 AEs were reported over the course of the study and are presented in the table below. Of 
the 32 patients who received at least one dose of lutropin alfa during the study, 27 (84.4 %) reported a 
total of 65 AEs. No apparent relationship, however, was seen between the lutropin alfa dose and AE 
rate,  with  83.3  %,  75.0  %  and  69.2  %  of  patients  who  had  received  25,  75  or  225  IU  respectively, 
reporting at least one AE. The most commonly reported events included ovarian cyst, abdominal pain, 
breast  pain,  dysmenorrhea,  headache  and nausea. Of these 61.5% were reported as mild, and 35.2% 
were  reported  as  moderate  in  severity.  Three  events,  reported  by  three  patients,  were  judged  to  be 
severe:  two  (pelvic  pain  and  abdominal  pain)  in  patients  receiving  follitropin  alfa  alone,  and  one 
(pelvic pain) in a patient receiving follitropin alfa in combination with lutropin alfa 25 IU. No SAEs 
were reported during the study and none of the patients discontinued the study because of AEs. Seven 
patients were at risk of OHSS but completed the study. Five patients discontinued the study: four of 
the five withdrawals were due to patients’ decision after completing cycle A (two each at lutropin alfa 
doses of 75 IU and 225 IU) and the fifth was due to protocol violation (pregnancy started before study 
treatment). 
Study GF7798 
A  total  of  six  AEs  were  reported  by  4  (26.7  %)  patients.  Four  AEs  were  cases  of  OHSS  in  three 
patients (all of whom required hospitalisation) and were considered to be probably related to treatment 
and moderate or severe in intensity. The OHSS led to the discontinuation of two of the patients from 
the  study.  The  remaining  two  AEs  comprised  mild  dizziness  (possibly  treatment-related)  and 
Klebsiella  fever  (unrelated  to  treatment).  Local  tolerance  to  the  injections  was  good  with  only  mild 
bruising (four cases) and redness (one case) reported. During the study, clinical pregnancy occurred in 
seven patients and of these, five resulted in live births. No congenital malformations were reported. 
Study GF8297 
Nine  patients  experienced  a  total  of  ten AEs, all of which were mild or moderate in severity. Three 
patients experienced OHSS, of which two cases were moderately severe SAEs; the remaining case was 
considered mild and non-serious. All of the other AEs were considered to be unrelated to treatment, 
except for one case of headache. Over 90 % of the injections were not associated with local reactions. 
Seven patients experienced mostly mild or moderate local reactions at the injection site. Only one of 
the  seven  patients  reported  severe  symptoms  (itching  and  pain).  During  this  study,  there  were  15 
clinical pregnancies and of these, 13 resulted in live births. The only congenital malformation reported 
was inguinal hernia in a couple of twins, which necessitated surgical repair. 
Study IMP21008 
A total of 44 AEs were reported by 13 patients: 33.3 % patients in the active lutropin alfa group and 
33.3  %  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  The  most  commonly  reported  AEs  were  abdominal  pain, 
22/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
flatulence,  nausea,  headache,  injection  site  reaction,  and  ovarian  cyst.  A  possible  or  probable 
relationship  to  the  study  drugs was determined for 12 AEs in each treatment group (active, 44.4 %; 
placebo,  70.6  %).  The  majority  of  AEs  were  considered  to  be  mild  or  moderate  in  severity  and  no 
SAEs were reported. One AE judged to be severe but non-serious was a case of OHSS in a pregnant 
patient in the placebo group. 
Study IMP21415 
A  total  of  65  AEs  were  recorded  in  15  (48.4  %)  patients.  The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  were 
flatulence,  constipation,  abdominal  pain,  nausea,  breast  pain  and  headache.  Most  AEs  were  mild  or 
moderate  in  severity,  however  three  (4.6  %)  were  judged  to  be  severe:  two  non-serious  (abdominal 
pain and injection site inflammation) and one serious (OHSS). All three severe AEs were considered 
to  be  possibly  or  probably  related  to  the  study  drug.  In  total,  61.6  %  AEs  were  considered  to  be 
possibly  or  probably  related  to  the  study  drug.  Of  the  16  clinical  pregnancies  achieved  during  this 
study, 14 resulted in live births with no congenital malformations. The outcome of the remaining two 
pregnancies is unknown. 
Study IMP23718 
Twenty  AEs  were  reported  in  each  treatment  group,  the  most  common  of  which  was  headache.  All 
AEs were mild or moderate in intensity. 
Study IMP23722 
The majority of AEs from both treatment groups were mild or moderate. There were two severe AEs; 
one  patient  experienced  a  vasovagal  episode  and  one  patient  experienced  severe  labile  emotions. 
Headache was the most common AE and was reported by 32.4 % and 46.6 % of subjects in the R-hLH 
and fixed combination product groups respectively.  
Study GF6137 
Single  dose  subcutaneous  administration  of  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  both  alone  and  in 
combination was well tolerated in the 12 healthy subjects at the dose studied. The most common AEs 
were  hot  flushes  and  headaches  and  all  were  mild  in  intensity.  Multiple  dose  administration  of 
follitropin alfa/lutropin alfa was also well tolerated at the doses studied, although more of the subjects 
experienced hot flushes. 
Immunological events 
Study GF6253 and Study GF6905: no study patients developed antibodies to either LH or FSH. Study 
GF7798: no study patients developed antibodies to either LH or FSH. Mild systemic allergic reactions 
and  serious  cases  of  allergic  reactions  including  anaphylactic  reactions  have  been  reported  with  a 
frequency  rated  as  “very  rare”.  In  the  case  of  separate  use  of  R-hLH,  no  reports  of  hypersensitivity 
have been reported in clinical trials. In two efficacy studies, no potentially immune-mediated events 
were  reported  and  in  study  GF6253  patients  did  not  develop  antibodies  to  either  LH  or  FSH.  The 
applicant  searched  the  Serono  adverse  event  database  for  clinical  trial  adverse  event  reports  with 
regard  to  immunogenicity  and  its  related  reactions.  All  trials  discussed  in  the  Gonovel  file  were 
searched and no cases were retrieved from these trials that would suggest a potential immunogenicity 
induced  by  the  use  of  R-hFSH  or  R-hLH.  No  post-marketing  data  are  available  with  regard  to  the 
immunogenicity of R-hFSH or R-hLH, while used separately. Cases of allergic reactions reported with 
R-hFSH are listed in the Core Safety Information and labelled in the SPC of the product. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Study GF6253 
Two SAEs were reported which led to hospitalisation of the patients: (1) the first was mild shock from 
a road traffic accident, which occurred 14 days after the patient completed her third cycle of treatment 
(lutropin alfa 25 IU). The investigator considered this event to be unrelated to the study drugs, (2) a 
28-year-old  woman  with  Kallman’s  syndrome  became  pregnant  as  a  result  of  study  treatment  (last 
cycle  lutropin  alfa  75  IU).  Miscarriage  occurred  69  days  after  receiving  hCG  injection.  The 
investigator considered the relation of the event to the study drugs to be unknown. 
Study GF8297 
Two cases of OHSS were reported as moderately severe SAEs. 
23/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study IMP21415 
One SAE of OHSS was reported as serious. 
Study GF6137 
No SAEs were reported in studies GF6950, GF7798, IMP21008, IMP23718, IMP23722 and GF6137. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No clinically significant changes from baseline in laboratory values were detected at the end of studies 
GF6253, GF6905, GF7798, GF8297, IMP21415, IMP23718 and IMP23722. 
Study IMP21008 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  seen  between  treatment  groups  in  laboratory  values.  Two 
patients had clinically significant abnormal laboratory values: one patient from the placebo group had 
elevated  values  at  the  study  endpoint  compared  with  baseline  for  AST/SGOT  and  ALT/SGPT 
(recorded  as  non-serious  AEs)  and  a  second  patient,  from  the  active  group,  had  abnormal  baseline 
cholesterol values. All vital signs parameters showed no clinically significant changes from baseline. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Study GF6253 and Study GF6905 
Pregnancy 
Following  controlled  ovarian  hyperstimulation  using  gonadotropins,  no  teratogenic  risk  has  been 
reported,  however,  insufficient  clinical  data  exists  to  exclude  a  teratogenic  effect  of  follitropin  alfa. 
The  SmPC  for  r-hLH  states  that  lutropin  alfa  should  not  be  administered  during  pregnancy  or 
lactation. R-hFSH/r-hLH should not be administered during pregnancy or lactation. 
Intrinsic Factors 
A  subset  analysis  was  performed  to  assess  follicular  development  in  a  population  of  15  patients  in 
study GF6905 with screening LH levels of <1.2 IU/L. The incidence of AEs among these patients was 
higher than in the overall study population: the 27 (44 % of total) treatment cycles undergone by this 
subset were associated with more than half (56 %) of the AEs. The incidence of AEs was higher in 
study GF6905 which may be due to the difference in the number of cycles, 27 in study GF6253 and 53 
in study GF6905. 
Extrinsic Factors 
No safety data available. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Study GF6137  
No  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa  was  observed.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  lutropin  alfa  after  repeated  subcutaneous  administration  was  comparable  with 
those after a single subcutaneous dose. 
Study GF6253  
The proportion of patients developing at least one follicle in response to a fixed dose of follitropin alfa 
(150  IU/day)  increased  in  relation  with  the  dose  of  co-administered  lutropin  alfa.  This  suggests  that 
lutropin alfa administration increases ovarian sensitivity to FSH. Conservative dosage of FSH should 
therefore  be  used  in  association  with  lutropin  alfa.  Other  than  with  each  other,  lutropin  alfa  and 
follitropin  alfa  should  not  be  administered  as  a  mixture  in  the  same  injection  with  other  medicinal 
products. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Study GF6253 
Three  patients  discontinued  the  study  due  to  symptoms  and  ultrasound  scans  which  suggestive  of 
OHSS. All symptoms resolved within eight days of discontinuation of the study drug (lutropin alfa 75 
24/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IU  for  one  patient  and  225  IU  for  two  patients).  The  total  duration  of  lutropin  alfa/follitropin  alfa 
treatment  in  each  of  these  three  cases  was  nine  or  ten  days.  The  investigator  considered  the 
relationship of these events to the study drug as possible in two of the three cases, and probable in the 
remaining case. 
Study IMP21008 
One  non-serious  AE  (delayed  hypersensitivity  reaction)  led to the discontinuation from the study of 
one patient in the active group. 
There were no patient discontinuations in studies GF6905, GF7798, GF8297, IMP21415, IMP23718, 
IMP23722 and GF6137. 
IMP21415), 
(IMP23718  and 
two  biopharmaceutic 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Clinical safety data for this application is mainly provided from two key clinical studies (GF6253 and 
GF6905)  and  the  applicant’s  post-marketing  experience  for  each  of  the  two  recombinant 
gonadotropins.  Additional safety data from a further seven studies, four efficacy (GF7798, GF8297, 
IMP21008  and 
IMP23722)  and  one 
pharmacokinetic study (GF6137) on follitropin alfa co-administered with lutropin alfa, have also been 
summarised. A total of 38 patients from study GF6253 and 40 from study GF6905 were included in 
the main safety analysis, representing a total of 114 cycles overall. During 83 of the 114 cycles at least 
one  dose  of  lultropin  alfa  was  administered  (42  cycles  in  study  GF6253  and  41  cycles  in  study  GF 
6905). A total of 42 AEs were reported in study GF6253 and the most frequent were headache, pelvic 
and abdominal pain, breast pain, nausea, somnolence and ovarian disorder. No symptoms suggesting 
immune reactions were reported. Two SAEs were reported. A total of 91 AEs were reported in study 
GF6590 the most frequent of which included ovarian cyst, abdominal pain, breast pain, dysmenorrhea, 
headache and nausea. No SAEs were reported. From the additional safety data, six AEs were reported 
in study GF7798, ten in study GF8297, 44 in study IMP21008, 65 in study IMP21415 and 20 in study 
IMP23722. One SAE of OHSS was reported as serious in study IMP21415 and two cases of OHSS 
were  reported  as  moderately  severe  SAEs  in  study  GF8297.  Three  patients  discontinued  in  study 
GF6253  due  to  scans  and  symptoms  suggestive  of  OHSS  and  one  patient  discontinued  from  study 
IMP21008due  to  delayed  hypersensitivity  reaction.  The  applicant  has  adequately  addressed  the 
potential  for  immunogenicity  with  acceptable  reasoned  arguments.  Overall,  no  new  safety  concerns 
have been raised and the recommendation from a clinical point of view is favourable. 
5. Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  routine 
pharmacovigilance  was  adequate  to  monitor  the  safety  of  the  product  and  no  additional  risk 
minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information. 
25/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substances  are  adequately 
described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substances  are  well  characterised  with  regard  to  their 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and  appropriate 
specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described 
and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications.  The  viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE 
have been sufficiently assured. Except for a number of quality points, which will be addressed as part 
of post-approval follow-up measures, the overall quality of Pergoveris is considered acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  two  biotechnological  drug  substances  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  have  been  characterised 
separately by the applicant with non-clinical tests appropriate to the nature, the intended dosage and 
duration  of  administration  of  Pergoveris.  Human  bioavailability  studies  have  shown  that  there  is  no 
discernable  change  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  individual  follitropin  alfa  and  lutropin  alfa  when 
administered  in  combination.  CHMP  considered  that  based  on  the  extent  of  preclinical  and  clinical 
experience  gained  with  each  individual  recombinant  hormone  and  the  documented  clinical  efficacy 
and  safety  of  the  simultaneous  administration  of  r-FSH  and  lutropin  alfa,  conducting  additional 
preclinical studies with the combination would be unethical as they would unnecessarily use additional 
animals.  Additional  non-clinical  studies  are  unlikely  to  extend  scientific  knowledge  on  the 
pharmacology of the applicant’s follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa and the results of such studies would 
not  impact  r-hFSH/r-hLH  risk  balance.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional 
pharmacology studies were required. However, as Pergoveris is a new product, a new local tolerability 
study was performed with the intend-to-market formulation. A local tolerance study was conducted in 
the rabbit using the new Pergoveris product. This study showed no evidence of an adverse local effect. 
Efficacy 
No  new  efficacy  studies  were  provided  with  this  application.  The applicant performed however two 
phase  II/III  studies  (6253  and  6905)  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  clinical  efficacy  of  lutropin  alfa 
administered in free combination with follitropin alfa in HH women. Both of them were submitted for 
lutropin alfa registration. The two studies had a similar prospective, randomised, dose-finding design. 
Both  studies  investigated  three  doses  of  lutropin  alfa  and  included  a  placebo-control  group  and 
provided sufficient evidence to support the proposed dose of 75 IU of lutropin alfa in the combined 
product.    CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  there  were  no  methodological  concerns  regarding  this 
application.  Sufficient  evidence  of  bioequivalence  of  the  two  active  components  when  given  in 
combination and when given alone, has been provided. The adequate evidence of bioequivalence with 
the applicant’s registered single components for the same indication in the same target population in 
the  opinion  of  CHMP  obviates  the  need  for  new  efficacy  data.  Further, the clinical data on lutropin 
alfa and follitropin alfa support the proposed posology for this Pergoveris. 
Safety 
No  new  safety  studies  were  provided  with  this  application.  The  applicant  performed  however  two 
phase  II/III  studies  (6253  and  6905)  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  clinical  safety  of  lutropin  alfa 
administered in free combination with follitropin alfa in HH women. A total of 38 patients from study 
GF6253 and 40 from study GF6905 were included in the main safety analysis, representing a total of 
114 cycles overall. A total of 42 AEs were reported in study GF6253 and 91 AEs in study GF6590. 
The  most  frequent  were  headache,  pelvic  and  abdominal  pain,  breast  pain,  nausea,  somnolence  and 
ovarian disorder. No symptoms suggesting immune reactions were reported. Two SAEs were reported 
in study GF6253 and none in study GF6905. The applicant has adequately addressed the potential for 
immunogenicity  with  acceptable  reasoned  arguments.  Overall,  no  new  safety  concerns  have  been 
raised and the recommendation from a clinical point of view is favourable. 
•  User consultation 
A user test was presented as a summary, nevertheless enough information was available to assess the 
test, and to be assured that the package leaflet had been tested in an appropriate way. 
26/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The package leaflet is found to be acceptable and so is the user test. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
HH  is  a  rare  disorder  of  reproductive  function  and  describes  absent  or  decreased  function  of  the 
gonads  in  both  men  and  women  and  is  characterized  by  the  absence  of  effective  hypothalamic 
occurring -pituitary secretory activity resulting in arrested or attenuated gonadal function. In women, 
the disorder may therefore present as failure to undergo the usual physical and reproductive changes of 
puberty  or,  if  occurring  after  puberty,  may  present  as  secondary  amenorrhea.  Amenorrhea  is  a 
manifestation of low oestrogen production and is associated with similar adverse health conditions as 
the  ones  seen  in  postmenopausal  women:  bone  mineral  abnormalities,  altered  lipid  profiles  and 
accelerated  cardiovascular  disease.  The  additional  consequence  of  arrested  ovarian  function  is 
anovulation  and  infertility.  From  the  clinical  perspective,  the  diagnosis  of  HH  is  confirmed  by 
endocrine  testing  that  demonstrates  low  gonadotropin  serum  levels  and  low  oestrogen  levels. 
Anovulation is estimated to account for up to 24 % of human infertility problems. There are no major 
quality or pre-clinical issues. The data from the clinical studies are supportive of the proposed dose of 
75 IU  of  lutropin  alfa  in  the  combined  product.  The  registered  starting  dose  of  follitropin  alfa  is 
between 75-150 IU. This provides sufficient justification for the starting daily dose of 150 IU FSH. No 
methodological  concerns  were  raised  and  sufficient  evidence  of  bioequivalence  of  the  two  active 
components  of  Pergoveris,  when  given  in  combination,  to  the  individual  components,  when  given 
alone,  has  been  provided.  Clinical  data  on  lutropin  alfa  and  follitropin  alfa  support  the  proposed 
posology  for  Pergoveris.  Although  adverse  events  were  fairly common, serious adverse events were 
not and the safety profile did not raise any new safety concerns. Immunologically, there were also no 
concerns. All the data provided support a positive risk/benefit. 
A Risk Management Plan was provided as per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for 
medicinal products for human use. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Pergoveris  in  the  stimulation  of  follicular  development  in 
women with severe LH and FSH deficiency was favourable and therefore recommended the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
27/27 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
