EMA/174522/2017 
EMEA/H/C/00714 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pergoveris 
follitropin alfa / lutropin alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pergoveris. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Pergoveris. 
For practical information about using Pergoveris, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Pergoveris and what is it used for? 
Pergoveris is a fertility medicine used in women to stimulate the development of follicles, the 
structures inside the ovaries that contain an egg.  
Pergoveris is for adult women who have low levels of two hormones that stimulate the ovaries - 
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH). 
The medicine contains the active substances follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa. 
How is Pergoveris used? 
Pergoveris is available as a solution for injection in a pre-filled pen or as a powder and solvent to be 
made up into a solution for injection. Pergoveris is injected under the skin once a day until the patient 
has developed a suitable follicle, as assessed using ultrasound scans and by measuring blood 
oestrogen levels. This may take up to 5 weeks. The recommended starting dose is 150 International 
Units (IU) of follitropin alfa and 75 IU of lutropin alfa once a day, but this should be tailored to the 
patient’s response. Using less than the recommended starting dose may not be sufficient to stimulate 
development of a follicle. If necessary, the dose of follitropin alfa can be increased by adding it as a 
separate medicine, with 7 to 14 days between each dose increase. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The first injection must be given under direct supervision of a doctor who has experience in the 
treatment of fertility problems, but the patient can inject herself if she wants to, provided she has been 
properly trained and has access to expert advice. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information see the package leaflet. 
How does Pergoveris work? 
The active substances in Pergoveris, follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa, are copies of the natural 
hormones FSH and LH. In the body, FSH stimulates the production of eggs, and LH stimulates their 
release. By replacing the missing hormones, Pergoveris allows women with FSH and LH deficiency to 
develop a follicle, which will release an egg after an injection of the hormone human chorionic 
gonadotrophin (hCG). This may help these women to become pregnant. 
What benefits of Pergoveris have been shown in studies? 
Both active substances have already been authorised in the European Union (EU), follitropin alfa as 
GONAL-f and lutropin alfa as Luveris. Therefore, the company presented information from studies 
carried out during the development of Luveris to support the use of Pergoveris. In these studies, the 
combination of follitropin alfa and lutropin alfa at the same doses as in Pergoveris produced active 
follicles.  
The company also carried out bioequivalence studies to establish whether the combined injection 
produced the same levels of the active substances in the body as the two medicines given separately. 
These studies confirmed that Pergoveris produced similar blood levels of follitropin alfa and lutropin 
alfa as when the two medicines are given separately. 
What are the risks associated with Pergoveris? 
The most common side effects reported with Pergoveris (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are 
headache, ovarian cysts and injection site reactions (e.g. pain, itching, redness, bruising, swelling or 
irritation at the site of injection). Treatment can cause overstimulation of the ovaries (known as 
ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, OHSS), which can lead to serious medical problems. Mild or 
moderate OHSS is common, while severe OHSS is uncommon. Thromboembolism (clots in the blood 
vessels) may occur very rarely, usually associated with severe OHSS.  
Pergoveris must not be used in women who have: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tumours of the hypothalamus or pituitary gland, 
enlarged ovaries or a cyst on the ovary that is not due to polycystic ovarian disease and is of 
unknown origin, 
bleeding from the genital region whose cause is unknown, 
cancer of the ovary, womb or breast. 
Pergoveris must not be used when a benefit cannot be obtained, such as in women with primary 
ovarian failure (when the ovaries stop working before the menopause). It must also not be used in 
women who have malformations of the sexual organs or fibroid tumours of the womb that would stop 
them from becoming pregnant. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Pergoveris, see the package leaflet. 
Pergoveris  
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Pergoveris approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Pergoveris’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pergoveris? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pergoveris have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Pergoveris 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pergoveris on 25 June 2007. 
The full EPAR for Pergoveris can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Pergoveris, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2017. 
Pergoveris  
 
 
 
 
 
