31 January 2019 
EMA/219028/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pertuzumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010125/201806 
Period covered by the PSUR: 8th June 2017 to 7th June 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pertuzumab, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Data available for Infusion Related Reactions (IRR) and anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity with fatal outcome for 
patients treated with Perjeta in clinical trials, data from published literature, and relevant data from the 
Roche global safety database showed that there were no cases of confirmed IRRs or 
anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity with a fatal outcome in pivotal clinical trials in patients treated with 
pertuzumab. From the global safety database of the MAH a total of 15 case reports were retrieved inculding 
MedDRA PTs potentially indicative of an IRR or hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis which were associated with fatal 
outcome. Medical review of these 15 reports showed that in 8/15 cases, the reported events were not 
indicative of IRR/hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis. In the remaining 7 cases the events reported were indeed 
suggestive of IRR/ hypersensitivity/ anaphylaxis and in 3/7 of them, a causal relationship between the 
administration of pertuzumab and the fatal event could not be excluded.  
In conclusion, administration of Pertuzumab may cause Infusion Related Reactions (IRR) and 
hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis reactions that can be associated with fatal outcome and the Product 
Information should be updated to reflect such outcome.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC.  
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pertuzumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pertuzumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information  
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/219028/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
