21 February 2013 
EMA/212039/2012  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Pheburane 
International non-proprietary name: sodium phenylbutyrate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002500 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier .................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active  substance ............................................................................................ 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 11 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 11 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................ 11 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 11 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 12 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 12 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 12 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................ 13 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects .................................................................... 13 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 13 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 13 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 14 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 20 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience .............................................................................. 20 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 20 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 22 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 22 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 22 
4.  Recommendation ................................................................................. 23 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 2/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ASSD argininosuccinate synthetase deficiency 
AL arginosuccinase 
ARG arginase 
CPSD carbamyl phosphate synthetase deficiency 
HA hyperammonaemic 
NAGS N-acetylglutamate synthetase 
OTCD ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency 
PA phenylacetate 
PB phenylbutyrate 
PAG phenylacetylglutamine 
UCD urea cycle disorder(s) 
AR assessment report 
ASMF active substance master file 
CFU colony-forming unit 
CRS chemical reference substance 
CTD common technical document 
EEA European economic area 
GMP good manufacturing practice 
HDPE high-density polyethylene 
HPLC high performance liquid chromatography 
IR infrared 
Ph. Eur. European Pharmacopoeia 
Ppm parts per million 
R correlation coefficient 
Rpm revolutions per minute 
RH relative humidity 
RSD relative standard deviation 
SmPC summary of product characteristics 
TAMC total aerobic microbial count 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 3/24 
 
 
 
 
TYMC total combined yeasts and moulds count 
UV ultraviolet 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 4/24 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Lucane Pharma submitted on 1 March 2012 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pheburane, through the centralised procedure under Article 
3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure 
was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 15 March 2012. 
The application concerns a hybrid medicinal product as defined in Article 10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been granted in the 
Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Pheburane is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the 
chronic management of urea cycle disorders, involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase, 
ornithine transcarbamylase or argininosuccinate synthetase. It is indicated in all patients with 
neonatal-onset presentation (complete enzyme deficiencies, presenting within the first 28 days of life). 
It is also indicated in patients with late-onset disease (partial enzyme deficiencies, presenting after the 
first month of life) who have a history of hyperammonaemic encephalopathy.” 
Pheburane was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/12/949, EU/3/12/950, EU/3/12/951 
on 09 February 2012 in the following indications: i) Treatment of citrullinaemia type 1, ii) Treatment of 
ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency and iii) Treatment of carbamoyl-phosphate synthase-1 
deficiency.  
Following the CHMP positive opinion on this marketing authorisation, the Committee for Orphan 
Medicinal Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of Pheburane as an orphan medicinal product in 
the approved indication. The outcome of the COMP review can be found on the Agency's 
website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Rare disease designations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Hybrid application (Article 10(3) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Ammonaps instead of non-clinical and 
clinical data.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication.     
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team was: 
Rapporteur: 
David Lyons 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 1 March 2012.  
The procedure started on 21 March 2012. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 08 June 
2012.  
During the meeting on 16-19 July 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant 
20 July 2012. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 11 
October 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 13 November 2012.  
During the CHMP meeting on 10 - 13 December 2012 the CHMP agreed on a List of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
17 January 2013. 
During the meeting on 18-21 February 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Pheburane on 21 February 2013.  
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 6/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Pheburane is a medicinal product that contains sodium phenylbutyrate as active substance. It is 
intended for oral administration and is available in one pharmaceutical form and strength: granules 
containing 483 mg/g sodium phenylbutyrate. 
Pheburane is a hybrid medicinal product, the reference medicinal product is Ammonaps. Ammonaps 
has been authorised in the EU since 8 December 1999 and is available in 500 mg tablets and 940mg/g 
granules.  
The therapeutic indication of Pheburane is the same as of Ammonaps. The approved indication is: 
“Pheburane is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the chronic management of urea cycle disorders, 
involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase, ornithine transcarbamylase or 
argininosuccinate synthetase. It is indicated in all patients with neonatal-onset presentation (complete 
enzyme deficiencies, presenting within the first 28 days of life). It is also indicated in patients with 
late-onset disease (partial enzyme deficiencies, presenting after the first month of life) who have a 
history of hyperammonaemic encephalopathy.” 
Pheburane 483 mg/g granules is a hybrid medicinal product of Ammonaps 940mg/g granules. 
Pheburane is presented as a lower strength than Ammonaps 940mg/g granules. This is because 
Pheburane granules are coated to mask the unpleasant bitter taste of the active substance, and 
therefore contain less active substance per gram granules. This is explained in the quality section 
below. Palatability is considered important in view of the target population.  
Pheburane  was  granted  an  orphan  designation  on  the  basis  of  better  palatability;  the  coated  granule 
formulation reduces/removes the bitter taste associated with the active substance and might have the 
consequence of improved patient compliance compared to the reference medicinal product Ammonaps. 
This was considered to be a potential significant benefit over Ammonaps. The COMP reviewed whether 
the improved palatability will result in improved patient compliance and whether the criteria for orphan 
designation are fulfilled at the marketing authorisation stage. 
The safety and efficacy profile of sodium phenylbutyrate has been demonstrated in several clinical 
trials, details of which can be found in the EPAR for Ammonaps. In addition, there is a long-term post-
marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. The applicant 
submitted a bioequivalence study demonstrating bioequivalence between Pheburane 483 mg/g 
granules and the Ammonaps 940mg/g granules. Since this application is a hybrid application referring 
to the reference medicinal product Ammonaps, no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology and 
efficacy and safety have been conducted.  
The main differences between Pheburane and Ammonaps are the dosage form (Pheburane is presented 
as granules only), pharmaceutical formulation (different excipients), strength (Pheburane is presented 
as a lower strength), administration device (Pheburane includes one calibrating measuring spoon, 
whereas Ammonaps granules contain three spoons of different sizes). Since the applicant hasn’t 
provided data to demonstrate whether administration by gastrostomy or nasogastric tube is possible 
and if so to indicate whether there are any special measures to be taken, the CHMP recommends the 
applicant to perform studies to demonstrate that administration by nasogastric tube is feasible, with 
the view to provide relevant information in the product information.  
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 7/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Pheburane is presented in one pack size. The pack contains one bottle with a dosing spoon. This pack 
size is consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Pheburane is presented as white to off-white granules containing 483 mg/g sodium phenylbutyrate as 
active substance. The composition is described in section 6.1. of the SmPC. The medicinal product is 
available in HDPE bottles containing 174 g granules (which corresponds to 84 g of sodium 
phenylbutyrate). Each bottle is packed in an outer carton and is accompanied by a calibrated dosing 
spoon (graduation of 250 mg) which dispenses up to 3 g of sodium phenylbutyrate. 
2.2.2.  Active  substance 
Sodium phenylbutyrate is a white or yellowish-white, hygroscopic powder, freely soluble in water and 
in methanol, and practically insoluble in methylene chloride. The drug substance has an unpleasant 
taste. The chemical name is sodium 4-phenylbutanoate. 
Sodium phenylbutyrate has a non-chiral molecular structure. Evidence has been provided that the 
polymorph form of the active substance is the same as in the reference medicinal product Ammonaps. 
The molecular structure of sodium phenylbutyrate was elucidated using 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy, 
IR spectroscopy, elemental analysis and mass spectroscopy. 
The information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. There is a monograph of 
sodium phenylbutyrate in the European Pharmacopoeia, but no Ph.Eur. certificate of suitability been 
issued for the active substance. 
Manufacture 
Sodium phenylbutyrate is supplied by one active substance manufacturer, it is synthesised by a two-
step process using well defined starting materials and reagents. Adequate specifications and control 
methods have been presented for the intermediate products, starting materials and reagents. Process 
validation was conducted on three production-scale batches. Detailed information on the 
manufacturing process of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the ASMF 
and it considered satisfactory. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility, identity (IR, test for 
sodium), pH (Ph.Eur.), assay (titration), impurities (HPLC, GC), residual solvents (GC), water content 
(KF) and heavy metals (Ph.Eur.). The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications 
and test methods of the Ph. Eur. monograph n° 04/2008:2183. Additional specifications have been set 
for residual solvents to control the contents of solvents used in the final stage of synthesis (methanol 
and acetone) in accordance with the ICH guideline of residual solvents (ICH Q3C). This additional 
method has been adequately validated.  
Batch analysis data have been provided on three commercial  batches produced with the proposed 
synthetic route. The results are within the specifications and demonstrate that the active ingredient 
can be manufactured reproducibly. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 8/24 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Three production scale batches of the active substance, packed in a package equivalent to the intended 
commercial package, were put on long term (25°C/60% RH) stability studies for up to twelve months, 
and accelerated (40°C/75% RH) stability studies for up six months, according to the ICH conditions. 
The following parameters were tested: appearance identity, pH, water content, impurities and assay. 
The analytical methods and specifications for stability are the same as for release testing, except for 
the water content for which a higher limit was accepted at stability because the drug substance is 
hygroscopic. It was demonstrated that the water content has no impact on the purity of the active 
substance under the proposed shelf life limit. Results on stress conditions have been provided on at 
least one batch. The stress conditions investigated were: alkali (1M NaOH at 80°C for 24 hours), acid 
(1M HCl at 80 °C for 24 hours), oxidation (20% H2O2 for 24 hours), heat (dry heat at 100 °C for 12 
hours) and light (exposure to a near-UV lamp for 24 hours). The stress study confirm that the HPLC 
method used is stability indicating and appropriate for the routine analysis and the long term stability 
studies of sodium phenylbutyrate. 
In general, the stability results indicate that the drug substance manufactured by the proposed 
supplier is sufficiently stable and the stability results justify the proposed retest period in the proposed 
container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The objective of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a formulation that is bioequivalent to 
the existing product, Ammonaps 940 mg/g granules, and with the unpleasant taste of the active 
substance masked. The taste is considered an important finished product characteristic in view of the 
target population, which includes infants and children. The product also has to allow the dosage to be 
adjusted in accordance with the needs of the patient. It was decided that these objectives could best 
be met by a granule presentation in which neutral cores are coated with an inner layer containing the 
active substance and an outer layer which masks the taste. Several types of neutral cores were 
investigated and sucrose spheres were selected as they formed granules with satisfactory taste and 
stability which dissolved more rapidly than those made using microcrystalline cellulose. Also the size of 
the sugar spheres was carefully selected.  
The development of the active substance coating solution aimed at finding a solution with good 
spraying characteristics. Then, the masking layer coating solution was developed. Two coating 
solutions for the outer masking layer were investigated, and the solution which gave better masking of 
the taste was selected for further development. The ratio of active substance to sugar spheres was 
subsequently optimised and the process parameters were also adjusted in order to maximise the 
efficiency of the spraying process. 
The in-vitro dissolution of two batches of Pheburane granules was compared with that of a batch of 
Ammonaps granules. Whereas the dissolution of the uncoated Ammonaps granules was very rapid, the 
Pheburane batches dissolve more slowly at all pH values. The observed delay in the dissolution is 
linked to the fact that Pheburane granules are coated and likely explains why the Pheburane 
formulation is found to be more palatable to patients. Nevertheless the Pheburane dissolution profile is 
considered adequate and a bioequivalence study confirmed bioequivalence between Pheburane 
granules and Ammonaps granules, see clinical part below. The palatability of the final formulation was 
tested in healthy adults, the study demonstrated that the coated granules were found to be 
significantly better than the reference medicinal product with respect to acceptability, bitterness and 
saltiness immediately after dosing. For more information see the clinical part below. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 9/24 
 
 
 
 
The formulation differences between Pheburane and the reference medicinal product Ammonaps are 
considered significant. Whereas Ammonaps is presented as granules containing 940 mg sodium 
phenylbutyrate per gram granules, Pheburane granules contain 483 mg sodium phenylbutyrate per 
gram granules. Pheburane is presented as a lower strength than Ammonaps 940mg/g granules due to 
the coating technology that is used to mask the unpleasant bitter taste of the active substance. The 
excipients used in Pheburane are different from the excipients used in the reference medicinal product 
Ammonaps. All excipients used in Pheburane granules comply with the current specifications of the 
European Pharmacopoeia and are commonly used excipients for this pharmaceutical form. The 
excipients are: sugar spheres (core of granules), hypromellose (film-coating agent), ethylcellulose 
(film-coating agent for taste masking), macrogol (plasticiser) and povidone (binder). The difference in 
excipients is not considered to affect the clinical performance of the medicinal product and all 
excipients are considered safe. Pheburane contains sucrose, which triggers a special warning 
statement in section 2 of the SmPC. This excipient is not present in the reference medicinal product 
Ammonaps.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used 
Manufacture of the product 
Pheburane granules are manufactured by a standard manufacturing process, the main manufacturing 
steps are: i) preparation of the two coating solutions, ii) coating of the sugar pellets with the active 
substance solution, iii) coating of the active beads with the ethyl cellulose solution to mask the taste of 
the active substance and iv) blending and filling. The process has been optimised during the course of 
development. The manufacturing process has been validated and it was demonstrated to be capable of 
reproducibly producing a finished product of the intended quality. Adequate in-process controls are in 
place for this pharmaceutical form.  
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for appearance, identification 
(HPLC, IR), dissolution (Ph.Eur.), water content (KF), tapped density, residual ethanol (GC), uniformity 
of mass of delivered dose (Ph.Eur.), assay and related substances (HPLC) and microbiological purity 
(Ph.Eur.). The non-compendial analytical methods have adequately been validated. Batch analysis 
results on three industrial batches confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that 
the process is capable of consistently producing a finished product that meets the predefined 
specifications and that the manufacturing process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data have been provided for at least three production scale sub-batches The stability batches 
have been manufactured according to the manufacturing process proposed for marketing and the 
samples were packed in the container proposed for the market (HDPE bottles with a desiccant in the 
cap). Up to twelve months stability data have been provided under long term conditions 
(25ºC/60%RH) and intermediate conditions (30ºC/65%RH) for one batch, and up to nine months for 
two additional batches, according to ICH conditions. Six months stability data under accelerated 
conditions (40ºC/75%RH) was provided for four batches. Samples were tested for appearance, 
identification, assay, related substances, dissolution, uniformity of delivered dose, water content and 
microbiological purity. The analytical procedures used were stability indicating. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 10/24 
 
 
 
 
The stability results provided reveal no trends in relation to appearance, loss on drying, assay, content 
of related substances, uniformity of delivered dose, or microbiological purity.  
In view of the hygroscopic nature of the drug substance, in-use stability studies have been conducted 
on two batches over a period of 45 days. No significant changes were noted for any of the parameters 
monitored: appearance, assay, related substances, water content, delivery test, microbial purity and 
dissolution. 
The stability studies also include a test to confirm that the integrity of the ethylcellulose layer 
(responsible for taste masking) remains unaffected during the proposed shelf life of the granules. 
Results of the coating integrity test have been provided for four batches stored under long-term 
conditions for up to 12 months. In view that no results have been presented for samples stored under 
either accelerated or intermediate conditions, the CHMP considers the appropriate storage condition to 
be ‘Do not store above 25 ºC’. 
The proposed container closure system (a 250 ml HDPE bottle with an integral desiccant in a child-
resistant cap) is adequately described and is considered appropriate for granules which contain a 
hygroscopic drug substance. Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and in use shelf 
life as stated in section 6.3 of the SmPC are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Pheburane granules are coated to mask the taste of the active substance and as a result, Pheburane 
(483mg/g granules) is presented in a lower strength than the reference medicinal product Ammonaps 
(940mg/g granules). Pheburane contains different excipients than Ammonaps, in particular the 
presence of sucrose is noted and this has been reflected in the SmPC.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
None.  
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature and the SmPC of the reference product 
Ammonaps. The overview justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 11/24 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line 
with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered 
acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
The non-clinical pharmacology overview summarises the primary pharmacodynamics, and general 
(secondary) pharmacodynamics. No own conducted studies were submitted in this application; the 
overview refers to the published literature on sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPB) and the reference product 
Ammonaps. The mechanism of action of NaPB is through provision of an alternate pathway to excrete 
waste nitrogen, by the phenylacetylglutamine conjugate. NaPB is rapidly metabolised by beta-oxidation 
to phenylacetate (PA), which is conjugated with phenylacetyl-CoA, which in turn combines with 
glutamine via acetylation to form phenylacetylglutamine. Phenylacetylglutamine is then excreted by 
the kidneys, thus providing an alternate mechanism of nitrogen excretion to the urea cycle. The 
mechanism is well characterised and supports the indication for management of urea cycle disorder(s) 
(UCDs). The lack of newly generated pharmacodynamic data is acceptable given the extensive clinical 
experience with the reference product, Ammonaps. 
According to the literature data the therapeutic potential of NaPB has also been studied in a number of 
disease models. As recently reviewed by Iannitti and Palmieri, studies indicate a potential for NaPB in 
treatment of a range of conditions including cancer, neurodegenerative disorders and ischaemic injury. 
The submitted data does not address potential adverse effects due to secondary pharmacodynamic 
activity and it does not discuss safety pharmacology or pharmacodynamic drug interactions.  These are 
not considered as matters of concern due to the available body of evidence of clinical efficacy and 
safety of the reference product. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Submitted pharmacokinetic absorption data are limited, but is compensated by the available clinical 
data. The clinical PK studies reported in literature suggest that NaPB is readily absorbed under fasting 
conditions with maximal plasma concentration after 2 hours. In addition a 1:1 blood ratio of NaPB in 
brain, eyes, heart, kidney and liver is reported. The submitted data suggests decreased brain 
distribution in mature animals. NaPB is quickly metabolised, as PA is measurable in plasma within one 
hour. A recent study has shown that new metabolites of PB, which do not carry nitrogen, may be 
formed following interference of carbohydrate and lipids. Among the newly identified metabolites, 
several were not detected in humans or were found at a very low level. The extrapolations of the 
findings to humans are limited therefore this finding doesn’t raise any concerns.  Excretion is mostly 
predominantly as phenylactylglutamine, with 80-100% excreted in urine by 24 hours. This process 
forms the basis of its mechanism of action in treating UCDs and is well characterised. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The non-clinical toxicology overview includes literature reports from single- and repeated-dose studies, 
genotoxicity studies, and a teratogenicity study. 
The  single-dose  study  was  undertaken  to  investigate  genotoxicity  and  was  inadequately  designed  to 
determine  an  LD 50  for  NaPB.  Although  lethality  was  seen  at  the  lowest  dose  (1586  mg/kg),  this  is  a 
supra-therapeutic dose and based on extensive clinical use, acute toxicity of PA is not considered to be 
a concern. In a non-GLP 28 day repeated-dose study, subcutaneous administration of 550 mg/kg/day 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 12/24 
 
 
 
 
PA  did  not  produce  any  clear  adverse  effects  or  histological  abnormalities  in  vital  organs.  A  study  of 
juvenile animals suggests PA causes impairment of brain development in the immature rodent. Limited 
insight  can  be  gained  from  the  repeated-dose  studies  as  oral  administration  was  not  studied,  no 
toxicokinetic  exposure  data  are  reported,  and  no  long  term  toxicity  studies  are  reported.  However, 
these deficiencies are acceptable considering the clinical experience with the reference product for this 
hybrid application. 
Bacterial  reverse  mutation  assays  and  an  in  vivo  micronucleus  test  did  not  show  any  evidence  of 
genotoxic potential. This is supported by a recent literature report where NAPB was found to promote 
DNA repair and survival in normal human fibroblasts. No carcinogenicity studies were undertaken. This 
is  considered  acceptable  since  NaPB  is  a  histone  deacetylase  inhibitor  and  has  shown  anticancer 
activity, and is unlikely to have significant carcinogenic potential. 
The  limited  reproductive  toxicity  studies  suggest  PA  may  affect  fertility  and  post  natal  development. 
The findings of these studies are adequately reflected in the SmPC section 4.6. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Pheburane manufactured by LUCANE PHARMA is considered unlikely to result in any 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all sodium 4-phenylbutyrate containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. The CHMP concluded that Pheburane is not expected to pose an additional risk to 
the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  part  of  the  MAA  dossier  is  based  on  literature  review  data  and  reference  to  the  non-
clinical  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  reference  product.  No  own  conducted  studies  have  been  submitted. 
The pharmacology and toxicology data are limited, but considering the evidence of clinical efficacy and 
safety of the reference product, this is acceptable. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature overview on non-clinical data for sodium phenylbutyrate was provided and 
was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non clinical 
studies were not considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for granules containing sodium 4-phenylbutyrate. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for this MA application.  
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 13/24 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trial conducted outside the 
community was carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Exemption  
Not applicable. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study: 
Study 109551: An open label two period, crossover study to determine the bioequivalence of two 
formulations of a single dose of sodium phenylbutyrate granules and to compare the taste of these two 
formulations in healthy volunteers. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 109551 was an open label, two period, single dose, crossover study in healthy volunteers to 
determine the bioequivalence of two formulations of sodium phenylbutyrate granules 5 grams; and to 
compare the taste of the two formulations. Treatments were administered in fasting state (at least 10 
hours) as Ammonaps uncoated granules 5.32 grams and Pheburane coated granules 10.21 grams. 
The study was conducted at the Bloemfontein Early Phase Clinical Unit, Kampuslaan Suid, University of 
the Free State, Bloemfontein, South Africa. 
The study consisted in two treatment periods separated by a wash-out period of seven calendar days.  
A full blood count, clinical chemistry, HIV and Hepatitis B & C tests, as well as serum pregnancy test 
were performed at screening. A full blood count and clinical chemistry investigations were performed at 
the post study evaluation. 
On admission to the clinic subjects selected their own beds, which determined their randomisation 
number for the study. Subjects’ numbers were allocated in this way. Subjects received the medication 
labelled with their number, according to the randomisation schedule. 
Venous blood samples for the determination of phenylbutyrate concentrations were taken at the 
following time points: 
Table 1. 
Pharmacokinetic Blood Sampling Schedule 
Day 
1 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Sampling time 
Clock time* (hh:mm) 
Blood (9 mL) 
(hours) 
Pre-dose 
0.25 
0.5 
0.75 
07:15 
07:45 
08:00 
08:15 
B 0 
B 1 
B 2 
B 3 
Page 14/24 
 
 
 
 
1 
1.25 
1.5 
2 
2.5 
3 
3.5 
4 
6 
8 
12 
16 
08:30 
08:45 
09:00 
09:30 
10:00 
10:30 
11:00 
11:30 
13:30 
15:30 
19:30 
23:30 
B 4 
B 5 
B 6 
B 7 
B 8 
B 9 
B 10 
B 11 
B 12 
B 13 
B 14 
B 15 
* Actual clock times varied between subjects, in relation to actual dosing times. 
To ensure compliance, the IMP was administered by the principal investigator and designee. A mouth 
check was performed to ensure that the subjects had swallowed the medication. 
Test and reference products  
After an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, subjects received an oral dose of 5 g sodium 
phenylbutyrate of either the test or reference product according to the randomisation schedule. 
Subjects received each product once. Subjects received 5.32 g uncoated granules of the reference 
product or 10.21 g of the coated granules of the test product with 240 mL water. 
Reference Product (A) 
Generic name:  Sodium phenylbutyrate 
Trade name: Ammonaps 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Swedish Orphan International AB Country of origin:  Sweden 
Dosage form:  Uncoated granules: 5.32 grams containing 5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate 
Dose:  5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate under fasting conditions 
Mode/route of administration: Oral 
Batch number:  3321.021A 
Expiry date/Retest date: February 2012 
Assayed product content: Not available 
Test Product(B) 
Generic name:  Sodium phenylbutyrate 
Trade name: Pheburane 
Manufacturer: Lucane Pharma  
Country of origin: France 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 15/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage form: Coated granules: 10.21 grams containing 5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate 
Dose:  5 g of sodium phenylbutyrate under fasting conditions 
Route of administration: Oral 
Batch number:  4602502V2 
Expiry date/Retest date: November 2011 
Assayed product content: 100% 
Population(s) studied   
Sample size  
A first cohort of fourteen healthy, Caucasian, non-smoking male and female subjects was entered into 
the  first  stage  of  the  study  and  assigned  to  treatment  sequence  according  to  the  randomisation 
schedule.   
Based on the results of the first cohort, the option of adding additional subjects was not exercised as 
bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  in  the  analysis  of  data  obtained  from  thirteen  subjects  of  the  first 
cohort. 
Main inclusion criteria 
Subjects who met the following criteria were considered eligible to participate in the study: 
Healthy male and female subjects 18 to < 56 years of age. 
Body Mass Index between 18.5 and 30 kg/m2. 
Body mass not less than 50 kg. 
Findings  within  the  range  of  clinical  acceptability  in  medical  history  and  physical  examination,  and 
laboratory results within the laboratory reference ranges for the relevant laboratory tests.  
Normal 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and vital signs, or abnormalities.  
Females should be sterile or using a reliable method of contraception. 
Main exclusion criteria 
Any significant medical condition, use of any medication in the previous two weeks, substance abuse.  
Analytical methods   
Quantitative analyses of phenylbutyrate (assayed as phenylbutyric acid) in the plasma samples and in 
suitable quality controls were performed by the PAREXEL Bioanalytical Services Division using liquid 
chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of  phenylbutyrate  from  the  reference  and  test  products  as  on  the 
following  variables  were  compared  for  each  subject  and  product  using  the  actual  sampling  intervals 
(relative to medication administration): 
Primary Variables: 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 16/24 
 
 
 
 
•  Maximum observed plasma concentration (C max). 
•  Area under the plasma concentration versus time data pairs [AUC t], where t is the time of the 
last quantifiable concentration. 
Secondary Variables: 
•  Area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  data  pairs,  with  extrapolation  to  infinity 
[AUC inf] 
•  Residual area [(AUC inf] – AUC t) / AUC inf]. 
• 
• 
Time to maximum observed plasma concentration (Tmax). 
Terminal elimination rate constant λz). 
•  Apparent terminal half-life (t½.z). 
•  Number of points used to estimate the terminal rate constant (λz). 
Safety variables 
Safety  variables  were  abnormalities  in  laboratory  variables  and/or  adverse  events  recorded  using 
MedDRA terminology.  
Palatability 
Taste  variables  (acceptability,  bitterness,  saltiness  and  sweetness)  were  evaluated  using  visual 
analogue scales (VAS) immediately after administration of the product, 30 minutes after and 2 hours 
after.  On  a  100  mm  scale  0  indicated  totally  acceptable/not  bitter  –  salty  -  sweet  and  100  indicated 
totally unacceptable/very bitter – salty – sweet.  Descriptive statistics were tabulated per product. The 
reference  and  test  products  were  compared  using  an  analysis  of  variance  with  sequence,  product, 
period  and  product*period  effects  on  untransformed  data.  Point  estimates  and  95%  confidence 
intervals  for  the  "test  -  reference"  mean  differences  of  these  variables  at  each  time  point  were 
calculated and tabulated. 
Statistical methods   
The  decision  rule  of  bioequivalence  (all  subjects)  was  based  on  characteristics  C max  and  AUC t,  AUCinf 
and  t½.z  on  log-transformed  data  of  phenylbutyrate,  using  ANOVA  with  sequence,  subject,  treatment 
and  period  effects.  The  respective  94.12%  (adjustment  of  alpha-level  due  to  multiple  testing) 
confidence  intervals  were  calculated  and  compared  to  the  regulatory  interval  [0.8-1.25].  For  Tmax  a 
non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test was used and the calculated p-value reported. 
Results 
Subject disposal 
Fourteen  subjects  (8  males  and  6  females)  were  considered  eligible  and  entered  into  the  study.  One 
female subject (Subject 7) was withdrawn from the study during Treatment period I (Ammonaps) due 
to  an  adverse  event  (vomiting).  Thirteen  subjects  completed  both  treatment  periods.  Subjects’  mean 
age was 27.8 years (s.d. 11.6) and mean body mass index was 23.9 kg/m2 (s.d. 3.4). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 17/24 
 
 
 
 
Following  single-dose  administration  of  the  test  and  reference  products,  maximum  plasma 
concentrations of 1140 and 1200 µmol/L of phenylbutyrate (Table 2) were reached at a median time of 
approximately 0.75 hours and 0.5 hours post-dose, respectively. 
Table 2. Pharmacokinetics of sodium phenylbutyrate granules (2 different products) in 
healthy volunteers  
Ammonaps (Reference product) 
Pheburane (Test product) 
Variable 
C max (µg/mL) 
AUC t (h·µg/mL) 
AUC inf (h·µg/mL) 
Geometric 
mean (SD) 
225.150 
(49.282) 
464.880 
(190.356) 
466.920 
(190.356) 
Range 
146.000 – 
326.000 
265.498 - 
867.064 
267.214 - 
867.744 
Geometric mean 
(SD) 
212.453 (46.606) 
445.427 (172.434) 
448.220 (171.880) 
Range 
137.000 – 
318.000 
234.898 - 
809.492 
235.605 - 
810.507 
tmax (h) 
0.500 
0.250 – 1.250 
0.750 
0.500 – 1.250 
The point estimates of the "test/reference" mean ratios [94.12%CI] of Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ for 
phenylbutyrate were 94.32% [86.95;102.31], 95.61% [90.34;101.19] and 95.80% [90.8;101.08], 
respectively. The analysis of variance on Cmax, AUCt and AUCinf after logarithmic transformations did 
not show any significant differences between the two products, neither any period or sequence effect. 
Confidence intervals of geometric means for Cmax and AUCt were within the required range for not 
rejecting bioequivalence. The Tmax difference was not significant (Wilcoxon singed rank test, p-value 
= 0.5205).  The plasma/time concentration curves for reference and test product are shown below. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 18/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Palatability 
The outcome of the taste testing immediately after dosing is shown in Table 3. The differences at 0.5 
hours  post-dose  were  much  less  marked  and  at  2  hours  post-dose  were  negligible.  The  confidence 
intervals indicate a statistically significant difference between the products with regard to acceptability, 
bitterness  and  saltiness.    The  assessment  of  the  acceptability  immediately  after  dosing  was  worse 
during the Treatment period 1 than Treatment period 2, irrespectively of the product administered. 
Table 3.  LS mean taste scores immediately after dosing 
Ammonaps 
Pheburane 
Difference 
95% CI 
Acceptability 
55.14 
Bitter 
Salty 
Sweet 
59.62 
43.01 
11.01 
20.89 
11.69 
12.13 
11.56 
-34.25 
-47.93 
-30.88 
0.54 
-56.79, -11.71 
-62.20, -33.65 
-49.26,-12.50 
-10.04,11.13 
Safety data 
Safety and tolerability 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 19/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  during  the  study,  and  none  of  the  adverse  events  was  of 
severe intensity.  No adverse events related to laboratory variables were reported.  
Twenty-eight treatment emergent adverse events were reported by 12 of the 14 subjects.  Of these, 6 
were  assessed  as  not  related  or  unlikely  related  to  treatment,  and  22 adverse  events  to  be  probably 
related or related. 
Adverse events  
Headache  (15  incidences  reported  by  8  subjects)  and  ageusia  (5  incidences  reported  by  5 subjects) 
were the predominant adverse events reported. One subject vomited and was subsequently withdrawn 
from the study.  The intensity of the adverse events was rated as "mild" or "moderate".  The summary 
of the drug-related adverse events is presented in the table below: 
Table 4. Summary of Drug-related Adverse Events  
Adverse event 
Ammonaps 
Pheburane 
Headache 
Ageusia 
Vomiting 
Body weakness 
Conclusions 
8 
5 
1 
1 
7 
- 
- 
- 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Pheburane is considered bioequivalent with Ammonaps. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Bioequivalence 
The own generated clinical data consists of one bioequivalence study that is considered pivotal for the 
MA application.  Study 109551 aimed to establish the bioequivalence of two formulations of sodium 
phenylbutyrate, Pheburane, the test treatment, and Ammonaps, the reference product.  Due to the 
limited previous experience and/or published data on the PK of phenylbutyrate  the study was planned 
to be run in two stages, the second stage  to be run in case the results obtained in the first stage 
would have not allowed a firm conclusion on the bioequivalence. That is, a power calculation was not 
made; an initial cohort of subjects was studied with the provision that should bioequivalence not be 
demonstrated a further cohort could be added based on the experience from the first cohort. Given the 
circumstances at the time the study was planned the CHMP considers this as an appropriate approach. 
In fact, the first cohort of fourteen subjects was sufficient to establish bioequivalence.  
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 20/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With and estimated elimination half-life for phenylbutyrate of 0.8 hours (Ammonaps SmPC), the 7 day-
wash-out period is regarded as adequate.  
The inclusion/exclusion criteria are found acceptable and the population included is representative for 
the targeted patient population. The pharmacokinetic variables and the sampling schedule were found 
adequate.  
No major protocol deviations, that could have affected the trial outcome, are noted. 
Administration methods 
One of the formulation differences between Pheburane and Ammonaps granules is the presence of a 
coating meant to mask the bitter taste of the active substance. The only clinical experience with the 
new formulation has been obtained in fourteen adults included in the bioequivalence study. The study 
treatments were administered orally with water. This is adequately reflected in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC. 
As for the originator it is envisaged that the medicine can be sprinkled on to a spoonful of semi-solid 
foods and administered as such. This is considered acceptable by the CHMP since both Pheburane and 
the reference product have the same formulation: granules. 
No data has been submitted on whether Pheburane can be administered through nasogastric tubes. 
This information is properly reflected in the SmPC section 4.2. The CHMP recommends the applicant to 
perform studies to demonstrate that administration by nasogastric tube is feasible. . 
Palatability  
The applicant has evaluated palatability using a simple visual analogue scale (VAS) and Pheburane 
scores markedly better in the criteria of general acceptability, bitterness and saltiness. For sweetness 
there is no difference and none would be expected (the outer coating is cellulose and should be nearly 
tasteless) the lack of a difference between the formulations for sweetness can be taken as a control 
indicating that the VAS does discriminate where there is a difference. Moreover, the difference in the 
number of subjects reporting ageusia in the test (0) and reference (5) treatment arms confirms the 
positive findings from the VAS scoring.  There are no data indicating that the improved palatability will 
lead to improved compliance but the presumption is not unreasonable. 
Safety 
The only additional clinical data generated by the applicant is based on a single exposure to a five 
gram dose of Pheburane in fourteen healthy volunteers. No firm conclusion can be drawn on such small 
body of data. 
The two principal qualitative formulation differences between Pheburane and Ammonaps are the 
presence of a sucrose core and additional excipients; hypromellose, ethycellulose, macrogol, and 
povidone, in Pheburane which are absent from Ammonaps.   
Sucrose is present as 403 mg/483 mg of active substance (83%) which based on treatment at the top 
of the recommended dosage range translates to an additional sucrose load of approximately 10 g/day 
for those under 20 kg and 20 g/day for an ‘average’ 70 kg man, and adds 40 Kcal and 80 Kcal, 
respectively, to daily calorie intake which is not deemed clinically important. There is an appropriate 
sucrose warning in the proposed SmPC. 
The additional excipients in the Pheburane formulation are well known and are generally considered 
inert from a clinical point of view and are not expected to pose any additional risk. 
Based on the submitted data no new safety issues have been identified. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 21/24 
 
 
 
 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature overview on clinical data of sodium phenylbutyrate use in urea cycle 
disorders and a bioequivalence study to the reference product Ammonaps was submitted by the 
applicant and accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional 
clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Pheburane is considered bioequivalent with Ammonaps. 
Based on the submitted data no new safety issues have been identified beyond the ones highlighted in 
Ammonaps’ SmPC. 
The CHMP recommends the applicant to perform studies to demonstrate that administration by 
nasogastric tube is feasible, with the view to provide relevant information in the product information. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the reference 
medicinal product Ammonaps does not have a risk management plan. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
PSUR submission 
Periodic safety update reports should be submitted for Pheburane in accordance with the requirements 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. The next data lock point is 
31/12/2015. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a hybrid version of Ammonaps 940 mg/g granules. Pheburane is intended for 
the treatment of chronic management of urea cycle disorders. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 22/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is indicated in all patients with neonatal-onset presentation (complete enzyme deficiencies, 
presenting within the first 28 days of life). It is also indicated in patients with late-onset disease 
(partial enzyme deficiencies, presenting after the first month of life) who have a history of 
hyperammonaemic encephalopathy.” 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application and the submitted non-clinical overview 
based on literature data was considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not 
contain new data on the pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; 
the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature 
was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis for this MA application with a cross-over design 
conducted under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice 
of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Pheburane met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared 
with Ammonaps. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, 
AUC0 inf, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 
125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A positive benefit/risk ratio can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4. Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Pheburane in the following indication:  
“Pheburane is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the chronic management of urea cycle disorders, 
involving deficiencies of carbamylphosphate synthetase, ornithine transcarbamylase or 
argininosuccinate synthetase.  
It is indicated in all patients with neonatal-onset presentation (complete enzyme deficiencies, 
presenting within the first 28 days of life). It is also indicated in patients with late-onset disease 
(partial enzyme deficiencies, presenting after the first month of life) who have a history of 
hyperammonaemic encephalopathy.” 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation, subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription  
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
•  Periodic safety update reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit PSURs for this product in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
Pheburane 
Assessment report  
Page 24/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
