EMA/123532/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002500 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pheburane 
sodium phenylbutyrate 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pheburane. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Pheburane. 
For practical information about using Pheburane, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Pheburane and what is it used for? 
Pheburane is a medicine that contains the active substance sodium phenylbutyrate. It is used to treat 
patients who have urea cycle disorders. These patients are not able to get rid of waste nitrogen from 
the body because they lack some enzymes that are usually found in the liver. In the body, waste 
nitrogen is in the form of ammonia, which is toxic when it accumulates, especially for the brain. 
Pheburane is used in patients who lack one or more of the following enzymes: carbamylphosphate 
synthetase, ornithine transcarbamylase, or argininosuccinate synthetase. It can be used in patients 
with the following forms of the disease: 
• 
• 
'early-onset' disease in patients who show a complete lack of one or more of these enzymes within 
the first month of life; 
'late-onset' disease in patients who show a partial lack of one or more of these enzymes after the 
age of one month and have had high blood ammonia levels that affected the brain’s activity. 
Pheburane is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Pheburane granules are available at a lower strength and contain different 
excipients (inactive ingredients) to mask the unpleasant taste of the active substance. The reference 
medicine for Pheburane is Ammonaps. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Pheburane used? 
Pheburane is available as granules (483 mg/g). It can only be obtained with a prescription and 
treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in treating patients with urea cycle 
disorders. 
Pheburane is used with a special low-protein diet to reduce the intake of nitrogen. The daily dose of 
Pheburane is adjusted for each patient individually and depends on the patient’s diet, height and 
weight. Regular blood tests are needed to find the correct daily dose. 
The daily dose of Pheburane should be divided into equal amounts and given with each meal. The 
granules can be sprinkled onto food immediately before being swallowed or placed in the mouth and 
swallowed immediately with a drink. 
Pheburane may be a life-long treatment unless the patient has a successful liver transplant. 
How does Pheburane work? 
Eating protein brings nitrogen into the body, which is then transformed into ammonia. Patients with 
urea cycle disorders cannot get rid of ammonia from the body, so it can reach high levels, leading to 
serious problems including disability, brain damage and death. The active substance in Pheburane, 
sodium phenylbutyrate, is converted into a substance called phenylacetate in the body. Phenylacetate 
combines with the amino acid glutamine, which contains nitrogen, to form a substance that can be 
removed from the body by the kidneys. This allows the levels of nitrogen in the body to decrease, 
reducing the amount of ammonia produced. 
How has Pheburane been studied? 
Studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine that Pheburane is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, Ammonaps. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels 
of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Pheburane? 
Because Pheburane is a hybrid medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits 
and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Pheburane approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Pheburane has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Ammonaps. Therefore, the CHMP’s 
view was that, as for Ammonaps, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee 
recommended that Pheburane be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pheburane? 
Safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet 
for Pheburane, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and 
patients.   
Pheburane  
EMA/123532/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Pheburane 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pheburane on 31 July 2013. 
The full EPAR for Pheburane can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Pheburane, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2013. 
Pheburane  
EMA/123532/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
