Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  PHELINUN  50 mg 
Powder and Solvent for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion 
and PHELINUN 200 mg Powder and Solvent for Concentrate for 
Solution for Infusion (Melphalan) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  PHELINUN 50 mg  Powder  and  Solvent  for 
Concentrate  for  Solution  for  Infusion  and  PHELINUN 200 mg  Powder  and  Solvent  for  Concentrate  for 
Solution  for  Infusion  (hereinafter  to  as  PHELINUN).  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  PHELINUN,  how 
these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  PHELINUN’s  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
PHELINUN’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how PHELINUN should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for PHELINUN should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of PHELINUN’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
PHELINUN is authorised for (see SmPC for the full indication): 
- 
the treatment of multiple myeloma, malignant lymphoma (Hodgkin’s, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma), 
acute  lymphoblastic  and  myeloblastic  leukemia,  childhood  neuroblastoma,  ovarian  cancer,  and 
mammary adenocarcinoma;  
- 
in combination with other cytotoxic drugs in adult as reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) treatment 
prior  to  allogeneic  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  (HSCT)  in  malignant  haematological 
diseases. 
- 
in combination with other cytotoxic drugs in paediatric population as conditioning treatment prior 
to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in haematological diseases: 
o  Myeloablative conditioning (MAC) treatment in case of malignant haematological diseases; 
o  RIC treatment in case of non-malignant haematological diseases. 
- 
It contains melphalan as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  PHELINUN’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  PHELINUN’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/phelinun.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise 
or further characterise the risks  
Not Applicable. No safety concerns have been identified for PHELINUN.  
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Not applicable. No safety concerns have been identified for PHELINUN. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are part of the conditions of the authorisation of PHELINUN. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for PHELINUN. 
 
 
 
 
