EMA/567743/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005173 
Phelinun (melphalan) 
An overview of Phelinun and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Phelinun and what is it used for? 
Phelinun is a cancer medicine for treating patients with: 
• 
cancers of the bone marrow (which produces blood cells) – multiple myeloma, acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia and acute myeloid leukaemia; 
•  Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas, which are cancers that affect white blood cells called 
lymphocytes; 
•  Childhood neuroblastoma, a cancer of nerve cells in different parts of the body; 
• 
ovarian cancer;  
•  mammary adenocarcinoma, a type of breast cancer. 
It is used either on its own or in combination with other cancer medicines, or radiotherapy or both.  
Phelinun can also be used for stem cell transplantation in adults and children with blood cancers and 
some other blood disorders in children. It is given with other cytotoxic (cell-killing) medicines for 
conditioning treatment (to clear cells in the bone marrow) before the patient receives healthy stem 
cells from a donor to replace the diseased cells. 
Phelinun contains the active substance melphalan. 
Phelinun is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Phelinun is intended for an additional use (conditioning treatment). The 
reference medicine for Phelinun is Alkeran 50 mg/10 ml, which is marketed in France.   
How is Phelinun used? 
Phelinun can only be obtained with a prescription and it must be given under the supervision of a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines and conditioning treatment for stem cell 
transplantation. 
Phelinun is given by infusion (drip) into a vein and the dose depends on the condition it is being used 
for as well as the patient’s weight and height. The dose can be split and given over 2 or 3 consecutive 
days. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Phelinun, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Phelinun work? 
Melphalan, the active substance in Phelinun is a type of cytotoxic medicine known as alkylating agent. 
It prevents cells from dividing by stopping the DNA (the cell’s genetic material) from duplicating itself 
to form new cells. Melphalan’s action therefore affects cells that divide rapidly, such as cancer cells and 
cells of the bone marrow. 
What benefits of Phelinun have been shown in studies? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance, melphalan, for the treatment of cancers have 
already been carried out with the reference medicine, Alkeran, and do not need to be repeated for 
Phelinun. 
The company also provided evidence from over 20 published studies to show that melphalan is 
effective for conditioning treatment in adults and children undergoing haematopoietic (blood) stem cell 
transplantation. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Phelinun. There was no need for 
‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Phelinun is absorbed similarly to the reference medicine 
to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because Phelinun is given by 
infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the bloodstream. 
What are the risks associated with Phelinun? 
The most common side effects with Phelinun (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
reduced levels of blood cells and platelets (blood components involved in clotting), infections, 
gastrointestinal disorders (such as diarrhoea, vomiting, mouth ulcers and bleeding) and disorders of 
the immune system (the body’s natural defences) including graft-versus-host disease (transplanted 
cells attacking the body).  
Phelinun must not be used during breast-feeding or as conditioning treatment during pregnancy.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Phelinun, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Phelinun authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Phelinun has 
been shown to be comparable to Alkeran for the treatment of blood cancers. Although main studies to 
measure the effectiveness of Phelinun for conditioning treatment in adults and children are not 
available, evidence from published studies shows that it is effective, and in some cases its side effects 
may be lower than those of other options for conditioning treatment.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Phelinun’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Phelinun (melphalan)  
EMA/567743/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Phelinun? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Phelinun have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Phelinun are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Phelinun are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Phelinun 
Phelinun received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 November 2020. 
Further information on Phelinun can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/phelinun.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2020. 
Phelinun (melphalan)  
EMA/567743/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
