19 January 2012 
EMA/CHMP/46573/2012  
Assessment report 
Pioglitazone Accord 
International non proprietary name: Pioglitazone  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2277 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
3 
4 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 3 
.................................................................................. 3 
...................................................... 4 
Scientific discussion
Introduction
Quality aspects
Non- Clinical aspects
Clinical Aspects
Pharmacovigilance
............................................................................... 5 
..................................................................................................... 5 
................................................................................................. 6 
......................................................................................... 8 
................................................................................................. 9 
.......................................................................................... 13 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 14 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 16 
Appendix I................................................................................................. 18 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare Limited  submitted on  28 October 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Pioglitazone Accord, through the centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004–  ‘Generic  of  a  Centrally  authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 January 
2010 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Union  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Pioglitazone is indicated as second or third line treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as described 
below : 
as monotherapy 
- 
in adult patients (particularly overweight patients) inadequately controlled by diet and 
exercise  for  whom  metformin  is  inappropriate  because  of  contraindications  or 
intolerance 
After initiation of therapy with pioglitazone, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to assess 
adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show an adequate 
response,  pioglitazone  should  be  discontinued.  In  light  of  potential  risks  with  prolonged  therapy, 
prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of pioglitazone is maintained. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data  and  a 
bioequivalence  study  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Actos  instead  of  non-clinical  and  clinical 
unless justified otherwise  
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal  product  which  is  or  has  been  authorised  in  accordance  with  Community  provisions  in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Actos, 15, 30, 45 mg tablet 
 Marketing authorisation holder: Takeda Global Research and Development Centre (Europe), Ltd. 
 
 
  Date of authorisation: 13 October 2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/00/150/001-030 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Actos, 15, 30, 45 mg tablet 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Takeda Global Research and Development Centre (Europe), Ltd. 
  Date of authorisation: 13 October 2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:Actos 45 mg tablet 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Takeda Global Research and Development Centre (Europe), Ltd.  
  Date of authorisation: 13 October 2010 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
 
 Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/150/012 
  Bioavailability study number: 068-05 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team was: 
Rapporteur: 
P. Salmon 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 28 October 2010.  
The procedure started on 17 November 2010. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  10  February 
2011.  
  During the meeting on 14-17 March 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 17 
March 2011. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  19  April 
2011. 
 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 7 June 2011.  
  During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 June 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 28 
June 2011.  
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 7 July 2011.  
  During the meeting on 18-21 July 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, adopted the CHMP Assessment Report and issued a 
positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation to Pioglitazone HCL Accord. 
 
Following the European Commission request from 21 December 2011, the CHMP revised the 
wording of the product information to ensure that the terms of the marketing authorization is in 
line with the outcome of the referral of the reference medicinal products. During the meeting on 
16-19 January 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive revised opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Pioglitazone HCL Accord.  
2 
 Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
The  product  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  pioglitazone  as  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  as 
active substance. 
The reference medicinal product is Actos 15, 30, 45 mg tablet. 
Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione compound that acts as a peroxisome proliferator activating receptor 
(PPAR)-γ agonist with potential benefits on insulin resistance. Pioglitazone has a different mechanism 
of action compared to other drugs. It does not stimulate insulin secretion (unlike sulphonylureas), and 
it does not inhibit glucose absorption (unlike alpha -glucosidase inhibitors). It depends on the 
presence of insulin for activity. 
The safety and efficacy profile of pioglitazone has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
which can be found in the EPAR for Actos. In addition, there is a long-term post-marketing experience 
contributing  to  the  knowledge  of  the  clinical  use  of  this  product.  Since  this  application  is  a  generic 
application  referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Actos,  summary  of  the  clinical  data  of 
pioglitazone  hydrichloride  is  available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted.  
Pioglitazone  Accord  is  indicated  as  second  or  third  line  treatment  of  type 2  diabetes  mellitus  as 
described below: 
as monotherapy 
-  in  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  for 
whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or intolerance. 
After initiation of therapy with pioglitazone, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to assess 
adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show an adequate 
response,  pioglitazone  should  be  discontinued.  In  light  of  potential  risks  with  prolonged  therapy, 
prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of pioglitazone is maintained. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
The  product  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  15,  30  and  45  mg  of  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  as 
active substance. 
Other  ingredients  are  carmellose  calcium,  hydroxypropyl  cellulose,  lactose  monohydrate  ,  and 
magnesium stearate  
The tablets are packed in Aluminium/aluminium blisters. 
2.2.2  Active  Substance 
This  medicinal  product  contains  as  active  substance  pioglitazone  INN,  as  the  hydrochloride.  The 
chemical 
(±)-5-[[4-[2-(5-Ethyl-2-pyridinyl)-
hydrochloride 
ethoxy]phenyl]methyl]-2,4-thiazolidinedione hydrochloride. The molecular formula is C19H20N2O3S.HCl 
and the molecular weight is 392.90 g/mol. 
pioglitazone 
name 
of 
is 
Pioglitazone  hydrochloride  appears  as  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder  and  is  practically 
insoluble  in  water  and  ether.  The  solubility  is  highly  pH  dependent  and  is  greater  at  lower  pH.  The 
active  substance  is  soluble  in  dimethyl  formamide,  slightly  soluble  in  anhydrous  ethanol  and  very 
slightly soluble in acetone and acetonitrile. 
Pioglitazone  hydrochloride  is  not  hygroscopic.  It  exhibits  stereoisomerism due  to  the  presence  of  one 
chiral  center  and  is  synthesized  and  used  as  racemic  mixture.  The  two  enantiomers  of  pioglitazone 
inter-convert  in  vivo.  No  differences  were  reported  in  the  pharmacological  activity  between  the  two 
enantiomers. 
Pioglitazone hydrochloride exists at least in two different crystal forms, referred to as polymorph I and 
polymorph II. Polymorph I is routinely produced by the synthetic process described in the dossier and 
is used in the manufacture of the finished product.  
Manufacture 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, the active substance used for Pioglitazone Accord is supplied by one 
active  substance  manufacturer.  Because  no  Ph.Eur.  certificate  of  suitability  has  been  issued  for  the 
active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier, detailed information about the manufacturing 
process, control of starting materials, reagents and solvents, control of critical steps and intermediates 
and process development and process validation of the active substance has been supplied in the form 
of  an  active  substance  master  file  (ASMF).  The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  six  steps.  The  last 
step,  pioglitazone  base  is  purified  and  treated  with  HCl  to  yield  pioglitazone  hydrochloride.  All 
manufacturing  steps  are  adequately  described.  Adequate  in  process  controls  are  in  place  and 
appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the  starting  materials,  solvents  and  reagents.  All 
relevant impurities, degradation products and residual solvents have been appropriately characterized. 
The  applicant  confirmed  the  structure  of  the  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  by  IR,  1H  NMR,  13C  NMR,  MS 
and UV. The crystalline nature and polymorphism were characterised by DSC and XRD. 
Specification 
There is no Ph.Eur monograph for pioglitazone hydrochloride and hence the active substance is tested 
as  per  in-house  specifications.  The  active  substance  manufacturer’s  specifications  include  tests  as: 
description,  solubility,  identification  (IR,  test  for  chloride),  loss  on  drying,  residue  on  ignition,  heavy 
metals  (Ph.Eur),  melting  range,  related  substances  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC), 
dimethyl formamide and methyl acrylate content (GC) and nickel content (AAS).  
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  specifications  and  tests  proposed  are  compliant  with  the  relevant  ICH  guidelines  and  general 
requirements of Ph.Eur. The specifications are adequate to control the quality of the active substance. 
The impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety.  
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  provided  by  the  active  substance  supplier  on  six  batches.  All  batches 
were  in  compliance  with  the  predefined  active  substance  specifications  and  confirm  consistency  and 
uniformity of the active substance manufacture)  
Stability 
Pioglitazone hydrochloride powder is stored in clear LDPE bags placed in a HDPE container. A silica gel 
sachet is placed between the inner and outer LDPE bag. Specifications, testing methods and certificates 
of  analysis  have  been  provided  for  the  packaging  materials  and  the  silica  gel  sachet.  The  LDPE  bags 
comply  with  Directive  2002/72/EC  and  Ph.Eur.  and  are  safe  for  use  in  contact  with  food  stuffs  and 
pharmaceuticals.  The  container  closure  system  is  described  in  sufficient  detail  and  the  packaging 
materials are acceptable. 
Stability studies on the active substance have been performed at long term (25±2°C/60±5% RH) and 
accelerated  (40±2°C/75±5%  RH)  conditions  on  six  process  validation  batches  as  per  ICH  Guidelines. 
Up to 60 months of long term stability data, and up to 6 months of accelerated stability data has been 
provided,  confirming  the  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  specifications  tested  were  description, 
identification (IR), XRD, loss on drying, related substances and assay (HPLC). The HPLC method used 
for  assay  and  related  substances  demonstrated  to  be  stability  indicating.  The  packaging  used  in 
stability trials is identical to that proposed for storage and distribution. 
Forced degradation studies have been performed on one batch. Samples were exposed to UV radiation, 
heat  (60°C  and  105°C),  atmosphere  (25°C/60%RH  for  72  hours),  humidity  (25°C/90%  RH  for  72 
hours), acid hydrolysis, base hydrolysis and peroxide oxidation and analyzed for appearance, identity 
by  IR,  XRD,  assay,  related  substances  and  hygroscopicity.  The  study  revealed  that  exposure  to  heat 
(105°C)  results  in  a  change  in  appearance  and  that exposure  to  heat  and  UV  light  results  in  a  slight 
drop  (1.5%-2%)  in  assay.  Degradation  occurs  when  exposed  to  0.1N  NaOH  and  a  slight  increase  of 
total  impurities  was  seen  after  exposure  to  heat  (105°C)  and  peroxide.  No  considerable  degradation 
occurs  at  the  other  conditions.  The  hygroscopic  nature  was  tested  in  accordance  with  the  Ph.Eur. 
showing that the drug substance is non-hygroscopic. 
The stability data provided support the proposed retest period at the proposed packaging and storage 
conditions.  
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  product  development  was  to  formulate  tablets  which  are  robust,  stable  and  are 
bioequivalent  to  the  reference  medical  product.  The  dissolution  data  reveals  that  the  dissolution 
pattern of the test product is matching with that of reference medicinal product for each strengths and 
the  test  product  15mg  &  30mg  are  comparable  to  that  of  test  product  45mg  on  which  BE  study  has 
been conducted. 
A number of studies were also carried out to define the compatibility of the active substance with the 
pharmaceutical  excipients  used..  The  manufacturing  process  development  was  clearly  outlined;  the 
final manufacturing method chosen was standard wet granulation 
The excipients used in the formulation are the same as those used in the reference medicinal product. 
All  excipients  are  stated  to  comply  with  the  latest  edition  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia.  Sample 
certificates of analysis of excipients were provided. 
The product is packaged in aluminium-aluminium blister packs; the forming foil is cold formable, Alu-
Alu, triple laminated foil and the lidding foil is plain aluminium foil. 
Specification for the triple-laminated, cold formable forming foil and the plain aluminium lidding foil are 
provided,  along  with  representative  certificates  of  analysis.  Certificates  confirm  compliance  with 
relevant EU directives (78/142/EEC, 2002/72/EC) and European Pharmacopoeia requirements . 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
The  lactose  anhydrous  is  derived  from  milk,  it  is  declared  that  it  satisfy  the  requirements  outlined  in 
the TSE Guideline. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process includes dry mixing, granulation, blending, and compression. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process.  
The  batch  analysis  data  show  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Product Specification  
The  finished  product  specifications include  appropriate  tests  for  description, average  weight  of  tablet, 
resistance  to  crushing  (Ph  Eur),  friability  (Ph  Eur),  identification  (HPLC,  UV,  Chloride),  dissolution, 
related substance (HPLC), uniformity (Ph Eur), assay (95.0% - 105.0%, HPLC), microbiological quality 
(Ph Eur). 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are qualified and justified by toxicology studies 
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  were  provided  on  six  pilot  scale  batches  carried  out  in  accordance  with  current 
ICH/CHMP  guidelines  and  the  characteristics  tested  were  as  presented  in  the  finished  product 
specifications.  Based  on  the  stability  data  submitted  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  4  years  for  the  30  mg 
and  45  mg  strengths  and  3  years  for  15  mg  strength  with  no  storage  precautions  for  the  finished 
product as packaged for sale and 6 months for the bulk product.. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.’  
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
A  non-clinical  overview  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  has  been  provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need  to  generate  additional  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data.  The 
non-clinical  aspects  of  the  SmPC  are  in  line  with  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  product.  The  impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The introduction of Pioglitazone Accord in the market is considered unlikely to result in any significant 
increase in the combined sales volumes for all pioglitazone containing products and would thus not be 
expected to have an adverse effect upon the environment. With this regards and on the basis of CHMP 
Guideline  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products 
for  Human  Use 
(CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  tablets  containing  pioglitazone  hydrochloride.  To  support  the  marketing 
authorisation  application  the  applicant  conducted  one  bioequivalence  study  with  cross-over  design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
GCP 
The Clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  clinical  trial  conducted  outside  the 
community was carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  application,  the  applicant  has  submitted  one  bioequivalence  study  to  demonstrate 
bioequivalence between their product and the reference product Actos. This pivotal study was an open 
label,  balanced,  randomised,  two-treatment,  two  period,  two-sequence  cross  over,  single  oral  dose, 
bioequivalence study of two formulations of pioglitazone hydrochloride tablets 45 mg in healthy, adult, 
human male subjects under fasting conditions. 
An  acceptable  request  for  a  waiver  of  bio-study  on  the  remaining  strengths  (i.e.  15  mg  and  30  mg 
tablets) was submitted and was based on the following justifications: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
All the strengths are manufactured at the same site using a similar manufacturing process. 
The qualitative composition of 15mg, 30mg and 45mg formulation is same. 
The composition of the strengths is quantitatively proportional. 
Dissolution  profile  is  similar  under  identical  conditions  for  the  additional  strengths  and  the 
strength of the batch used in the bioequivalence study. 
5. 
Pioglitazone demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study code: 068-05  
Title  of  the  study:  A  two-way  crossover  comparative  evaluation  of  relative  bioavailabilities  of  two 
formulations of pioglitazone tablets 45mg in healthy human male subjects under fasting conditions. 
The study was an open-label, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single 
dose,  crossover  comparative  oral  bioavailability  study  in  healthy,  adult  male  human  subjects  under 
fasting  conditions.  The  aim  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  the  bioavailability  and  to  assess  the 
bioequivalence of the sponsor's formulation in comparison with the reference formulation. To establish 
this,  a  single  dose  fasting  study  in  healthy  male  human  subjects  was  planned  based  on  CHMP 
guidance. 
The  plasma  samples  obtained  from  48  subjects  who  completed  the  study  and  those  withdrawn  on 
medical grounds, were to be analysed for pioglitazone and its M4 metabolite. 
The mean serum half-life of pioglitazone and total pioglitazone (pioglitazone + metabolite) ranges from 
3  to  7  hours  and  16  to  24  hours  respectively  as  reported  in  the  literature.  Based  on  the  half  life  a 
washout period of 15 days was considered to be adequate.  
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  both  the  test  and  reference  formulations  were  estimated  from  the 
plasma drug concentrations of pioglitazone and M4 metabolite. Parametric 90% CI for the ratio of the 
geometric  least  squares  mean  of  the  calculated  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  Cmax,  AUCo-t,  and 
AUC0-inf of the two drug formulations were to be computed for pioglitazone. Only descriptive statistics 
was to be calculated and reported for M4 metabolite. 
Test and reference products  
Test Product: Pioglitazone hydrochloride tablets 45 mg (Intas pharmaceuticals ltd) 
Batch Number: F2333 
Reference Product: ACTOS 45 mg tablets (Pioglitazone hydrochloride tablets 45 mg) manufactured by 
Takeda Europe R&D Center UK. 
Batch Number: 35018A 
Population(s) studied   
A  total  of  53  (including  2  standby)  healthy,  adult  male  volunteers,  aged  18-55  years  and  with  Body 
Mass index (BMI) 18.5-24.9 kg/m2 were included in the study. These were medically healthy subjects 
with clinically normal laboratory profiles, vital signs, ECGs and X-ray recordings. Of the 53 subjects, 3 
were  withdrawn  from  the  trial  on  medical  grounds  on  the  day  of  check-in  for  Period-I  and  were 
replaced by 3 other subjects. 
Thus,  50  subjects  were  to  be  dosed.  Plasma  samples  of  48  subjects  were  obtained  (46  subjects  who 
completed the study successfully) and 2 subjects who were withdrawn on medical grounds. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
Analytical methods   
The plasma samples of subjects were to be analysed using a validated Liquid chromatography–Tandem 
mass spectrometry (LC-MS / MS) method at the Bioanalytical facility of Lambda Therapeutic Research 
Ltd., Ahmedabad. The method validation report was provided by the applicant. Calibration curves using 
8-point calibration curve standards for pioglitazone and M4 metabolite with concentration ranging from 
15.186 ng / mL to 1983.197 ng / mL and 10.206 ng / mL to 989.760 ng / mL respectively were used 
to determine the concentration of pioglitazone and M4 metabolite in the samples of various subjects. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
As the objective of the study was to compare the bioavailability and characterise the pharmacokinetic 
profile  of  the  two  formulations  of  pioglitazone  and  to  assess  the  bioequivalence  of  pioglitazone,  the 
following pharmacokinetic parameters were to be calculated: Tmax, Cmax, AUCo-t, AUCo-inf and t ½. 
Statistical methods   
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  from  the  drug  concentration-time  profile  by  non-
compartimental model using WinNonlin Professional Software Version 4.1 (Pharsight Corporation, USA) 
for  pioglitazone  and  M4  metabolite  independently.  Statistical  comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters  of  the  two  formulations  was  carried  out  using  PROC  MIXED  of  SAS  Version  9.1  (SAS 
Institute Inc, USA) to assess the bioequivalence of pioglitazone. Only descriptive statistics was carried 
out and reported for M4 metabolite. 
The statistical methods were acceptable. 
Results 
The results for the pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median)  and  for  the  mean  ratios  of  the  90%CI  for  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf,  Cmax  are  summarised  in  the 
tables below. 
Table 1: Descriptive Statistics of Formulation Means for pioglitazone (N=46) 
Table 2: Geometric Least Squares Mean, Ratios and 90% Confident Interval for pioglitazone (N=46) 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Descriptive Statistics of Formulation Means for M4 metabolite (N=46) 
The  ratio  of  geometric  least  squares  mean  of  test  and  reference  formulations  for  In-transformed 
pharmacokinetic  parameter  Cmax  was  97.1  %.  The  two  one-sided  90%  confidence  interval  for  the 
ratio  of  geometric  least  squares  mean  was  found  to  be  87.49-107.82%.  This  interval  is  within  the 
acceptance limits of75-133% required for the conclusion of bioequivalence. 
The  ratio  of  geometric  least  squares  mean  of  test  and  reference  formulations  for  In-transformed 
pharmacokinetic  parameter  AUC  o-t,  was  98.2%.The  two  one-sided  90%  confidence  interval  for  the 
ratio  of  geometric  least  squares  mean  was  found  to  be  90.76-106.18%.  This  interval  is  within  the 
acceptance limits of 80-125% required for the conclusion of bioequivalence. 
The  ratio  of  geometric  least  squares  mean  of  test  and  reference  formulations  for  In-transformed 
pharmacokinetic  parameter  AUCo~  was  97.3%.  The  two  one-sided  90%  confidence  interval  for  the 
ratio of geometric least squares mean was found to be 
90.23-104.83%. This interval is within the acceptance limits of 80-125%, required for the conclusion of 
bioequivalence. 
Safety data 
A total of twelve adverse events were reported during the conduct of the trial. All the adverse events 
were mild in nature and were resolved. No deaths or serious adverse events were reported during the 
study.  
Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Pioglitazone  Accord  is  considered  bioequivalent  with 
Actos. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  presented  and  no  such  studies  are  required  for  this 
application. 
2.4.4  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
One  bioequivalence  study  068-05  was  provided  for  Pioglitazone  Accord  application.  The  bioequivalent 
study and statistical evaluation were in accordance with accepted standards for bioequivalence testing, 
as  stated  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish  bioavailability  included  the  area  under 
the  plasma  concentration-time  curve  and  the  maximal  plasma  concentration  of  the  parameter 
compound  of  pioglitazone.  Bioequivalence  has  been  established  as  the  calculated  90%  confidence 
intervals for In-transformed AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  fell within the acceptance range of 80-125% for 
the parent drug pioglitazone as required by the above mentioned guideline. 
2.4.6  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The bioequivalence study showed that the 90% confidence intervals of the test/reference (T/R) ratio lie 
within  the  prospectively  defined  acceptance  criteria  of  80-125%  for  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax.  The 
applicant  has  documented  bioequivalence  between  (Actos  marketed  by  Takeda  Global  Research  and 
Development Centre (Europe) Ltd) and Pioglitazone Accord and therefore, a similar safety and efficacy 
profile to the reference pioglitazone Actos can be assumed. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant did not submit a risk management plan because this application concerns a generic for a 
reference medicinal product for which no safety concern requiring additional risk minimisation activities 
had been identified when the Marketing Authorisation application was submitted on 27 October 2010. 
However  taking  into  account  the  outcome  of  the  Article  20  procedure  on  already  authorised 
pioglitazone  containing  products  and  the  potential  increased  risk  of  bladder  cancer,  the  MAH  shall 
submit  within  one  month  of  the  Commission  Decision  a  risk  management  plan  which  will  incorporate 
risk  minimisation  measures,  as  detailed  in    the  conditions  or  restrictions  with  regard  to  the  safe  and 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective  use  of  the  medicinal  product  in  Annex  II,  in  line  with  those  required  for  the  reference 
medicinal product.  
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  Pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  to  be 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan to be submitted and any consequent updates to the RMP agreed 
by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  product  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next PSUR. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
-  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
- Within 60 days of an important (Pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
- At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
PSUR cycle 
The  PSUR  cycle  for  the  product  will  follow  the  PSUR  submission  schedule  of  the  reference  medicinal 
product, which is on a 6 monthly cycle, having 1 August 2011 as its data lock point. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This  application  concerns  a  generic  version  of  pioglitazone  tablets.  The  reference  product  Actos  is 
indicated  as  second  or  third  line  treatment  of  type 2  diabetes  mellitus  as  described  below.  No  non-
clinical  studies  have  been  provided  for  this  application  but  an  adequate  summary  of  the  available 
nonclinical  information  for  the  active  substance  was  presented  and  considered  sufficient.  From  a 
clinical  perspective,  this  application  does  not  contain  new  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and 
pharmacodynamics  as  well  as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  active  substance;  the  applicant’s  clinical 
overview  on  these  clinical  aspects  based  on  information  from  published  literature  was  considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a cross-over design under fasting conditions. The 
study  design  was  considered  adequate  to  evaluate  the  bioequivalence  of  this  formulation  and  was  in 
line  with  the  respective  European  requirements.  Choice  of  dose,  sampling  points,  overall  sampling 
times  as  well  as  wash-out  period  were  adequate.  The  analytical  method  was  validated. 
Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The  test  formulation  of  Pioglitazone  Accord  met  the  protocol-defined  criteria  for  bioequivalence  when 
compared  with  the  reference  product,  Actos.  The  point  estimates  and  their  90%  confidence  intervals 
for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance 
range of 80 to 125%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, the available data on the chosen 
reference  medicinal  product  and  the  outcome  of  the  Article  20  procedure  on  the  already  authorised 
pioglitazone  containing  products  and  the  potential  increased  risk  of  bladder  cancer,  is  of  the  opinion 
that  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information as per the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation included in Annex II. 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
 
4  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy and taking into account the opinions 
adopted by the CHMP on 21 July 2011 and 20 October 2011 in the framework of the procedures under 
Article 20 of Regulation 726/2004 for pioglitazone containing medicinal products, and the subsequent 
Commission  Decision,  the  CHMP  considers  by  majority  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Pioglitazone 
Accord is favourable as second or third line treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as described below:  
as monotherapy 
- 
in  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise 
for whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or intolerance; 
After initiation of therapy with pioglitazone, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to assess 
adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show an adequate 
response,  pioglitazone  should  be  discontinued.  In  light  of  potential  risks  with  prolonged  therapy, 
prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of pioglitazone is maintained. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The MAH shall submit within one month of the Commission Decision a risk management plan which will 
incorporate risk minimisation measures, as detailed below, in line with those required for the reference 
medicinal product.  
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  Pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  to  be 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan to be submitted and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed 
by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR).  
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
-  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
- Within 60 days of an important (Pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
- At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR submission schedule of the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
The MAH shall provide an educational pack targeting all physicians who are expected to prescribe/use 
Pioglitazone.  Prior  to  distribution  of  the  prescriber  guide  in  each  Member  State,  the  MAH  must  agree 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  content  and  format  of  the  educational  material,  together  with  a  communication  plan,  with  the 
national competent authority. 
 
This educational pack is aimed at strengthening awareness of important identified risks of bladder 
cancer  and  heart  failure  and  the  overall  recommendations  intended  to  optimise  the  benefit-risk 
margin at the patient level.  
 
The physician educational pack should contain: The Summary of Product Characteristics, package 
leaflet, and a Prescriber Guide. 
The Prescriber Guide should highlight the following: 
 
 
 
 
Patient  selection  criteria  including  that  Pioglitazone  should  not  be  used  as  first  line  therapy  and 
emphasising the need for regular review of treatment benefit. 
The risk of bladder cancer and relevant risk minimisation advice. 
The risk of heart failure and relevant risk minimisation advice. 
Caution  in  use  in  the  elderly  in  light  of  age  related  risks  (in  particular  bladder  cancer,  fractures 
and heart failure). 
Divergent positions are appended to this report.
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix I 
Divergent positions 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pioglitazone Accord (EMEA/H/C/2277) 
Divergent statement  
We have a divergent opinion on the above mentioned Marketing Authorisation from that which has 
been readopted by the CHMP during its January 2012 session: 
We consider that the benefit-risk balance of pioglitazone has become negative given the increased risk 
of bladder cancer in addition to the other well known adverse effects (especially heart failure and bone 
fracture in post menopausal women) of this medicine, its questionable long term benefit in terms of 
cardiovascular protection and the available alternative treatments in type 2 diabetic patients. 
1.  Pre-clinical data indicate an increased frequency of bladder cancer associated with pioglitazone in 
male rats. Results of the PROactive trial show a significantly higher number of bladder cancer in 
patients treated with pioglitazone. Data provided by three epidemiologic studies (US, France and 
UK) provide very similar evidence of an increased risk of bladder cancer, even though the 
magnitude of such risk is low with a hazard ratio around 1.2, however, likely increasing with 
cumulative dose and duration of pioglitazone exposure.   
2.  This increased risk of bladder cancer includes invasive types of bladder cancer with major adverse 
impact on morbidity and mortality. No biomarker of bladder cancer is available which could 
provide effective screening and early treatment. Symptoms such as haematuria can occur late 
after the onset of tumour development and are not specific. Cystoscopy appears to be the only 
investigational procedure able to adequately establish the diagnosis of bladder cancer but its 
invasive nature precludes is use for systematic cancer screening. 
It appears impossible to define a subpopulation of diabetic patients where the benefits of pioglitazone 
would outweigh its risks. In addition, according to PROactive long term follow up and utilisation 
studies, a large proportion of patients stop pioglitazone treatment within the first years of treatment 
precluding potential long term benefit on prevention of cardiovascular events. The identified increased 
bladder cancer risk is likely to reduce adherence to pioglitazone long term treatment. 
CHMP members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Pierre Demolis (FR) 
19 January 2012 
Signature: ……………………………… 
Harald Enzmann (DE) 
19 January 2012 
Signature: ……………………………… 
Nela Vilceanu (RO) 
19 January 2012 
Signature: ……………………………… 
Pioglitazone Accord 
Assessment report  
EMA/183905/2012  
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
