Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg 
and 45 mg tablets (pioglitazone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 
45 mg tablets. The RMP details important risks of Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg 
tablets,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Pioglitazone  Accord  15  mg,  30  mg  and  45  mg  tablets’  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) 
and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for  Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets should be 
read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pioglitazone 
Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Pioglitazone is indicated as second or third line treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as described 
below:  
As monotherapy  
 
In  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and 
exercise for whom metformin is in appropriate because of contraindications or intolerance. 
As dual oral therapy in combination with  
  Metformin,  in  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  with  insufficient  glycaemic 
control despite maximal tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin.  
  A  sulphonylurea,  only  in  adult  patients  who  show  intolerance  to  metformin  or  for  whom 
metformin is contraindicated, with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated 
dose of monotherapy with a sulphonylurea.  
As triple oral therapy in combination with  
  Metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea,  in  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  with 
insufficient glycaemic control despite dual oral therapy.  
Pioglitazone is also indicated for combination with insulin in type 2 diabetes mellitus adult patients 
with  insufficient  glycaemic  control  on  insulin  for  whom  metformin  is  inappropriate  because  of 
contraindications or intolerance.  
After initiation of therapy with pioglitazone, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to 
assess adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show 
an  adequate  response,  pioglitazone  should  be  discontinued.  In  light  of  potential  risks  with 
prolonged therapy, prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of 
pioglitazone is maintained. 
It contains pioglitazone as the active substance and it is for oral use only. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablet’s 
benefits can be found in Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets EPAR, including in 
its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pioglitazone-accord. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
II. 
the risks 
Important risks of Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets, together with measures 
to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Pioglitazone Accord 15 
mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets’ risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including PSUR assessment (if applicable) and signal management activity, so 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 
30 mg and 45 mg tablets. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important identified risks (s) 
  None 
 
Important potential risks  
  None 
Missing information 
  None 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Pioglitazone Accord 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg tablets as post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
