Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of risk management plan for Pixuvri (pixantrone) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Pixuvri.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Pixuvri, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Pixuvri's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pixuvri's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pixuvri should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Pixuvri should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pixuvri's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Pixuvri is authorised as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with multiply relapsed 
or refractory aggressive Non-Hodgkin B cell Lymphomas (NHL) (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains pixantrone as the active substance and it is given by intravenous only. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pixuvri’s benefits can be found in Pixuvri’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pixuvri 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of Pixuvri, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Pixuvri's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition to these measures, information  about  adverse reactions  is  collected  continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment, so that 
 
 
 
 
 
immediate  action  can  be 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
II. A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks  of  Pixuvri are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management activities to  further 
investigate or  minimise the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Pixuvri. Potential risks are concerns 
for  which an association with  the  use  of  this  medicine is  possible based  on  available  data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long- term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Cardiotoxicity   
•  Myelotoxicity  
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Cardiotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Clinical  trials:  Cardiac  disorder  left  ventricular  dysfunction,  cardiac 
failure congestive, bundle branch block and tachycardia are considered as 
common  and  arrhythmia  as  uncommon  drug-related  adverse  reactions 
reported as such during clinical development. The most common related 
PT is decreased left ventricular ejection fraction, hence the importance of 
risk  
Literature data: Very few cases of cardiotoxicity have been found 
in the literature search. For example, only two cases were reported 
in  a  study  (Dawson  2000);  no  other  real  world  cases  have  been 
reported 
Post-marketing  data:  In  most  cases  the  chronology  was  suggestive  of 
the  role  of  pixantrone  in  cardiotoxicity,  although  for  most  patients  a 
history of cardiac events or cardiotoxicity is present, and it usually linked 
to  the  use  of  anthracyclines  in  previous  lines  of  treatment.  Most  events 
were considered as serious. 
 
 
Important identified risk: Cardiotoxicity 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
The patients at highest risk are:  
-  Those with pre-existing cardiac disease, particularly those affecting 
cardiac function (such as previous myocardial infarction or 
cardiomyopathy).  
-  Older patients, who may have some degree of subclinical or clinical 
cardiac dysfunction 
-  Patients who have been previously treated with cardiotoxic drugs 
(e.g. other anthracyclines, trastuzumab, etc.) 
-  All patients who have had anthracycline therapy are at risk for late 
onset congestive heart failure. Although pixantrone had substantially 
less cardiotoxicity than doxorubicin in preclinical studies of mice 
that had received prior doxorubicin, there is still a potential for 
enhanced toxicity in humans.   
-  Patients who have received mediastinal radiotherapy 
-  Patients with uncontrolled hypertension 
-  Females have a higher risk for anthracycline induced heart disease 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
than do men 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8  PL section 2 , 4  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Legal status  
Important  identified  risk: Myelotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Clinical  trials:  Neutropenia,  leukopenia,  lymphopenia,  anaemia,  and 
thrombocytopenia  are  considered  as  very  common,  febrile  neutropenia 
and blood disorders as common and bone marrow failure and eosinophilia 
as  uncommon  drug-related  adverse  reactions  reported  as  such  during 
clinical  development.  While  the  most  predominant  manifestation  is 
neutropenia,  the  incidence  of  severe  marrow  suppression  with  clinical 
consequences  is  relatively  low,  and  patients  treated  with  Pixuvri  were 
closely monitored by frequent blood counts, particularly for neutropenia. 
Literature  data:  It  is  well  known  that  bone  marrow  suppression  is  an 
important  dose-limiting  side  effect  of  chemotherapy  for  cancer. 
(Wang 2006).  
Post-marketing data: In most of the cases, the causal role of pixantrone 
was  suspected.  While  myelotoxicity  is  an  expected  side-effect  of 
cytotoxic  therapy,  the  decrease  in  the  white  cell  counts,  particularly 
neutrophils and lymphocytes, remains the most frequent event in the post-
marketing setting.   
 
 
 
 
 
Important  identified  risk: Myelotoxicity 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
People with haematological cancers are more at risk than those with solid 
tumours, due to decreased bone marrow reserve as a result of the type of 
and intensity of therapies that they receive. The risk of white blood cell or 
platelet toxicity increases with: 
  Combination therapy with other myelotoxic agents, particularly if 
there has been previous prolonged neutropenia with previous 
chemotherapy. 
  Multiple prior regimens 
 
 
Prior marrow ablative therapy with a stem cell transplant 
Increasing age, with elderly patients more likely to develop 
neutropenic fever 
  Bone marrow infiltration by lymphoma 
 
Low white blood cell or platelet count at the outset of treatment 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 , 4.3 ,4.8PL section 2 , 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Legal status  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which  are conditions of  the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Pixuvri. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Pixuvri. 
 
 
 
 
