1. 
Introduction 
This  variation  application  was  submitted  to  request  the  extension  of  the  acute  coronary  syndrome 
(ACS) indication as follows: 
• 
“Patients  with  ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction.  In  this  population, 
clopidogrel reduces the risk of all cause mortality.” 
Clopidogrel  efficacy  in  ACS  patients  with  STEMI  was  evaluated  in  two  double-blind  studies 
[EFC5133 (CLARITY- TIMI 28) and EFC7018 (COMMIT/ CCS-2)], in which patients were treated 
with ASA and other concomitant medications including fibrinolytics and anticoagulants. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
Rationale for the proposed change 
ACS  is  defined  as  any  clinical  syndrome  of  acute  and  prolonged  myocardial  ischaemia  related  to 
coronary  artery  disease  (CAD)  and  comprises  unstable  angina  (UA),  non-ST  segment  elevation 
myocardial  infarction  (NSTEMI),  and  ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  (STEMI). 
ACS is a significant public health concern; in the US alone, the estimated incidence of ACS is 942,000 
cases per year. The estimated incidence of MI is 565,000 new attacks and 300,000 recurrent attacks 
per year, and in 2003 the estimated hospitalisation for acute MI was 767,000 patients. The average age 
of patients having a first heart attack is 65.8 years for men and 70.4 years for women. International 
data  are  available  from  the  GRACE  registry  [(Global  Registry  of  Acute  Coronary  Events)  from  14 
Western countries], which suggests a 34% rate of STEMI among patients who present with ACS, with 
a hospital death rate of 7.8%. According to the NRMI registry (US National Registry of Myocardial 
Infarction),  the  mortality  rate  for  patients  with  STEMI  has  declined  between  1990  and  2002,  but 
remains  substantial:  4.3%  and  4.4%  in  patients  receiving  fibrinolytics  or  primary  percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI), respectively. 
In  more  recent  years,  with  an  aging  worldwide  population  and  an  increase  of  co-morbid  factors 
(obesity,  smoking),  little  headway  has  been  made  in  terms  of  reducing  morbidity  and  mortality  in 
patients diagnosed with STEMI. Furthermore, despite the existence of effective therapies for STEMI, 
such  as  pharmacological  therapy  with  ASA  and  fibrinolytics  associated  with  a  reduction  of  risk 
factors, new therapies capable of preventing such events are needed. 
Analysis of data submitted 
This extension of indication is based on two new studies:  
- 
EFC5133 [CLARITY-TIMI 28, Clopidogrel as Adjunctive Reperfusion TherapY-Thrombolysis 
in Myocardial Infarction – 28] 
EFC7018 [COMMIT/CCS- 2, Clopidogrel and Metoprolol in Myocardial Infarction 
Trial/Second Chinese Cardiac Study] 
- 
The Clinical Study Reports state that both trials were conducted according to GCP. 
The individual study design and efficacy results are presented followed by a common safety section 
covering the safety findings for both trials.  
EFC5133 (CLARITY-TIMI 28) 
This was a Phase III, multinational, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2 parallel group 
study of clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg/day) versus placebo in patients with 
STEMI treated with ASA and fibrinolytic therapy. The study was conducted at 319 active sites in 23 
countries, including Europe, US, Canada, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Israel, Mexico, South Africa, 
and Turkey.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective was to demonstrate that, in patients with STEMI treated with background ASA 
and initial fibrinolytic therapy, clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg/day) reduced the 
proportion of patients who had an occluded infarct-related artery (IRA) [defined as Thrombolysis in 
Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) flow grade 0 or 1] on the predischarge angiogram or who died or had a 
recurrent MI by the time of start of coronary angiography (between 48 and 192 hours after the start of 
blinded study drug), compared with placebo. For patients who did not undergo angiography, death or 
recurrent MI by Day 8 or by hospital discharge, whichever came first, was used. 
The following inclusion criteria were applied: i) patients aged 18 - 75 years, ii) planned fibrinolytic 
therapy, ASA (150 to 325 mg on the first day and 75 to 162 mg daily thereafter) and, when clinically 
appropriate, heparin [unfractionated heparin (UFH) and/or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)], 
iii)  onset  of  ischaemic  discomfort  or  equivalent  at  rest  occurring  from  6  -  12  hours  prior  to 
randomisation, iv) symptoms of prolonged (>20 minutes) ischaemic discomfort at rest associated with 
ECG  evidence  of  new  ST  segment  elevation  ≥0.10  mV  (80  msec  after  the  J  point)  in  at  least  2 
contiguous  limb  leads  or  ≥0.20  mV  in  at  least  2  contiguous  precordial  (chest)  leads,  or  left  bundle 
branch block (LBBB) not known to be old. 
Regarding use of concomitant therapy, use of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors (eg, abciximab, eptifibatide, and 
tirofiban) was permitted only after the initial coronary angiogram was performed. Use of open-label 
ADP  antagonists  (clopidogrel  or  ticlopidine)  was  prohibited  except  following  coronary  stenting. 
Patients  who  underwent  coronary  stenting  at  the  time  of  their  diagnostic  angiogram  were 
recommended to receive open-label clopidogrel after the diagnostic angiogram (loading dose of 300 
mg followed by 75 mg daily). All patients receiving a fibrin-specific fibrinolytic (i.e., alteplase, RPA, 
or TNK) were to be treated with a body weight-based heparin regimen. 
Patients  were  to  be  randomised  within  12  hours  of  the  onset  of  STEMI  symptoms  to  receive  either 
clopidogrel  or  placebo  up  to  and  including  the  day  of  angiography  or  Day  8  or  hospital  discharge, 
whichever came first. Patients were scheduled to undergo angiography 48 - 192 hours (2-8 days) after 
the start of study drug treatment. Patients were also to receive fibrinolytic therapy.  
The figure below depicts the general study design 
 
 
 
 
Regarding  endpoints,  the  primary  efficacy  assessment  was  based  on  the  composite  endpoint  of  an 
occluded IRA (TIMI flow grade 0 or 1) on the pre-discharge angiogram, or death or recurrent MI by 
the time of start of angiography or Day 8 or hospital discharge, whichever came first.  
Secondary  efficacy  assessments  were  based  on  the  following  endpoints  analysed  in  a  hierarchical 
order:  an  early  electrocardiographic  endpoint  (degree  of  ST  segment  resolution  at  180  minutes  after 
first  dose  of  study  drug);  a  late  angiographic  endpoint  (occluded  IRA  on  pre-discharge  angiogram); 
 
 
and a clinical endpoint [composite outcome of death, recurrent MI, or recurrent myocardial ischemia 
(severe  or  leading  to  revascularisation)  by  the  time  of  start  of  angiography  or  Day  8  or  hospital 
discharge, whichever came first].  
Other  efficacy  endpoints  involved  comparisons  between  treatment  groups  in  the  occurrence  of  the 
following  clinical  efficacy  endpoints  by  the  time  of  the  start  of  coronary  angiography  (or  Day  8  or 
hospital discharge, whichever came first) and by Day 30: death; cardiovascular death; recurrent MI; 
recurrent  myocardial ischemia; severe  recurrent  myocardial ischemia; recurrent myocardial ischemia 
leading  to  revascularisation;  composite  endpoint  of  death  or  recurrent  MI;  composite  endpoint  of 
death, recurrent MI, or severe recurrent myocardial ischemia; composite endpoint of death, recurrent 
MI, or recurrent myocardial ischemia leading to revascularisation; severe congestive heart failure; and 
cardiogenic shock. The other efficacy assessments in angiographic endpoints (eg, epicardial flow) are 
presented in the clinical study report. 
Coronary  angiography  was  to  be  performed  during  the  index  hospitalisation  between  48  and  192 
hours  (2-8  days)  after  the  start  of  blinded  study  drug  to  determine  late  patency  of  the  IRA. 
Angiography  before  48  hours  was  permissible  only  if  medically  indicated  [eg,  cardiogenic  shock  or 
persistent haemodynamic instability; clear evidence of failed reperfusion (persistent severe chest pain 
and  <50%  resolution  of  ST  segment  elevation);  or  recurrent  ischaemia  documented  by  recurrent 
ischaemic chest pain and ECG changes]. Patients could have been transferred to a tertiary care hospital 
for  the  procedure  if  necessary.  Angiographic  data  were  sent  to  the  TIMI  Angiographic  Core 
Laboratory for analysis. The TIMI Flow Grade (TFG) was defined as follows: 
• 
• 
Grade 0: No perfusion. No antegrade flow beyond the point of occlusion; 
Grade 1: Penetration without perfusion. Contrast material passes beyond the area of obstruction 
but fails to opacify the entire coronary bed distal to the obstruction for the duration of the 
cineangiographic filming sequence; 
Grade  2:  Partial  perfusion.  Contrast  material  passes  across  the  obstruction  and  opacifies  the 
coronary bed distal to the obstruction. However, the rate of entry of contrast material into the 
vessel  distal  to  the  obstruction  or  its  rate  of  clearance  from  the  distal  bed  (or  both)  are 
perceptibly  slower  than  its  flow  into  or  clearance  from  comparable  areas  not  perfused  by  the 
previously  occluded  vessel  (eg,  opposite  coronary  artery  or  the  coronary  bed  proximal  to  the 
obstruction). This category is subdivided into: 
- Grade 2.0: TIMI 2 slow flow, dye markedly delayed in opacifying distal vasculature; 
- Grade 2.5: TIMI 2 fast flow, dye minimally delayed in opacifying distal vasculature. 
Grade  3:  Complete  perfusion.  Antegrade  flow  into  the  bed  distal  to  the  obstruction  occurs  as 
promptly as antegrade flow into the bed proximal to the obstruction, and clearance of contrast 
material  from  the  involved  bed  is  as  rapid  as  clearance  from  an  uninvolved  bed  in  the  same 
vessel or the opposite artery. 
• 
• 
Three 12-lead ECGs were to be performed: at baseline (pre-randomisation) and at 90 and 180 minutes 
after administration of the first dose of blinded study drug. These study ECGs were sent to the TIMI 
ECG  Core  Laboratory  for  analysis.  Blood  samples  for  analysis  of  CK-MB  and/or  troponin  were 
collected  5  times  over  the  48 hours  after  initiation of  fibrinolysis  (ie,  approximately  every  8  hours). 
Additional  samples  for  analysis  of  CK-MB  and/or  troponin  were  obtained  at  approximate  8-hour 
intervals  for  24  hours  post-revascularisation  in  patients  who  underwent  revascularisation  (ie,  PCI  or 
CABG), or at approximate 8-hour intervals for 24 hours following onset of symptoms for patients in 
whom recurrent ischaemia or reinfarction was suspected. 
The following outcome events were recorded at scheduled times during the study: 
Death 
Death  was  defined  as  all-cause  mortality,  and  was  classified  as  either  cardiovascular  or  non-
cardiovascular.  All  deaths  were  assumed  to  be  cardiovascular  in  nature  unless  a  non-cardiovascular 
cause was clearly provided. 
•  Cardiovascular:  cardiac  deaths  (eg,  cardiogenic  shock,  arrhythmia/sudden  death,  cardiac  rupture) 
and other cardiovascular deaths (stroke, pulmonary embolism, ruptured aortic aneurysm or dissection); 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Non-cardiovascular:  all  deaths  due  to  a  clearly  documented  non-cardiovascular  cause,  such  as 
respiratory failure (excluding cardiogenic pulmonary oedema), haemorrhage (other than intracranial), 
infections/sepsis, neoplasm, and trauma (including suicide and homicide). 
Recurrent myocardial infarction 
Recurrent MI was defined using an adaptation of the standard ACC definition. In order to meet criteria 
as an endpoint in this trial, an MI must have been distinct from the qualifying event (ie, must represent 
reinfarction). 
As per the ESC/ACC guidelines: 
•  ST  depression  in  leads  V1-V3  was  considered  equivalent  to  ST  elevation  if  the  recurrent  MI  was 
suspected to be true posterior in location; 
• Abnormal Q waves were defined as Q waves in ≥2 contiguous leads that were ≥1 mm in depth and of 
any duration in leads V1-V3, and ≥30 msec in duration in leads I, II, aVL, aVF, and V4-V6; 
• R wave ≥40 msec in lead V1 or ≥50 msec in lead V2 was considered equivalent to abnormal Q 
waves if MI was suspected to be true posterior in location. 
Safety  assessments  included  all  reported  bleeding-related  events  (classified  into  Major,  Minor  and 
Minimal), intracraneal bleeding (ICH), stroke, thrombocytopenia, AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), 
and discontinuations due to AEs.  
Regarding  the  efficacy  analyses,  the  primary  endpoint  was  analysed  using  a  logistic  regression 
analysis  with  terms  included  for  treatment  group,  type  of  fibrinolytic  (fibrin-specific,  nonfibrin-
specific, or none), type of anticoagulant used up to 2 hours post-randomisation (UFH, LMWH, both, 
or none), and infarct location (anterior, non-anterior). Odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals 
(CIs)  were  presented.  Three  sensitivity  analyses  were  performed  and  consisted  of  excluding  all 
covariates  other  than  treatment  group  from  the  logistic  regression  model,  including  Investigator-
assessed  MIs  in  the  composite  endpoint  rather  than  Clinical  Events  Committee  (CEC)-adjudicated 
MIs,  and  excluding  patients  who  did  not  receive  initial  fibrinolytic  therapy.  Hypothesis  tests  were 
performed using 2-sided tests at the 5% significance level, unless otherwise stated. 
The  secondary  ECG  endpoint  was  analysed  using  an  ANCOVA  model  that  included  baseline  ST-
segment  deviation  as  the  covariate  and  factors  for  treatment,  type  of  fibrinolytic  used,  type  of 
anticoagulant  first  used,  and  index  infarct  location.  The  other  2  secondary  endpoints  and  the  other 
efficacy  endpoints  were  analysed  using  a  model  similar  to  the  one  used  for  the  primary  efficacy 
analysis. 
The rates of the primary efficacy endpoint were calculated for different subgroups, and ORs with 95% 
CIs  were  computed  for  the  treatment  effect  (overall  and  by  subgroup).  Treatment-by-subgroup 
interactions were investigated by fitting a logistic regression model with factors for treatment group, 
subgroup,  type  of  fibrinolytic,  type  of  anticoagulant  used  up  to  2  hours  post-randomization,  infarct 
location, and treatment-by subgroup interaction. To avoid confounding, for the subgroup analysis of 
primary  anticoagulant  used,  the  factor  for  anticoagulant  used  up  to  2  hours  post-randomisation  was 
dropped from the model. 
As  regards  sample  size,  the  study  was  powered  to  detect  a  5%  absolute  reduction  (24%  relative 
reduction, from 21% to 16%) in the rate of the combined endpoint. Due to a concern, at the beginning 
of enrolment, that the projected event rate might be lower than originally predicted, the sample size for 
the trial was increased from 2,200 to 3,000 patients. Then as the trial continued, the observed blinded 
event rate was still lower than planned and the sample size was increased from 3,000 to 3,500 patients. 
This  increased  sample  size  provided  95%  power  to  detect  a  4.6%  absolute  reduction  (24%  relative 
reduction, from 19% to 14.4%) in the rate of the primary endpoint between clopidogrel and placebo 
using a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow and data sets analysed 
The participant flow is shown in figure 10.1, under the safety section. 
Baseline demographics 
Table 1 Summary of baseline demographic data (ITT population) – CLARITY, COMMIT, ASSENT-3 and 
GRACE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  populations  in  the  placebo  and  treatment  groups  were  comparable.  The  overall  study 
populations  in  CLARITY  and  COMMIT  were  not  too  dissimilar,  although  in  CLARITY  there  were 
more  men, the patients were younger and the Killip class  was lower, representing a generally lower 
risk patient population. 
The  placebo  and  clopidogrel-treated  populations  were  also  comparable  in  terms  of  cardiovascular 
medical history prior to the qualifying event. 
Primary Efficacy analysis 
The results for the primary endpoint are presented below. 
Table 2 Primary efficacy analysis: occurrence of an occluded IRA on the predischarge angiogram, or death or 
recurrent MI by the time of start of predischarge angiography, or Day 8 or hospital discharge, whichever came 
first (ITT population) – CLARITY 
Clopidogrel  produced  a  statistically  significant  reduction  of  36%  in  the  odds  of  occurrence  of  the 
primary  endpoint,  compared  with  placebo,  [262  (15.0%)  with  clopidogrel  vs.  377  (21.7%)  with 
placebo; p = 0.00000036]. As seen from the table below, the statistical significance is driven by the 
effect on occluded Infarct Related Arteries, which is a surrogate endpoint.  
Table 3 Components of the primary endpoint 
Clopidogrel treatment also resulted in significantly lower odds ratio of an occluded IRA on the pre-
discharge  angiogram  compared  with  placebo  treatment  [192  (11.7%)  vs  301  (18.4%),  respectively], 
supporting  the  favourable  primary  efficacy  endpoint  results.  The  occurrence  of  recurrent  MI  was 
numerically  lower  in  the  clopidogrel  arm  but  the  number  of  deaths  was  numerically  higher  with 
clopidogrel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Secondary efficacy endpoint analyses (ITT population) – CLARITY 
No statistically significant difference was observed between clopidogrel and placebo in the composite 
of  “death,  recurrent  MI  or  recurrent  myocardial  ischaemia  by  the  time  of  the  start  of  predischarge 
angiography” or in ST-segment resolution, which is known to be an important prognostic parameter. 
Further to a request from CHMP, the Applicant clarified that 180 min ECGs were available for only 
60% of the population; 684/1752 (39.0%) clopidogrel patients and 718/1739 (41.3%) placebo patients 
were not included in this analysis because their ECGs were either not assessed, not collected within 
the protocol allowed timeframe, or not interpretable because of poor quality. Moreover, the Applicant 
argues that clopidogrel produced a statistically significant benefit on the composite primary endpoint 
(p <0.001) even in patients with no apparent ST segment resolution at 180 minutes – see table below 
Table 5 - Primary efficacy analysis according to the ST segment resolution at 180 minutes - ITT population 
(only patients with ECG evaluable at 180 minutes) - (CLARITY-TIMI 28). 
Among  all  other  efficacy  endpoints  evaluated,  the  reduction  in  recurrent  MI  (4.1%  with  clopidogrel 
vs. 5.9% with placebo; p = 0.018) and the composite endpoint of “death, recurrent MI, or myocardial 
ischaemia leading to revascularisation (11.8% vs 14.1%, p = 0.034) up to Day 30” were statistically 
significant in favour of clopidogrel.  
Clopidogrel treatment (+ background ASA and initial fibrinolytic therapy) improved all angiographic 
measurements compared with placebo treatment (+ background ASA and initial fibrinolytic therapy).  
A  number  of  points  were  raised  by  the  CHMP  in  respect  of  the  CLARITY  trial.  The  major  point 
relates  to  the  low  level  of  risk  of  the  studied  population,  possibly  rendering  this  population 
unrepresentative  of  the  general  STEMI  population.  The  Applicant  argues  that  when  comparing  the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIMI  risk  score,  which  measures  the  mortality  risk  for  an  individual  STEMI  patient,  between 
CLARITY  and  other  studies  in  STEMI  patients  such  as  the  recently  performed  GUSTO  V  and  In 
TIME-II  studies  the  distribution  of  risk  is  almost  identical  among  these  3  studies.  Furthermore,  the 
mortality in CLARITY at Day 30 was 4.6% in the clopidogrel group vs 4.5 % in the placebo group, 
which is not much lower than that recently reported in a meta-analysis of 11 clinical trials (conducted 
between January 1990 and December 2004) in STEMI patients treated with abciximab versus control, 
where  30-day  mortality  was  5.2%  and  5.5%,  respectively.  Another  meta-analysis  of  randomised 
STEMI trials evaluated LMWH vs UFH and demonstrated again that the 30-day mortality rate [5.6% 
in LMWH patients vs 6.0% in UFH patients]  was  within the same range as  observed in CLARITY. 
Comparable 30-day mortality results were observed in GUSTO V, where the level of baseline risk was 
similar  to  the  observed  risk  in  CLARITY.  Finally,  when  looking  at  general  clinical  practice  across 
Europe, the Euro Heart Survey Programme of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) reported on 
7769  consecutive  patients  with  established  coronary  artery  disease  between  2001  and  2002  in  130 
hospitals  across  31  countries.  The  results  were  stratified  by  treatment  option  and  type  of  diagnosis. 
The STEMI cohort in this group showed a similar risk of 30-day mortality (5%) as seen in CLARITY. 
The CHMP agrees that the additional data suggest that the risk of the population included is low but 
not too dissimilar to what has been recorded in other recent studies.  
The  second  point  raised  related  to  the  exclusion  of  certain  patient  populations  from  the  CLARITY 
trial,  notably  the  elderly  and  low  body-weight  patients,  and  whether  these  patients  should  receive 
clopidogrel  in  combination  with  full-dose  fibrinolytic  therapy  and  ASA,  given  their  higher  risk  of 
bleeding. The Applicant states that 11% of patients in the COMMIT trial were 75 years of age or older 
and  that  in  view  of  the  much  higher  absolute  risk  of  reaching  the  composite  endpoint  of  “death, 
reinfarction or stroke” in patients >75 years (19.3%) than in younger patients (5.4% for <60 years), the 
similar  proportional  risk  reduction  with  clopidogrel  across  different  age  groups  translated  into 
substantially  larger  absolute  benefits  in  older  patients  (30  fewer  events  per  1000  treated  vs  4  per 
1000).  Regarding  body-weight,  this  exclusion  criterion  is  linked  to  the  labelling  of  a  concomitant 
medication (heparin). Nonetheless, although no information on body mass index (BMI) was collected 
in COMMIT, other studies in China show that the  mean BMI in Chinese patients is generally lower 
than  that  in  the  Western  population,  suggesting  that  COMMIT  has  provided  evidence  of  benefit  in 
lower body-weight patients. 
The CHMP agrees with the Applicant’s argumentation that there is no reason to exclude the elderly 
(>75) or low body-weight patients from the population likely to benefit from clopidogrel treatment. 
EFC7018 (COMMIT/CCS- 2) 
This was a Phase III, multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with 
suspected acute MI (AMI) conducted at 1,250 active sites in China. The objectives of this study were 
to determine whether the addition of clopidogrel to ASA for up to 4 weeks in hospital after suspected 
AMI can reduce mortality and the risk of major vascular events compared with ASA alone. 
All patients received daily ASA (162 mg). Each patient was randomised in a 2x2 factorial design (see 
Figure  9.1)  to  receive  75  mg  clopidogrel  once  daily  or  placebo,  and  metoprolol  or  placebo,  up  to  4 
weeks  in  hospital  or  death  or  hospital  discharge,  whichever  came  first.  Patients  were  to  be  enrolled 
within 24 hours of onset of the symptoms of suspected MI with documented electrocardiogram (ECG) 
abnormalities  [ie,  ST  elevation/depression  or  bundle  branch  block  (BBB)].  The  clopidogrel  75  mg 
once  daily  regimen  was  selected  because  it  was  the  effective  dose  that  had  demonstrated  superior 
efficacy to ASA in atherosclerotic patients at risk. Although the CURE trial, conducted in NSTEMI 
ACS patients, demonstrated a sustained incremental benefit of clopidogrel 75 mg/day preceded by a 
300  mg  loading  dose  on  top  of  standard  therapy  including  ASA,  at  the  time  of  publication  of  the 
CURE  results,  around  15,000  patients  had  been  included  in  the  COMMIT  trial.  Thus,  the  study 
continued without an initial loading dose of clopidogrel. 
Regarding  inclusion  criteria,  patients,  both  high  and  low  risk,  were  eligible  if,  in  the  view  of  the 
responsible  physician:  i)  there  were  signs  or  symptoms  of  suspected  AMI  [with  definite  ECG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
abnormalities:  ST  elevation/depression or  BBB],  and  ii)  the  onset  of  these  symptoms  was  within  24 
hours;  and  iii)  there  were  no  clear  contraindications  to  any  one  of  the  trial  treatments:  ASA, 
clopidogrel or metoprolol (and there were no clear indications for either clopidogrel or metoprolol). 
The  primary  efficacy  assessment  was  based  on  two  co-primary  endpoints  occurring  by  Day  28  or 
hospital discharge, whichever came first:  
(i) 
(ii) 
the combined endpoint of “death, reinfarction or stroke” 
death from any cause.  
Other pre-specified efficacy endpoints included: i) any re-infarction (classified as fatal and nonfatal); 
ii) any stroke [classified as ischaemic or not; with and without computed tomography (CT)/magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) confirmation; with and without residual handicap]; iii) other major clinical 
events in hospital during the scheduled treatment period that were explicitly recorded (ie, cardiogenic 
rupture,  ventricular 
shock,  heart 
fibrillation/other cardiac arrest). 
treatment,  presumed  cardiac 
requiring  persistent 
failure 
As  regards  the  efficacy  analyses,  although  patients  were  randomised  among  4  treatment  groups,  the 
analyses for clopidogrel involved 2-way comparisons of clopidogrel (+ ASA) versus placebo (+ ASA). 
Outcomes  among  all  patients  allocated  active  clopidogrel  were  compared  with  those  among  all 
patients allocated placebo clopidogrel, even though half patients of both groups received metoprolol 
and  half  did  not.  This  design  was  used  for  efficiency  in  testing  the  two  hypotheses  of  interest,  one 
involving clopidogrel and the other involving metoprolol. The design is most powerful if the treatment 
effect is the same regardless of the presence of the other drug (ie, no interaction). A test for interaction 
was performed for the coprimary combined endpoint. All analyses were based on the allocated study 
treatment, irrespective of adherence, and thus included all randomised patients (ITT analysis). 
The  relative  efficacy  of  clopidogrel  versus  placebo  was  assessed  for  each  primary  endpoint  by 
comparing  the  survival  curves  for  the  2  treatments  using  a  log-rank  test  (primary  test  of  treatment 
effect). These analyses were based on the time to the first event during the scheduled treatment period 
in hospital. The treatment effect (95% CI) was presented as both the OR (clopidogrel vs placebo) and 
the  absolute  benefit/1000  (placebo  minus  clopidogrel).  For  other  endpoints  where  the  timing  of  an 
event was not collected/used, the analyses were based on ordinary OR calculations. Events occurring 
from  randomisation  to  death  in  hospital,  first  discharge  from  hospital,  or  Day  28  (ie,  during  the 
 
 
 
 
 
scheduled  trial  treatment  period),  whichever  came  first,  were  included  in  the  analyses.  When  the 
timing  of  an  event  was  unknown  for  a  patient,  then  it  was  assumed  to  have  occurred  as  early  as 
possible, given other known dates for the patient including date of randomisation. 
No  adjustment  for  multiple  comparisons  was  made  to  the  p-value  calculation  for  the  combined 
primary outcome. However, if the overall p-value was more extreme for death than for the composite 
outcome, then only the p-value for the composite endpoint would be used in assessing the statistical 
significance of the effects on mortality. Hypothesis tests were performed using 2-sided tests (p <0.05 
significance).  The  principal  subsidiary  comparisons  were  of  the  efficacy  of  clopidogrel  on  the 
coprimary outcomes during the following post-randomisation periods: Days 0, 1, 2-3, 4-7, and 8-28. 
The  following  drug-demographics  and  drug-baseline  characteristics  interaction  analyses  were 
conducted  to  estimate  the  effect  on  the  combined  coprimary  endpoint  within  selected  subgroups 
defined by individual baseline characteristics and to test for possible heterogeneity/trend:  
- 
Protocol-specified: Sex (male, female); age at entry (<60, 60-69, 70+); hours since symptom 
onset (<6, 6 to <13, 13 to 24); SBP (<120, 120-139, 140-159, 160+ mm Hg); HR (<70, 70-89, 
90-109, 110+ bpm); fibrinolytic agent given before randomisation (yes, no); prognostic index 
(good, average, poor); metoprolol allocation (yes, no). 
Non-prespecified: Killip class (I, II/III); previous MI (yes, no); history of hypertension (yes, 
no); baseline ECG change [BBB, ST elevation, ST depression]; infarct location (anterior, other); 
prior ASA (yes, no); prior beta-blocker (yes, no). 
- 
The  sample  size  determination  was  based  on  the  rates  of  death,  non-fatal  MI,  and  non-fatal  stroke 
observed in the first Chinese Cardiac Study (CCS-1). It was assumed for COMMIT/CCS-2 that with 
20,000 to 40,000 patients there would be a 98% chance of achieving a conventionally significant result 
for the combined efficacy endpoint. To reduce the risk of a false negative mortality result, an upper 
limit of 40,000 patients for the study was initially recommended by the co-chairman of the Steering 
Committee  and  the  Principal  Investigator.  During  the  course  of  the  study,  however,  tracking  of  the 
blinded  event  rates  revealed  a  lower  in-hospital  mortality  rate  than  was  originally  assumed  (8%  as 
opposed  to  10%).  This  resulted  in  a  revised  recommendation  to  recruit  as  many  as  48,000  patients, 
given that in order to have at least 95% statistical power to detect a 10% relative risk reduction with a 
two sided p-value <0.05, it was considered necessary to recruit at least 45 000 patients. 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow and data sets analysed 
Both  treatment  groups  were  balanced  with  respect  to  demographic  and  other  baseline  data  (see  
Table  1),  including  relevant  prior  disease  history,  qualifying  events  and  medication  use  prior  to 
randomisation. 
Primary Efficacy analysis 
The results for the primary endpoint are presented below. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Summary of frequency of co-primary endpoints (ITT population) – COMMIT 
Clopidogrel in combination with ASA significantly reduced by 9% the relative risk of the combination 
of  “death,  re-infarction  or  stroke”  [2,121  (9.2%)  in  the  clopidogrel  group  vs  2,310  (10.1%)  in  the 
placebo group; p = 0.002] and by 7% the relative risk of death from any cause [1,726 (7.5%) vs 1,845 
(8.1%);  p  =  0.03].  In  absolute  terms,  clopidogrel  +  ASA  was  associated  with  9  fewer  patients  with 
death, reinfarction or stroke and with 5 fewer patients dying per 1000 allocated treatment. 
This clinical benefit of clopidogrel in combination with ASA on both co-primary endpoints appeared 
to  emerge  rapidly  from  Day  0  (an  average  of  12  hours),  despite  the  lack  of  a  loading  dose. 
Furthermore,  the  benefit  was  independent  of  the  patients'  characteristics  at  baseline  and  prior  and 
concomitant treatments the patients received. 
The results for the other two subcomponents of the primary endpoint are shown below. 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup Analyses 
The  results  of  the  composite  endpoint  of  “death,  reinfarction  or  stroke”  according  to  the  different 
protocol-specified subgroups are presented below in Figure (1.) 2. Some of these results were queried 
by CHMP, notably the finding that the positive effect of clopidogrel on the primary endpoint loses its 
significance  when  the  patient  group  is  restricted  to  those  patients  who  received  metoprolol.  The 
CHMP  believes  that  this  raises  important  questions  on  the  external  validity  of  this  Chinese  study, 
given  that  beta-blockers  are  currently  standard  treatment  in  the  EU.  The  Applicant  argues  that  the 
general principle in assessing the statistical relevance of any subgroup analyses findings is not whether 
the effect in a particular subgroup is statistically significant, but rather whether it differs significantly 
from  the  overall  effects  observed  for  the  whole  study  population.  Given  the  lack  of  statistical 
heterogeneity of the risk reduction (RR) in different circumstances (p=0.1 for metoprolol), it would be 
statistically inappropriate to consider results in isolation within any particular subgroup. In particular, 
the  formal  statistical  test  indicated  that  the  RR  with  clopidogrel  among  those  randomly  allocated 
metoprolol in this 2x2 factorial design did not differ significantly from the RR with clopidogrel among 
those  not  allocated  metoprolol.  Hence,  the  Applicant  concludes  that  the  benefit  of  clopidogrel  is 
largely independent of whether or not beta-blockers are part of the background therapy. 
Another  finding  is  that  the  relative  RR  with  clopidogrel  appeared  to  be  greater  when  treatment  was 
initiated  early  (<12h)  after  symptom  onset.  A  similar  trend  was  noted  for  mortality,  but  not  for 
reinfarction.  However,  given  the  number  of  subgroups  examined  and  the  lack  of  significance  after 
correction  for  multiple  comparisons,  this  apparent  trend  should  be  interpreted  cautiously.  No  such 
time-dependent effect on reinfarction or mortality was found in the large ISIS-2 trial of ASA in acute 
MI,  nor  is  it  consistent  with  the  beneficial  effect  of  long-term  antiplatelet  therapy  following  MI. 
Furthermore, it is recognised in international guidelines for STEMI, and as stated in a recent statement 
from  the  ESC,  that  reperfusion  therapy  has  a  greater  benefit  when  started  soon  after  the  start  of 
symptoms, and if possible within the first 12 hours. Thus, not surprisingly, the benefit of clopidogrel 
was  greater  for  patients  who  are  treated  early,  but  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn  about  whether  this 
benefit  would  be  lost  in  patients  with  an  onset  of  symptoms  >13  hours  prior  to  the  initiation  of 
treatment. In order to emphasise that the benefit is greater when clopidogrel is started early from the 
symptoms, the posology section of the SPC will specify to start as early as possible after symptoms. 
Regarding the use of thrombolytics, the Applicant maintains that the results were consistent whether or 
not they were used [8.8% vs 9.9% in the clopidogrel and placebo groups, respectively, in patients who 
received  fibrinolytic  agents  [Relative  risk  reduction  (RRR)=11%],  and  9.7%  vs  10.3%  in  the 
clopidogrel  and  placebo  groups,  respectively,  in  patients  who  did  not  receive  fibrinolytic  agents 
[RRR=6%]; p value for interaction =0.4]. 
 
 
 
Relevance of the Chinese clinical setting to Western clinical practice  
This was one of the main points challenged by the CHMP. In particular, the CHMP queried the use of 
baseline  comedication  (e.g.  beta-blockers)  and  access  to  reperfusion  therapy  (thrombolytics  and 
PTCA),  and  hospital  facilities  for  the  Chinese  population.  The  Applicant  argued  that  baseline 
characteristics  of  patients  included  in  COMMIT  did  not  differ  substantially  from  data  reported  for 
Western patients, in international registries (GRACE registry) or in clinical studies (ASSENT-3), with 
the  majority  of  patients  being  male  and  with  a  mean  age  of  61-64  years  [Table  $$].  Moreover, 
international registries, such as GRACE or CRUSADE in NSTEMI patients, have demonstrated that 
medical practice variability among major geographic regions (e.g. China and Europe) are smaller than 
the  variability  among  hospitals  within  a  single  geographical  region.  Regarding  concomitant 
 
 
medications recommended in STEMI patients, their use was similar between the 2 treatment groups in 
both COMMIT and CLARITY, and patients received therapy usually recommended in patients with 
STEMI  for  whom  pharmacological  reperfusion  is  planned.  In  both  studies,  the  anticoagulant  was 
mainly heparin and the use of ACE inhibitors, diuretics, and calcium antagonists was similar and quite 
similar  to  the  reported  use  in  the  GRACE  registry.  Overall,  according  to  the  Applicant,  the 
concomitant drugs used in COMMIT reflect the current guidelines and were identical to those used in 
Western studies such as ASSENT-3 or in a Western registry (GRACE).  
The  Applicant  argues  that  both  COMMIT  and  CLARITY  are  complementary,  and  although 
CLARITY was not powered to look at clinical endpoints, additional analyses of the clinical endpoints 
at Day 30 with regard to PCI, lytics and lipid lowering agents were performed (see table 1.4 below). In 
order to facilitate the comparison with the COMMIT study, the composite endpoint of “cardiovascular 
death, recurrent MI or stroke” was analysed, as well as the composite endpoint of “death, recurrent MI 
or stroke” [identical to the one studied in the COMMIT study], by use of PCI, type of thrombolytic 
used (fibrin specific or non-fibrin specific) and the use or not of statin.  
These  data  show  a  consistent  trend  towards  a  clinical  benefit  for  clopidogrel  versus  placebo 
independent of the type of fibrinolytic used and whether or not a statin was used. The CHMP did note 
 
 
 
that  this  post-hoc  analysis  shows  a  positive  benefit  of  clopidogrel  in  those  patients  who  underwent 
subsequent PCI, although post-hoc analysis findings should always be interpreted with caution.  
There  was  no  systematic  collection  of  information  on  the  use  of  PCI  or  lipid  lowering  agents  in 
COMMIT.  According  to  an  epidemiological  study  conducted  in  China,  48.9%  of  STEMI  patients 
received  PCI  as  reperfusion  therapy,  which  does  not  differ  from  what  is  observed  in  Western 
countries. A study recently published, evaluating the impact on medical practice of the first guidelines 
for  the  management  of  AMI  patients  issued  in  China  in  2001,  showed  that  PCI  was  undertaken  in 
35.8%  of  patients  compared  to  21.7%  before  publication  of  the  guidelines.  Over  a  period  of  the  3-
years from 1999 to 2001, the Chinese registry showed that stents were implanted in 81% of the PCI 
procedures  performed,  which  is  similar  to  the  rate  observed  in  Western  countries.  Data  from  the 
literature also show that the use of lipid lowering agents in China is 72.5%-93.0%, is not too different 
to that recorded in CLARITY (63% of patients received statins.) 
Although, COMMIT data did not document the specific characteristics of the population living close 
to  the  hospital  sites,  the  mean  duration  of  time  from  symptoms  to  randomisation  or  initiation  of 
treatment are not different from that observed in Western countries. Of note as shown by the European 
task  force,  19%  of  the  European  countries  contributing  into  this  evaluation  of  practice  do  not  have 
access to primary PCI and about 39 % of patients do not even receive pharmacological or mechanical 
reperfusion therapy.  
Thus, the Applicant maintains that the population included in COMMIT is a not a selected population 
and it closely resembles what is observed in Western countries. 
The CHMP acknowledges there are disparities in the treatment of STEMI patients across the EU but 
does  not  entirely  agree  with  the  Applicant.  Indeed,  the  low  use  of  background  beta-blockers  in  the 
COMMIT population (currently standard treatment in the EU STEMI population) and the much higher 
mortality rate observed in COMMIT (8.1 % in the placebo group) compared to the rate observed in 
CLARITY (<5% at Day 30) suggest significant differences in background clinical care justifying great 
caution  in  the  extrapolation  of  the  COMMIT  results  to  the  European  STEMI  population.  For  this 
reason, this trial has been considered as “supportive” in this application to extend the ACS indication. 
Clinical Safety [CLARITY & COMMIT] 
A total of 49,343 patients were randomised in the 2 studies: 24,713 patients were randomly assigned to 
receive  clopidogrel  (of  these,  1752  were  allocated  to  receive  a  300  mg  loading  dose)  and  24,630 
patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo.  
Patient disposition in the CLARITY trial is summarised in Figure 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Summary of patient disposition (CLARITY) 
A  total  of  3,491  patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  clopidogrel  (1,752)  or  placebo 
(1,739).  Of  these,  3,452  (98.9%)  patients  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug.  Most  treated 
patients  (94.0%)  completed  the  study  drug  treatments.  Overall,  3.9%  of  patients  prematurely 
discontinued treatment, with no difference between the 2 treatment groups. The main reason for study 
drug discontinuation was AEs/SAEs in both treatment groups (2.0% of patients with clopidogrel and 
1.8% of patients with placebo).  
Patient disposition in the COMMIT trial is summarised in Figure 2 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Summary of patient disposition (COMMIT) 
A  total  of  45,852 patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  clopidogrel  (22,961)  or  placebo 
(22,891). Of these, 45,627 (99.5%) received at least one dose of study drug. The vast majority of the 
randomised  patients  (92.6%)  completed  the  study  drug  treatments.  Overall,  6.9%  of  patients 
prematurely discontinued the study drug treatment, with no difference between the 2 treatment groups. 
The main reasons for study drug discontinuation were angioplasty (3.0% with clopidogrel and 3.1% 
with placebo) and AEs (2.4% with clopidogrel and 2.2% with placebo) in both treatment groups. 
Duration of exposure  
In CLARITY, the mean duration of treatment was similar for both treatment groups (clopidogrel 4.5 
days and placebo 4.4 days).  
In COMMIT, the vast majority of the patients [92.5% (21,241 patients) in the clopidogrel group and 
92.7%  (21  210  patients)  in  the  placebo  group]  completed  the  study  drug  treatment  as  planned.  No 
exposure  information  is  available  for  approximately  7%  of  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued 
treatment. Thus, extent of exposure was estimated by the summary of duration of hospitalisation. For 
patients discharged or still hospitalised at 28 days (21,235 in the clopidogrel group and 21,046 in the 
placebo group), the estimated mean duration was 14.9 days in each group. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  mean  treatment  duration  was  only  15  days  and  the  maximum  treatment 
duration  was  1  month.  It  is  regrettable  that  there  are  no  data  for  a  longer  period  of  time,  making  it 
difficult to determine the optimal treatment duration. The Applicant discussed this point, emphasising 
that the long-term benefit of clopidogrel alone in MI patients has been already assessed in the CAPRIE 
study.  Consequently,  it  has  been  decided  to  add  the  following  sentence  under  the  section  4.2  of  the 
SPC: 
“The benefit of the combination of clopidogrel with ASA beyond four weeks has not been studied”.  
Bleeding 
Table 7 Incidence of adjudicated TIMI major bleeding from the time of first dose of study drug to the end of the 
calendar day following pre-discharge angiography, or Day 8 or hospital discharge, whichever came first (treated 
population) – CLARITY 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of the primary safety endpoint, adjudicated major bleeding (MB), observed during the 
treatment  period  in  CLARITY  was  low  and  similar  in  both  treatment  groups.  Fatal  bleeding  was 
experienced  by  13/1733  (0.8%)  and  10/1719  (0.6%)  patients  in  the  clopidogrel  and  placebo  groups, 
respectively. 
The incidence of adjudicated TIMI major bleeding from the time of first dose of study drug up to the 
end  of  follow-up  was  low  and  similar  for  the  clopidogrel  and  placebo  groups  (1.9%  and  1.7%, 
respectively). 
Table 8 Number (%) of patients reporting any bleeding (including adjudicated and non-adjudicated bleeding) 
from the time of first dose of study drug to the end of the calendar day following pre-discharge angiography, or 
Day 8 or hospital discharge, whichever came first (treated population)- CLARITY 
However,  the  number  of  patients  with  any  bleeding  was  clearly  increased  in  the  clopidogrel  group 
(17.4% vs 12.9% p<0.001) and has been reflected in the SPC. 
The overall rate of non-cerebral MB (transfused or fatal) or cerebral bleeding (main safety endpoint) 
in  COMMIT  was  low  and  similar  in  both  treatment  groups.  In  particular,  no  excess  in  cerebral 
bleeding, non-cerebral MB, fatal, or non-fatal MB was observed with clopidogrel + ASA during the 
scheduled  treatment  period.  Clopidogrel  +  ASA  was  associated  with  a  small,  but  statistically 
significant excess of non-MB and this has been reflected in the SPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 Number (%) of patients with bleeding events (ITT population) – COMMIT 
Deaths and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) 
-  CLARITY 
The total number of deaths recorded during the study was 80 (4.6% of 1752 patients) with clopidogrel 
and  80  (4.6%  of  1739  patients)  with  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  of  patients  with  treatment-
emergent  SAEs  with  an  outcome  of  death  up  to  the  end  of  follow-up  was  similar  in  both  treatment 
groups.  Cardiac  failure  was  the  most  commonly  reported  treatment-emergent  SAE  associated  with 
death for both treatment groups. Bleeding events reported as the primary cause of death occurred in 13 
(0.8%) clopidogrel patients and 10 (0.6%) placebo patients. 
The  incidence  of  SAEs  did  not  differ  between  the  treatment  groups  during  the  treatment  period.  In 
both groups, the most frequent treatment-emergent SAE was angina pectoris. 
-  COMMIT 
The overall rate of deaths recorded during the study is summarised below 
No  SAEs  were  reported  during  the  study.  As  per  protocol  definition,  only  SAEs  that  were  both 
unexpected (unexpected AEs were defined as those that would not be expected among patients given 
antiplatelet therapy or a beta-blocker for suspected MI) and believed with a reasonable probability to 
be due to study treatment were to be reported. 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Adverse Events (AEs) 
-  CLARITY 
There was no difference between groups in the rate of patients experiencing treatment emergent AEs 
presented  by  System  Organ  Class.  Treatment-emergent  AEs  with  an  incidence  >2.5%  were  mainly 
related  to  the  underlying  cardiovascular  conditions.  Except  for  MI,  which  was  more  frequent  with 
placebo, the rates of AEs by Preferred Term were similar between the 2 treatment groups. 
-  COMMIT 
There was no difference in the overall incidence of “volunteered” AEs between the treatment groups 
during the scheduled treatment period. The incidence of AEs leading to permanent discontinuation of 
study drug was also similar in each treatment group. 
Table 10 Number of patients with recorded (“volunteered”) AE (ITT population) – COMMIT 
Safety in special populations 
In  CLARITY,  there  was  no  apparent  increase  in  the  risk  of  adjudicated  TIMI  major  bleeding  with 
clopidogrel in any of the prespecified demographic or other subgroups analysed [infarct location, age, 
gender, weight, race, and location of patient (ambulance/mobile care unit versus hospital) at the time 
of randomisation. 
In COMMIT, the relative rate of major non-cerebral or cerebral bleeding with clopidogrel compared 
with  placebo  was  independent  of  age  and  gender.  In  particular,  no  excess  of  such  bleeding  was 
observed with clopidogrel among the 11,934 patients aged 70 years or older. 
Drug interactions 
In CLARITY, there was no apparent increase in the risk of adjudicated TIMI MB with clopidogrel in 
any of the subgroups prespecified according to the type of fibrinolytic agent, the type of anticoagulant 
used up to 2 hours post-randomisation, or the primary anticoagulant used. 
In  COMMIT  there  was  no  excess  of  major  non-cerebral  or  cerebral  bleeding  with  clopidogrel, 
compared with placebo, in patients who received fibrinolytic therapy prior to randomisation compared 
to those who did not. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion 
Efficacy 
The  two  placebo-controlled  trials  supporting  the  indication  of  clopidrogel  in  STEMI  are 
methodologically sound, are well designed and appear to be well conducted.  
The main objective in CLARITY was to evaluate the efficacy of clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose+75 
mg daily) in STEMI on the top of a background of standard treatment that include ASA, thrombolysis 
and  heparin.  Clopidogrel  produced  a  statistically  significant  reduction  of  36%  in  the  odds  of 
occurrence of the primary endpoint, namely "an occluded Infarct Related Arteries (IRA), or death or 
recurrent MI”. However, it should be highlighted that the the statistical significance was driven by the 
effect on the IRA, considered a surrogate endpoint, as the trial was not powered to look at hard clinical 
endpoints. Regarding secondary endpoints, the reduction in recurrent MI and the composite endpoint 
of “death, recurrent MI, or myocardial ischaemia leading to revascularisation up to Day 30” were also 
statistically  significant  in  favour  of  clopidogrel.  The  two  main  weaknesses  debated  by  CHMP  (see 
results section) relate to the lack of positive results in the main hard outcomes established as primary 
endpoints  in  the  study  (e.g.  death,  recurrent  MI)  and  the  surprisingly  low  event  rate  in  the  trial 
population, making it a very low risk population (30-day mortality was <5%, the lowest in all STEMI 
trials as pointed out in the New England Journal of Medicine). 
COMMIT was a megatrial with nearly 50,000 patients carried out in China to determine whether the 
addition of clopidogrel to ASA for up to 4 weeks in hospital after suspected AMI reduced mortality 
and the risk of major vascular events (reinfarction or stroke) compared with ASA alone. Clopidogrel + 
ASA  significantly  reduced  by  9%  the  relative  risk  of  the  combination  of  “death,  re-infarction  or 
stroke” and by 7% the relative risk of death from any cause. In absolute terms, clopidogrel + ASA was 
associated with 9 fewer patients with “death, reinfarction or stroke” and with 5 fewer patients dying 
per 1000 allocated treatment. The main issues highlighted by CHMP (see results section) pertain to the 
differences  in  background  clinical  care,  mostly  in  the  low  use  of  beta-blockers  and  thrombolytic 
perfusion,  and  the  much  higher  mortality  rate  (8.1  %  in  the  placebo  group)  compared  to  the  rate 
observed  in  CLARITY,  leading  to  significant  concern  on  the  appropriateness  of  extrapolating  the 
COMMIT results to the European STEMI population.  
The CHMP acknowledges the differences in design and outcomes in the two trials and agrees that they 
could be regarded as complementary. Indeed, while CLARITY showed positive results on a surrogate 
endpoint  (angiographic  patency)  in  a  population  representative  of  the  EU  STEMI  clinical  setting, 
albeit at low risk, COMMIT showed positive results on hard, established endpoints but in a population 
regarded as considerably less pertinent to EU patients. Thus, to a certain extent these 2 trials validate 
each other since the results in hard outcomes observed in COMMIT reassure the Committee regarding 
the  angiographic  patency  results  in  CLARITY,  and  the  population  studied  in  CLARITY,  despite  its 
lower  than  average  risk,  is  more  representative  of  the  target  population.  Overall,  the  CHMP  was 
reassured  by  the  fact  that  the  results  for  all  major  endpoints  and  subgroup  analyses  are  either 
favourable to clopidogrel or show a favourable trend, ruling out any heterogeneity.  
The  main  issue  discussed  by  CHMP  relates  to  which  of  the  two  trials  should  be  regarded  as  more 
representative or “pivotal”, in order to define the wording of the indication to be granted. Despite the 
huge  weight  of  the  surrogate  endpoint  in  CLARITY,  it  was  decided  to  consider  this  trial  as  more 
important  given  the  similarity  of  the  trial  population  to  the  EU  STEMI  clinical  setting  and  the 
concerns raised in this respect with the COMMIT trial, which was finally considered as “supportive” 
in  this  application.  Hence,  the  approved  indication  reflects  the  population  studied  in  CLARITY, 
namely patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
The  specific  claim  of  “reduction  in  mortality”  in  the  indication  requested  by  the  Applicant  is  not 
acceptable.  In  CLARITY,  the  absolute  difference  was  only  0.4%  in  favour  of  placebo  when  the 
primary  endpoint  was  taken  into  account,  whereas  the  total  number  of  deaths  during  the  study  was 
similar.  In  COMMIT,  a  significant  effect  was  seen,  but  its  clinical  relevance  is  questionable,  taking 
into  account  the  small  difference  in  absolute  numbers  and  the  loss  of  significance  of  the  combined 
endpoint in those patients taking metoprolol, which is current standard treatment. Moreover, the SPC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
guideline states that specific clinical outcomes achieved should not be mentioned under the indication 
section (4.1), but rather in section 5.1. 
The dose regimen was different in the CLARITY and COMMIT trials, given that a loading dose was 
not  administered  to  patients  in  COMMIT.  Consequently,  the  CHMP  discussed  whether  the  loading 
dose offers any advantage given the results obtained in the two trials. The explanations for the lack of 
a  loading  dose  in  COMMIT  offered  by  the  Applicant  are  reasonable.  Considering  that  the  CHMP 
finally  regarded  CLARITY  as  the  more  representative  trial  in  this  patient  population,  it  has  been 
decided to support the treatment protocol followed in CLARITY and thus recommend in section 4.2 of 
the SPC the use of a loading dose, except in patients >75 yrs, as they are at a higher risk of bleeding 
and were also excluded from CLARITY. Moreover, there are no safety data on clopidogrel therapy in 
elderly patients receiving lytic therapy with a loading dose. 
The mean treatment duration in COMMIT was only 15 days and the maximum treatment duration was 
1 month. It is regrettable that there are no data for a longer period of time as it makes it difficult to 
determine  the  optimal  treatment  duration.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  considers  that  the  demonstration  of 
efficacy of the combination of clopidogrel and ASA limited to 4 weeks should be reflected in section 
4.2 of the SPC.  
Safety 
The well-established safety profile of clopidrogel is not challenged by the data provided in these 2 new 
trials.  In  CLARITY,  the  incidences  of  major  bleeding  were  similar  in  both  treatment  groups  and 
consistent  across  patient  subgroups  defined  by  patient  characteristics  or  concomitant  therapy.  The 
incidences  of  fatal  bleeding  and  intracranial  haemorrhage  were  low  and  similar  in  both  treatment 
groups.  The  significant  overall  increase  in  bleeding  in  the  clopidrogel  group  has  been  reflected  in 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Limited  safety  information  was  gathered  in  COMMIT  due  to  its  massive  size  of  almost  50,000  pts. 
The  overall  rate  of  non-cerebral  major  bleeding  or  cerebral  bleeding  was  low  and  similar  in  both 
groups. No untoward safety findings were reported. 
Conclusions and Benefit/Risk Assessment 
The  Applicant  has  provided  two  placebo-controlled  randomised  controlled  trials  to  support  a  new 
indication for clopidrogel in STEMI. Despite the  weaknesses identified by CHMP, the difference in 
the design and outcomes between the two trials makes them, to a certain extent, complementary. The 
results for all major endpoints and subgroup analyses are either favourable to clopidogrel or show a 
favourable  trend,  ruling  out  any  heterogeneity,  which  is  reassuring.  Given  the  differences  in 
background clinical care (low use of beta-blockers and thrombolytic perfusion) and the high mortality 
rate,  leading  to  concerns  regarding  the  relevance  of  the  Chinese  population  studied  in  COMMIT  to 
European STEMI population, the CHMP has opted to consider CLARITY as the more relevant trial, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  results  in  the  primary  endpoint  were  mainly  related  to  a  reduction  in  a 
surrogate endpoint. This is counterbalanced by the positive findings on hard endpoints reported in the 
COMMIT. Therefore, the approved indication reflects the population treated in CLARITY. 
The  safety  profile  established  for  clopidrogel  is  not  challenged  by  the  data  provided  by  the  2  new 
trials. It is acknowledged that COMMIT is a huge trial with almost 50,000 patients enrolled.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
