VI: 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
FOR PLEGRIDY (PEGINTERFERON BETA-1A) 
The European (EU) Risk Management Plan (RMP) details important risks of Plegridy™ 
(peginterferon beta-1a), and how more information will be obtained about the uncertainties 
(missing information) of administration of Plegridy to specific populations. 
The Plegridy Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Plegridy should be used. 
This summary of the EU RMP for Plegridy  should be read in the context of all available relevant 
information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new safety concerns or changes to the current described safety concerns will be 
included in updates of the EU RMP for Plegridy. 
VI: 1 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Plegridy is authorised for use in adult patients for the treatment of Relapsing Remitting Multiple 
Sclerosis (RRMS). It contains peginterferon beta-1a as the active substance, and it is given by 
either subcutaneous or intramuscular injection every 2 weeks. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Plegridy can be found in the EPAR 
for Plegridy, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002827/huma
n_med_001782.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
VI: 2  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Plegridy, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about the risks of Plegridy, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals, 
respectively. 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; and 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Plegridy is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ in Section VI: 2.1. 
VI: 2.1  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Plegridy are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be categorised as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Plegridy. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that needs to be collected (e.g. on the long- 
term use of the medicine). 
The list of important risks and missing information is presented below.  
List of important risks and areas of missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None 
Areas of missing information 
•  Use during second and third trimester of pregnancy 
VI: 2.2 
Summary of important risks 
There  are  no  important  identified  risks    or  important  potential  risks  associated  with  Plegridy 
treatment.  
A summary of relevant areas of missing information is presented below. 
Areas of Missing Information 
Use during second and third trimester of pregnancy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Information in Section 4.6 of the SmPC describing the paucity of 
data in relation to drug exposure during the second and third 
trimester of pregnancy 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine. Use restricted to physicians 
experienced in the treatment of MS. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
 
Areas of Missing Information 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
 Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Drug utilization study in pregnancy (exposure in second and third 
trimester) 
See Section VI:2.3 of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
VI: 2.3 
Post-authorisation development plan 
VI: 2.3.1  Studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
for Plegridy. 
VI: 2.3.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Other studies in the post authorisation development plan are as follows: 
•  Drug utilization study in pregnancy (exposure in second and third trimester) 
−  Purpose of the study: Analysis of 948 pregnancy outcomes from the EPID MS 
Pregnancy Study (EUPAS13054) and the European Interferon-beta Pregnancy 
Registry indicated that the prevalence of major congenital anomalies in live births 
and spontaneous abortions were within the background rate of both the untreated MS 
population and the general population. However, most of the available data 
corresponded to exposure during first trimester of pregnancy, the period of most 
vulnerability due to organogenesis. 
To further address the remaining uncertainty pertaining to exposure during second 
and third trimesters of pregnancy, a first-stage study is planned to evaluate 
interferon-beta use amongst pregnant women in Sweden and Finland using a 
staggered approach, which will comprise:  
−  Evaluation of interferon-beta utilization among pregnant women with MS in 
Sweden and Finland at 3 years and, if needed, 5 years following label 
implementation using aggregate level data; and  
−  Evaluation of trends in drug utilisation patterns in the target population before 
and after label implementation. 
Aggregate data analysis at 3 and 5 years (if needed) will inform an overall 
assessment of whether it is appropriate and feasible to proceed with a second stage - 
a full study on the effect on pregnancy outcomes of interferon exposure during 
second and third trimester of pregnancy using individual level data, based on the 
observed pattern of interferon-beta use among pregnant women. 
 
  
 
