EMA/807686/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002185 
EPAR summary for the public 
Plenadren 
hydrocortisone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Plenadren. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Plenadren. For practical information about using 
Plenadren, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Plenadren and what is it used for? 
Plenadren is a medicine used to treat adrenal insufficiency in adults. Adrenal insufficiency (including 
primary insufficiency or Addison’s disease) is a condition where the adrenal glands (located just above 
the kidneys) do not produce enough of a steroid hormone called cortisol (also known as the stress 
hormone because it is released in response to stress). Symptoms include weight loss, muscle 
weakness, fatigue, low blood pressure, and sometimes darkening of the skin. Adrenal insufficiency can 
require life-long treatment to replace the missing cortisol.  
Because the number of patients with adrenal insufficiency is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Plenadren was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 22 May 2006.  
Plenadren contains the active substance hydrocortisone. 
How is Plenadren used? 
Plenadren can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as modified-release tablets (5 mg 
and 20 mg). 
The usual daily dose ranges from 20 to 30 mg, once per day early in the morning; tablets should be 
swallowed whole with a glass of water at least 30 minutes before food. Treatment may need to be 
individually adjusted according to how the patient responds. In situations of excessive physical or 
mental stress or illness, patients may need further doses of hydrocortisone. This may be given as 
Plenadren tablets twice or three times daily or as conventional immediate-release tablets or injections, 
either alone or in combination with Plenadren. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Plenadren work? 
The active substance in Plenadren, hydrocortisone, is the pharmaceutical form of cortisol, the main 
steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal gland. Hydrocortisone replaces the natural cortisol that is 
missing in patients with adrenal insufficiency. It has been used in medicines for several decades. 
Because it is available as a modified-release tablet, Plenadren releases hydrocortisone over a longer 
period of time allowing for a once-daily dosing. It is taken early in the morning to mimic the fact that 
in healthy people the blood level of cortisol increases early in the morning. 
What benefits of Plenadren have been shown in studies? 
The effects of Plenadren were investigated in one main study involving 64 patients with adrenal 
insufficiency. Plenadren, given once per day, was compared with conventional hydrocortisone 
treatment, which is given three times per day. The study looked at the levels of cortisol in the patients’ 
blood during a 24-hour period following three months of treatment. In patients taking Plenadren the 
cortisol levels achieved were considered to be satisfactory for patients with adrenal insufficiency. The 
overall amount of cortisol absorbed into the blood was around 20% lower in patients taking Plenadren 
compared with patients taking conventional hydrocortisone treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Plenadren? 
The most common side effects with Plenadren (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are fatigue 
(tiredness), diarrhoea, vertigo (feeling dizzy) and headache.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Plenadren, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Plenadren approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) noted that Plenadren achieved 
satisfactory levels of cortisol during the treatment of patients with adrenal insufficiency. The 
Committee also noted that with Plenadren there is the convenience of once daily dosing. Although once 
daily dosing comes with a risk of cortisol levels being too low in the afternoon, this can be managed by 
adding further doses of hydrocortisone if needed.  
The CHMP concluded that the benefits of Plenadren were greater than its risks and recommended that 
it be granted marketing authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Plenadren? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Plenadren have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Plenadren 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Plenadren on 3 November 2011.  
The full EPAR for Plenadren can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Plenadren, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Plenadren can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016.  
