ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.   NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection 
2.   QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of solution contains 20 mg of plerixafor. 
Each vial contains 24 mg plerixafor in 1.2 ml solution. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection 
Clear, colourless to pale yellow solution, with a pH of 6.0-7.5 and an osmolality 
of 260 - 320 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adult patients 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated in combination with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) to 
enhance mobilisation of haematopoietic stem cells to the peripheral blood for collection and 
subsequent autologous transplantation in adult patients with lymphoma or multiple myeloma whose 
cells mobilise poorly (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric patients (1 to less than 18 years) 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated in combination with G-CSF to enhance mobilisation of haematopoietic 
stem cells to the peripheral blood for collection and subsequent autologous transplantation in children 
with lymphoma or solid malignant tumours, either: 
- 
- 
pre-emptively, when circulating stem cell count on the predicted day of collection after 
adequate mobilization with G-CSF (with or without chemotherapy) is expected to be 
insufficient with regards to desired hematopoietic stem cells yield, or 
who previously failed to collect sufficient haematopoietic stem cells (see section 4.2). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Plerixafor Accord therapy should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in oncology 
and/or haematology. The mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration 
with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the 
monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed. 
Age over 60 and/ or prior myelosuppressive chemotherapy and/or extensive prior chemotherapy 
and/or a peak circulating stem cell count of less than 20 stem cells/microliter, have been identified as 
predictors of poor mobilisation. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology  
Adult 
The recommended daily dose of plerixafor by subcutaneous injection is: 
 
 
20 mg fixed dose or 0.24 mg/kg of body weight for patients weighing ≤ 83 kg (see 
section 5.2). 
0.24 mg/kg of body weight for patients weighing > 83 kg. 
Paediatric (1 to less than 18 years) 
The recommended daily dose of plerixafor by subcutaneous injection is: 
0.24 mg/kg of body weight (see section 5.1). 
 
Each vial of plerixafor treatment is filled to deliver 1.2 ml of 20 mg/ml plerixafor aqueous solution for 
injection containing 24 mg of plerixafor. 
Plerixafor has to be drawn up into a syringe size type which should be selected according to the weight 
of the patient. 
For low weight patients, up to 45 kg of body weight, 1 ml syringes for use in infant patients can be 
used. This type of syringe has major graduations for 0.1 ml and minor graduations for 0.01 ml and 
therefore is suitable to administer plerixafor, at a dose of 240 μg/kg, to paediatric patients of at least 
9 kg body weight. 
For patients of more than 45 kg, 1 ml or 2 ml syringe with graduations that allow a volume to 0.1 ml to 
be measured can be used. 
It should be administered by subcutaneous injection 6 to 11 hours prior to initiation of each apheresis 
following 4 day pre-treatment with G-CSF. In clinical trials, plerixafor has been commonly used for 
2 to 4 (and up to 7) consecutive days. 
The weight used to calculate the dose of plerixafor should be obtained within 1 week before the first 
dose of plerixafor. In clinical studies, the dose of plerixafor has been calculated based on body weight 
in patients up to 175% of ideal body weight. Plerixafor dose and treatment of patients weighing more 
than 175% of ideal body weight have not been investigated. Ideal body weight can be determined 
using the following equations: 
male (kg):  
female (kg):  
50 + 2.3 x ((Height (cm) x 0.394) – 60); 
45.5 + 2.3 x ((Height (cm) x 0.394) – 60). 
Based on increasing exposure with increasing body weight, the plerixafor dose should not 
exceed 40 mg/day. 
Recommended concomitant medicinal products 
In pivotal clinical studies supporting the use of Plerixafor treatment, all patients received daily 
morning doses of 10 μg/kg G-CSF for 4 consecutive days prior to the first dose of plerixafor and on 
each morning prior to apheresis. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Patients with creatinine clearance 20-50 ml/min should have their dose of plerixafor reduced by one-
third to 0.16 mg/kg/day (see section 5.2). Clinical data with this dose adjustment are limited. 
There is insufficient clinical experience to make alternative posology recommendations for patients 
with a creatinine clearance <20 ml/min, as well as to make posology recommendations for patients on 
haemodialysis. 
Based on increasing exposure with increasing body weight the dose should not exceed 27 mg/day if 
the creatinine clearance is lower than 50 ml/min. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Plerixafor treatment in children (1 to less than 18 years) were studied in an 
open label, multicenter, controlled study (see sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
Elderly patients (> 65 years old) 
No dose modifications are necessary in elderly patients with normal renal function. Dose adjustment 
in elderly patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 50 ml/min is recommended (see Renal impairment 
above). In general, care should be taken in dose selection for elderly patients due to the greater 
frequency of decreased renal function with advanced age. 
Method of administration 
Plerixafor Accord is for subcutaneous injection. Each vial is intended for single use only. 
Vials should be inspected visually prior to administration and not used if there is particulate matter or 
discolouration. Since Plerixafor Accord is supplied as a sterile, preservative-free formulation, aseptic 
technique should be followed when transferring the contents of the vial to a suitable syringe for 
subcutaneous administration (see section 6.3). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Tumour cell mobilisation in patients with lymphoma and multiple myeloma 
When Plerixafor treatment is used in conjunction with G-CSF for haematopoietic stem cell 
mobilisation in patients with lymphoma or multiple myeloma‚ tumour cells may be released from the 
marrow and subsequently collected in the leukapheresis product. Results showed that, in case tumour 
cells are mobilised, the number of tumour cells mobilised is not increased upon plerixafor plus G-CSF 
compared to G-CSF alone. 
Tumour cell mobilisation in leukaemia patients 
In a compassionate use programme, Plerixafor treatment and G-CSF have been administered to 
patients with acute myelogenous leukaemia and plasma cell leukaemia. In some instances, these 
patients experienced an increase in the number of circulating leukaemia cells. For the purpose of 
haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation, plerixafor may cause mobilisation of leukaemic cells and 
subsequent contamination of the apheresis product. Therefore, plerixafor is not recommended for 
haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation and harvest in patients with leukaemia. 
Haematological effects 
Hyperleukocytosis 
Administration of Plerixafor treatment in conjunction with G-CSF increases circulating leukocytes as 
well as haematopoietic stem cell populations. White blood cell counts should be monitored during 
plerixafor therapy. Clinical judgment should be exercised when administering Plerixafor treatment to 
patients with peripheral blood neutrophil counts above 50 x 109/L. 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia is a known complication of apheresis and has been observed in patients receiving 
Plerixafor treatment. Platelet counts should be monitored in all patients receiving Plerixafor treatment 
and undergoing apheresis. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
Plerixafor treatment has been uncommonly associated with potential systemic reactions related to 
subcutaneous injection such as urticaria, periorbital swelling, dyspnoea, or hypoxia (see section 4.8). 
Symptoms responded to treatments (e.g., antihistamines, corticosteroids, hydration or supplemental 
oxygen) or resolved spontaneously. Cases of anaphylactic reactions, including anaphylactic shock, 
have been reported from world-wide post-marketing experience. Appropriate precautions should be 
taken because of the potential for these reactions. 
Vasovagal reactions 
Vasovagal reactions, orthostatic hypotension, and/or syncope can occur following subcutaneous 
injections (see section 4.8). Appropriate precautions should be taken because of the potential for these 
reactions. 
Effect on the spleen 
In preclinical studies, higher absolute and relative spleen weights associated with extramedullary 
haematopoiesis were observed following prolonged (2 to 4 weeks) daily plerixafor subcutaneous 
administration in rats at doses approximately 4 fold higher than the recommended human dose. 
The effect of plerixafor on spleen size in patients has not been specifically evaluated in clinical 
studies. Cases of splenic enlargement and/or rupture have been reported following the administration 
of Plerixafor treatment in conjunction with growth factor G-CSF. Individuals receiving Plerixafor 
treatment in conjunction with G-CSF who report left upper abdominal pain and/or scapular or shoulder 
pain should be evaluated for splenic integrity. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose that is to say essentially 
‘sodium- free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. In vitro tests showed that plerixafor was not metabolised 
by P450 CYP enzymes, did not inhibit or induce P450 CYP enzymes. Plerixafor did not act as a 
substrate or inhibitor of P-glycoprotein in an in vitro study. 
In clinical studies of patients with Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, the addition of rituximab to a 
mobilisation regimen of plerixafor and G-CSF did not impact patient safety or CD34+ cell yield. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data on the use of plerixafor in pregnant women. 
Based on the pharmacodynamic mechanism of action, plerixafor is suggested to cause congenital 
malformations when administered during pregnancy. Studies in animals have shown teratogenicity 
(see section 5.3). Plerixafor should not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the 
woman requires treatment with plerixafor. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether plerixafor is excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling child cannot be 
excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with Plerixafor Accord. 
Fertility 
The effects of plerixafor on male and female fertility are not known (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Plerixafor Accord has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Some patients have 
experienced dizziness, fatigue or vasovagal reactions; therefore caution is advised when driving or 
operating machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Safety data for plerixafor in conjunction with G-CSF in oncology patients with lymphoma and 
multiple myeloma were obtained from 2 placebo-controlled Phase III studies (301 patients) and 
10 uncontrolled phase II studies (242 patients). Patients were primarily treated with daily doses of 
0.24 mg/kg plerixafor by subcutaneous injection. The exposure to plerixafor in these studies ranged 
from 1 to 7 consecutive days (median = 2 days). 
In the two phase III studies in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and multiple myeloma patients  
(AMD3100-3101 and AMD3100-3102, respectively), a total of 301 patients were treated in the 
Plerixafor and G-CSF group and 292 patients were treated in the placebo and G-CSF group. Patients 
received daily morning doses of G-CSF 10 μg/kg for 4 days prior to the first dose of plerixafor or 
placebo and on each morning prior to apheresis. Adverse reactions that occurred more frequently with 
Plerixafor and G-CSF than placebo and G-CSF and were reported as related in ≥1% of the patients 
who received Plerixafor, during haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation and apheresis and prior to 
chemotherapy/ablative treatment in preparation for transplantation are shown in Table 1. 
From chemotherapy/ablative treatment in preparation of transplantation through 12 months post-
transplantation, no significant differences in the incidence of adverse reactions were observed across 
treatment groups. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed by System Organ Class and frequency. Frequencies are defined according 
to the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
Table 1: Adverse reactions occurring more frequently with plerixafor than placebo and 
considered related to plerixafor during mobilisation and apheresis in phaseIII studies 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Not known Splenomegaly, splenic rupture (see section 4.4)**
Uncommon 
Allergic reaction* 
Anaphylactic reactions, including anaphylactic 
shock (see section 4.4) ** 
Common Insomnia
Uncommon Abnormal dreams, nightmares 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common Dizziness, headache
Very common Diarrhoea, nausea
Common Vomiting, abdominal pain, stomach 
discomfort, dyspepsia, abdominal distention, 
constipation, flatulence, hypoaesthesia oral, 
dry mouth 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Common Hyperhidrosis, erythema 
Common Arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain 
General disorders and administration site conditions
Very common Injection and infusion site reactions 
Common Fatigue, malaise 
* The frequency of allergic reactions presented is based on adverse reactions that occurred in the oncology studies 
(679 patients). Events included one or more of the following: urticaria (n = 2), periorbital swelling (n = 2), dyspnoea 
(n = 1) or hypoxia (n = 1). These events were generally mild or moderate and occurred within approximately 30 min 
after Plerixafor administration. 
** From post-marketing experience 
The adverse reactions reported in patients with lymphoma and multiple myeloma who received 
Plerixafor in the controlled Phase III studies and uncontrolled studies, including a Phase II study of 
Plerixafor as monotherapy for haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation, are similar. No significant 
differences in the incidence of adverse reactions were observed for oncology patients by disease, age, 
or gender. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Myocardial infarction 
In clinical studies, 7 of 679 oncology patients experienced myocardial infarctions after 
haematopoieticstem cell mobilisation with plerixafor and G-CSF. All events occurred at least 14 days 
after last plerixafor administration. Additionally, two female oncology patients in the compassionate 
use programme experienced myocardial infarction following haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation 
with plerixafor and G-CSF. One of these events occurred 4 days after last plerixafor administration. 
Lack of temporal relationship in 8 of 9 patients coupled with the risk profile of patients with 
myocardial infarction does not suggest Plerixafor confers an independent risk for myocardial 
infarction in patients who also receive G-CSF. 
Hyperleukocytosis 
White blood cell counts of 100 x 109/L or greater were observed, on the day prior to or any day of 
apheresis, in 7% patients receiving Plerixafor and in 1% patients receiving placebo in the Phase III 
studies. No complications or clinical symptoms of leukostasis were observed. 
Vasovagal reactions 
In Plerixafor oncology and healthy volunteer clinical studies, less than 1% of subjects experienced 
vasovagal reactions (orthostatic hypotension and/or syncope) following subcutaneous administration 
of plerixafor doses ≤0.24 mg/kg. The majority of these events occurred within 1 hour of plerixafor 
administration. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
In Plerixafor clinical studies of oncology patients, there have been rare reports of severe 
gastrointestinal events, including diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paraesthesia 
Paraesthesia is commonly observed in oncology patients undergoing autologous transplantation 
following multiple disease interventions. In the placebo-controlled phase III studies, the incidence of 
paraesthesia was 20.6% and 21.2% in the plerixafor and placebo groups, respectively. 
Elderly patients 
In the two placebo-controlled clinical studies of plerixafor, 24% of patients were ≥ 65 years old. No 
notable differences in the incidence of adverse reactions were observed in these elderly patients when 
compared with younger ones. 
Paediatric population 
Thirty patients were treated with 0.24 mg/kg of plerixafor in an open label, multicenter, controlled 
study (DFI 12860) (see section 5.1). 
The safety profile in this paediatric study was consistent with what has been observed in adults. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported. Based on limited data at doses above the recommended dose 
and up to 0.48 mg/kg the frequency of gastrointestinal disorders, vasovagal reactions, orthostatic 
hypotension, and/or syncope may be higher. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunostimulants, other immunostimulants; ATC code: L03AX16 
Mechanism of action 
Plerixafor is a bicyclam derivative, a selective reversible antagonist of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor 
and blocks binding of its cognate ligand, stromal cell-derived factor-1α (SDF-1α), also known as 
CXCL12. Plerixafor-induced leukocytosis and elevations in circulating haematopoietic progenitor cell 
levels are thought to result from a disruption of CXCR4 binding to its cognate ligand, resulting in the 
appearance of both mature and pluripotent cells in the systemic circulation. CD34+ cells mobilised by 
plerixafor are functional and capable of engraftment with long-term repopulating capacity. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In pharmacodynamic studies in healthy volunteers of plerixafor alone, peak mobilisation of CD34+ 
cells was observed from 6 to 9 hours after administration. In pharmacodynamic studies in healthy 
volunteers of plerixafor in conjunction with G-CSF administered at identical dose regimen to that in 
studies in patients, a sustained elevation in the peripheral blood CD34+ count was observed from 4 to 
18 hours after plerixafor administration with peak response between 10 and 14 hours. 
In order to compare the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of plerixafor following 0.24 mg/kg 
based and fixed (20 mg) doses, a trial was conducted in adult patients with NHL (N=61) who were 
treated with 0.24 mg/kg or 20 mg of plerixafor. The trial was conducted in patients weighing 70 kg or 
less (median: 63.7 kg, min: 34.2 kg, max: 70 kg). The fixed 20 mg dose showed 1.43-fold higher 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
exposure (AUC0-10h) than the 0.24 mg/kg dose (Table 2). The fixed 20 mg dose also showed 
numerically higher response rate (5.2% [60.0% vs 54.8%] based on the local lab data and 11.7% 
[63.3% vs 51.6%] based on the central lab data) in attaining the target of ≥ 5 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg 
than the mg/kg-based dose. The median time to reach ≥ 5 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg was 3 days for both 
treatment groups, and the safety profile between the groups was similar. Body weight of 83 kg was 
selected as the cut-off point to transition patients from fixed to weight based dosing (83 kg x 0.24 mg 
= 19.92 mg/kg). 
Table 2. Systemic Exposure (AUC0-10h) comparisons of fixed and weight based regimens 
Regimen 
Fixed 20 mg (n=30) 
0.24 mg/kg (n=31) 
Ratio (90% CI) 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Geometric mean AUC
3991.2
2792.7
1.43 (1.32,1.54) 
In two phase III randomised-controlled studies patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma or multiple 
myeloma received plerixafor 0.24 mg/kg or placebo on each evening prior to apheresis. Patients 
received daily morning doses of G-CSF 10 μg/kg for 4 days prior to the first dose of plerixafor or 
placebo and on each morning prior to apheresis. Optimal (5 or 6 x 106 cells/kg) and minimal 
(2 x 106 cells/kg) numbers of CD34+ cells/kg within a given number of days, as well as the primary 
composite endpoints which incorporated successful engraftment are presented in Tables 3 and 5; the 
proportion of patients reaching optimal numbers of CD34+ cells/kg by apheresis day are presented in 
Tables 4 and 6. 
Table 3. Study AMD3100-3101 efficacy results - CD34+ cell mobilisation in non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma patients 
Efficacy endpointb 
Patients achieving ≥ 5 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 
4 apheresis days and successful 
engraftment 
Patients achieving ≥ 2 x 106
4 apheresis days and successful 
engraftment 
 cells/kg in ≤ 
Plerixafor and 
G-CSF (n = 150) 
86 (57.3%) 
Placebo and 
G-CSF (n = 148) 
28 (18.9%) 
p-value a 
<0.001 
126 (84.0%) 
64 (43.2%) 
< 0.001 
a p-value calculated using Pearson’s Chi-Squared test 
bStatistically significantly more patients achieved ≥ 5 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 4 apheresis days with Plerixafor and G-CSF (n=89; 
59.3%) than with placebo and G-CSF (n=29; 19.6%), p<0.001; statistically significantly more patients achieved 
≥ 2 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 4 apheresis days with Plerixafor and G-CSF (n=130; 86.7%) than with placebo and G-CSF (n=70; 
47.3%), p<0.001. 
Table 4. Study AMD3100-3101 – Proportion of patients who achieved ≥ 5 x 106
by apheresis day in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma patients 
 CD34+ cells/kg 
Days 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Proportiona 
in Plerixafor and G-CSF 
(n=147b)
27.9%
49.1%
57.7%
65.6%
Proportiona 
in Placebo and G-CSF 
(n=142b) 
4.2% 
14.2% 
21.6% 
24.2% 
a Percents determined by Kaplan Meier method 
b n includes all patients who received at least one day of apheresis 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Study AMD3100-3102 efficacy results – CD34+ cell mobilisation in multiple myeloma 
patients 
Efficacy endpointb 
Patients achieving ≥ 6 x 106 cells/kg 
in ≤ 2 apheresis days and successful 
engraftment 
Plerixafor and 
G-CSF 
(n = 148) 
104 (70.3%) 
Placebo and 
G-CSF 
(n = 154) 
53 (34.4%) 
p-value a 
<0.001 
ap-value calculated using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic blocked by baseline platelet count 
bStatistically significantly more patients achieved ≥ 6 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 2 apheresis days with Plerixafor and G-CSF 
(n=106; 71.6%) than with placebo and G-CSF (n=53; 34.4%), p<0.001; statistically significantly more patients achieved 
≥ 6 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 4 apheresis days with Plerixafor and G-CSF (n=112; 75.7%) than with placebo and G-CSF (n=79; 
51.3%), p<0.001; statistically significantly more patients achieved ≥ 2 x 106 cells/kg in ≤ 4 apheresis days with Plerixafor and 
G-CSF (n=141; 95.3%) than with placebo and G-CSF (n=136; 88.3%), p=0.031. 
Table 6. Study AMD3100-3102 – Proportion of patients who achieved ≥ 6 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg 
by apheresis day in multiple myeloma patients 
Days 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Proportiona 
in plerixafor and G-CSF 
(n=144b) 
Proportiona 
in placebo and G-CSF 
(n=150b) 
54.2% 
77.9% 
86.8% 
86.8% 
17.3% 
35.3% 
48.9% 
55.9% 
aPercents determined by Kaplan Meier method 
b n includes all patients who received at least one day of apheresis 
Rescue patients 
In study AMD3100-3101, 62 patients (10 in the plerixafor + G-CSF group and 52 in the placebo + 
GCSFgroup), who could not mobilise sufficient numbers of CD34+ cells and thus could not proceed to 
transplantation, entered into an open-label Rescue procedure with Plerixafor and G-CSF. Of these 
patients, 55 % (34 out of 62) mobilised ≥ 2 x106/kg CD34+ cells and had successful engraftment. In 
study AMD3100-3102, 7 patients (all from the placebo + G-CSF group) entered the Rescue procedure. 
Of these patients, 100% (7 out of 7) mobilised ≥ 2 x106/kg CD34+ cells and had successful 
engraftment. 
The dose of haematopoietic stem cells used for each transplant was determined by the investigator and 
all haematopoietic stem cells that were collected were not necessarily transplanted. For transplanted 
patients in the phase III studies, median time to neutrophil engraftment (10-11 days), median time to 
platelet engraftment (18-20 days) and graft durability up to 12 months post-transplantation were 
similar across the Plerixafor and placebo groups. 
Mobilisation and engraftment data from supportive Phase II studies (plerixafor 0.24 mg/kg dosed on 
the evening or morning prior to apheresis) in patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Hodgkin’s 
disease, or multiple myeloma were similar to those data for the Phase III studies. 
In the placebo-controlled studies, fold increase in peripheral blood CD34+ cell count (cells/μl) over 
the 24-hour period from the day prior to the first apheresis to just before the first apheresis was 
evaluated (Table 7). During that 24-hour period, the first dose of plerixafor 0.24 mg/kg or placebo was 
administered 10-11 hours prior to apheresis. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Fold increase in peripheral blood CD34+ cell count following plerixafor administration 
Study 
Plerixafor and G-CSF
Placebo and G-CSF 
Median 
5.0 
4.8 
Mean 
(SD) 
6.1 (5.4) 
6.4 (6.8) 
Median 
1.4 
1.7 
Mean 
(SD) 
1.9 (1.5) 
2.4 (7.3) 
AMD3100-3101 
AMD3100-3102 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
plerixafor in children aged 0 to 1 year in myelosuppression caused by chemotherapy to treat malignant 
disorders, which requires an autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplant (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
The efficacy and safety of plerixafor were evaluated in an open label, multi-center, controlled study in 
paediatric patients with solid tumors (including neuroblastoma, sarcoma, Ewing sarcoma) or 
lymphoma who were eligible for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (DFI12860). 
Patients with leukemia, persistent high percentage marrow involvement prior to mobilization, or 
previous stem cell transplantation were excluded. 
Forty-five paediatric patients (1 to less than 18 years) were randomised, 2:1, using 0.24 mg/kg of 
plerixafor plus standard mobilisation (G-CSF plus or minus chemotherapy) versus control (standard 
mobilisation alone). Median age was 5.3 years (min: max 1:18) in the plerixafor arm versus 4.7 years 
(min:max 1:17) in the control arm. 
Only one patient aged less than 2 years old was randomised to the plerixafor treatment arm. There was 
an imbalance between treatment arms in peripheral blood CD34+ counts on the day prior to first 
apheresis (i.e. prior to administration of plerixafor), with less circulating PB CD34+ in the plerixafor 
arm. The median PB CD34+ cell counts at baseline were 15 cells/μl in the plerixafor arm versus 
35 cells/μl in control arm. The primary analysis showed that 80% of patients in the plerixafor arm 
experienced at least a doubling of the PB CD34+ count, observed from the morning of the day 
preceding the first planned apheresis to the morning prior to apheresis, versus, 28.6% of patients in the 
control arm (p=0.0019). The median increase in PB CD34+ cell counts from baseline to the day of 
apheresis was by 3.2 fold in the plerixafor arm versus by 1.4 fold in the control arm. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of plerixafor have been evaluated in lymphoma and multiple myeloma patients 
at the clinical dose level of 0.24 mg/kg following pre-treatment with G-CSF (10 μg/kg once daily for 
4 consecutive days). 
Absorption 
Plerixafor is rapidly absorbed following subcutaneous injection, reaching peak concentrations in 
approximately 30-60 minutes (tmax). Following subcutaneous administration of a 0.24 mg/kg dose to 
patients after receiving 4-days of G-CSF pre-treatment, the maximal plasma concentration (Cmax) and 
systemic exposure (AUC0-24) of plerixafor were 887 ± 217 ng/ml and 4337 ± 922 ngꞏhr/ml, 
respectively. 
Distribution 
Plerixafor is moderately bound to human plasma proteins up to 58%. The apparent volume of 
distribution of plerixafor in humans is 0.3 l/kg demonstrating that plerixafor is largely confined to, but 
not limited to, the extravascular fluid space. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Plerixafor is not metabolised in vitro using human liver microsomes or human primary hepatocytes 
and does not exhibit inhibitory activity in vitro towards the major drug-metabolising CYP450 enzymes 
(1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4/5). In in vitro studies with human hepatocytes, 
plerixafor does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 enzymes. These findings suggest that 
plerixafor has a low potential for involvement in P450-dependent drug-drug interactions. 
Elimination 
The major route of elimination of plerixafor is urinary. Following a 0.24 mg/kg dose in healthy 
volunteers with normal renal function, approximately 70% of the dose was excreted unchanged in 
urine during the first 24 hours following administration. The elimination half-life (t1/2) in plasma is 
3-5 hours. Plerixafor did not act as a substrate or inhibitor of P-glycoprotein in an in vitro study with 
MDCKII and MDCKII-MDR1 cell models. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Following a single dose of 0.24 mg/kg plerixafor, clearance was reduced in subjects with varying 
degrees of renal impairment and was positively correlated with creatinine clearance (CrCl). Mean 
values of AUC0-24 of plerixafor in subjects with mild (CrCl 51-80 ml/min), moderate (CrCl 31-50 
ml/min) and severe (CrCl ≤ 30 ml/min) renal impairment were 5410, 6780 and 6990 ng.hr/ml, 
respectively, which were higher than the exposure observed in healthy subjects with normal renal 
function (5070 ngꞏhr/ml). Renal impairment had no effect on Cmax. 
Gender 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no effect of gender on pharmacokinetics of plerixafor. 
Elderly 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no effect of age on pharmacokinetics of plerixafor. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of plerixafor were evaluated in 48 paediatric patients (1 to less than 18 years) 
with solid tumours at subcutaneous doses of 0.16, 0.24 and 0.32 mg/kg with standard mobilisation 
(GCSF plus or minus chemotherapy). Based on population pharmacokinetic modeling and similar to 
adults, μg/kg-based dosage results in increase in plerixafor exposure with increasing body weight in 
paediatric patients. At the same weight-based dosing regimen of 240 μg/kg, the plerixafor mean 
exposure (AUC0-24h) is lower in paediatric patients aged 2 to <6 years (1410 ng.h/mL), 6 to<12 years 
(2318 ng.h/mL), and 12 to <18 years (2981 ng.h/mL) than in adults (4337 ng.h/mL). Based on 
population pharmacokinetic modeling, the plerixafor mean exposures (AUC0-24h) in paediatric patients 
aged 2 to <6 years (1905 ng.h/mL), 6 to <12 years (3063 ng.h/mL), and 12 to <18 years 
(4015 ng.h/mL), at the dose of 320 μg/kg are closer to the exposure in adults receiving 240 μg/kg. 
However, mobilization of PB CD34+ count was observed in stage 2 of the trial. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The results from single dose subcutaneous studies in rats and mice showed plerixafor can induce 
transient but severe neuromuscular effects (uncoordinated movement), sedative-like effects 
(hypoactivity), dyspnoea, ventral or lateral recumbency, and/or muscle spasms. Additional effects of 
plerixafor consistently noted in repeated dose animal studies included increased levels of circulating 
white blood cells and increased urinary excretion of calcium and magnesium in rats and dogs, slightly 
higher spleen weights in rats, and diarrhoea and tachycardia in dogs. Histopathology findings of 
extramedullary haematopoiesis were observed in the liver and spleen of rats and/or dogs. One or more 
of these findings were usually observed at systemic exposures in the same order of magnitude or 
slightly higher than the human clinical exposure. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results of the dose range-finding study in juvenile miniature pigs and the range-finding and 
definitive studies in juvenile rats were similar to those observed in adult mice, rats, and dogs. 
Exposure margins in the juvenile rat study at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) were ≥18 fold when 
compared with the highest clinical paediatric dose in children up to 18 years of age. 
An in vitro general receptor activity screen showed that plerixafor, at a concentration (5 μg/ml) several 
fold higher than the maximum human systemic level, has moderate or strong binding affinity for a 
number of different receptors predominantly located on pre-synaptic nerve endings in the central 
nervous system (CNS) and/or the peripheral nervous system (PNS) (N-type calcium channel, 
potassium channel SKCA, histamine H3, acetylcholine muscarinic M1 and M2, adrenergic α1B and 
α2C, neuropeptide Y/Y1 and glutamate NMDA polyamine receptors). The clinical relevance of these 
findings is not known. 
Safety pharmacology studies with intravenously administered plerixafor in rats showed respiratory and 
cardiac depressant effects at systemic exposure slightly above the human clinical exposure, whilst 
subcutaneous administration elicited respiratory and cardiovascular effects only at higher systemic 
levels. 
SDF-1α and CXCR4 play major roles in embryo-foetal development. Plerixafor has been shown to 
cause increased resorptions, decreased foetal weights, retarded skeletal development and increased 
foetal abnormalities in rats and rabbits. Data from animal models also suggest modulation of foetal 
haematopoiesis, vascularisation, and cerebellar development by SDF-1α and CXCR4. Systemic 
exposure at No Observed Adverse Effect Level for teratogenic effects in rats and rabbits was of the 
same magnitude or lower as found at therapeutic doses in patients. This teratogenic potential is likely 
due to its pharmacodynamic mechanism of action. 
In rat distribution studies concentrations of radiolabelled plerixafor was detected in reproductive 
organs (testes, ovaria, uterus) two weeks after single or 7 daily repeated doses in males and after 
7 daily repeated doses in females. The elimination rate from tissues was slow. 
The potential effects of plerixafor on male fertility and postnatal development have not been evaluated 
in non-clinical studies. 
Carcinogenicity studies with plerixafor have not been conducted. Plerixafor was not genotoxic in an 
adequate battery of genotoxicity tests. 
Plerixafor inhibited tumour growth in in vivo models of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, glioblastoma, 
medulloblastoma, and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia when dosed intermittently. An increase of non- 
Hodgkin’s lymphoma growth was noted after a continuous administration of plerixafor for 28 days. 
The potential risk associated with this effect is expected to be low for the intended short term duration 
of dosing plerixafor in humans. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid, concentrated (for pH-adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf-life 
Unopened vial 
24 months. 
After opening 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
mmediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2 ml type I clear glass vial with a chlorobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium flip-off seal with PP 
plastic blue mate top. Each vial contains 1.2 ml solution. 
Pack size of 1 vial.  
6.6   Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
For single use only. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center,  
Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1701/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 16 December 2022. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o. 
ul. Lutomierska 50, 
95-200 Pabianice, Łódzkie, Poland 
Or 
Laboratori Fundació Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. 
Zona Franca, Barcelona, 08040, 
Spain 
Or 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Winthontlaan 200, 3526KV Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
Or 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, Paola, PLA 3000,  
Malta 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)  
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
17 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection 
plerixafor 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml contains 20 mg plerixafor. 
Each vial contains 24 mg plerixafor in 1.2 ml solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide and water for injections. See leaflet 
for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
1 vial 
24 mg/1.2 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For subcutaneous use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1701/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection 
plerixafor 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
24 mg/1.2 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection 
plerixafor 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.   What Plerixafor Accord is and what it is used for 
2.   What you need to know before you use Plerixafor Accord 
3.   How to use Plerixafor Accord 
4.  
5.   How to store Plerixafor Accord 
6.  
Contents of the pack and other information 
Possible side effects 
1. What Plerixafor Accord is and what it is used for 
Plerixafor Accord contains the active substance plerixafor which blocks a protein on the surface of 
blood stem cells. This protein “ties” blood stem cells to the bone marrow. Plerixafor improves the 
release of stem cells into the blood stream (mobilisation). The stem cells can then be collected by a 
machine that separates blood constituents (apheresis machine), and subsequently frozen and stored 
until your transplant. 
If mobilisation is poor, Plerixafor Accord is used to help collect blood stem cells from the patient, for 
collection, storage and reintroduction (transplantation), 
 
In adults who have lymphoma (a cancer of the white blood cells) or multiple myeloma (a cancer 
that affects plasma cells in the bone marrow). 
In children age 1 to less than 18 years of age with lymphoma or solid tumours. 
 
2. What you need to know before you use Plerixafor Accord 
Do not use Plerixafor Accord 
- 
if you are allergic to plerixafor or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse before using Plerixafor Accord. 
Tell your doctor: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have had any heart problems. 
if you have kidney problems. Your doctor may adjust the dose. 
if you have high white blood cell counts. 
if you have low platelet counts. 
if you have a history of feeling faint or lightheaded on standing or sitting or have fainted before 
upon injections. 
Your doctor may perform regular blood tests to monitor your blood cell count. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not recommended to use Plerixafor Accord for stem cell mobilisation if you have leukaemia (a 
cancer of the blood or bone marrow). 
Other medicines and Plerixafor Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You should not use Plerixafor Accord if you are pregnant, since there is no experience with Plerixafor 
Accord in pregnant women. It is important to tell your doctor if you are, think you may be or are 
planning to become pregnant. It is recommended to use contraception if you are of child-bearing age. 
You should not breast-feed if you are using Plerixafor Accord, since it is not known if Plerixafor 
Accord is excreted in human milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Plerixafor Accord may cause dizziness and fatigue. Therefore, you should avoid driving if you feel 
dizzy, tired or unwell. 
Plerixafor Accord contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. How to use Plerixafor Accord 
Your medicine will be injected by a doctor or a nurse. 
You will first receive G-CSF, then you will be given Plerixafor Accord 
Mobilisation will be started by first giving you another medicine called G-CSF (granulocyte-colony 
stimulating factor). G-CSF will help Plerixafor Accord to work properly in your body. If you want to 
know more about G-CSF ask your doctor and read the corresponding package leaflet. 
How much Plerixafor Accord is given? 
The recommended adult dose is either a 20 mg (fixed dose) or 0.24 mg/kg body weight/day. 
The recommended dose for children, 1 to less than 18 years of age is 0.24 mg/kg of body weight/day. 
Your dose will depend on your body weight, which should be measured the week before you receive 
your first dose. If you have moderate or severe kidney problems, your doctor will reduce the dose. 
How is Plerixafor Accord given? 
Plerixafor Accord is given by subcutaneous injection (under your skin). 
When is Plerixafor Accord given for the first time? 
You will receive your first dose 6 to 11 hours before apheresis (collection of your blood stem cells). 
How long will Plerixafor Accord be given? 
Treatment lasts 2 to 4 consecutive days (in some cases up to 7 days), until enough stem cells have 
been collected for your transplant. In a few cases, enough stem cells may not be collected, and the 
collection attempt will be stopped. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please tell your doctor immediately if 
- 
shortly after receiving plerixafor, you experience rash, swelling around the eyes, shortness of 
breath or lack of oxygen, feeling lightheaded on standing or sitting, feeling faint or fainting 
you have pain in the upper left abdomen (belly) or your left shoulder 
- 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), injection site redness or irritation 
low red blood cell count by laboratory test (anaemia in children) 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
headache 
dizziness, feeling tired or unwell 
difficulty in sleeping 
flatulence, constipation, indigestion, vomiting 
stomach symptoms such as pain, swelling or discomfort 
dry mouth, numbness around the mouth 
sweating, generalised redness of the skin, joint pains, pains in muscles and bones 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
allergic reactions such as skin rash, swelling around the eyes, shortness of breath 
anaphylactic reactions, including anaphylactic shock 
abnormal dreams, nightmares 
Rarely, gastrointestinal side effects may be severe (diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain and nausea). 
Heart attacks 
In clinical trials, patients with risk factors for a heart attack uncommonly suffered heart attacks after 
being given Plerixafor Accord and G-CSF. Please inform your doctor immediately if you experience 
chest discomfort. 
Pins and needles and numbness 
Pins and needles and numbness are common in patients being treated for cancers. About one in five 
patients suffered from these feelings. However, these effects do not seem to occur more frequently 
when you use Plerixafor Accord. 
You may also have an increase in white blood cells count (leucocytosis), in your blood tests. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Plerixafor Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label after ‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month.  
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions  
After opening the vial, Plerixafor Accord should be used immediately.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Plerixafor Accord contains 
- 
The active substance is plerixafor. Each ml solution for injection contains 20 mg plerixafor. 
Each vial contains 24 mg plerixafor in 1.2 ml solution. 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid (concentrated) and sodium 
hydroxide and water for injections (see section 2 “Plerixafor Accord contains sodium”). 
- 
What Plerixafor Accord looks like and contents of the pack  
Plerixafor Accord is supplied as a clear colourless or pale yellow solution for injection in a glass vial 
with a rubber stopper, aluminium flip-off seal and PP plastic blue mate top. Each vial contains 1.2 ml 
solution. 
Each pack contains 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o. 
ul. Lutomierska 50, 
95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Or 
Laboratori Fundació Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. 
Zona Franca, Barcelona, 08040, 
Spain 
Or 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Winthontlaan 200, 3526KV Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
Or 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, Paola 
PLA 3000, Malta 
This leaflet was last revised in  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
