Summary of risk management plan for Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml 
solution for injection (Plerixafor) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution 
for injection. The RMP details important risks of Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information  will be obtained about  Plerixafor 
Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and 
its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection should be read in 
the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Plerixafor 
Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated for following indications: 
Adult patients 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated in combination with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) 
to  enhance  mobilisation  of  haematopoietic  stem  cells  to  the  peripheral  blood for  collection  and 
subsequent  autologous  transplantation  in  adult  patients  with  lymphoma  or  multiple  myeloma 
whose cells mobilise poorly 
Paediatric patients (1 to less than 18 years) 
Plerixafor  Accord  is  indicated  in  combination  with  G-CSF  to  enhance  mobilisation  of 
haematopoietic  stem  cells  to  the  peripheral  blood  for  collection  and  subsequent  autologous 
transplantation in children with lymphoma or solid malignant tumours, either: 
•  pre-emptively, when circulating stem cell count on the predicted day of collection 
after adequate mobilization with G-CSF (with or without chemotherapy) is expected 
to be insufficient with regards to desired hematopoietic stem cells yield, or 
•  who previously failed to collect sufficient haematopoietic stem cells  
 
It contains plerixafor as the active substance and it is given as subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection’s 
benefits can be found in Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection’ EPAR, including in its 
plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/plerixafor-accord  
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks  of  Plerixafor  Accord  20  mg/ml  solution  for  injection  together  with  measures  to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml 
solution for injection risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the  patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed during signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for 
injection is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml 
solution  for  injection.  Potential risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
Important identified risks 
•  Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Important potential risks 
• 
Interstitial lung disease 
•  Myocardial Infarction 
•  Tumor cell mobilization 
•  Drug level NOS increased 
•  Anxiety, hallucination (including hallucination, visual 
hallucination, and auditory hallucination)  
•  Effect  on  embryo-fetal  development 
(including 
teratogenicity and fetal growth restriction) 
Missing information 
•  Safety profile in paediatric under 2 years of age 
NOS: Not Otherwise Specified 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Plerixafor Accord 20 mg/ml solution for injection. 
 
