PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK-MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR POLATUZUMAB VEDOTIN 
This is a summary of the RMP for polatuzumab vedotin.  The RMP details important 
risks of polatuzumab vedotin, how these risks can be minimized, and how more 
information will be obtained about polatuzumab vedotin’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Polatuzumab vedotin’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Patient 
Information Leaflet (PIL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and 
patients on how polatuzumab vedotin should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for polatuzumab vedotin should be read in the context of all 
this information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
polatuzumab vedotin’s RMP. 
I.  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Relapsed/Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma 
Polatuzumab vedotin in combination with bendamustine and rituximab is authorized for 
the treatment of adult patients with R/R DLBCL who are not candidates for 
hematopoietic SCT (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains polatuzumab vedotin 
as the active substance, and it is given as an IV infusion. 
Previously Untreated Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (First-Line) 
Polatuzumab vedotin in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and 
prednisone (R-CHP), is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously 
untreated DLBCL (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains polatuzumab vedotin as 
the active substance, and it is given as an IV infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of polatuzumab vedotin’s benefits can be found 
in polatuzumab vedotin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the EMA Web site, under the medicine’s Web page.  
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of polatuzumab vedotin, together with measures to minimize such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about polatuzumab vedotin’s risks, are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, 
in the PIL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
  The authorized pack sizeThe amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly. 
  The medicine’s legal statusThe way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk-minimization measures.  
In the case of polatuzumab vedotin, these measures are not supplemented with 
additional risk-minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary.  These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. There will be additional collection and analysis of the 
specific information from the ongoing pivotal clinical study GO29365 with the aim to 
further characterize the important potential risk of carcinogenicity. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of polatuzumab vedotin is not yet 
available, it is listed under “missing information” below. 
II.A  
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of polatuzumab vedotin can be regarded as identified or potential.  
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
polatuzumab vedotin.  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation.   
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Not applicable 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-Term Safety 
Use in Severe Hepatic Impairment 
Use in Severe Renal Impairment 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
 
 
II.B  
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Potential Risk: Carcinogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Clinical trial data from studies GO39942, GO29365, 
GO27834, GO29044, and DCS4968g of polatuzumab 
vedotin.  Secondary malignancies were reported with a 
frequency of 0%6.7% across the five studies.  No 
increase over the control arms in the randomized cohorts 
was noticed, and the majority of cases included 
myelodysplastic syndrome and non-melanoma skin 
cancers. 
Risk factors and risk groups  Patients with DLBCL are at increased risk of developing 
secondary malignancies due to multiple factors including 
immune dysfunction associated with DLBCL as well as 
prior and concomitant exposures to chemotherapy, anti-
CD20, and radiation therapy. 
Risk-minimization measures  Routine risk-minimization measures: 
Proposed risk communication is described in  
SmPC: 
  Section 5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Additional risk-minimization measures: None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study GO29365 
ADCantibody-drug conjugate; DLBCLdiffuse large B-cell lymphoma; 
R/Rrelapsed/refractory; SmPCsummary of product characteristics. 
Missing Information: Long-term Safety 
Risk-minimization measures  Routine risk-minimization measures: 
Proposed risk communication is described in  
SmPC: 
none 
Additional risk-minimization measures: None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study GO39942 
SmPCsummary of product characteristics. 
Missing Information: Use in Severe Hepatic Impairment 
Risk-minimization measures  Routine risk-minimization measures: 
Proposed risk communication is described in  
SmPC: 
  Section 4.2  Posology and method of administration 
  Section 5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Additional risk-minimization measures: None 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: None 
SmPCsummary of product characteristics. 
Missing Information: Use in Severe Renal Impairment 
Risk-minimization measures  Routine risk-minimization measures: 
Proposed risk communication is described in  
SmPC: 
  Section 4.2  Posology and method of administration 
  Section 5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Additional risk-minimization measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: None  
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
SmPCsummary of product characteristics. 
Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Risk-minimization measures  Routine risk-minimization measures: 
Proposed risk communication is described in  
SmPC: 
  Section 4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
PIL: 
  Section 2  What you need to know before you use 
Polivy 
Additional risk-minimization measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
PILpatient information leaflet; SmPCsummary of product characteristics. 
Post-Authorization Development Plan 
II.C  
II.C.1  Studies That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
Not applicable. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Study GO29365:  A Phase Ib/II, multicenter, open-label study evaluating the safety, 
tolerability, and anti-tumor activity of polatuzumab vedotin in combination with rituximab 
or obinutuzumab plus bendamustine in patients with R/R FL or R/R DLBCL. 
Study GO39942 (POLARIX): A Phase III, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial comparing the efficacy and safety of polatuzumab vedotin in 
combination with R-CHP versus R-CHOP in previously untreated patients with DLBCL. 
 
 
 
 
