EMA/24757/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004870 
Polivy (polatuzumab vedotin) 
An overview of Polivy and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Polivy and what is it used for? 
Polivy is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) whose 
cancer has returned or has stopped responding to other treatments and who cannot have a bone-
marrow transplantation.  
It is used in combination with two other medicines, bendamustine and rituximab. 
DLBCL is rare, and Polivy was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
16 April 2018. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3182013. 
Polivy contains the active substance polatuzumab vedotin. 
How is Polivy used? 
Polivy can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment must be given under the supervision of 
a healthcare professional experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.  
Polivy is for infusion (drip) into a vein over 90 minutes. It is given in 21-day cycles with rituximab and 
bendamustine. The dose of Polivy depends on the patient’s bodyweight and is given for 6 cycles. 
Patients are given paracetamol and an antihistamine medicine before receiving Polivy to reduce the 
risk of reactions to the infusion. If the patient develops an infusion-related reaction, the infusion should 
be slowed down or interrupted. The doctor may reduce or stop the dose of Polivy if the patient 
develops side effects affecting blood cells.  
For more information about using Polivy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Polivy work? 
Patients with DLBCL have cancerous B cells, which are a type of white blood cell. The active substance 
in Polivy, polatuzumab vedotin, is made up of a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) combined with 
a substance called monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE). The monoclonal antibody attaches to a protein 
called CD79b on B cells, including cancerous B cells, and in doing so causes MMAE to be released inside 
them. MMAE then stops the B cells from dividing and causes them to die.   
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Polivy have been shown in studies? 
Polivy was investigated in a study involving 80 patients with DLBCL. Half of the patients received Polivy 
added to the standard regimen of bendamustine plus rituximab whereas the other half received 
bendamustine plus rituximab alone. After 6 to 8 weeks of treatment, there were no signs of the cancer 
(complete response) in 40% of patients receiving Polivy plus rituximab and bendamustine compared 
with 18% of patients receiving rituximab and bendamustine alone.  
What are the risks associated with Polivy? 
Polivy can affect the production of blood cells. The most common side effects with Polivy in 
combination with bendamustin and rituximab (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) were 
anaemia (low red blood cell count), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet count), neutropenia (low 
white blood cell count), tiredness, diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and fever. Serious side effects 
(which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell count with 
fever), fever, and pneumonia (infection of the lungs). 
The medicine must not be given to patients who have a severe infection. For the full list of side effects 
and restrictions of Polivy, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Polivy authorised in the EU? 
The main study showed that Polivy is effective at treating patients whose disease was not responding 
to previous treatment or had returned and who could not have a transplant. Although the study 
included a limited number of patients and more data are needed to confirm the results, the European 
Medicines Agency considered that Polivy meets an unmet medical need.   
Serious side effects can occur; however, these are manageable if appropriate measures are in place. 
The Agency therefore decided that Polivy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
Polivy has been given a ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Polivy? 
Since Polivy has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Polivy will provide 
further data on its effects to confirm Polivy’s safety and effectiveness when used in combination with 
other cancer medicines in patients with DLBCL. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Polivy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Polivy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Polivy are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Polivy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Polivy (polatuzumab vedotin)  
EMA/24757/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Polivy 
Polivy received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 January 2020 
Further information on Polivy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/polivy.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Polivy (polatuzumab vedotin)  
EMA/24757/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
