EMA/950090/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005703 
Pombiliti (cipaglucosidase alfa) 
An overview of Pombiliti and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pombiliti and what is it used for? 
Pombiliti is a medicine used to treat adults with late-onset Pompe disease (acid alpha-glucosidase 
[GAA] deficiency), an inherited disorder in which patients have breathing difficulties and muscle 
weakness. Pombiliti is used in combination with another medicine, miglustat. 
Pombiliti contains the active substance cipaglucosidase alfa. 
How is Pombiliti used? 
Pombiliti is given by infusion (drip) into a vein every other week. The infusion starts 1 hour after 
taking miglustat and lasts 4 hours. Pombiliti may be given at home in patients who tolerate their 
infusions well. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a 
physician experienced in the management of patients with Pompe disease or similar diseases. 
For more information about using Pombiliti, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Pombiliti work? 
Patients with Pompe disease lack an enzyme called acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) which is important 
for breaking down glycogen (a complex sugar stored in the body) into glucose (a simple sugar). As a 
result, glycogen accumulates in the muscles, including the heart and diaphragm (the main breathing 
muscle under the lungs), causing heart problems, breathing difficulties and muscle weakness. 
The active substance in Pombiliti, cipaglucosidase alfa, is an enzyme that acts in the same way as the 
missing GAA enzyme (i.e. breaking down glycogen into glucose). It replaces GAA and prevents further 
damage caused by the build-up of glycogen. Pombiliti is given in combination with miglustat, an 
enzyme stabilizer which helps cipaglucosidase alfa to stay functional. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
What benefits of Pombiliti have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 125 patients showed that Pombiliti in combination with miglustat improved the 
physical abilities of patients with late-onset Pompe disease. The study looked at changes in the 
distance patients were able to walk before and after treatment. On average, patients treated with 
Pombiliti and miglustat for 1 year were able to walk 20 more metres in 6 minutes than they could 
before treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Pombiliti? 
The most common side effects with Pombiliti (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are chills, 
dizziness, flushing, sleepiness, chest discomfort, cough, swelling at the infusion site and pain.  
Serious side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 50 people) are itchy rash, serious allergic reactions, 
fever, feeling faint, difficulty breathing, swelling in the throat, wheezing and low blood pressure. 
Pombiliti must not be used in people who have had life-threatening allergic reactions to the active 
substance or to any of the other ingredients of the medicine. It must also not be used in people who 
cannot have miglustat. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Pombiliti authorised in the EU? 
Pompe  disease  is  a  rare  and  debilitating  disease,  with  patients  having  life-threatening  heart  and 
respiratory problems. Studies show that, when given in combination with miglustat, Pombiliti is effective 
at  improving  or  stabilising  the  physical  abilities  of  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease.  The  side 
effects  of  Pombiliti,  which  are  mostly  mild  to  moderate,  are  considered  manageable.  The  European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that the benefits of Pombiliti are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pombiliti? 
The company that markets Pombiliti will provide educational materials on home infusion to healthcare 
professionals who are expected to prescribe, dispense or use Pombiliti. They are intended to provide 
guidance on how Pombiliti and miglustat should be given to the patients and how to manage risks 
related to the infusion, such as allergic reactions. Patients will also be provided with a guide on home 
infusion and an infusion diary to help recognise and report infusion reactions. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pombiliti and miglustat have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pombiliti in combination with miglustat are continuously 
monitored. Suspected side effects reported with Pombiliti are carefully evaluated and any necessary 
action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Pombiliti 
Further information on Pombiliti can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pombiliti  
Pombiliti (cipaglucosidase alfa)  
EMA/950090/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
