ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant tablet 
Yellow coated, capsule shaped tablet of approximate 17.5 mm length and 6.7 mm width, debossed 
with “100P” on one side and plain on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Posaconazole Accord is indicated for use in the treatment of the following fungal infections in adults 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1): 
- 
Invasive aspergillosis 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablets are indicated for use in the treatment of the following 
fungal infections in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and adults (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1): 
-          Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or  
           itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
- 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
- 
- 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Posaconazole Accord is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following 
paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and adults (see sections 4.2 and 5.1): 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML) 
- 
or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are 
at high -risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high-risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections. 
- 
Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of Posaconazole AHCL oral suspension for use 
in oropharyngeal candidiasis. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal infections or in 
the supportive care of high-risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis. 
Non-interchangeability between Posaconazole Accord tablets and posaconazole oral suspension 
The tablet is not to be used interchangeably with the oral suspension due to the differences between 
these two formulations in frequency of dosing, administration with food and plasma drug 
concentration achieved. Therefore, follow the specific dose recommendations for each formulation.  
Posology 
Posaconazole is also available as 40 mg/mL oral suspension and 300 mg concentrate for solution for 
infusion. Posaconazole tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than posaconazole oral 
suspension under both fed and fasted conditions. Therefore, the tablets are preferred formulation to 
optimise plasma concentrations. 
Recommended dose in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and in adults 
is shown in Table 1. 
Table 1. Recommended dose in paediatric patients from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg and 
in adults according to indication  
Indication    
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis 
(only for adults) 
Refractory invasive fungal infections 
(IFI)/patients with IFI intolerant to 1st 
line therapy 
Prophylaxis of invasive fungal 
infections 
Dose and duration of therapy 
(See section 5.2) 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets or 300 mg 
concentrate for solution for infusion) twice a day on the first 
day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets or 300 mg 
concentrate for solution for infusion) once a day thereafter.  
Each tablet dose may be taken without regard to food intake.  
Recommended total duration of therapy is 6-12 weeks. 
Switching between intravenous and oral administration is 
appropriate when clinically indicated. 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day 
on the first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a 
day thereafter. Each dose may be taken without regard to 
food intake. Duration of therapy should be based on the 
severity of the underlying disease, recovery from 
immunosuppression, and clinical response. 
Loading dose of 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day 
on the first day, then 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) once a 
day thereafter. Each dose may be taken without regard to 
food intake. Duration of therapy is based on recovery from 
neutropenia or immunosuppression. For patients with acute 
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes, 
prophylaxis with Posaconazole Accord should start several 
days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia and continue 
for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 500 cells per 
mm3. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
An effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is not expected and no dose 
adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Limited data on the effect of hepatic impairment (including Child-Pugh C classification of chronic 
liver disease) on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole demonstrate an increase in plasma exposure 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, but do not suggest that dose adjustment is 
necessary (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). It is recommended to exercise caution due to the potential for 
higher plasma exposure. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole in children aged below 2 years have not been established. No 
clinical data are available.  
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
Posaconazole Accord may be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). The tablets should be 
swallowed whole with water and should not be crushed, chewed, or broken. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Co-administration with ergot alkaloids (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with the CYP3A4 substrates terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, 
halofantrine or quinidine since this may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal 
products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see sections 4.4 
and 4.5). 
Co-administration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin 
(see section 4.5). 
Co-administration during the initiation and dose-titration phase of venetoclax in Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukaemia (CLL) patients (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between posaconazole and other azole antifungal 
agents. Caution should be used when prescribing posaconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to 
other azoles. 
Hepatic toxicity 
Hepatic reactions (e.g. mild to moderate elevations in ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin 
and/or clinical hepatitis) have been reported during treatment with posaconazole. Elevated liver 
function tests were generally reversible on discontinuation of therapy and in some instances these tests 
normalised without interruption of therapy. Rarely, more severe hepatic reactions with fatal outcomes 
have been reported. 
Posaconazole should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment due to limited clinical 
experience and the possibility that posaconazole plasma levels may be higher in these patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Monitoring of hepatic function 
Liver function tests should be evaluated at the start of and during the course of posaconazole therapy. 
Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during posaconazole therapy must be routinely 
monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Patient management should include 
laboratory evaluation of hepatic function (particularly liver function tests and bilirubin). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation of posaconazole should be considered if clinical signs and symptoms are consistent 
with development of liver disease. 
QTc prolongation 
Some azoles have been associated with prolongation of the QTc interval. Posaconazole must not be 
administered with medicinal products that are substrates for CYP3A4 and are known to prolong the 
QTc interval (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Posaconazole should be administered with caution to patients 
with pro-arrhythmic conditions such as: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Congenital or acquired QTc prolongation 
Cardiomyopathy, especially in the presence of cardiac failure 
Sinus bradycardia 
Existing symptomatic arrhythmias 
Concomitant use with medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval (other than those 
mentioned in section 4.3). 
Electrolyte disturbances, especially those involving potassium, magnesium or calcium levels, should 
be monitored and corrected as necessary before and during posaconazole therapy.  
Drug interactions 
Posaconazole is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and should only be used under specific circumstances during 
treatment with other medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation and possible respiratory depression co-administration of 
posaconazole with any benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, 
alprazolam) should only be considered if clearly necessary. Dose adjustment of benzodiazepines 
metabolised by CYP3A4 should be considered (see section 4.5). 
Vincristine toxicity 
Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been 
associated with neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions, including seizures, peripheral 
neuropathy, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, and paralytic ileus. Reserve 
azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including 
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options (see section 4.5). 
Venetoclax toxicity 
Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors, including posaconazole, with the CYP3A4 
substrate venetoclax, may increase venetoclax toxicities, including the risk of tumour lysis syndrome 
(TLS) and neutropenia (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Refer to the venetoclax SmPC for detailed guidance. 
Rifamycin antibacterials (rifampicin, rifabutin), certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, primidone), and efavirenz 
Posaconazole concentrations may be significantly lowered in combination; therefore, concomitant use 
with posaconazole should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see 
section 4.5). 
Plasma exposure 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets are generally 
higher than those obtained with posaconazole oral suspension. Posaconazole plasma concentrations 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase over time in some patients (see 
section 5.2).  
Gastrointestinal dysfunction 
There are limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe gastrointestinal dysfunction (such as 
severe diarrhoea). Patients who have severe diarrhoea or vomiting should be monitored closely for 
breakthrough fungal infections. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole 
Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 enzymes) and is a substrate for 
p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, ciclosporin, quinidine, 
clarithromycin, erythromycin, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, certain anticonvulsants, etc.) 
of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations, 
respectively. 
Rifabutin 
Rifabutin (300 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area 
under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively. 
Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be 
avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of 
posaconazole on rifabutin plasma levels. 
Efavirenz 
Efavirenz (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and efavirenz should be avoided unless the benefit to 
the patient outweighs the risk.  
Fosamprenavir 
Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma 
concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal 
infections is recommended. Repeat dose administration of fosamprenavir (700 mg twice daily x 
10 days) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the 
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 Days) by 21 % and 23 %, 
respectively. The effect of posaconazole on fosamprenavir levels when fosamprenavir is given with 
ritonavir is unknown. 
Phenytoin 
Phenytoin (200 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %, 
respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin and similar inducers (e.g. 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient 
outweighs the risk. 
H2 receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors 
No clinically relevant effects were observed when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with 
antacids, H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. No dose adjustment of posaconazole 
tablets is required when posaconazole tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H2-receptor 
antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of posaconazole on other medicinal products 
Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co-administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 
substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the 
effects on tacrolimus, sirolimus, atazanavir and midazolam below. Caution is advised during co- 
administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of 
the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 
substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be 
associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate 
and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the 
interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole 
occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4 
substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is 
expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The 
effect of co-administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be 
variable within a patient. 
Terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine and quinidine (CYP3A4 substrates) 
Co-administration of posaconazole and terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine or 
quinidine is contraindicated. Co-administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see 
section 4.3). 
Ergot alkaloids 
Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and 
dihydroergotamine), which may lead to ergotism. Co-administration of posaconazole and ergot 
alkaloids is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, and 
atorvastatin) 
Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are 
metabolised by CYP3A4. Treatment with these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be 
discontinued during treatment with posaconazole as increased levels have been associated with 
rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).  
Vinca alkaloids 
Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant 
administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with 
serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of 
vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore, 
reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including 
vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options. 
Rifabutin 
Posaconazole increased the Cmax and AUC of rifabutin by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant 
use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk (see also above regarding the effect of rifabutin on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these 
medicinal products are co-administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions 
related to increased rifabutin levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended. 
Sirolimus 
Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days) 
increased the Cmax and AUC of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7-fold and 8.9-fold (range 
3.1 to 17.5-fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on sirolimus in patients 
is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. 
Co-administration of posaconazole with sirolimus is not recommended and should be avoided 
whenever possible. If it is considered that co-administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that the dose of sirolimus should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy 
and that there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of sirolimus in whole 
blood. Sirolimus concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co-administration, and at 
discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with sirolimus doses adjusted accordingly. It should be 
noted that the relationship between sirolimus trough concentration and AUC is changed during 
co-administration with posaconazole. As a result, sirolimus trough concentrations that fall within the 
usual therapeutic range may result in sub-therapeutic levels. Therefore, trough concentrations that fall 
in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid 
to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
Ciclosporin 
In heart transplant patients on stable doses of ciclosporin, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once 
daily increased ciclosporin concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated ciclosporin 
levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of 
leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with 
posaconazole in patients already receiving ciclosporin, the dose of ciclosporin should be reduced (e.g. 
to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of ciclosporin should be monitored 
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose 
of ciclosporin should be adjusted as necessary. 
Tacrolimus 
Posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 % 
and 358%, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or 
posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole 
treatment in patients already receiving tacrolimus, the dose of tacrolimus should be reduced (e.g. to 
about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of tacrolimus should be monitored 
carefully during co-administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of 
tacrolimus should be adjusted as necessary. 
HIV Protease inhibitors 
As HIV protease inhibitors are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase 
plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral 
suspension (400 mg twice daily) with atazanavir (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects 
Cmax and AUC of atazanavir increased by an average of 2.6-fold and 3.7-fold (range 1.2 to 26-fold), 
respectively. Following co-administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with 
atazanavir and ritonavir (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of 
atazanavir increased by an average of 1.5-fold and 2.5-fold (range 0.9 to 4.1-fold), respectively. The 
addition of posaconazole to therapy with atazanavir or with atazanavir plus ritonavir was associated 
with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity 
related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co- 
administration with posaconazole. 
Midazolam and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4 
In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days) 
increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous midazolam (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in 
healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily 
for 7 days) increased the Cmax and AUC of intravenous midazolam (0.4 mg single dose) by an average 
of 1.3- and 4.6-fold (range 1.7 to 6.4-fold), respectively; Posaconazole oral suspension 400 mg twice 
daily for 7 days increased the intravenous midazolam Cmax and AUC by 1.6 and 6.2-fold (range 1.6 to 
7.6-fold), respectively. Both doses of posaconazole increased Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam (2 mg 
single oral dose) by 2.2 and 4.5-fold, respectively. In addition, posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg 
or 400 mg) prolonged the mean terminal half-life of midazolam from approximately 3-4 hours to 
8-10 hours during co-administration. 
Due to the risk of prolonged sedation it is recommended that dose adjustments should be considered 
when posaconazole is administered concomitantly with any benzodiazepine that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam) (see section 4.4). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
Calcium channel blockers metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, 
nisoldipine) 
Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is 
recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. Dose adjustment of calcium channel 
blockers may be required. 
Digoxin 
Administration of other azoles has been associated with increases in digoxin levels. Therefore, 
posaconazole may increase plasma concentration of digoxin and digoxin levels need to be monitored 
when initiating or discontinuing posaconazole treatment. 
Sulfonylureas 
Glucose concentrations decreased in some healthy volunteers when glipizide was co-administered 
with posaconazole. Monitoring of glucose concentrations is recommended in diabetic patients. 
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or tretinoin 
As ATRA is metabolised by the hepatic CYP450 enzymes, notably CYP3A4, concomitant 
administration with posaconazole, which is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, may lead to increased 
exposure to tretinoin resulting in an increased toxicity (especially hypercalcaemia). Serum calcium 
levels should be monitored and, if needed, appropriate dose adjustments of tretinoin should 
beconsidered during the treatment with posaconazole, and during the following days after treatment. 
Venetoclax 
Compared with venetoclax 400 mg administered alone, co-administration of 300 mg posaconazole, a 
strong CYP3A inhibitor, with venetoclax 50 mg and 100 mg for 7 days in 12 patients, increased 
venetoclax Cmax to 1.6-fold and 1.9-fold, and AUC to 1.9-fold and 2.4-fold, respectively (see sections 
4.3 and 4.4).  
Refer to the venetoclax SmPC. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There is insufficient information on the use of posaconazole in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment. Posaconazole 
must not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk 
to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Posaconazole is excreted into the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). The excretion of 
posaconazole in human breast milk has not been investigated. Breast-feeding must be stopped on 
initiation of treatment with posaconazole.  
Fertility 
Posaconazole had no effect on fertility of male rats at doses up to 180 mg/kg (3.4 times the 300 mg 
tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients) or female rats at a dose up to 45 mg/kg 
(2.6 times the 300-mg tablet based on steady-state plasma concentrations in patients). There is no 
clinical experience assessing the impact of posaconazole on fertility in humans. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Since certain adverse reactions (e.g. dizziness, somnolence, etc.) have been reported with 
posaconazole use, which potentially may affect driving/operating machinery, caution needs to be used. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Safety data mainly derive from studies with the oral suspension. 
The safety of posaconazole oral suspension has been assessed in > 2,400 patients and healthy 
volunteers enrolled in clinical studies and from post-marketing experience. The most frequently 
reported serious related adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, pyrexia, and increased 
bilirubin. 
Posaconazole tablets  
The safety of posaconazole tablet has been assessed in 104 healthy volunteers and 230 patients 
enrolled in a clinical study of antifungal prophylaxis.  
The safety of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and posaconazole tablet has been 
assessed in 288 patients enrolled in a clinical study of aspergillosis of whom 161 patients received the 
concentrate for solution for infusion and 127 patients received the tablet formulation. 
The tablet formulation was investigated in AML and MDS patients and those after HSCT with or at 
risk for Graft versus Host Disease (GVHD) only. Maximum duration of exposure to the tablet 
formulation was shorter than with the oral suspension. Plasma exposure resulting from the tablet 
formulation was higher than observed with the oral suspension.  
The safety of posaconazole tablets has been assessed in 230 patients enrolled in the pivotal clinical 
study. Patients were enrolled in a non-comparative pharmacokinetic and safety study of posaconazole 
tablets when given as antifungal prophylaxis. Patients were immunocompromised with underlying 
conditions including haematological malignancy, neutropenia post-chemotherapy, GVHD, and post 
HSCT. Posaconazole therapy was given for a median duration of 28 days. Twenty patients received 
200 mg daily dose and 210 patients received 300 mg daily dose (following twice daily dosing on 
Day 1 in each cohort). 
The safety of posaconazole tablets and concentrate for solution for infusion were also investigated in a 
controlled study of treatment of invasive aspergillosis. The maximum duration of invasive 
aspergillosis treatment was similar to that studied with the oral suspension for salvage treatment and 
was longer than that with the tablets or concentrate for solution for infusion in prophylaxis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency using the 
following categories: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). 
Table 2. Adverse reactions by body system and frequency reported in clinical studies and/or post-
marketing use * 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
neutropenia 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, anaemia, eosinophilia, 
lymphadenopathy, splenic infarction 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, 
haemorrhage 
allergic reaction 
hypersensitivity reaction 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endocrine disorders 
Rare: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Ear and labyrinth disorder 
Rare: 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
adrenal insufficiency, blood gonadotropin decreased, 
pseudoaldosteronism 
electrolyte imbalance, anorexia, decreased appetite, 
hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia 
abnormal dreams, confusional state, sleep disorder 
psychotic disorder, depression 
paraesthesia, dizziness, somnolence, headache, dysgeusia 
convulsions, neuropathy, hypoaesthesia, tremor, aphasia, 
insomnia 
cerebrovascular accident, encephalopathy, peripheral 
neuropathy, syncope 
blurred vision, photophobia, visual acuity reduced 
diplopia, scotoma 
hearing impairment 
long QT syndrome§, electrocardiogram abnormal§, 
palpitations, bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, 
tachycardia 
torsade de pointes, sudden death, ventricular tachycardia, 
cardio-respiratory arrest, cardiac failure, myocardial 
infarction 
Vascular disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
hypertension 
hypotension, vasculitis 
pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis 
Rare: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very Common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
cough, epistaxis, hiccups, nasal congestion, pleuritic pain, 
tachypnoea 
pulmonary hypertension, interstitial pneumonia, 
pneumonitis 
nausea 
vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dry mouth, 
flatulence, constipation, anorectal discomfort 
pancreatitis, abdominal distension, enteritis, epigastric 
discomfort, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
oedema mouth 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, ileus 
liver function tests raised (ALT increased, AST increased, 
bilirubin increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, GGT 
increased) 
hepatocellular damage, hepatitis, jaundice, hepatomegaly, 
cholestasis, hepatic toxicity, hepatic function abnormal 
hepatic failure, hepatitis cholestatic, hepatosplenomegaly, 
liver tenderness, asterixis 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
rash, pruritis 
mouth ulceration, alopecia, dermatitis, erythema, petechiae 
11 
Rare: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon: 
Stevens Johnson syndrome, vesicular rash 
back pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, pain in 
extremity 
acute renal failure, renal failure, blood creatinine increased 
renal tubular acidosis, interstitial nephritis 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
menstrual disorder 
breast pain 
pyrexia (fever), asthenia, fatigue 
oedema, pain, chills, malaise, chest discomfort, drug 
intolerance, feeling jittery, mucosal inflammation 
tongue oedema, face oedema 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Uncommon: 
altered medicine levels, blood phosphorus decreased, chest 
x-ray abnormal 
*   Based on adverse reactions observed with the oral suspension, gastro-resistant tablets, and 
concentrate for solution for infusion. 
§  See section 4.4. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
During post-marketing surveillance of posaconazole oral suspension, severe hepatic injury with fatal 
outcome has been reported (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no experience with overdose of posaconazole tablets. 
During clinical studies, patients who received posaconazole oral suspension doses up to 1,600 mg/day 
experienced no different adverse reactions from those reported with patients at the lower doses. 
Accidental overdose was noted in one patient who took posaconazole oral suspension 1,200 mg twice 
a day for 3 days. No adverse reactions were noted by the investigator. 
Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. There is no special treatment available in the case of 
overdose with posaconazole. Supportive care may be considered. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antimycotics for systemic use, Triazole and tetrazole derivatives, ATC 
code: J02AC04 
Mechanism of action 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posaconazole inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential 
step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Microbiology 
Posaconazole has been shown in vitro to be active against the following microorganisms: Aspergillus 
species (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. ustus), Candida species 
(Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. dubliniensis, C. famata, C. 
inconspicua, C. lipolytica, C. norvegensis, C. pseudotropicalis), Coccidioides immitis, Fonsecaea 
pedrosoi, and species of Fusarium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus. The microbiological data 
suggest that posaconazole is active against Rhizomucor, Mucor, and Rhizopus; however, the clinical 
data are currently too limited to assess the efficacy of posaconazole against these causative agents. 
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. In a surveillance 
study of > 3,000 clinical mold isolates from 2010-2018, 90 % of non-Aspergillus fungi exhibited the 
following in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC): Mucorales spp (n=81) of 2 mg/L; 
Scedosporium apiospermum/S. boydii (n=65) of 2 mg/L; Exophiala dermatiditis (n=15) of 0.5 mg/L, 
and Purpureocillium lilacinum (n=21) of 1 mg/L. 
Resistance 
Clinical isolates with decreased susceptibility to posaconazole have been identified. The principle 
mechanism of resistance is the acquisition of substitutions in the target protein, CYP51. 
Epidemiological Cut-off (ECOFF) Values for Aspergillus spp. 
The ECOFF values for posaconazole, which distinguish the wild type population from isolates with 
acquired resistance, have been determined by EUCAST methodology. 
EUCAST ECOFF values: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Aspergillus flavus: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus fumigatus: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus nidulans: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus niger: 0.5 mg/L 
Aspergillus terreus: 0.25 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for Aspergillus spp. ECOFF values do 
not equate to clinical breakpoints. 
Breakpoints 
EUCAST MIC breakpoints for posaconazole [susceptible (S); resistant (R)]: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Candida albicans: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida tropicalis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida parapsilosis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R >0.06 mg/L 
Candida dubliniensis: S ≤0.06 mg/L, R > 0.06 mg/L 
There are currently insufficient data to set clinical breakpoints for other Candida species. 
Combination with other antifungal agents 
The use of combination antifungal therapies should not decrease the efficacy of either posaconazole or 
the other therapies; however, there is currently no clinical evidence that combination therapy will 
provide an added benefit. 
Clinical experience 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and tablet study invasive aspergillosis 
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole for the treatment of patients with invasive aspergillosis was 
evaluated in a double-blind controlled study (study-69) in 575 patients with proven, probable, or 
possible invasive fungal infections per EORTC/MSG criteria. 
Patients were treated with posaconazole (n=288) concentrate for solution for infusion or tablet given at 
a dose of 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1). Comparator patients were treated with voriconazole (n=287) 
given IV at a dose of 6 mg/kg BID Day 1 followed by 4 mg/kg BID, or orally at a dose of 300 mg BID 
Day 1 followed by 200 mg BID. Median treatment duration was 67 days (posaconazole) and 64 days 
(voriconazole). 
In the intent-to-treat (ITT) population (all subjects who received at least one dose of study drug), 288 
patients received posaconazole and 287 patients received voriconazole. The full analysis set 
population (FAS) is the subset of all subjects within the ITT population who were classified by 
independent adjudication as having proven or probable invasive aspergillosis: 163 subjects for 
posaconazole and 171 subjects for voriconazole. The all-cause mortality and global clinical response 
in these two populations are presented in Table 3 and 4, respectively. 
Table 3. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: all-cause mortality at Day 42 and 
Day 84, in the ITT and FAS populations  
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
Population 
N 
n (%) 
N 
n (%) 
Difference* (95 % 
CI) 
287 
288 
288 
59 (20.6) 
44 (15.3) 
Mortality in ITT at 
Day 42 
Mortality in ITT at 
Day 84 
Mortality in FAS at 
Day 42 
Mortality in FAS at 
Day 84 
* Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for 
mortality/poor outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme. 
81 (28.1) 
31 (19.0) 
56 (34.4) 
32 (18.7) 
88 (30.7) 
53 (31.0) 
171 
171 
287 
163 
163 
0.3% (-8.2, 8.8) 
3.1% (-6.9, 13.1) 
-2.5 % (-9.9, 4.9) 
-5.3 % (-11.6, 1.0) 
Table 4. Posaconazole invasive aspergillosis treatment study 1: global clinical response at Week 6 and 
Week 12 in the FAS population  
Population 
N 
Success (%) 
N 
Success (%) 
Posaconazole 
Voriconazole 
Difference* (95 % 
CI) 
163 
73 (44.8) 
Global clinical 
response in the FAS 
at 6 weeks  
Global clinical 
response in the FAS 
at 12 weeks 
* Successful Global Clinical Response was defined as survival with a partial or complete response 
Adjusted treatment difference based on Miettinen and Nurminen’s method stratified by randomisation factor (risk for 
mortality/poor outcome), using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel weighting scheme. 
69 (42.3) 
79 (46.2) 
78 (45.6) 
163 
171 
171 
-3.4 % (-13.9, 7.1) 
-0.6 % (-11.2, 10.1) 
Summary of posaconazole tablet bridging study 
Study 5615 was a non-comparative multi-centre study performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic 
properties, safety, and tolerability of posaconazole tablet. Study 5615 was conducted in a similar 
patient population to that previously studied in the pivotal posaconazole oral suspension clinical 
program. The pharmacokinetics and safety data from Study 5615 were bridged to the existing data 
(including efficacy data) with the oral suspension. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The subject population included: 1) patients with AML or MDS who had recently received 
chemotherapy and had developed or were anticipated to develop significant neutropenia, or 2) patients 
who had undergone a HSCT and were receiving immunosuppressive therapy for prevention or 
treatment of GVHD. Two different dosing groups were evaluated: 200 mg twice daily on Day 1, 
followed by 200 mg once daily thereafter (Part IA) and 300 mg twice daily on Day 1, followed by 
300 mg once daily thereafter (Part 1B and Part 2). 
Serial PK samples were collected on Day 1 and at steady-state on Day 8 for all Part 1 subjects and a 
subset of Part 2 subjects. Moreover, sparse PK samples were collected at several days during steady 
state before the next dose (Cmin) for a larger subject population. Based on average Cmin concentrations, 
a predicted average concentration (Cav) could be calculated for 186 subjects dosed with 300 mg. PK 
analysis in patients of Cav found that 81 % of the subjects treated with the 300 mg once daily dose 
attained steady state predicted Cav between 500-2,500 ng/mL. One subject (< 1%) had a predicted 
Cav below 500 ng/mL and 19 % of the subjects had a predicted Cav above 2,500 ng/mL. Subjects 
achieved a mean predicted Cav at steady state of 1,970 ng/mL. 
In Table 5 a comparison is shown of exposure (Cav) after administration of posaconazole tablet and 
posaconazole oral suspension at therapeutic doses in patients depicted as quartile analysis. Exposures 
after tablet administration are generally higher than, but overlapping with, exposures after 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension. 
Table 5. Cav quartile analyses of pivotal patient studies with posaconazole tablet and oral suspension 
Posaconazole oral suspension 
Posaconazole 
tablet 
Prophylaxis in 
AML and HSCT 
Study 5615 
300 mg once 
daily (Day 1 300 
mg twice daily)* 
Prophylaxis 
in 
GVHD 
Study 316 
200 mg three 
times daily 
Prophylaxis in 
Neutropenia 
Study 1899 
200 mg three 
times daily 
Quartile 
pCav Range 
(ng/mL) 
442 – 1,223 
1,240 – 1,710 
1,719 – 2,291 
2,304 – 9,523 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
22 - 557 
557 - 915 
915 - 1563 
1,563 – 3,650 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
pCav: predicted Cav 
Cav = the average concentration when measured at steady state 
*20 patients received 200 mg once daily (Day 1 200 mg twice daily) 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
90 - 322 
322 - 490 
490 - 734 
734 - 2200 
Treatment - 
Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Study 0041 
200 mg four times 
daily 
(hospitalized) then 
400 mg twice daily 
Cav Range 
(ng/mL) 
55 - 277 
290 - 544 
550 - 861 
877 - 2010 
Summary of posaconazole oral suspension studies 
Invasive aspergillosis 
Oral posaconazole suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses was evaluated for the treatment of 
invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease refractory to amphotericin B (including liposomal 
formulations) or itraconazole or in patients who were intolerant of these medicinal products in a non- 
comparative salvage therapy study (Study 0041). Clinical outcomes were compared with those in an 
external control group derived from a retrospective review of medical records. The external control 
group included 86 patients treated with available therapy (as above) mostly at the same time and at the 
same sites as the patients treated with posaconazole. Most of the cases of aspergillosis were considered 
to be refractory to prior therapy in both the posaconazole group (88 %) and in the external control 
group (79 %). 
As shown in Table 6, a successful response (complete or partial resolution) at the end of treatment was 
seen in 42 % of posaconazole-treated patients compared to 26 % of the external group. However, this 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was not a prospective, randomized controlled study and so all comparisons with the external control 
group should be viewed with caution. 
Table 6.  Overall efficacy of posaconazole oral suspension at the end of treatment for invasive 
aspergillosis in comparison to an external control group 
Overall Response 
Success by Species 
Posaconazole oral suspension  External control group 
45/107 (42 %) 
22/86 (26 %) 
All mycologically confirmed 
  Aspergillus spp.2 
34/76         (45 %) 
12/29         (41 %) 
A. fumigatus 
10/19         (53 %) 
A. flavus 
4/14          (29 %) 
A. terreus 
3/5           (60 %) 
A. niger 
2 Includes other less common species or species unknown 
19/74        (26 %) 
12/34        (35 %) 
3/16         (19 %) 
2/13         (15 %) 
2/7          (29 %) 
Fusarium spp. 
11 of 24 patients who had proven or probable fusariosis were successfully treated with posaconazole 
oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided doses for a median of 124 days and up to 212 days. Among 
eighteen patients who were intolerant or had infections refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole, 
seven patients were classed as responders. 
Chromoblastomycosis/Mycetoma 
9 of 11 patients were successfully treated with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 268 days and up to 377 days. Five of these patients had chromoblastomycosis 
due to Fonsecaea pedrosoi and 4 had mycetoma, mostly due to Madurella species. 
Coccidioidomycosis 
11 of 16 patients were successfully treated (at the end of treatment complete or partial resolution of 
signs and symptoms present at baseline) with posaconazole oral suspension 800 mg/day in divided 
doses for a median of 296 days and up to 460 days. 
Prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections (IFIs) (Studies 316 and 1899) 
Two randomized, controlled prophylaxis studies were conducted among patients at high-risk for 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Study 316 was a randomized, double-blind study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three times 
a day) versus fluconazole capsules (400 mg once daily) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs at 16 weeks post-randomization as determined by an independent, 
blinded external expert panel. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
during the on-treatment period (first dose to last dose of study medicinal product + 7 days). The 
majority (377/600, [63 %]) of patients included had Acute Grade 2 or 3 or chronic extensive (195/600, 
[32.5 %]) GVHD at study start. The mean duration of therapy was 80 days for posaconazole and 77 
days for fluconazole. 
Study 1899 was a randomized, evaluator-blinded study of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg three 
times a day) versus fluconazole suspension (400 mg once daily) or itraconazole oral solution (200 mg 
twice a day) in neutropenic patients who were receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute 
myelogenous leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
incidence of proven/probable IFIs as determined by an independent, blinded external expert panel 
during the on-treatment period. A key secondary endpoint was the incidence of proven/probable IFIs 
at 100 days post-randomization. New diagnosis of acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most 
common underlying condition (435/602, [72 %]). The mean duration of therapy was 29 days for 
posaconazole and 25 days for fluconazole/itraconazole. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In both prophylaxis studies, aspergillosis was the most common breakthrough infection. See Table 7 
and 8 for results from both studies. There were fewer breakthrough Aspergillus infections in patients 
receiving posaconazole prophylaxis when compared to control patients. 
Table 7. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
P-Value 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable IFIs 
On-treatment periodb 
7/304 (2) 
7/291 (2) 
25/298 (8) 
22/288 (8) 
Fixed-time periodc 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole ; ITZ = itraconazole ; POS = posaconazole.  
a:    FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
14/304 (5) 
16/301 (5) 
33/298 (11) 
27/299 (9) 
0.0009 
0.0038 
0.0031 
0.0740 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 
it was the period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period 
from the baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:   All randomized 
e:   All treated 
Table 8. Results from clinical studies in prophylaxis of Invasive Fungal Infections 
Study 
Posaconazole oral 
suspension 
Controla 
1899d 
316e 
Proportion (%) of patients with proven/probable Aspergillosis 
On-treatment periodb 
2/304 (1) 
3/291 (1) 
Fixed-time periodc 
4/304 (1) 
7/301 (2) 
20/298 (7) 
17/288 (6) 
26/298 (9) 
21/299 (7) 
1899d 
316 d 
FLU = fluconazole ; ITZ = itraconazole ; POS = posaconazole. 
a:   FLU/ITZ (1899); FLU (316). 
b: 
In 1899 this was the period from randomization to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days; in 316 
it was the period from first dose to last dose of study medicinal product plus 7 days. 
In 1899, this was the period from randomization to 100 days post-randomization; in 316 it was the period 
from the baseline day to 111 days post-baseline. 
c: 
d:   All randomized 
e:   All treated 
In Study 1899, a significant decrease in all cause mortality in favour of posaconazole was observed 
[POS 49/304 (16 %) vs. FLU/ITZ 67/298 (22 %) p= 0.048]. Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the 
probability of survival up to day 100 after randomization, was significantly higher for posaconazole 
recipients; this survival benefit was demonstrated when the analysis considered all causes of death (P= 
0.0354) as well as IFI-related deaths (P = 0.0209). 
In Study 316, overall mortality was similar (POS, 25 %; FLU, 28 %); however, the proportion of 
IFI- related deaths was significantly lower in the POS group (4/301) compared with the FLU group 
(12/299; P= 0.0413). 
Paediatric population 
There is limited paediatric experience for posaconazole tablets. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three patients 14-17 years of age were treated with posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion 
and tablet 300 mg/day (BID on Day 1 followed by QD thereafter) in the study of treatment of invasive 
aspergillosis. 
The safety and efficacy of posaconazole (Posaconazole gastro-resistant powder and solvent for oral 
suspension; Posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion) have been established in paediatric 
patients 2 to less than 18 years of age. Use of posaconazole in these age groups is supported by 
evidence from adequate and well-controlled studies of posaconazole in adults and pharmacokinetic 
and safety data from paediatric studies (see section 5.2). No new safety signals associated with the use 
of posaconazole in paediatric patients were identified in the paediatric studies (see section 4.8). 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established.  
 No data are available. 
Electrocardiogram evaluation 
Multiple, time-matched ECGs collected over a 12 hour period were obtained before and during 
administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily with high fat meals) from 
173 healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 to 85 years. No clinically relevant changes in the 
mean QTc (Fridericia) interval from baseline were observed. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetic / Pharmacodynamic relationships 
A correlation between total medicinal product exposure divided by MIC (AUC/MIC) and clinical 
outcome was observed. The critical ratio for subjects with Aspergillus infections was ~200. It is 
particularly important to try to ensure that maximal plasma levels are achieved in patients infected 
with Aspergillus (see sections 4.2 and 5.2 on recommended dose regimens). 
Absorption 
Posaconazole tablets are absorbed with a median Tmax of 4 to 5 hours and exhibits dose proportional 
pharmacokinetics after single and multiple dosing up to 300 mg. 
Following a single dose administration of 300 mg posaconazole tablets after a high fat meal to healthy 
volunteers, the AUC0-72 hours and Cmax were higher compared to administration under fasted condition 
(51 % and 16 % for AUC0-72 hours and Cmax respectively). Based on a population pharmacokinetic 
model, posaconazole Cav is increased 20 % when given with a meal compared to a fasted state. 
Posaconazole plasma concentrations following administration of posaconazole tablets may increase 
over time in some patients. The reason for this time-dependency is not completely understood. 
Distribution 
Posaconazole, after administration of the tablet, has a mean apparent volume of distribution of 394 L 
(42 %), ranging between 294-583 L among the studies in healthy volunteers. 
Posaconazole is highly protein bound (> 98 %), predominantly to serum albumin.  
Biotransformation 
Posaconazole does not have any major circulating metabolites and its concentrations are unlikely to be 
altered by inhibitors of CYP450 enzymes. Of the circulating metabolites, the majority are glucuronide 
conjugates of posaconazole with only minor amounts of oxidative (CYP450 mediated) metabolites 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed. The excreted metabolites in urine and faeces account for approximately 17 % of the 
administered radiolabelled dose. 
Elimination 
Posaconazole after administration of the tablets, is slowly eliminated with a mean half-life (t½) of 
29 hours (range 26 to 31 hours) and a mean apparent clearance ranging from 7.5 to 11 L/hr. After 
administration of 14C-posaconazole, radioactivity was predominantly recovered in the faeces (77% of 
the radiolabelled dose) with the major component being parent compound (66 % of the radiolabelled 
dose). Renal clearance is a minor elimination pathway, with 14 % of the radiolabelled dose excreted in 
urine (< 0.2 % of the radiolabelled dose is parent compound). Steady-state plasma concentrations are 
attained by Day 6 at the 300 mg dose (once daily after twice daily loading dose at Day 1). 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Based on a population pharmacokinetic model evaluating posaconazole pharmacokinetics, steady state 
posaconazole concentrations were predicted in patients administered posaconazole concentrate for 
solution for infusion or tablets 300 mg once a day following BID dosing on Day 1 for the treatment of 
invasive aspergillosis and prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections. 
Table 9. Population predicted median (10th percentile, 90th percentile) posaconazole steady state 
plasma concentrations in patients following administration of posaconazole concentrate for solution 
for infusion or tablets 300 mg QD (BID on Day 1) 
Regimen 
Population 
Prophylaxis 
Tablet-(Fasted) 
Concentrate for Solution 
for Infusion 
Treatment of Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Prophylaxis 
Treatment of Invasive 
Aspergillosis 
Cav (ng/mL) 
1,550 
(874; 2,690) 
1,780 
(879; 3,540) 
1,890 
(1,100; 3,150) 
2,240 
(1,230; 4,160) 
Cmin (ng/mL) 
1,330 
(667; 2,400) 
1,490 
(663; 3,230) 
1,500 
(745; 2,660) 
1,780 
(874; 3,620) 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of posaconazole in patients suggests that race, sex, renal 
impairment and disease (prophylaxis or treatment) have no clinically meaningful effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of posaconazole. 
Children (< 18 years) 
There is limited (n=3) paediatric experience with posaconazole tablets. 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole oral suspension have been evaluated in paediatric patients. 
Following administration of 800 mg per day of posaconazole oral suspension as a divided dose for 
treatment of invasive fungal infections, mean trough plasma concentrations from 12 patients 
8 -17 years of age (776 ng/mL) were similar to concentrations from 194 patients 18 - 64 years of age 
(817 ng/mL). No pharmacokinetic data are available from paediatric patients less than 8 years of age. 
Similarly, in the prophylaxis studies, the mean steady-state posaconazole average concentration (Cav) 
was comparable among ten adolescents (13-17 years of age) to Cav achieved in adults (≥ 18 years of 
age). 
Gender 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in men and women. 
Elderly 
No overall differences in safety were observed between the geriatric patients and younger patients. 
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and 
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to age. Posaconazole Cav is generally 
comparable between young and elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age); however, the Cav is increased by 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 % in the very elderly (≥ 80 years). It is, therefore, suggested to closely monitor very elderly patients 
(≥ 80 years) for adverse events. 
The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole tablets are comparable in young and elderly subjects 
(≥ 65 years of age). 
Pharmacokinetic differences based upon age are not considered to be clinically relevant; therefore, no 
dose adjustment is required. 
Race 
There is insufficient data among different races with posaconazole tablets. 
There was a slight decrease (16 %) in the AUC and Cmax of posaconazole oral suspension in Black 
subjects relative to Caucasian subjects. However, the safety profile of posaconazole between the Black 
and Caucasian subjects was similar. 
Weight 
The population pharmacokinetic model of posaconazole concentrate for solution for infusion and 
tablets indicates that posaconazole clearance is related to weight. In patients > 120 kg, the Cav is 
decreased by 25 % and in patients <50 kg, the Cav is increased by 19 %. It is, therefore, suggested to 
closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections in patients weighing more than 120 kg. 
Renal impairment 
Following single-dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension, there was no effect of mild and 
moderate renal impairment (n=18, Cl cr ≥ 20 mL/min/1.73 m2) on posaconazole pharmacokinetics; 
therefore, no dose adjustment is required. In subjects with severe renal impairment (n=6, 
Clcr< 20 mL/min/1.73 m2), the AUC of posaconazole was highly variable [> 96 % CV (coefficient of 
variance)] compared to other renal groups [< 40 % CV]. However, as posaconazole is not significantly 
renally eliminated, an effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole is 
not expected and no dose adjustment is recommended. Posaconazole is not removed by haemodialysis. 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been 
conducted with the posaconazole tablets. 
Hepatic impairment 
After a single oral dose of 400 mg posaconazole oral suspension to patients with mild (Child-Pugh 
Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) or severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment (six per 
group), the mean AUC was 1.3 to 1.6-fold higher compared to that for matched control subjects with 
normal hepatic function. Unbound concentrations were not determined and it cannot be excluded that 
there is a larger increase in unbound posaconazole exposure than the observed 60 % increase in total 
AUC. The elimination half-life (t½) was prolonged from approximately 27 hours up to ~43 hours in 
respective groups. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to severe hepatic 
impairment but caution is advised due to the potential for higher plasma exposure. 
Similar recommendations apply to posaconazole tablets; however, a specific study has not been 
conducted with the posaconazole tablets. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
As observed with other azole antifungal agents, effects related to inhibition of steroid hormone 
synthesis were seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with posaconazole. Adrenal suppressive effects 
were observed in toxicity studies in rats and dogs at exposures equal to or greater than those obtained 
at therapeutic doses in humans. 
Neuronal phospholipidosis occurred in dogs dosed for ≥ 3 months at lower systemic exposures than 
those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. This finding was not seen in monkeys dosed for one 
year. In twelve-month neurotoxicity studies in dogs and monkeys, no functional effects were observed 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on the central or peripheral nervous systems at systemic exposures greater than those achieved 
therapeutically. 
Pulmonary phospholipidosis resulting in dilatation and obstruction of the alveoli was observed in the 
2-year study in rats. These findings are not necessarily indicative of a potential for functional changes 
in humans. 
No effects on electrocardiograms, including QT and QTc intervals, were seen in a repeat dose safety 
pharmacology study in monkeys at maximal plasma concentrations 8.5-fold greater than the 
concentrations obtained at therapeutic doses in humans. Echocardiography revealed no indication of 
cardiac decompensation in a repeat dose safety pharmacology study in rats at a systemic exposure 
2.1-fold greater than that achieved therapeutically. Increased systolic and arterial blood pressures (up 
to 29 mm-Hg) were seen in rats and monkeys at systemic exposures 2.1-fold and 8.5-fold greater, 
respectively, than those achieved with the human therapeutic doses. 
Reproduction, peri- and postnatal development studies were conducted in rats. At exposures lower 
than those obtained at therapeutic doses in humans, posaconazole caused skeletal variations and 
malformations, dystocia, increased length of gestation, reduced mean litter size and postnatal viability. 
In rabbits, posaconazole was embryotoxic at exposures greater than those obtained at therapeutic 
doses. As observed with other azole antifungal agents, these effects on reproduction were considered 
to be due to a treatment-related effect on steroidogenesis. 
Posaconazole was not genotoxic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity studies did not reveal 
special hazards for humans. 
In a nonclinical study using intravenous administration of posaconazole in very young dogs (dosed 
from 2-8 weeks of age) an increase in the incidence of brain ventricle enlargement was observed in 
treated animals as compared with concurrent control animals. No difference in the incidence of brain 
ventricle enlargement between control and treated animals was observed following the subsequent 
5 month treatment-free period. There were no neurologic, behavioural or developmental abnormalities 
in the dogs with this finding, and a similar brain finding was not seen with either oral posaconazole 
administration to juvenile dogs (4 days to 9 months of age) or intravenous posaconazole 
administration to juvenile dogs (10 weeks to 23 weeks of age). The clinical significance of this finding 
is unknown. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Methacrylic acid-Ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1)  
Triethyl citrate (E1505) 
Xylitol (E967) 
Hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463) 
Propyl gallate (E310) 
Cellulose, microcrystalline (E460) 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tablet coating 
Polyvinyl alcohol-part hydrolyzed 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol 
Talc (E553b) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Triplex (PVC/PE/PVdC) white opaque-aluminium blister or perforated unit dose blister in cartons of 
24 or 96 tablets.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta, Barcelona, 
08039 Barcelona, Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1379/001-004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25th July 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Delorbis Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
17, Athinon Street 
Ergates Industrial Area 
2643 Nicosia 
CYPRUS 
Laboratori Fundacio Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca 
08040 Barcelona 
SPAIN 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
THE NETHERLANDS 
Pharmadox Healthcare Ltd. 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park 
Paola, PLA 3000 
MALTA 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, POLAND 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
● 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
● 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
● 
●  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.
25 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets  
posaconazole 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each gastro-resistant tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
24 gastro-resistant tablets 
96 gastro-resistant tablets 
24x1 gastro-resistant tablet 
96x1 gastro-resistant tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Posaconazole oral suspension and tablets are NOT interchangeable. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta, Barcelona, 
08039 Barcelona, Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1379/001 
EU/1/19/1379/002 
EU/1/19/1379/003 
EU/1/19/1379/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets  
posaconazole 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
PERFORATED UNIT DOSE BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Posaconazole Accord 100 mg gastro-resistant tablets 
posaconazole 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Posaconazole Accord is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Posaconazole Accord 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Posaconazole Accord 
Possible side effects 
How to store Posaconazole Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Posaconazole Accord is and what it is used for 
Posaconazole Accord contains a medicine called posaconazole. This belongs to a group of medicines 
called “antifungals”. It is used to prevent and treat many different fungal infections. 
This medicine works by killing or stopping the growth of some types of fungi that can cause 
infections. 
Posaconazole Accord can be used in adults to treat fungal infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus 
family. 
infections caused by fungi of the Aspergillus family; that have not improved during  
Posaconazole Accord can be used in adults and children from 2 years of age weighing more than 40 kg 
to treat the following types of fungal infections: 
- 
          treatment with the antifungal medicines amphotericin B or itraconazole or when these medicines  
          have had to be stopped; 
- 
infections caused by fungi of the Fusarium family that have not improved during treatment with 
amphotericin B or when amphotericin B has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by fungi that cause the conditions known as “chromoblastomycosis” and 
“mycetoma” that have not improved during treatment with itraconazole or when itraconazole 
has had to be stopped; 
infections caused by a fungus called Coccidioides that have not improved during treatment with 
one or more of amphotericin B, itraconazole or fluconazole or when these medicines have had 
to be stopped. 
- 
- 
This medicine can also be used to prevent fungal infections in adults and children from 2 years of age 
weighing more than 40 kg who are at high risk of getting a fungal infection, such as: 
- 
patients who have a weak immune system due to having chemotherapy for “acute myelogenous 
leukaemia” (AML) or “myelodysplastic syndromes” (MDS) 
patients having “high- dose immunosuppressive therapy” after “hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant” (HSCT). 
- 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Posaconazole Accord 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Do not take Posaconazole Accord 
- 
if you are allergic to posaconazole or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are taking: terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine, quinidine, any 
medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine, or a “statin” 
such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin. 
if you have just started taking venetoclax or your venetoclax dose is being slowly increased for 
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). 
Do not take Posaconazole Accord if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking Posaconazole Accord. 
See “Other medicines and Posaconazole Accord” below for more information including information 
on other medicines which may interact with Posaconazole Accord. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Posaconazole Accord if you  
- 
have had an allergic reaction to another antifungal medicine such as ketoconazole, fluconazole, 
itraconazole or voriconazole. 
have or have ever had liver problems. You may need to have blood tests while you are taking 
this medicine. 
develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting, as these conditions may limit the effectiveness of this 
medicine. 
have an abnormal heart rhythm tracing (ECG) that shows a problem called long QTc interval 
have a weakness of the heart muscle or heart failure 
have a very slow heartbeat 
have heart rhythm disturbance 
have any problem with potassium, magnesium or calcium levels in your blood 
are taking vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (medicines used to treat cancer). 
are taking venetoclax (a medicine used to treat cancer). 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking Posaconazole Accord. 
If you develop severe diarrhoea or vomiting (being sick) while taking Posaconazole Accord, talk to 
your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away, as this may stop it from working properly. See section 
4 for more information 
Children 
Posaconazole Accord should not be given to children younger than 2 years of age. 
Other medicines and Posaconazole Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Do not take Posaconazole Accord if you are taking any of the following: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
terfenadine (used to treat allergies) 
astemizole (used to treat allergies) 
cisapride (used to treat stomach problems) 
pimozide (used to treat symptoms of Tourette's and mental illness) 
halofantrine (used to treat malaria) 
quinidine (used to treat abnormal heart rhythms). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posaconazole Accord can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood which may lead to very 
serious changes to your heart rhythm. 
- 
any medicines that contain “ergot alkaloids” such as ergotamine or dihydroergotamine used to 
treat migraines. Posaconazole Accord can increase the amount of these medicines in the blood 
which may lead to a severe decrease in blood flow to your fingers or toes and could cause 
damage to them. 
a “statin” such as simvastatin, atorvastatin or lovastatin used to treat high cholesterol. 
venetoclax when used at the start of the treatment of a type of cancer, chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL). 
- 
- 
Do not take Posaconazole Accord if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Other medicines 
Look at the list of medicines given above that must not be taken while you are taking Posaconazole 
Accord. In addition to the medicines named above there are other medicines that carry a risk of rhythm 
problems that may be greater when they are taken with Posaconazole Accord. Please make sure you 
tell your doctor about all the medicines you are taking (prescribed or non-prescribed). 
Certain medicines may increase the risk of side effects of Posaconazole Accord by increasing the 
amount of Posaconazole Accord in the blood. 
The following medicines may decrease the effectiveness of Posaconazole Accord by decreasing the 
amount of Posaconazole Accord in the blood: 
- 
rifabutin and rifampicin (used to treat certain infections). If you are already taking rifabutin, you 
will need a blood test and you will need to look out for some possible side effects of rifabutin. 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or primidone (used to treat or prevent fits). 
efavirenz and fosamprenavir used to treat HIV infection. 
- 
- 
Posaconazole Accord may possibly increase the risk of side effects of some other medicines by 
increasing the amount of these medicines in the blood. These medicines include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
vincristine, vinblastine and other “vinca alkaloids” (used to treat cancer) 
venetoclax (used to treat cancer) 
ciclosporin (used during or after transplant surgery) 
tacrolimus and sirolimus (used during or after transplant surgery) 
rifabutin (used to treat certain infections) 
medicines used to treat HIV called protease inhibitors (including lopinavir and atazanavir, 
which are given with ritonavir) 
midazolam, triazolam, alprazolam or other “benzodiazepines” (used as sedatives or muscle 
relaxants) 
diltiazem, verapamil, nifedipine, nisoldipine or other “calcium channel blockers” (used to treat 
high blood pressure) 
digoxin (used to treat heart failure) 
glipizide or other “sulfonylureas” (used to treat high blood sugar) 
all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), also called tretinoin (used to treat certain blood cancers). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Posaconazole Accord. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are or think you are pregnant before you start to take Posaconazole Accord. 
Do not take Posaconazole Accord if you are pregnant unless you are told to by your doctor. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant you should use effective contraception while you are 
taking this medicine. If you become pregnant while you are taking Posaconazole Accord, contact your 
doctor straight away. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not breast-feed while taking Posaconazole Accord. This is because small amounts may pass into 
breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy, sleepy, or have blurred vision while taking Posaconazole Accord, which may 
affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. If this happens, do not drive or use any tools or 
machines and contact your doctor. 
Posaconazole Accord contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Posaconazole Accord 
Do not switch between Posaconazole Accord tablets and posaconazole oral suspension without talking 
to your doctor or pharmacist because it may result in a lack of efficacy or an increased risk of adverse 
reactions. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
The usual dose is 300 mg (three 100 mg tablets) twice a day on the first day, then 300 mg (three 
100 mg tablets) once a day, thereafter. 
The length of treatment may depend on the type of infection that you have and may be individually 
adapted for you by your doctor. Do not adapt your dose yourself before consulting your doctor or 
change your treatment regimen. 
Taking this medicine 
- 
- 
- 
Swallow the tablet whole with some water. 
Do not crush, chew, break or dissolve the tablet. 
Tablets may be taken with or without food. 
If you take more Posaconazole Accord than you should 
If you think that you may have taken too much Posaconazole Accord, talk to a doctor or go to the 
hospital straight away. 
If you forget to take Posaconazole Accord 
- 
- 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember it. 
However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your 
regular schedule. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
- 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following serious 
side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment: 
- 
nausea or vomit (feeling or being sick), diarrhoea 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
signs of liver problems - these include yellowing of your skin or whites of the eyes, unusually 
dark urine or pale faeces, feeling sick for no reason, stomach problems, loss of appetite or 
unusual tiredness or weakness, an increase in liver enzymes shown up in blood tests 
allergic reaction. 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Common: the following may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
a change in the salt level in your blood shown in blood tests - signs include feeling confused or 
weak 
abnormal skin sensations, such as numbness, tingling, itching, creeping, pricking or burning 
headache 
low potassium levels – shown up in blood tests 
low magnesium levels – shown up in blood tests 
high blood pressure 
loss of appetite, stomach pain or upset stomach, passing wind, dry mouth, changes in your taste 
heartburn (a burning sensation in the chest rising up to the throat) 
low levels of “neutrophils” a type of white blood cell (neutropenia) –this can make you more 
likely to get infections and be shown up in blood tests 
fever 
feeling weak, dizzy, tired or sleepy 
rash 
itching 
constipation 
rectal discomfort 
Uncommon: the following may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
anaemia - signs include headaches, feeling tired or dizzy, being short of breath or looking pale 
and a low level of haemoglobin shown up in blood tests 
low level of platelets (thrombocytopenia) shown in blood tests – this may lead to bleeding 
low level of “leukocytes” a type of white blood cell (leukopenia) shown in blood tests – this can 
make you more likely to get infections 
high level of “eosinophils” a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) – this can happen if you 
have inflammation 
inflammation of the blood vessels 
heart rhythm problems 
fits (convulsions) 
nerve damage (neuropathy) 
abnormal heart rhythm – shown up on a heart trace (ECG), palpitations, slow or fast heartbeat, 
high or low blood pressure 
low blood pressure 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) – this may cause severe stomach pain 
oxygen supply to the spleen is interrupted (splenic infarction) - this may cause severe stomach 
pain 
severe kidney problems – signs include passing more or less urine, that is a different colour than 
usual 
high blood levels of creatinine – shown in blood tests 
cough, hiccups 
nose bleeds 
severe sharp chest pain when breathing in (pleuritic pain) 
swelling of lymph glands (lymphadenopathy) 
reduced feeling of sensitivity especially on the skin 
tremor 
high or low blood sugar levels 
blurred vision, sensitivity to light 
hair loss (alopecia) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
37 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
mouth ulcers 
shivering, feeling generally unwell 
pain, back or neck pain, pain in arms or legs 
water retention (oedema) 
menstrual problems (abnormal vaginal bleeding) 
inability to sleep (insomnia) 
being completely or partially unable to talk 
swelling of the mouth 
abnormal dreams, or difficulty sleeping 
problems with co-ordination or balance 
mucosal inflammation 
stuffy nose 
difficulty breathing 
chest discomfort 
feeling bloated 
mild to severe nausea, vomiting, cramps and diarrhoea, usually caused by a virus, stomach pain 
belching 
feeling jittery 
Rare: the following may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
- 
- 
pneumonia – signs include feeling short of breath and producing discoloured phlegm 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (pulmonary hypertension) this can cause 
serious damage to your lungs and heart 
blood problems such as unusual blood clotting or prolonged bleeding 
severe allergic reactions, including widespread blistering rash and skin peeling 
mental problems such as hearing voices or seeing things that are not there 
fainting 
having problems thinking or talking, having jerking movements, especially in your hands that 
you cannot control 
stroke – signs include pain, weakness, numbness, or tingling in the limbs 
having a blind or dark spot in your field of vision 
heart failure or heart attack which could lead to the heart stopping beating and death, heart 
rhythm problems, with sudden death 
blood clots in your legs (deep vein thrombosis) – signs include intense pain or swelling of the 
legs 
blood clots in your lungs (pulmonary embolism) – signs include feeling short of breath or pain 
while breathing 
bleeding into your stomach or gut – signs include vomiting blood or passing blood in your stool 
a blockage in your gut (intestinal obstruction) especially in the “ileum”. The blockage will 
prevent the contents of your intestine from passing through to the lower bowel signs include 
feeling bloated, vomiting, severe constipation, loss of appetite, and cramps 
“haemolytic uraemic syndrome” when red blood cells breakup (hemolysis) which may happen 
with or without kidney failure 
“pancytopenia” low level of all blood cells (red and white blood cells and platelets) shown in 
blood tests 
large purple discolourations on the skin (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) 
swelling of the face or tongue 
depression 
double vision 
breast pain 
adrenal glands not working properly – this may cause weakness, tiredness, loss of appetite, skin 
discolouration 
pituitary gland not working properly – this may cause low blood levels of some hormones that 
affect the function of the male or female sex organs 
hearing problems 
pseudoaldosteronism, which results in high blood pressure with a low potassium level (shown in 
blood test) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
38 
 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
- 
some patients have also reported feeling confused after taking Posaconazole Accord. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you notice any of the side effects listed above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.  
5. 
How to store Posaconazole Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister or carton after EXP. That 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Posaconazole Accord contains 
The active substance is posaconazole. Each tablet contains 100 mg of posaconazole. 
The other ingredients are: Methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1), triethyl citrate (E1505), 
xylitol (E967), hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463), propyl gallate (E310), cellulose microcrystalline 
(E460), silica colloidal anhydrous, croscarmellose sodium, sodium stearyl fumarate, polyvinyl alcohol, 
titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol, talc (E553b), iron oxide yellow (E172). 
What Posaconazole Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablets are yellow-coated, capsule shaped tablet of approximate 
17.5 mm length and 6.7 mm width, debossed with “100P” on one side and plain on the other side, 
packaged in a blister or in perforated unit dose blister in cartons of 24 or 96 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a planta, Barcelona, 
08039 Barcelona, Spain 
Manufacturer 
Delorbis Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
17, Athinon Street 
Ergates Industrial Area 
2643 Nicosia 
Cyprus 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratori Fundacio Dau  
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca, 
Barcelona, 08040, Spain 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
Pharmadox Healthcare Ltd. 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park 
Paola, PLA 3000 
Malta 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
