29 May 2019 
EMA/354180/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Posaconazole AHCL  
International non-proprietary name: posaconazole 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005028/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 17 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects....................... 17 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ................................................ 17 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 17 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 17 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 19 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 22 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 22 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 22 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 22 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 23 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 24 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 24 
3. Benefit-risk balance ............................................................................ 24 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................ 25 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 2/26 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AAS 
AP 
AS 
API 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
BCS  
CEP  
CHMP    
CVMP 
CFU 
CMS 
CoA 
CPP  
CQA  
CRS 
DoE 
DP 
DPM 
DSC 
EDQM   
EC 
EP 
EU  
FDA  
FMEA    
FPM 
FT-IR 
GC   
GC-MS   
GMP 
HCT 
HDPE 
HPLC     
HRMS    
IC 
ICH 
IPC 
ICP-MS  
IR 
IU 
IUPAC   
KF  
LCMS    
LDPE 
LOD 
LDPE 
LOA 
LoD 
LOQ 
LoQ 
LT 
MA 
MAH 
MEB 
MS 
ND 
NIR 
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a ASMF 
Active substance 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary use 
Colony Forming Units 
Concerned Member State 
Certificate of Analysis 
Critical process parameter 
Critical Quality Attribute 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Design of experiments 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Drug Product Manufacturer 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
European Commission 
European Pharmacopoeia 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Failure mode effects analysis 
Finished Product Manufacturer 
Fourrier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
Gas Chromatography 
Gas chromatography mass spectrometry 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
High resolution mass spectrometry 
Ion chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
In-process control 
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
Infrared 
International Units 
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry 
Karl Fischer titration 
Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry 
Low density polyethylene 
Loss on drying 
Low Density Polyethylene 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantitation 
List of Questions 
Less than 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Medicines Evaluation Board  
Mass Spectrometry 
Not detected 
Near Infrared Spectroscopy 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 3/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
NOR 
OOS 
PAR 
PCTFE   
PDE 
PE 
Ph. Eur. 
PIL 
PIP 
PP 
PVC 
PVDC    
QbD  
QC 
QOS 
QP 
QTPP    
QWP 
RH 
RMS 
RP 
RRT 
RSD 
SmPC   
TAMC    
tmax  
TGA 
TLC 
TSE 
TTC 
TYMC    
UPLC/uHPLC 
USP 
USP/NF  
UV 
XRPD 
Not less than 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Normal Operating Range 
Out of Specification 
Proven Acceptable Range 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Polyethylene 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Patient Information Leaflet 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Polypropylene 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Polyvinylidene chloride 
Quality by design 
Quality Control 
Quality Overall Summary 
Qualified person 
Quality target product profile 
Quality Working Party 
Relative Humidity 
Reference Member State 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of an ASMF 
Relative retention time 
Relative standard deviation 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Total Aerobic Microbial Count 
Time to achieve Cmax 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Thin layer chromatography 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Threshold of toxicological concern  
Total Combined Yeasts/Moulds Count 
ultra-high performance liquid chromatography 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 4/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted on 2 June 2018 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Posaconazole AHCL, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 22 March 
2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
use in the treatment of the following fungal infections in adults: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole or 
in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or in 
patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe disease or are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Posaconazole AHCL is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following patients: 
- 
- 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are at high 
risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing invasive 
fungal infections. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Noxafil. 
The chosen reference product is:  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Noxafil 40 mg/ml Oral Suspension 
Marketing authorisation holder: Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/320/001 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 5/26 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Noxafil 40 mg/ml Oral Suspension 
Marketing authorisation holder: Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/320/001 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Noxafil 40 mg/ml Oral Suspension 
Marketing authorisation holder: Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/320/001 
Bioavailability study number: ZPS-635 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific Advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Kolbeinn Gudmundsson 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
2 June 2018 
21 June 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
11 September 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
21 September 2018 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
18 October 2018 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
25 January 2019 
Questions on 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 6/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
4 March 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
15 March 2019 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
28 March 2019 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
29 April 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
15 May 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
29 May 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Posaconazole AHCL on  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Posaconazole AHCL with 
29 May 2019 
Cresemba  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The active substance posaconazole has been in medicinal use for more than 10 years in the Community. 
The reference medicinal product is Noxafil 40 mg/ml (Marketing authorisation holder: Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Ltd.; date of the first authorisation: 2005-10-25). The applicant’s product Posaconazole AHCL is 
of the same indication, strength and route of administration as that of the reference medicinal product 
having the same qualitative and quantitative composition in terms of active substance and is of the same 
pharmaceutical form as the comparator product. 
The proposed indications for Posaconazole AHCL are, in summary, for refractory invasive fungal infections 
(IFI)/patients with IFI intolerant to 1st line therapy and prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections. The 
recommended dose is 200 mg (5 ml) four times a day. Alternatively, patients who can tolerate food or a 
nutritional supplement may take 400 mg (10 ml) twice a day during or immediately following a meal or 
nutritional supplement. Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the underlying disease, 
recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response.  
The active substance posaconazole is a member of the antimycotics for systemic use, triazole derivatives 
therapeutic class. The mode of action of posaconazole is by inhibiting the enzyme lanosterol 
14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as oral suspension containing 40 mg/ml of posaconazole as active 
substance.  
Other ingredients are: macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate, sodium citrate dehydrate, citric acid 
monohydrate, simeticone emulsion (containing polydimethylsiloxane, polyethylene glycol sorbitan 
tristearate, methylcellulose, silica gel, polyethylene glycol stearate, sorbic acid (E200), benzoic acid 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 7/26 
 
 
 
(E210) and sulfuric acid (E513)), xanthan gum, sodium benzoate (E211), liquid glucose, glycerol, 
titanium dioxide (E171), strawberry flavour (containing propylene glycol), and purified water 
The product is available in amber glass bottle (Type III) closed with a child-resistant and tamper evident 
polypropylene cap and a measuring spoon (polystyrene) with 2 graduations: 2.5 ml and 5 ml as described 
in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of posaconazole is 4-[4-[4-[4-[[(3R,5R)-5-(2,4-difluorophenyl)tetrahydro- 
5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)-3-furanyl]methoxy]phenyl]-1-piperazinyl]phenyl]-2-[(1S,2S)-1-ethyl-
2-hydroxypropyl]-2,4-dihydro-3H-1,2,4-triazol-3-one corresponding to the molecular formula C37H42F2 
N8O4. It has a relative molecular mass of 700.8 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure. 
The chemical structure of posaconazole was elucidated by a combination of 1H and 13C NMR (1D and 2D 
experiments), MS, IR, UV, DSC and elemental analysis. The obtained spectra were in agreement with the 
assigned structure. 
Additionally,  investigations  on  the  polymorphic  form  were  conducted  by  XRD  and  IR.  Posaconazole 
displays  polymorphism.  Results  demonstrate  that  the  manufacturing  process established  consistently 
results  in  polymorphic  Form  I.  The  polymorphic  form  remains  stable  during  storage  of  the  active 
substance. Micronization has no effect on the stability of the polymorphic form I manufactured by the 
ASMF holder. 
Posaconazole polymorphic Form I is a white to off-white non-hygroscopic powder, soluble in 
dichloromethane and very slightly soluble at pH 1 and insoluble from pH 2 to 14 in aqueous solutions. It 
is a chiral compound and possesses four chiral centres, whose origin has been discussed. These give rise 
to 16 different diastereomers in total. The active substance is the (3R, 5R) (1S, 2S) diastereoisomer. The 
correct stereochemistry of each chiral centre is controlled during the manufacturing process. The chiral 
impurities are limited in the active substance specification either as specified or unspecified impurities. 
Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by specific optical rotation. 
Posaconazole is an established active substance. However, it is not subject of a monograph in the Ph.Eur.  
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 8/26 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it is considered satisfactory. 
The manufacturing process of posaconazole (Form I) utilizes a convergent strategy and comprises of two 
branches with three and one chemical stages, respectively, before the point of conversion.  
All steps of the manufacturing process are conducted by the ASMF holder. The information provided on 
the manufacturing process in both parts of the ASMF is deemed acceptable.  
Neither recovered material nor second crop from the mother liquor is used. 
Reprocessing will be performed if any batch of the intermediates and or active substance does not comply 
with its laid down specification using the same manufacturing steps and solvents as described in the 
ASMF. 
Reworking is not allowed. 
The proposed starting materials are acceptable. Five chemical transformation steps in the sense of ICH 
Q11 separate the proposed starting materials from the final active substance, which is considered 
sufficient to ensure that the generation, fate and control of impurities can be understood and that it will 
consistently lead to active substance of appropriate quality. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Specifically, an extensive discussion on the organic impurities arising in the manufacturing process of 
posaconazole was provided. Generally, impurities are effectively eliminated in the manufacturing stage 
where they originate and hence the risk of a carry-over to the active substance is low. Furthermore, the 
relevant impurities are controlled as specified impurities in the respective intermediate specification. 
In addition to the discussion of impurities arising from the GMP process, an overview of the impurities 
arising from the respective starting material synthesis was provided. 
Inorganic salts used in the manufacturing process of posaconazole may carry forward to the final stages 
as inorganic impurities. However, due to high solubility of these salts in water they will get removed along 
with aqueous washings during the manufacturing process. These impurities are controlled by the test for 
sulfated  ash  in  the  final  active  substance  specification.  Palladium  is  the  only  elemental  impurity 
intentionally  introduced  in  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  active  substance.  ).  Its  carry-over  was 
investigated A test for palladium is included in the active substance specification.  
Furthermore,  a  screening  for  Class  1  and  2a  metals  was  conducted  and  levels  for  these  elemental 
impurities were far below 30% of the respective ICH acceptable limit for parenteral administration. 
No Class 1 solvents are employed throughout the manufacturing process. In addition to the discussion of 
residual solvents arising from the GMP process, an overview of the solvents arising from the respective 
starting material synthesis has been provided. Relevant solvents are controlled in the active substance 
specification. 
A discussion on potential mutagenic impurities in-line with the requirements of ICH M7 has also been 
provided. All materials introduced into or originating from the manufacturing process were included in the 
assessment. In-line with ICH M7, the applicant proposes to control potential mutagenic impurities with no 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 9/26 
 
 
 
available safety-data according to the TTC of 1.5 µg/day and a maximum daily dose of 800 mg, resulting 
in an acceptable limit of 1.875 ppm. The impurities identified with structural alerts were tested in three 
batches and an appropriate control strategy has been defined. 
The active substance is packaged in double polyethylene (PE) bags which are placed inside an aluminium 
foil bag under nitrogen and stored inside a carton drum. The primary packaging PE bags are in compliance 
with  EU  Regulation  10/2011,  as  well  as  Ph.Eur.  3.1.3.  Satisfactory  specifications  for  the  packaging 
materials has been provided. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description, identification (IR, UPLC), water (Ph. 
Eur.), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), palladium (ICP-MS), assay (UPLC), 
related substances (UPLC), residual solvents (HS-GC/MS), and polymorphism (XRPD). 
The specifications adopted by the ASMF holder for posaconazole are derived from ICH guidelines, the 
Ph.Eur. and actual product behaviour. 
As indicated above, the active substance manufacturer assessed posaconazole for elemental impurities in 
accordance with ICH Q3DPalladium is controlled in the active substance specification. No other Class 1, 
2A, 2B or 3 elements are intentionally added in manufacture of posaconazole and, therefore, the risk of 
these elements is low. Furthermore, as posaconazole is of synthetic origin, the risk of environmentally 
sourced Class1 and 2A elements is also considered to be low. 
The control of potentially mutagenic impurities is adequately discussed and in-line with ICH M7 
requirements.  
The limit proposed for the specified impurity is based on the qualification thresholds described in ICH 
Q3A: Impurities in new drug substances. 
The only solvent used in the final step of the synthesis of posaconazole is methanol. The specification for 
methanol has been set in accordance with ICH Q3C. 
A justification for omitting microbial quality from the specification was provided. It was based on the fact 
that posaconazole is manufactured by chemical synthesis and the final crystallisation processing steps 
utilise organic solvents. Any resulting water content in the active substance, as measured by loss on 
drying, is very low. Posaconazole is also an antifungal agent and, therefore, a potent inhibitor of yeasts 
and moulds. Therefore, the risk for microbial contamination in the active substance was considered 
extremely low. In addition, three commercial scale batches of posaconazole were analysed by the active 
substance manufacturer to show that the bioburden is very low and well in compliance with the 
acceptance criteria for substances for pharmaceutical use (Ph. Eur. 5.1.4). Furthermore, the applicant 
controls the microbial quality of the finished product during release and shelf life testing. Batch analyses 
results on the finished product (release and stability) showed that the microbiological quality of the 
finished product is good, with results well below the specification, indicating no microbiological growth.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the 
reference standards used for assay and impurity testinghas been presented. 
Batch analysis data three commercial scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 10/26 
 
 
 
Stability 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial package for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% 
RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided.   
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identification (IR and HPLC), water content (KF), 
specific optical rotation, sulfated ash, heavy metals, Pd (long term conditions only), related substances 
(HPLC), chiral impurities (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents and polymorphism (XRD). The 
analytical methods used were generally the same as for release and were stability indicating. The 
specification and test method for chiral impurities and residual solvents were revised. The new methods 
are equal to the proposed routine test methods.Posaconazole was shown to be generally very stable at 
long-term and accelerated conditions and no specific degradational trends were observed. No conversion 
of the polymorphic form was observed under both storage conditions.  
Photostability was investigated in-line with ICH Q1B on one batch. The active substance did not show 
signs of degradation after exposure to light without the protection of the primary packaging material. The 
active substance was hence considered to be photostable. 
Stress  testing  on  one  batch  exposed  to  the  following  conditions:  acid,  alkaline,  oxidation,  high 
temperature, photolysis and high humidity was also discussed. The report showed that posaconazole 
polymorphic form I is stable when exposed to high temperature, photolysis and high humidity. Slight 
unknown impurities were produced when exposed to acid or alkaline. The highest degradation occurred 
under oxidizing conditions. Thus, posaconazole polymorphic form I should be protected by nitrogen gas 
during  storage  and  transportation.  Results  from mass  balance  and  peak purity  demonstrate  that  the 
methods for assay and related substances are stability indicating. 
The  stability  results  indicate  that  the  active  substance  manufactured  by  the  proposed  supplier  is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 36 months in the proposed 
container with no special storage condition. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as a 40 mg/mL white to off-white free flowing oral suspension, 
containing the active substance posaconazole, together with the excipients macrogolglycerol 
hydroxystearate (wetting agent), sodium citrate dihydrate (buffering agent), citric acid monohydrate 
(buffering agent), simethicone emulsion 30 % (antifoaming agent), xanthan gum (suspending agent), 
sodium benzoate (preservative), liquid glucose (sweetener), glycerol (wetting agent), ), titanium dioxide 
(opacifier), strawberry flavour (flavouring agent) and water purified (diluent). Only one solution strength, 
i.e. 40 mg/mL is proposed. The oral suspension is distributed in 125 mL amber glass bottles (Type III, 
filled with not less than 105 mL). The bottles are closed with white polypropylene child-resistant and 
tamper evident caps. The bottles are packed into cartons, along with a polystyrene spoon with 2 
graduations (2.5 mL and 5 mL) for administration.  
The excipients and container closure systems are common for this type of dosage form. All excipients 
comply with their respective monographs in the Ph.Eur., except simethicone emulsion 30 % and 
strawberry flavour. Simethicone emulsion 30% is of USP quality and its full specification has been 
included in the dossier. The non-compendial flavouring agent is controlled by in-house specifications, 
ensuring adequate quality of this excipient. Additional functionality related characteristics of excipients 
have been discussed. The excipients are well known excipients used in pharmaceuticals and are within the 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 11/26 
 
 
 
limits usually recommended for oral suspensions. The function of each excipient has been explained. 
There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in 
section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report.  
The strawberry flavour used in posaconazole 40 mg/mL suspension was chosen based on experience with 
other oral suspension manufactured at the same manufacturing site. During the bioequivalence study 
conducted, test and reference products were randomly given to 31 subjects. No negative observations 
were reported for the strawberry flavoured test product compared to the cherry flavoured reference 
product. Therefore, palatability of the test product is considered comparable to that of the reference 
product.  
Based on a daily maximum dosage of 20 mL of Posaconazole Suspension (= 800 mg of posaconazole), the 
maximum amount of sodium consumed would be 15.6 mg/day. Therefore the following statement has 
been included in the SmPC: <This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. 
essentially ‘sodium-free’>.  
The finished product Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/mL oral suspension was developed as a generic product 
equivalent to Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension (EMEA/H/C/000610) from Merck Sharp & Dohme from 
the European market. The product is intended as an immediate release product.  
The qualitative composition of the finished product is similar to the reference product except for the 
wetting agent (macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate was replaced by polysorbate 80). Nevertheless, both 
surfactants have comparable wetting abilities. 
The formulation contains the active pharmaceutical ingredient Posaconazole Form-1, which is a 
non-hygroscopic white to off-white crystalline powder, practically insoluble in water and aqueous media 
(pH 2-14) and very slightly soluble at pH 1, freely soluble in DCM; slightly soluble in ACN; sparingly 
soluble in methanol and acetone; very slightly soluble in ethanol and isopropanol.  
The following properties of the active substance were considered for having a potential effect on the 
finished product: isomerism and polymorphism, particle size distribution and stability (studied in the 
stress study described in the stability section). 
Particle size specifications are not being proposed for the active substance. This is acceptable, since the 
active substance is milled to achieve a desired particle size during the manufacture of the finished 
product.  
The compatibility of the active substance with the proposed excipients was verified by a dedicated 
compatibility study conducted with tertiary mixtures of the active substance and the excipients as well as 
sufficient water to make a paste (the finish product is formulated as an aqueous liquid), and through a 
stability study for scale-up batches under accelerated conditions (6 months, 40ºC/75%RH). From the 
results it was concluded that the active substance is compatible with the excipients of the proposed 
formulation and that the formulation is stable. 
The finished product manufacturer performed a number of comparative studies to demonstrate that the 
test product is comparable to Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension. This included assay and impurity profile 
as well as testing of additional quality attributes: pH; viscosity; density; particle size distribution; sodium 
benzoate, titanium dioxide and glycerol content; and polymorphic form.  
Experiments on initially micronized and non-micronized active substance demonstrated that the required 
particle size reduction in the finished product is achieved by the proposed manufacturing equipment and 
parameters. An IPC for particle size reduction was included.  
Sodium benzoate is used as an antimicrobial preservative, similar to the reference product. The content 
of sodium benzoate was investigated  at levels  well below the WHO limits. Preservative efficacy testing 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 12/26 
 
 
 
was conducted for Posaconazole 40 mg/mL oral suspension as well as for placebo product in accordance 
with the Ph.Eur. The testing demonstrated that chosen level of sodium benzoate is sufficient to preserve 
the suspension. This level is further supported by stability results under accelerated condition for a 
scale-up batch. In accordance with CPMP/CVMP/QWP/115/95, a reason for inclusion, a proof of efficacy, 
safety information and a method of identification/control in the medicinal product have provided for the 
antimicrobial preservative sodium benzoate. The parameter “Assay of Sodium benzoate” was controlled 
in an in-use stability study and is part of the stability testing. 
The dissolution method for posaconazole oral suspension is based on solubility studies. Posaconazole is 
insoluble (10 mg/100 mL) over a pH range from 1.2-8. A study was conducted to establish sink conditions 
From the results it was concluded that a surfactant is required During the marketing authorisation 
assessment it was noticed that a lower concentration of surfactant that the one originally proposed by the 
applicant gave a similar, only slightly lower, dissolution profile and therefore, the applicant was requested 
by the CHMP to further justify the level of surfactant chosen. This led to additional investigation of the sink 
conditions. Dissolution profiles generated in a medium of 0.1 M HCl without surfactant showed dissolution 
results comparable to those generated with the originally proposed concentration of surfactant. The 
re-investigation contradicted the original result and confirmed that sink conditions can be achieved in the 
selected medium  without the addition of surfactant. Therefore, the selected medium with no surfactant  
was selected as the quality control (QC) dissolution medium.The applicant is using a stirring speed for the 
QC dissolution test whichis not covered by Ph.Eur. 5.17.1. However, taking into consideration that the 
finished product is an oral suspension and not a solid oral dosage form (no disintegration phase) and the 
observed general low variability of results at all tested time points, the employed stirring speed is 
considered adequately justified and suitable for the intended use. 
The discriminatory power of the proposed on method was investigated by comparing unmilled batches 
with different particle size and batches with different concentrations of the suspending agent xanthan 
gum. The unmilled batch displayed significant retardation of release. Differences in the xanthan gum level 
were also observable in the dissolution profiles. Furthermore, the viscosity of the two suspensions are 
also different and viscosity is part of the finished product specification. Based on these results, the 
discriminatory power of the dissolution method is considered demonstrated. 
The dissolution characteristics of the 40 mg/mL test product (commercial scale) were compared to the 
innovator Noxafil 40 mg/mL from the European market using the originally proposed QC method (with 
surfactant) as well as additional media to cover pH 1.2, pH 4.5 (acetate buffer +surfactant) and at pH 6.8 
(phosphate buffer + surfactant).  
At pH 1.2, the dissolution profiles are different within the first 20 minutes of the dissolution; however, 
after 30 minutes, the test and reference products showed similar release of the active substance (f2<50). 
No release of the active was observed at pHs 4.5 and 6.8 for both products. To note, all employed 
dissolution media contained a surfactant contrary to the required dissolution settings as stated in the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr). This is 
normally not considered acceptable. However, taking into account the general poor solubility of the active 
substance in aqueous systems, as well as the non-release of posaconazole under pHs 4.5 and 6.8 even 
with the addition of the surfactant, the repetition of dissolution experiments without including a surfactant 
was not be considered of additional value. In addition, since the conducted bioequivalence study 
demonstrated similarity of test and reference products (see non-clinical/clinical sections), the 
discrepancies observed in vitro did not raise a concern. Dissolution profiles generated in a medium of 0.1 
M HCl following the revision of the QC method conditions showed dissolution results comparable to those 
generated with the originally proposed QC method. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 13/26 
 
 
 
Further, a study was performed to ensure that the suspension can be re-dispersed once settled. Bottles 
of suspension were centrifuged and each bottle was then vigorously shaken followed by a resting period 
of up to 25 hours. Uniformity of dosage units was analysed (on doses of 2.5 mL, equivalent to the 
minimum prescribing dose) after the initial shake and again following the resting period. The results 
demonstrated that, bottles showing any visible settling should be vigorously shaken for a minimum of 10 
seconds to ensure the active substance is well dispersed in the matrix. This is reflected in section 4.2. of 
the SmPC. 
Mass of delivered dose in accordance with Ph. Eur. 2.9.7 was also investigated for both spoon 
administration volumes (2.5 mL and 5 mL) on the three registration batches. The results presented, 
demonstrate that the proposed spoon is suitable for use with posaconazole 40 mg/mL suspension.The 
primary packaging is an amber glass bottle (Type III) closed with a child-resistant and tamper evident 
polypropylene cap. The filled and sealed bottle is packed into a carton along with a graduated polystyrene 
spoon (2.5 mL and 5 mL) for dispensing and administration of the suspension. The glass vials are 
compliant with the Ph.Eur. monograph 3.2.1, “Glass containers for pharmaceutical use”. The 
polypropylene child-resistant and tamper-evident cap comply with ISO 8317:2015 and with EC regulation 
10/2011 and its amendments.  
The measuring device meets the demand of the medical Directive 93/42/EEC and is CE certified. A 
certificate from Notified Body 0373 is provided. The uniformity of mass of delivered doses as per Ph. Eur. 
2.9.27 is tested upon batch release of the finished product (see specifications section). The choice of the 
container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the 
product.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used in the manufacturing Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/ml oral 
suspension. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Posaconazole 40 mg/mL oral suspension is manufactured using a simple process of combining and mixing 
the ingredients in a step-wise manner. The formulation is then passed through a mill to reduce the 
particle size of the entire batch. The resulting suspension is then de-aerated, filtered and filled into the 
glass bottles. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
The proposed critical quality attributes (CQAs) and the critical steps in the manufacturing process of the 
posaconazole 40 mg/ml oral suspension have been thoroughly discussed. The order of addition of the 
individual premixes, mixer type and its capacity, mixing times and speeds for compounding (IPC) were 
evaluated during manufacturing process development. The implemented IPC are sufficient for this type of 
pharmaceutical form.  
The bulk hold time of the suspension was initially investigated during development. Analyses of the 
critical parameters confirmed that the scale-up batch was stable after the studied holding period. 
Subsequent process validation of commercial scale registration batches established a maximum bulk hold 
time. 
The manufacturing process was validated on three production scale batches. A summary of the in-process 
information during manufacture has been provided to confirm that the proposed Posaconazole AHCL 40 
mg/ml oral suspension can be manufactured according to the proposals in the dossier. All parameters and 
attributes were found to be within acceptable ranges and according to acceptance criteria. Appropriate 
reference to the analytical methods applied during process validation was provided. It has been 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 14/26 
 
 
 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner.  
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage 
form: description, density (Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), viscosity (Ph. Eur.), identification of posaconazole 
(UV-PDA and UPLC), identification of sodium benzoate (UPLC), identification of titanium dioxide (colour 
reaction), redispersibility/homogeneity (UPLC), assay of posaconazole (UPLC), assay of sodium benzoate 
(UPLC), uniformity of mass of delivered dose (Ph. Eur.), related substances (UPLC), dissolution (UV), and 
microbiological quality (TAMC, TYMC, E. coli).  
The proposed finished product specification is considered acceptable.  
No specified impurities are controlled in the finished product.  
Posaconazole is optically active (four chiral centres). Each isomer (SSSS, RRRR, SSRR) is controlled as 
impurity in the active substance with the limit NMT 0.10%. The isomers are not degradation products, 
therefore it is acceptable to control their content only in the active substance. 
As indicated above, the proposed suspension formulation contains sodium benzoate as an antimicrobial 
preservative. Microbiological testing has been incorporated as an additional test into the proposed 
finished product specification. Stability studies also include microbial limits testing. 
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. The analyses of inorganic impurities 
included Class 1 elements and Class 2A elements, which should be taken into consideration for oral route 
of administration as well as the element Pd, which is not part ICH Guideline Q3D, but intentionally added 
during the manufacture of active substance. Further class 2b elements and class 3 elements were 
investigated. The incoming active substance, excipients, manufacturing equipment and utilities, as well 
as packaging components were evaluated as part of the risk assessment. The limit was calculated by 
Option 2a of ICH Q3D based on the expected concentration limits of elemental impurities across the 
finished product components and the maximum daily dose of 0.800 g/day the finished product.  The risk 
assessment concluded that none of the elemental impurities considered is expected to exceed the 30 % 
oral PDE control threshold. Therefore, there is no need to specify any elemental impurities in final active 
substance or finished product specification. The analytical methods used have been adequately described 
and appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Forced degradation studies were 
performed in connection with the UHPLC methods for assay and related substances (acidic, base, 
oxidative, heat and light degradation). The highest degradation occurred under oxidative conditions. Peak 
purity was investigated. Both methods are considered as stability indicating. 
Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and sodium benzoate testing 
has been presented. 
Batch analysis results for three batches of finished product are presented. All parameters are within the 
specified limits. Impurities are very well controlled and pH is stable. Therefore, it can be concluded that 
the process is well controlled and the proposed manufacturer is capable of manufacturing a product within 
tight quality margins and a consistent impurity profile. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to eighteen months 
under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to six months under accelerated conditions (40 
ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Bottles were stored in the upright and 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 15/26 
 
 
 
inverted position (three batches and one batch, respectively). The batches of Posaconazole AHCL 40 
mg/ml oral suspension are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for description, density, viscosity, pH, redispersibility/homogeneity. assay of 
posaconazole, assay of sodium benzoate, related substances, dissolution, and microbiological quality 
(TAMC, TYMC, E. coli). The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. 
The finished product was generally very stable and no degradation trends were observable over time. 
Assay remained constant for posaconazole as well as for the preservative sodium benzoate. Overall, a 
slight decrease in viscosity and a slight increase in related substances were observed for the three 
batches of posaconazole suspension (upright and inverted) at both storage conditions for the time points 
tested to date. However, all results remained well within specification. Density, pH, dissolution and 
microbial quality also remained constant over time. No difference was seen in samples stored in upright 
or inverted position. 
A photostability study was also performed on one batch of posaconazole 40 mg/ml oral suspension as per 
ICH Q1B. No significant differences in the stressed sample were observed when compared to the 
unstressed sample and the dark control. All results were well within the proposed specification. Therefore, 
the finished product is considered to be photostable. 
To ensure that the proposed product is stable once opened, an in-use stability study was performed 
in-line with the requirements of the Note for Guidance on in-use stability testing of human medicinal 
products (CPMP/QWP/2934/99), but only on one batch. Bottles were stored in the upright position and in 
the inverted position. Each bottle was opened each day for 30 days in both the upright and inverted 
positions.The results showed no significant difference in results when compared to the time zero testing 
results confirming that the suspension can be used for up to 30 days after opening. To simulate an 
approximately two-year shelf-life, the same batch was tested for in-use stability after storage at 40 ºC/75 
% RH for 6 months (upright and inverted position). All results were well within the proposed 
specifications, indicating that the product is stable “in-use” over a 24 months shelf-life. In addition, the 
CHMP recommended to submit in-use stability data on the same batch after storage for 18 months under 
long term conditions by mid-May 2019 and from a different batch stored for 24 months under long term 
conditions by November 2019.  
Further, a temperature cycling investigation (freeze/thaw) was performed on posaconazole 40 mg/mL 
suspension in the proposed commercial container closure system. The product is frozen and then exposed 
to high temperature. In this study bottles of posaconazole suspension were subjected to several cycles of 
storage between -20 °C and 40 °C. Following the cycling periods the bottles of suspension were visually 
inspected for any deformations and the suspension was microscopically inspected for any crystallisation. 
The samples were also analysed and compared to acceptance criteria. 
No damage, physical defects, discolouration or leakage of contents was observed over the studied cycle 
periods for each of the bottles when compared to time zero. No significant differences were observed in 
the container closure system after completion of the temperature excursion study.Microscopic analysis 
showed a slight increase in the size of the flakes after the last cycle when compared to time zero , 
however, this is not considered to be significant. Analytical testing according to the acceptance criteria 
confirmed that results are well within specification after completion of the temperature excursion study 
with no changes in particle size distribution. Thus, posaconazole 40 mg/mL Suspension has demonstrated 
to be stable when subjected to excursions of -20 °C to 40 °C. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 30 months with no special storage conditions 
as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) and the in-use shelf life of 30 days (after first opening of the 
container) are acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 16/26 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The proposed product is a generic of Noxafil 40 mg/ml oral suspension (EMEA/H/C/000610). Information 
on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
 - To submit additional supportive in-use stability data from the same batch after storage for 18 months 
under long term conditions and from a different batch stored for 24 months under long term conditions by 
November 2019.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Posaconazole AHCL manufactured by Accord Healthcare S.L.U. is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all posaconazole containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology for Posaconazole AHCL 
has  been  provided.  The  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data  are  well  known  for 
posaconazole and thus new non-clinical data are not required. The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in 
line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered 
acceptable. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 17/26 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects are considered adequate to support this application. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Oral Suspension containing posaconazole. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under 
fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment, the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09) are of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
Not applicable. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant submitted one bioequivalence study: ZPS-635. 
Table 1 - Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 18/26 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study ZPS-635: A single dose, blinded, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, three-period, 
three-sequence, partial replicate, reference scaled, crossover, bioequivalence study comparing 40 mg/ml 
posaconazole oral suspension (Douglas, New Zealand) with 40 mg/ml Noxafil® oral suspension (Merck 
Sharp & Dohme ltd, UK) in healthy volunteers under fed conditions. 
The primary study objective was to evaluate the bioequivalence of posaconazole (as summarised by Cmax 
and AUC) for the two formulations, the test formulation, 1 x 400 mg (10 ml) of 40 mg/ml posaconazole 
oral suspension, Douglas (Batch No.: A0967), relative to that of the reference 1 and 2 formulation, 1 x 
400 mg (10 ml) of 40 mg/ml Noxafil® oral suspension, Merck Sharp & Dohme (Batch No.: M05001), in 
healthy, adult, subjects under fed conditions in a single-centre, single dose, two treatment, three period, 
three sequence, partial replicate, reference scaled, randomized study. 
Methods 
Study design  
The study was a single dose, blinded, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, three-period, 
three-sequence, partial replicate, reference scaled, crossover, bioequivalence study comparing 40 mg/ml 
posaconazole oral suspension (Douglas, New Zealand) with 40 mg/ml Noxafil® oral suspension (Merck 
Sharp & Dohme ltd, UK) in 34 healthy volunteers under fed conditions. 
Test and reference products  
Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/ml oral suspension manufactured by Accord Healthcare (batch No. A0967; 
exp. date 24 October 2017) has been compared to Noxafil 40 mg/ml oral suspension manufactured by 
Merck Sharp & Dohme ltd (Batch No: M05001, exp. date November 2018). 
Product Characteristics 
Test Product 
Name 
Strength 
Dosage Form 
Manufacturer 
Batch number 
Posaconazole 
40 mg/ml 
suspension 
Douglas 
A0967 
Measured content(s) (% of label 
100.7% 
claim) 
Expiry Date (retest date) 
Oct 2017 
Member State from where the 
N/a 
reference product was 
purchased 
Reference Product 
Noxafil ® 
40 mg/ml 
suspension 
Merck Sharp & Dohme 
M05001 
99.2% 
Nov 2018 
Germany 
This product was used in the 
ZPS-635  
ZPS-635 
following trials 
Population studied 
Thirty-seven (37) healthy adult subjects were enrolled and randomized, 34 subjects (14 females and 20 
males; 18 - 55 years, BMI 18.5 - 30 kg/m2) of European, Pacific, Asian, European/Pacific, European/Maori 
and African origin received at least one dose. Three (3) subjects dropped out prior to dosing. Three (3) 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 19/26 
 
 
 
 
subjects (no. 062-37, no. 034-36 and no. 009-30) dropped out. Thirty-one (31) subjects completed both 
periods and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Analytical methods 
A LC-MS/MS method for the determination of posaconazole concentrations in K2EDTA human plasma was 
validated pre-study. The internal standard was Posaconazole D5. The calibration curve range during 
study sample analysis was from 8.0 ng/ml to 2048.0 ng/ml and the quality control concentrations (seeded 
controls) were 24.0, 220.0 and 1600.0 ng/ml). 
A total of 2646 samples were analysed. A total of 48 samples (1.81%) were reanalysed due to IS peak 
absent. For incurred sample reanalysis 294 samples were run. A total of 90.1% of samples were found to 
be within a variation of 20% from the mean value. Long term stability at -60°C nominal was proven for a 
period that spanned the time from first study sample collection to completion of ISR analysis.   
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The pharmacokinetic parameters for this study were AUC0-72 and Cmax, AUC0-∞, Tmax, T1/2 and Kel. The 
pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using standard methods and a non-compartmental 
approach. The PK analysis software used was SAS® Package (Version 6.0). 
Statistical methods 
PROC GLM of SAS® software version 6.0 was employed for statistical analysis. A parametric ANOVA was 
performed on the ln-transformed Cmax, AUC0-72 and AUC0-∞. The ANOVA model included sequence, period 
and treatment. The test to reference ratio of geometric LS means and the corresponding 90% confidence 
interval based on the ln-transformed Cmax, AUC0-72 and AUC0-∞ data were calculated. The parameter Tmax 
was analyzed using a non-parametric approach. 
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
Bioequivalence will be confirmed by the 90% confidence interval calculated for log normal data falling 
within the limits 80.00 – 125.00% for AUC0-72, and 
(iii)  
80.00  –  125.00%  for  Cmax  if  the  within-subject  variability  for  Cmax  of  the  reference 
compound in the study is 30% or less; or 
(iv)  
(a)  of  a  widened  acceptance  range  calculated  using  scale-average-bioequivalence 
according to [U,L] = exp[±k.sWR], where U is the upper limit of the acceptance range, L 
is the lower limit of the acceptance range, k is the regulatory constant set to 0.760 and 
sWR is the within-subject standard deviation of the log transformed values of Cmax of the 
reference product, and 
(b) the point estimate of the Test-to-Reference (T/R) geometric mean ratio (GMR) falls 
within 80.00 – 125.00%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 20/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Table 2 - Pharmacokinetic parameters for posaconazole (non-transformed values) 
Table 3 - Statistical analysis for posaconazole (ln-transformed values) 
The test to reference ratio of geometric LS means and corresponding 90% confidence interval for the Cmax 
and AUC0-72 were all within the acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. 
Safety data 
A total of 15 post-dose adverse events were reported by 11 of the 34 subjects included in the study. Three 
(3) subjects (8.8%) reported 4 adverse events after the single dose administration of the test product. 
Eight (8) subjects (25%) reported 11 adverse events after the single dose administration of the reference 
product. The reported adverse events were sore throat, feeling dizzy/lightheaded, breathlessness, 
nausea, redness at IV site, pain at IV site, nauseous, flu (head-cold), tired, drowsy, cold, skin reaction to 
ECG stickers, acute thrombophlebitis. The severity of adverse events was mild or moderate. No severe 
adverse events were observed during the study. No serious adverse events or deaths were reported 
during this study. Overall, the drugs tested were generally safe and well tolerated by the subjects 
included in this study. 
Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  studies  Posaconazole  AHCL  oral  suspension  is  considered 
bioequivalent with Noxafil oral suspension. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 21/26 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support this generic application for the marketing authorisation of Posaconazole Accord 40mg/ml 
suspension, the applicant submitted one bioequivalence study, ZPS-635.  
The clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided and is adequate.  
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Posaconazole AHCL oral suspension can be considered 
bioequivalent with Noxafil oral suspension. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Posaconazole AHCL and justifications that the 
active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the 
reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant 
guideline and additional clinical studies were considered necessary. 
The bioequivalence has been shown appropriately under fed conditions between Posaconazole AHCL 40 
mg/ml oral suspension and Noxafil® 40 mg/ml oral suspension. 
The treatment was well tolerated by the subjects enrolled in the study. Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/ml oral 
suspension and 40 mg/ml oral suspension have similar safety profiles. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
•  Elevated liver enzymes; Hepatotoxicity; Hepatic failure; Hepatitis 
• 
thrombocytopenia  purpura;  Hemolytic  uremic 
Thrombotic 
syndrome 
Torsades de pointes 
• 
•  Drug interaction 
• 
Injury,  Poisoning,  and  Procedural  Complications  –  Medication 
Error  –  Related  to  potential  substitution  between  different 
formulations (tablet and oral suspension) 
•  Agranulocytosis; Aplastic Anemia 
•  QTc prolongation; Heart Failure; Myocardial infarction 
•  Depression; Suicide 
•  Adrenal Insufficiency 
•  Convulsion; Cerebral ischemia; Cerebral haemorrhage 
• 
•  Hypertension; Venous thrombosis; Arterial thrombosis 
•  Hypokalemia 
•  Occurrence  of  any  neoplasm/malignancy,  especially:  Hepatic 
adenoma;  Hepatic  neoplasm;  Adrenal  adenoma;  Adrenal 
Pulmonary haemorrhage 
neoplasm; Phaeochromocytoma 
• 
Fungal infections 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 22/26 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Missing information 
Photopsia; Visual brightness; Visual disturbances 
• 
•  Experience in children 
The safety concerns listed are in line with the reference Medicinal Product. 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine pharmacovigilance is proposed for all safety concerns. 
Targeted questionnaires (see RMP Annex) are proposed for the following risks:  
•  Elevated liver enzymes; Hepatotoxicity; Hepatic failure; Hepatitis (identified risks) 
• 
Torsades de pointes (identified risk) 
•  Drug interaction (identified risk) 
•  Agranulocytosis; Aplastic Anemia (potential risk) 
•  QTc prolongation; Heart Failure; Myocardial infarction (potential risk) 
•  Adrenal Insufficiency; (potential risk) 
•  Convulsion; Cerebral ischemia; Cerebral haemorrhage (potential risk) 
•  Venous thrombosis; Arterial thrombosis (potential risk) 
Risk minimisation measures 
In line with the reference product, routine risk minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks 
of the product in the proposed indications. 
A warning about non-interchangeability of tablets and oral solution is reflected on the outer carton. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 23/26 
 
 
 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Noxafil 40 mg/mL oral suspension. The bridging report 
submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of Posaconazole 40 mg/ml oral suspension. The reference 
product Noxafil is indicated for:  
- Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole or in 
patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
- Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are intolerant 
of amphotericin B; 
- Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or in 
patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
- Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
- Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe disease or are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Noxafil gastro-resistant tablets are also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the 
following patients: 
- Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are at high risk 
of developing invasive fungal infections; 
- Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing invasive 
fungal infections. 
No non-clinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis, with a single dose, blinded, balanced, randomised, 
two-treatment, three-period, three-sequence, partial replicate, reference scaled, crossover design 
summary. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation 
and was in line with the respective European requirements.  
The basis of the bioequivalence study under fed conditions is justified. The bioequivalence has been 
shown appropriately under fed conditions between Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/ml oral suspension and 
Noxafil 40 mg/ml oral suspension. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 24/26 
 
 
 
wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical 
methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Posaconazole AHCL 40 mg/ml oral suspension met the protocol-defined criteria for 
bioequivalence when compared with the Noxafil 40 mg/ml oral suspension. The point estimates and their 
90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the 
protocol-defined acceptance range of  80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was 
demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the benefit-risk balance of Posaconazole AHCL is favourable in the following indication: 
treatment of the following fungal infections in adults: 
• 
• 
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole 
or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
•  Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or 
in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
•  Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
•  Oropharyngeal  candidiasis:  as  first-line  therapy  in  patients  who  have  severe  disease  or  are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Posaconazole AHCL is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following patients: 
• 
Patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are at 
high risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
•  Hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplant  (HSCT)  recipients  who  are  undergoing  high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/354180/2019  
Page 26/26 
 
 
 
