Summary of risk management plan for Posaconazole Accord gastro-
resistant tablets (100 mg) (Posaconazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant 
tablets (100 mg). The RMP details important risks of Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablets 
(100 mg), how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Posaconazole  Accord  gastro-resistant  tablets  (100  mg)’s  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablets (100 mg)'s product information and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Posaconazole Accord 
gastro-resistant tablets (100 mg) should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablets (100 mg) should be 
read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Posaconazole 
Accord gastro-resistant tablets (100 mg)’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg) is indicated for use in the treatment of the 
following fungal infections in adults: 
• 
Invasive  aspergillosis  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to  amphotericin  B  or 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
•  Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who 
are intolerant of amphotericin B; 
•  Chromoblastomycosis  and  mycetoma  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to 
itraconazole or in patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
•  Coccidioidomycosis  in  patients  with  disease  that  is  refractory  to  amphotericin  B, 
itraconazole or fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 
days of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg) is also indicated for prophylaxis of invasive 
fungal infections in the following patients: 
•  Patients  receiving  remission-induction  chemotherapy  for  acute  myelogenous  leukemia 
(AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia 
and who are at high risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
•  Hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplant  (HSCT)  recipients  who  are  undergoing  high-dose 
immunosuppressive  therapy  for  graft  versus  host  disease  and  who  are  at  high  risk  of 
developing invasive fungal infections. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Posaconazole  Accord  gastro-resistant  tablets  (100 
mg)’s benefits  can be found in  Posaconazole Accord  gastro-resistant tablets  (100 mg)’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/posaconazole-accord  link  to 
product’s EPAR summary landing page on the EMA webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg), together with measures 
to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Posaconazole  Accord 
gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg)'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package  leaflet  and  Product  Information  (PI)  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals. 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
•  The authorised pack size -the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly. 
•  The medicine’s legal  status-  the way  a medicine is  supplied to  the  patient (e.g. with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment and signal management activity, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant 
tablet (100 mg) is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg). 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Posaconazole Accord gastro-resistant tablet (100 mg). 
 
 
