21 October 2010 
EMA/792855/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Potactasol 
International nonproprietary name: topotecan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2282 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
Scientific Advice: ...................................................................................................... 3 
Licensing status: ...................................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.3. Medicinal Product ............................................................................................ 7 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 8 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ....................... 8 
2.3. Non-Clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 8 
Pharmacology .......................................................................................................... 9 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects ............................................................................ 10 
3.4 Clinical Aspects ................................................................................................. 10 
Pharmacodynamics ................................................................................................. 11 
Pharmacokinetic ..................................................................................................... 11 
Additional data ....................................................................................................... 12 
3.5 Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 13 
3.6 Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ........................... 13 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment........................................................... 13 
Recommendation.................................................................................................... 14 
Assessment report  
Page 2/14
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Actavis  Group  PTC  ehf    submitted  on  12  July  2010    an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Potactasol  1  mg  and  4  mg  (1  mg/ml) 
powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion,  in  accordance  with  the  centralised  procedure  falling 
within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally 
authorised product’. 
This  application  has  been  submitted  as  a  duplicate  to  the  marketing  authorization  for  Topotecan 
Actavis 1 mg and 4 mg (1 mg/ml) Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion - EU/1/09/536/001, 
002), in accordance with Artic1e 82(1) of Regulation (EC) 726/2004. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Community  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The chosen reference product is: 
(cid:31) Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Hycamtin, 1 mg and 4 mg, powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion 
  Marketing authorisation holder: SmithKline Beecham plc. 
  Date of authorisation: (dd-mm-yyyy) 12-11-1996  
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
 Community Marketing authorisation number(s):  
1 mg: EU/1/96/027/004 (5 vials), EU/1/96/027/005 (1 vial) 
4 mg: EU/1/96/027/001 (5 vials), EU/1/96/027/003 (1 vial) 
(cid:31) Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
  Not applicable 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Dr. Laslop. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Assessment report  
Page 3/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 12 July 2010.  
The procedure started on 18 August 2010. 
The  Rapporteur's  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  24  September 
2010  (Annex  1).  A  revised  Assessment  Report  following  receipt  of  CHMP  comments  was 
circulated on 15 October 2010 (Annex 2). 
During  the  meeting  on  18  –  21  October  2010,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Potactasol on 21 October 2010.  
Assessment report  
Page 4/14
 
 
 
 
 
2.   Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Potactasol  1  mg  and  4  mg  (1  mg/ml)  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  is  a  generic 
medicinal  product  containing  topotecan  hydrochloride  as  active  substance.  The  reference  medicinal 
product  Hycamtin  1  mg  and  4  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for infusion  has been  centrally 
authorised  on  12  November  1996.  The  active  substance  of  the  reference  product  is  topotecan  also 
present as topotecan hydrochloride salt. 
Topotecan is a cytotoxic anti-cancer agent (semi-synthetic analogue of the alkaloid camptothecin). 
Topotecan  is  exerting  its  activity  by  the  inhibition  of  the  nuclear  enzyme  topoisomerase  I  that  is 
involved in DNA replication. The inhibition is due to stabilisation of the intermediate covalent complex 
of  enzyme  and  strand-cleaved  DNA.  As  a  result,  DNA  damage  induces  apoptotic  cell  death 
predominantly in replicating cells such as tumour cells. 
Potactasol  is  indicated  (as  monotherapy)  for  treatment  of  patients  with  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the 
ovary  after  failure  of  first-line  or  subsequent  therapy  and  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  relapsed 
small  cell  lung  cancer  (SCLC)  for  whom  re-treatment  with  the  first-line  regimen  is  not  considered 
appropriate.  Topotecan  in  combination  with  cisplatin  is  indicated  for  patients  with  carcinoma  of  the 
cervix  recurrent  after  radiotherapy  and  for  patients  with  Stage  IVB  disease.  Patients  with  prior 
exposure  to  cisplatin  require  a  sustained  treatment  free  interval  to  justify  treatment  with  the 
combination. 
The  Applicant  for  the  duplicate  marketing  authorization  is  the  same  that  applied  for  the  original 
marketing  authorization  (Topotecan  Actavis  1  mg  and  4  mg  (1  mg/ml)  Powder  for  concentrate  for 
solution  for  infusion  -  EU/1/09/536/001,  002).  The  European  Commission  granted  a  marketing 
authorisation  valid  throughout  the  EU  for  “Topotecan  Actavis  1  mg  and  4  mg  (1  mg/ml)  Powder  for 
concentrate for solution for infusion” to Actavis Group PTC ehf. on 24 July 2009. 
Compared  with  the  original  marketing  authorization  the  applicant  has  applied  for  the  following 
additional indication: 
Topotecan monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of: 
- 
patients  with  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  ovary  after  failure  of  first-line  or  subsequent 
therapy. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The  medicinal  product  Potactasol  contains  the  active  substance  topotecan  hydrochloride  as  sterile 
lyophilised  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion.  Two  strengths  1  mg/vial  and  4  mg/vial 
have been developed. The vials contain 1 mg topotecan (as hydrochloride), with a 10 % overage of fill 
or  4  mg  topotecan  (as  hydrochloride),  respectively.  Other  ingredients  are  mannitol  (bulking  agent), 
tartaric acid (stabilizer) and sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid (pH adjustment).  
The  medicinal  product  is  packed  into  type  I  colourless  borosilicate  glass  vials  (5  ml  or  8  ml),  with  a 
grey  bromobutylic  stopper  and  an  aluminium  flip-off  cap  with  a  white  or  blue  polypropylene  disk, 
respectively. Each vial is packaged in an individual carton box.  
Assessment report  
Page 5/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
of 
the 
active 
substance 
chemical  name 
The 
[(Dimethylamino)methyl]-4-ethyl-4,9-dihydroxy-1Hpyrano[3’,4’:6,7]indolizino-[1,2-b]quinoline-
3,14(4H,12H)-dione monohydrochloride. The International Non Property Name (INN) is topotecan. 
Topotecan hydrochloride is a yellow to orange powder. Topotecan hydrochloride has one chiral center 
and is optically active. 
At room temperature, topotecan hydrochloride is freely soluble in water, slightly insoluble in methanol 
and  ethanol  and  insoluble  in  acetone  and  acetonitrile,  n-hexane,  tetrahydrofuran  and  ethylacetate. 
Topotecan  hydrochloride  is  considered  hygroscopic.  There  is  no  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  topotecan 
hydrochloride. 
topotecan  hydrochloride 
(S)-10-
is: 
The  active  substance  has  been  fully  characterised  and  the  chemical  structure  of  topotecan 
hydrochloride  has  been  elucidated  through  elemental  analysis,  ultraviolet  (UV),  infrared  (IR),  mass 
spectrometry  (MS)  and  nuclear  magnetic  resonance  spectroscopy  (NMR).  All  data  are  consistent  with 
the proposed structure. 
Manufacture 
Topotecan hydrochloride is a semi-synthetic, water soluble analogue of camptothecin. It is synthesized 
by  a  two-step  reaction  followed  by  re-crystallisation  and  purification.  Detailed  information  about  the 
manufacturing, process validation and control of critical manufacturing steps has been supplied in the 
form of an active substance master file (ASMF). At the time of the opinion, only one active substance 
manufacturer is authorised. 
All  manufacturing  steps  are  adequately  described.  Adequate  in  process  controls  are  in  place  and 
appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the  starting  materials,  solvents,  reagents  and 
auxiliary  materials.  All  relevant  impurities,  degradation  products  and  residual  solvents  have  been 
appropriately characterized.  
Specification 
As no monograph of topotecan hydrochloride exists in the Ph. Eur. or USP, in-house specifications have 
been set for the active substance, in accordance with the principles of ICH guidelines. 
The  active  substance  specifications  are  considered  appropriate  and  include  tests  for  appearance, 
identification  (HPLC  and  FT-IR  spectra),  assay  and  purity  (HPLC),  specific  rotation,  residual  solvents 
(GC), heavy metals, water content (Karl-Fischer determination), chloride content (titration), residue on 
ignition  and  bacterial  endotoxins.  The  analytical  procedures  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. 
The  impurity  limits  are  acceptable  and  there  is  no  concern  from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch 
analysis  data  have  been  presented  and  all  batches  were  in  compliance  with  the  predefined  active 
substance specification. 
Stability 
The manufacturer has conducted stability studies at long- term (5ºC) and accelerated (25ºC/ 60%RH) 
conditions  on  two  batches.  Additionally,  forced  degradation  studies  and  stress  studies  have  been 
performed.  The  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance,  assay  and  purity  by  HPLC  and  water 
content  by  Karl  Fischer.  The  test  methods  for  stability  are  the  same  as  those  used  in  the  active 
substance specifications above. 
From thermal stability studies could be concluded that topotecan hydrochloride is sensitive to exposure 
of  light,  moisture  and  excessive  heat.  A  justified  retest  period  has  been  defined  and  agreed.  The 
stability studies are performed in accordance with the ICH guidelines and EMEA Guidance on Stability 
Testing.  
Topotecan hydrochloride is double packed in low density polyethylene (LDPE) bags. The package bags 
are sealed with twist before inserted into aluminium foil bags that no not contact with the product. The 
container-closure  system  of  topotecan  hydrochloride  is  in  accordance  with  the  EMEA  guideline 
CPMP/QWP/4359/03. 
Assessment report  
Page 6/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.   Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The medicinal product Potactasol 1 mg and 4 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is a 
generic of the reference medicinal product Hycamtin, approved centrally on 12th November 1996.   
Potactasol (1 mg and 4 mg) powder for concentrate for solution for infusion has the same qualitative 
and  quantitative  composition  as  Hycamtin  in  terms  of  active  substance.  In  terms  of  excipients,  the 
qualitative and quantitative composition of Potactasol 4 mg is identical to Hycamtin. Potactasol 1 mg, 
on the contrary, contains twice as much mannitol compared to Hycamtin 1 mg powder for concentrate 
for solution for infusion. Other excipients in the 1 mg strength are identical to the reference medicinal 
product. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  focused  the  product  development  on  the  optimization  of  the 
manufacturing  procedure  and  the  confirmation  of  the  medicinal  product  stability.  Furthermore,  the 
compatibility with the reconstitution solvent (water for injections) and stability of the medicinal product 
after reconstitution and dilution have been studied.  
Potactasol  is  administrated  intravenously  and  is  therefore  classified  as  100%  bioavailable.  Therefore, 
no bioequivalence study versus the reference medicinal product was performed. 
Adventitious agents 
No component of human or animal origin is used for the finished product manufacture, therefore there 
is no BSE/TSE risk. BSE/TSE declarations from the manufacturers of the excipients are provided. 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  Potactasol  involves: sterilization of  the  container  closure  system, 
preparation of the topotecan solution, sterilization by filtration, freeze-drying, vials capping, and 
external vial washing and drying. The manufacturing method is essentially the same for the two 
strengths. The manufacturing process is satisfactorily described and validated, and adequate in-
process controls are applied. 
All  critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  controlled  by  appropriate  in-process 
controls.  The  manufacturing  process  demonstrates  to  be  reproducible  and  provides  a  finished 
product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications. 
Product Specification 
The  medicinal  product  specifications  for  Potactasol  at  batch  release  include  tests  for  appearance, 
identification  (HPLC,  UV),  water  content  (Karl  Fischer),  dissolution  time  (in  water  for  injections), 
uniformity  of  content,  assay  and  impurity  content  (HPLC),  sterility  and  bacterial  endotoxins.  The 
specifications for the reconstituted solution in water for injections include tests for appearance, colour, 
clarity, visible and sub-visible particles and pH. 
All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated, according to the 
state  of  the  art.  Appropriate  data  have  been  presented  to  justify  the  release  specifications  for  each 
quality characteristic that is controlled. Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and 
found  to  be  acceptable  from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the 
Assessment report  
Page 7/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proposed  specification  and  confirm  consistency  &  uniformity  of  manufacture  and  indicate  that  the 
process is under control.  
Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been performed on 6 production scale batches under long term conditions (25°C 
±  2°C/60%  RH  ±  5°C),    accelerated  conditions  (40°C  ±  2°C/75%  RH  ±  5°C)  and  intermediate 
conditions (30°C ± 2°C/65% RH ± 5% RH). In addition, photo-stability studies have been performed, 
as  well  as  stability  studies  after  reconstitution  with  water  for  injections  and  stability  studies  after 
dilution in solution for infusion (0.9% NaCl and 5% glucose).  
The shelf-life specifications include the same parameters and tests as the release specifications. In all 
cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the shelf life and storage conditions 
as defined in the SPC.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The  quality  of  Potactasol  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The synthesis of the active substance topotecan hydrochloride is adequately described and impurities 
are  characterised,  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  medicinal 
product  Potactasol  is  under  control  and  ensures  both  batch  to  batch  reproducibility  and  compliance 
with  standard  procedures  and  specifications.  The  analytical  methods  have  been  validated  and  ensure 
consistent  quality  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product.  The  stability  data  on  the  active 
substance  support  the  proposed  re-testing  period,  and  the  stability  data  on  the  finished  product 
support the shelf life as stated in the SPC. 
In comparison with the EU reference product, Potactasol contains the same qualitative composition in 
terms of active substance and excipients. Both the EU reference product and Potactasol exhibit similar 
dissolution profiles.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
In  conclusion,  information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and 
medicinal  product  have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out 
indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these 
in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in 
the clinic. 
At the time of the Opinion no quality issues remained unresolved. 
2.3.  Non-Clinical aspects   
There  were  no  detailed  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  study  reports 
submitted  by  the  applicant.  The  non-clinical  studies  refer  to  88  publications  from  1983  to  2007.  The 
applicant submitted a justification why no additional studies are required. 
Assessment report  
Page 8/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  pharmacologic  aspects  of  topotecan. 
Accordingly, topotecan hydrochloride has been reported as a water-soluble semi-synthetic derivate of 
camptothecin, a cytotoxic alkaloid and to be a specific inhibitor of topoisomerase I. Topotecan builds a 
“cleavable complex” with Topoisomerase I and DNA.  The drug-enzyme-DNA complex ultimately causes 
double-stranded  DNA  breaks  when  DNA  replication  occurs  and  leads  to  cell  death  predominantly  in 
replicating  cells  such  as  tumour  cells.  Topotecan  is  an  S-phase-specific  drug,  but  replication-
independent  mechanism  of  cytotoxicity  may  involve  the  induction  of  serine  proteases  and 
endonucleases  because  cytotoxicity  also  has  been  observed  in  cells  not  actively  synthesising  DNA. 
Overall  topotecan  has  been  reported  to  exhibit  a  broad  spectrum  of  activity  in  xenograft  tumour 
models  which  is  comparable  to  that  of  other  antineoplastic  agents,  and  that  has  been  confirmed  in 
various more recently conducted studies. Topotecan in combination with cisplatin has been reported to 
show therapeutic synergism. 
Pharmacokinetics 
There  were  no  pharmacokinetic  study  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the  application.  A  review  of  the 
literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  pharmacokinetic  aspects  of  topotecan.  The 
pharmacokinetics of topotecan has been evaluated in three animal species (rats, mice and dogs), used 
in  the  preclinical  programme  and  in  nonhuman  primate.  The  studies  were  performed  in  normal  and 
tumour-bearing animals.  
Toxicology 
A  review  of  the  literature  was  submitted  which  described  the  toxicology  aspects  of  topotecan.  There 
were no toxicology studies submitted as part of the application. 
The toxicity of topotecan was similar across species and consistent with inhibition of topoisomerase I. 
Drug-induced  lesions  were  identified  in  tissues  with  high  cell  turnover  rates.  The  toxicity  profile  was 
characterised mainly by myelotoxicity (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia and/or anaemia), 
lymphoid  depletion  in  thymus  and  lymph  nodes,  and  gastrointestinal  effects  (emesis,  diarrhoea  and 
intestinal  crypt  epithelial  necrosis).  Bone  marrow  haematopoietic  cells,  primarily  neutrophils, 
demonstrated the highest sensitivity to topotecan. Minor lesions were noted in testes, hair follicles and 
ovaries, also tissues with rapid cellular turnover. Toxicities were not progressive and were reversible. 
Topotecan caused maternal and embryofetal toxicity in rats and rabbits with malformations in rats. No 
drug-related effects on mating, fertility or gonadal function were observed in males given topotecan at 
doses up to 0.68 mg/m2. Superovulation was described in rats.  
The  genotoxic  potential  of  topotecan  was  investigated  in  vitro  using  bacterial  tests  and  mammalian 
cells assay and in vivo with mouse micronucleus tests. As would be expected from its pharmacological 
activity, topotecan was genotoxic to mammalian cells. 
The reproductive toxicity of topotecan was investigated in rats and dogs. Topotecan was evaluated for 
maternal toxicity as well as embryotoxic, fetotoxic and teratogenic potential in female rabbits and rats. 
There  are  no  published  preclinical  studies  available  in  the  scientific  literature  regarding  the  local 
tolerance of topotecan. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An Environmental Risk Assessment was not submitted with this marketing authorization application. 
The  applicant  has  applied  for  an  exemption  of  the  Environmental  risk  Assessment  based  on  the  fact 
that products containing topotecan hydrochloride as drug substance have been authorised in the EU for 
more than 10 years and that the possible risks for environment arising from use, storage and disposal 
of  the  medicinal  product  are  covered  by  the  instructions/  measures  that  are  included  in  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report  
Page 9/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  overview  presented  by  the  applicant  provided  an  adequate  overview  of  the 
pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and toxicological aspects of topotecan. There were no major issues 
raised during the assessment from a non-clinical point of view. 
The pharmacology of topotecan has been widely investigated, as reflected in the review submitted by 
the applicant.  
The pharmacokinetics of topotecan seem generally well characterised.  The pharmacokinetic profile of 
topotecan was investigated in mice, rats, dogs and nonhuman primate. 
There  have  been  no  new  findings  which  require  amendments  of  the  safety  and  efficacy  evaluation  or 
changes in SPC and PL. 
The  toxicity  of  topotecan  was  described  as  similar  across  species  and  consistent  with  inhibition  of 
topoisomerase I. 
Topotecan  was  described  as  genotoxic  to  mammalian  cells.  Long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  with 
topotecan were not submitted. According to CPMP/SWP/997/96, “Note for Guidance on the pre-clinical 
evaluation of anticancer medicinal products” this is acceptable, because carcinogenicity studies are not 
usually  required  due  to  the  intended  therapeutic  indications.  However,  topotecan  is  known  to  be 
genotoxic to mammalian cells and is probable carcinogen. 
Topotecan  distributes  to  the  uveal  tract/retina  and  skin.  No  specific  phototoxicity  studies  have  been 
conducted but it is stated that no toxicity was identified in the eye or skin of pigmented dogs and no 
reports of phototoxicity from use in the clinic are available.  
An exemption of the Environmental Risk Assessment can be accepted for this product on the basis that 
this is a generic application and no changes in the environmental risks, beside those which are already 
known for topotecan, are anticipated. 
3.4 Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  provided  an  updated  review  of  the  clinical  use  of  topotecan  for  the  proposed 
indications with 78 publications from 1989 to 2007. 
There  were  no  detailed  study  reports  from  clinical  trials  submitted  by  the  applicant.  The  application 
was submitted in accordance with Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, where the applicant was not 
required  to  provide  the  results  of  pre-clinical  tests  and  of  clinical  trials  as  the  medicinal  product  is  a 
generic  of  a  reference  medicinal  product  which  is  authorised  for  6/10  years  in  a  MS  or  in  the 
Community. 
Bio-equivalence exemption  
According  to  section  5.1.6  of  the  guideline  “Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability 
and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98”, for parenteral solutions the applicant is not required to 
submit a bioequivalence study if the product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution 
containing  the  same  active  substance  in  the  same  concentration  as  the  currently  authorised  product. 
Thus, as Potactasol is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing topotecan in 
the same concentration as the currently authorised product, the applicant was not required to submit a 
bioequivalence study. 
Clinical studies 
The  application  contains  adequate  clinical  data  from  the  review  of  the  publication  literature  for  the 
proposed indication: 
∙  Topotecan monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the 
ovary after failure of first-line or subsequent therapy. 
Assessment report  
Page 10/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
∙  Topotecan monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed small cell lung 
Cancer [SCLC] for whom re-treatment with the first-line regimen is not considered appropriate (see 
section 5.1). 
∙  Topotecan in combination with cisplatin is indicated for patients with carcinoma of the cervix 
recurrent after radiotherapy and for patients with Stage IVB disease. Patients with prior exposure to 
cisplatin require a sustained treatment free interval to justify treatment with the combination (see 
section 5.1). 
Pharmacodynamics 
A review of the literature was submitted which described the clinical pharmacodynamic aspects of 
topotecan. 
There were no clinical pharmacodynamic study reports submitted as part of the application. 
Pharmacokinetic 
A review of the literature was submitted which described the pharmacokinetic aspects of topotecan.  
There were no clinical pharmacokinetic study reports submitted as part of the application. 
Absorption 
Following  intravenous  administration  of  topotecan  in  adults  with  solid  tumors,  at  doses  of  0,5  to  1,5 
mg/m2,  as  a  30-minute  infusion,  daily  for  five  days,  mean  peak  serum  topotecan  (lactone) 
concentration  was  73  to  78  nmol/l  (hydroxy  acid  45  nmol/l  at  20  minutes).  The  peak  plasma 
concentrations  and  the  area  under  the  plasma  concentration-versus-time  curves  (AUC)  show  linear 
relationship  with  increasing  dosages.  No  evidence  of  drug  accumulation  is  seen  with  daily  30-minute 
infusions for 5 consecutive days.  
Distribution 
Following  intravenous  administration  for  5  days,  at  doses  of  0,5  to  1,5  mg/m2,  as  a  30-minute 
infusion,  topotecan  has  a  volume  of  distribution  of  approximately  130  L.  Mean  plasma  clearance  for 
topotecan  was approximately 1,000 ml/min, with a plasma half-life of 2 to 3 hours. 
The binding of topotecan to plasma proteins was low (35%) and distribution between  blood cells and 
plasma was fairly homogeneous. 
Elimination 
The  elimination  of  topotecan  has  only  been  partly  elucidated  in  humans.  No  recovery  study  with 
radiolabelled topotecan has been conducted. 
Topotecan is rapidly eliminated from systemic circulation. Topotecan was rapidly hydrolyzed in vivo to 
a less active, open-ring form. Only 20% to 35% of the total drug in plasma is found to be in the active 
lactone  form.  Elimination  of  the  lactone  form  appears  to  result  mainly  from  rapid  hydrolysis  to  the 
caboxylate species followed by renal excretion, with 30% to 40% of the administered dose excreted in 
the urine within 24 hours. 
Renal clearance is an important determinant of topotecan elimination.  
Assessment report  
Page 11/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The applicant has provided a review of 78 publications dated from 1989 to 2007 concerning the clinical 
use  of  topotecan  for  the  proposed  indications.  There  were  no  clinical  or  safety  studies  submitted  as 
part of the application. 
Topotecan as monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic ovarian carcinoma after failure of first-line 
or subsequent therapy, was studies in 5 clinical trials, including 3 uncontrolled phase II studies and 2 
controlled  phase  III  trials.  In  3  uncontrolled  phase  II  studies,  in  patients  with  platinum-
resistant/refractory  epithelial  ovarian  cancer,  topotecan  showed  objective  response  rates  ranging 
between 14 – 17 % with a median survival in range 8,7 – 11 months.  
Topotecan as second-line therapy for treatment patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have 
failed  or  relapsed  after  first-line  chemotherapy  was  studied  in  five  clinical  trials,  including  one 
controlled,  multicenter,  randomized,  phase  III  trial  and  4  uncontrolled,  phase  II  studies.  In  4 
uncontrolled  phase  II  studies,  in  patients  with  recurrent  or  progressive  SCLC,  topotecan  showed 
objective response rates ranging from 11 – 31 % in patients with sensitive disease and from 2 – 7 % 
in patients with refractory disease. 
In  a  large  randomized  controlled  trial  topotecan  used  as  a  single  agent  was  at  least  as  efficient  as 
combination  chemotherapy  regimen  CAV  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  recurrent  SCLC.  The 
recommended initial IV dosage of topotecan for the treatment of small cell lung carcinoma in adults is 
1.5  mg/m2  body  surface  area/day  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  over  30  minutes  daily,  for  5 
consecutive days with a 3 week interval between the start of each course. 
Improvements  in  quality-of-life  in  patients  with  recurrent  small-cell  lung  cancer,  which  resulted  in 
improved  palliation  of  several  symptoms,  including  dyspnoea,  anorexia,  fatigue,  hoarseness  and 
interference with daily activities have been described. 
In  addition,  in  combination  with  cisplatin,  topotecan  is  indicated  for  patients  with  carcinoma  of  the 
cervix  recurrent  after  radiotherapy  and  for  patients  with  stage  IV  B  disease.  Safety  of  combination 
regimen  topotecan/cisplatin  (CT)  was  compared  with  that  of  single  agent  cisplatin  (CPT)  in  a  large 
clinical  trial,  performed  in  women  with  histologically  confirmed,  stage  IV  B  recurrent  or  persistent 
carcinoma  of  the  cervix  for  whom  curative  treatment  with  surgery  and/or  radiotherapy  was  not  an 
option were included in the study. Regarding safety of topotecan, in this trial was demonstrated that, 
although  myelosuppression  was  greater  in  the  CT  arm,  bone  marrow  toxicity  did  not  appear  to  be 
cumulative and was generally manageable.” 
Following  the  CHMP  adoption  on  23  September  2010  of  variation  II/59  for  Hycamtin,  the  reference 
medicinal product, sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of the Potactasol Summary of Product Characteristics have 
been  updated  regarding  severe  bleeding,  pancytopenia,  potential  fatal  outcome  of  sepsis  and 
interstitial  lung  disease  and  dehydration  as  a  consequence  of  severe  diarrhoea.  The  Package  Leaflet 
has also been updated accordingly. 
Additional data 
No additional studies were submitted as part of this application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. This medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
Assessment report  
Page 12/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.5 Pharmacovigilance  
  PSUR 
The  PSUR  submission  schedule  for  Potactasol  should  follow  the  PSUR  submission  schedule  for  the 
reference medicinal product, Hycamtin. 
  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system,  version  5.03  of  12  October  2009,  as 
described by the applicant fulfils the legislative requirements and provides adequate evidence that the 
applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the 
necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  suspected  of  occurring  either  in  the 
Community  or  in  a  third  country.  The  company  must  ensure  that  this  system  is  in  place  and 
functioning before and whilst the product is placed on the market 
  Risk Management Plan 
The  application  is  based  on  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
additional risk minimization activities have been identified. 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities according to volume 9A/ICH will be undertaken whilst the product 
is  in  the  market,  including  careful  review  of  individual  case  safety  reports,  literature  review,  signal 
detection procedures and generation of the required safety reports. Specific risk minimisation activities 
are  not  envisaged  as  the  safety  aspects  of  the  product  are  well  characterised  and  therefore  a  Risk 
Minimisation plan is not required. 
  User consultation 
The  user  testing  of  the  package  leaflet  was  performed.  The  criterion  for  a  successful  Readability  Test 
was fulfilled. The user testing of the package leaflet was judged acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Topotecan  hydrochloride  has  a  well-recognized  efficacy  and  an  acceptable  level  of  safety  in  the 
indications claimed for Potactasol and no additional clinical studies are needed.  
A  bioequivalence  study  is  not  required  since  the  product  is  administered  as  an  aqueous  intravenous 
solution  containing  the  same  active  substance  in  the  same  concentration  as  the  currently  authorised 
product. The recommended dosage and method of administration of the generic product Topotecan 1 
mg/ml  is  the  same  as  that  recommended  for  the  product  Hycamtin  1  mg/ml.  The  use  of  topotecan 
should be confined to units specialised in the administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy and should only 
be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of chemotherapy. 
Prior to administration of the first course of topotecan, patients must have a baseline neutrophil count 
of > 1.5 X 109/l, and a platelet count of > 100 x 109/l. 
Although the optimum duration of therapy remains to be established, it currently is recommended that 
topotecan  therapy  should  be  continued  until  a  maximal  response  is  achieved  or  dose-limiting  toxicity 
develops. 
3.6 Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
Assessment report  
Page 13/14
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  non-clinical  and  clinical  literature  review  provides  a  consistent  overview  of  the  pharmacological, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicological aspects of topotecan. Therefore, there are no objections to approval 
of  Potactasol  1  mg/  ml-  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  (1  mg/  vial  and  4  mg/  vial) 
from a non-clinical and clinical point of view. 
An  exemption  for  the  ERA  can  be  given  for  this  product  since  this  generic  application  has  identical 
posology  to  the  active  substance.  The  CHMP  agrees  that  no  changes  in  the  environmental  risks  that 
are not already known for topotecan are to be anticipated. 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data.  A  benefit-risk  balance 
comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Potactasol in the treatment of: 
- 
patients  with  metastatic  carcinoma  of  the  ovary  after  failure  of  first-line  or    subsequent 
therapy 
patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer [SCLC] for whom re-treatment with thefirst-line 
regimen is not considered appropriate. 
- 
Topotecan in combination with cisplatin is indicated for patients with carcinoma of the cervix recurrent 
after  radiotherapy  and  for  patients  with  Stage IVB  disease.  Patients  with  prior  exposure  to  cisplatin 
require a sustained treatment free interval to justify treatment with the combination. 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Assessment report  
Page 14/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
