EMA/654511/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004232 
Poteligeo (mogamulizumab) 
An overview of Poteligeo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Poteligeo and what is it used for? 
Poteligeo is a cancer medicine used to treat mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome – two cancers of 
blood cells that affect mainly the skin. It is used in patients who have received previous treatment by 
mouth or injection. 
Both mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome belong to a group of rare cancers (cutaneous T-cell 
lymphomas), and Poteligeo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
14 October 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation  
Poteligeo contains the active substance mogamulizumab. 
How is Poteligeo used? 
Poteligeo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who 
has experience in the treatment of cancer and in a place where equipment for resuscitation is available 
in case of rare and severe allergic reaction to the medicine. 
The medicine is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting at least 1 hour. The recommended dose 
depends on the patient’s body weight and is given once a week for the first 4 weeks and then every 2 
weeks. Patients should be monitored during and after the infusion for certain side effects related to the 
infusion. To reduce this risk, patients may be given other medicines such as an antipyretic (medicine 
that reduces fever) and an antihistamine (for treating allergic reactions) before or during treatment 
with Poteligeo.  
The doctor may interrupt or stop treatment, or reduce the dose, if the patient develops certain serious 
side effects.  
For more information about using Poteligeo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Poteligeo work? 
The active substance in Poteligeo, mogamulizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that 
has been designed to attach to a receptor (target) called CCR4. CCR4 is found on the surface of white 
blood cells, including the cancerous cells in mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. By attaching to 
CCR4, mogamulizumab stimulates the body’s immune system to attack the cancer cells, helping to 
control the disease.  
What benefits of Poteligeo have been shown in studies? 
Poteligeo was shown to be more effective than a comparator medicine, vorinostat, in a study of 372 
adults with either mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. In this study, patients receiving Poteligeo 
lived for around 8 months without their disease getting worse compared with 3 months for patients on 
vorinostat.  
In all patients the cancer did not respond to a previous treatment or had come back. 
What are the risks associated with Poteligeo? 
The most common side effects with Poteligeo (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are infusion-related 
reactions and rash. The most commonly reported serious reactions are pneumonia (infection of the 
lungs), fever, infusion-related reactions and cellulitis (inflammation of the deep skin tissue). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Poteligeo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Poteligeo authorised in the EU? 
Poteligeo is effective at prolonging the time patients with mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome live 
without their disease getting worse. Effects are clinically relevant considering that patients have limited 
treatment options. The side effects seen with Poteligeo are considered manageable and most of them 
are mild or moderate. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Poteligeo’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Poteligeo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Poteligeo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Poteligeo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Poteligeo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Poteligeo 
Poteligeo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 November 2018. 
Further information on Poteligeo can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Poteligeo (mogamulizumab)  
EMA/654511/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
