Summary of the risk management plan for 
POTELIGEO (Mogamulizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for POTELIGEO. The RMP details important 
risks of POTELIGEO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about POTELIGEO’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
POTELIGEO’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how POTELIGEO should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for POTELIGEO should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of POTELIGEO’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
POTELIGEO is authorised for the treatment of mycosis fungoides (MF) or Sézary syndrome (SS) in 
adults who have received at least one prior systemic therapy (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains mogamulizumab as the active substance and it is given by infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of POTELIGEO’s benefits can be found in POTELIGEO’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, 
under the medicine’s webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/004232/human
med 002323.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of POTELIGEO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about POTELIGEO’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
  
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of POTELIGEO is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of POTELIGEO are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of POTELIGEO. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Infusion-related reaction 
  Hepatitis B reactivation 
Increase in the risk of severe Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) 
after allogeneic Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT) 
Missing information 
  Use in patients with history of transplant (autologous or allogeneic) 
 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Infusion-related reaction 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Infusion-related reaction occurred in approximately a third of 
the medicine 
patients treated with mogamulizumab in haematologic clinical 
studies. However, severe (Grade ≥3) infusion-related reaction 
occurred infrequently, i.e. in approximately 2.9% of patients 
treated with mogamulizumab. Nearly all infusion-related 
reaction occurred in the first 4 weeks of treatment.  
Based on the frequency, the clinical importance, and the potential 
for severe events, infusion-related reaction is considered to be an 
important identified risk for mogamulizumab. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Infusion-related reactions occur in approximately a third of 
patients treated with mogamulizumab with the majority occurring 
during the first infusion with the incidence decreasing over time. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Package leaflet Section 2 & 4 
SmPC Section 4.2 & 4.4, where advice is given on interrupting 
mogamulizumab treatment and initiating medical management 
for infusion reactions of any severity; reducing the infusion rate 
by at least 50% when re-starting the infusion after mild, 
moderate or severe reactions; and permanently discontinuing 
mogamulizumab following life-threatening reactions. Pre-
medication with anti-pyretic and anti-histamine is recommended 
for the first mogamulizumab infusion. If an infusion reaction 
occurs, pre-medication for subsequent mogamulizumab infusions 
is also recommended. In addition, infusion of POTELIGEO should 
only be administered when staff trained to evaluate and manage 
anaphylactic reactions is immediately available, in an 
environment where full resuscitation facilities can be assured. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Hepatitis B reactivation 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) are at 
the medicine 
increased risk of infection, particularly with advanced disease 
and when using combination therapies; patients frequently 
display evidence of immunosuppression, in particular at the 
later stages of the lymphoma and the risk is also increased by 
compromised skin integrity. A retrospective study of 
356 patients with CTCL in the era predating monoclonal 
antibodies, and identified 478 infective episodes. Cutaneous 
bacterial infection was most common (17.0 infections per 
100 patient-years [PY]), followed by cutaneous herpes simplex 
virus and herpes zoster virus infection (3.8 infections per 
100 PY), bacteraemia (2.1 infections per 100 PY), bacterial 
pneumonia (1.7 infections per 100 PY), and urinary tract 
infection (1.4 infections per 100 PY).  
Viral reactivation is a known complication of chemotherapy, 
especially for malignant lymphoma, and the increased risk in 
lymphoma patients parallels the potency of the 
immunosuppressive treatments.  
Review of available data for mogamulizumab revealed no 
evidence of increased hepatitis B reactivation in the CTCL setting, 
although the data are limited due to exclusion of subjects with a 
history of acute or chronic hepatitis from most of the clinical 
development studies). Reported cases of hepatitis B occurred in 
the adult T cell leukaemia-lymphoma (ATL) setting against a 
confounding immunosuppressive background of prior/concomitant 
ablative cytotoxic therapy. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with CTCL are at increased risk of serious infections. No 
risk factors for increased susceptibility to hepatitis B reactivation 
subsequent to mogamulizumab administration have been 
identified.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Package leaflet Section 2 & 4 
SmPC Section 4.4, where testing of patients for hepatitis B 
infection before initiation of treatment with mogamulizumab is 
advised, and prompt treatment recommended.  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
Important potential risk: Increased risk of severe GVHD after allogeneic HSCT 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Allogeneic HSCT is a recognised treatment option for advanced 
the medicine 
refractory CTCL, although experience is limited and not well 
defined. Retrospective studies of outcomes after allogeneic 
HSCT (transplant from another person) for ATL suggest that 
prior treatment with mogamulizumab may increase the risk of 
moderate to severe acute GVHD and be associated with 
increased non-relapse mortality and reduced overall survival. 
However, a prolonged interval between mogamulizumab 
treatment and allogeneic HSCT may reduce the risk of moderate 
to severe acute GVHD. The retrospective nature of these 
reports, possible confounding factors, and the inherent risks of 
allogeneic HSCT mean that this potential risk requires further 
evaluation before a definitive assessment is possible. Whilst the 
same potential risk that prior treatment with mogamulizumab 
may increase the risk of moderate to severe GVHD after 
allogeneic HSCT for advanced refractory CTCL, very limited data 
are currently available, and a definitive assessment is not 
possible. 
A review of the 456 patients who had received mogamulizumab 
(as initial or cross-over therapy) in Western clinical trials for 
haematologic indications was conducted after the data lock 
point of this RMP, to a data lock point of 20 Jul 2017. Data on 
32 of the 35 subjects reported to have undergone transplant are 
available, including 24 CTCL subjects. Twelve of 32 subjects 
developed acute GVHD after transplant (10 CTCL; 2 non-CTCL 
subjects). Due to the small subject numbers, no conclusions 
could be drawn concerning the effect of mogamulizumab 
treatment on the eventual outcome of HSCT as a treatment for 
T-cell lymphoma.  
Review of post-marketing data pertaining to this risk showed 
findings consistent with those recorded from clinical studies. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The predominant determinants of acute GVHD risk after 
allogeneic HSCT for haematologic malignancies are the degree of 
human leukocyte antigen (HLA) match, intensity of conditioning 
(higher risk with total body irradiation), source of graft (higher 
risk with peripheral blood than bone marrow, and in female HLA 
identical sibling donors to male recipients) and GVHD prophylaxis 
regimen (higher risk with cyclosporine than tacrolimus). It is 
currently unclear whether the same risk factors of acute GVHD 
after allogeneic HSCT are applicable for CTCL, due to the limited 
 
 
experience of this treatment option. The risk of moderate to 
severe acute GVHD after allogeneic HSCT for ATL may be 
increased after prior mogamulizumab administration, although 
longer periods between mogamulizumab administration to 
allogeneic HSCT may reduce the risk. However, this requires 
confirmation, particularly regarding use of POTELIGEO for the 
treatment of CTCL. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Package leaflet Section 2 & 4 
SmPC Section 4.4, where a recommendation for patients to be 
closely followed for early evidence of transplant-related 
complications is included.  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
activities 
A post-authorisation safety study to characterise the safety of 
allogeneic HSCT in patients with CTCL treated with 
mogamulizumab. 
Missing information: Use in patients with a history of autologous or allogeneic transplant 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Package leaflet Section 2, notes that patients should talk to their 
doctor or nurse if they have undergone stem cell transplant and 
Section 4 notes that they should tell their doctor immediately if 
they experience GVHD symptoms. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
POTELIGEO.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
One Category 3 post-authorisation safety study has been proposed to further investigate the potential 
risk of increased risk of severe GVHD after allogeneic HSCT.  
Study title: 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study to Characterise the Safety of Allogeneic Haematopoietic Stem Cell 
Transplantation (HSCT) in Patients with Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (CTCL) treated with 
Mogamulizumab. 
Objectives: 
To include treatment-related mortality, non-relapse mortality and cause, and incidence and 
characterisation of GVHD and graft failure. 
 
 
 
