23 February 2017 
EMA/169606/2017  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Pradaxa  
dabigatran etexilate 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000829/P46/045.1 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study<ies> ...................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .............................................................................. 8 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation ............................ 8 
4. Additional clarification requested ............................................................ 9 
5. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 11 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 2/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 2 August 2016, the MAH submitted the completed paediatric study 1160.105 as part of the clinical 
development program, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
These data are also submitted as part of the post-authorisation measure Paediatric Investigation Plan 
(PIP study 6).  
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The MAH states that the study does not alter the benefit and risk evaluations for dabigatran etexilate 
in adult or paediatric patients and supports pursuing development of dabigatran etexilate in paediatric 
patients. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study 1160.105: “Open-label, single dose, tolerability, pharmacokinetic/ 
pharmacodynamics and safety study of dabigatran etexilate given at the end of standard anticoagulant 
therapy in children aged less than 1 year old” is part of a clinical development program. The extension 
application is expected to be submitted by Sep/2019.  
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study<ies> 
Dabigatran etexilate is formulated as a capsule for use in the adult patient population in the registered 
indications primary prevention of venous thromboembolism in orthopaedic surgery (pVTEp), prevention 
of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (SPAF), and deep vein 
thrombosis/pulmonary embolism(DVT/PE). In order to administer dabigatran etexilate across the full 
age range of paediatric patients (neonates to 18 years) according to the Pradaxa PIP, age-appropriate 
formulations are being developed. 
The investigational product used in the 1160.105 study (PIP study 6) was dabigatran etexilate oral 
liquid formulation (6.25 mg/mL) after reconstitution from dabigatran etexilate granules (167.5 mg) 
and solvent for reconstitution (26 mL out of 30 mL provided in solvent bottle). Dabigatran etexilate 
granules and solvent for reconstitution were developed by Boehringer Ingelheim. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
In parallel with the development of dabigatran adult indications, a paediatric development program 
was initiated in paediatric patients diagnosed with VTE. The paediatric program components include: a) 
development of an age-appropriate formulation; b) determination of bioavailability of paediatric 
formulation(s) compared with the adult formulation; c) performing phase II and III clinical trials using 
paediatric formulation to determine safety and efficacy of dabigatran etexilate. 
The main objectives of this single-dose study (1160.105 study (PIP study 6)) were to confirm the 
dabigatran etexilate dosing algorithm for later examination in phase IIb/III clinical trials, to 
demonstrate comparable PK/PD relationship to the one observed in older children and adults, and to 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
investigate the tolerability and safety of dabigatran etexilate oral liquid formulation in newborns and 
infants aged less than 1 year. 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study 1160.105: “Open-label, single dose, tolerability, pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics 
and safety study of dabigatran etexilate given at the end of standard anticoagulant therapy in children 
aged less than 1 year old”. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study number and title 
Study number: 1160.105 
Title: Open-label, single dose, tolerability, pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics and safety of 
dabigatran etexilate given at the end of standard anticoagulant therapy in children aged less than 1 
year old.  
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
 
To confirm the dabigatran etexilate dosing algorithm of an oral liquid formulation for use in 
children less than 1 year old, to demonstrate comparable PK/PD relationship to older children 
and adults, and 
 
To investigate tolerability and safety of dabigatran etexilate oral liquid formulation in newborns 
and infants (diagnosed with VTE) who were younger than 1 year. 
Study design 
Single-dose, open-label safety and tolerability study of dabigatran etexilate given for newborns and 
infants less than 1 year of age at the end of standard anticoagulant therapy for an objectively 
confirmed venous thromboembolic event. 
Study population/Sample size 
Study population 
The study included stable paediatric patients from gestational age of 37 weeks to an age of less than 1 
year old who were objectively diagnosed with a VTE and who had completed standard anticoagulant 
treatment for this VTE. 
Sample size 
At least 8 evaluable patients were planned for this trial. The sample size was not based on a power 
calculation, but is in general considered sufficient for exploratory evaluation of safety, tolerability and 
pharmacokinetics. 
Treatments 
A single dose of dabigatran etexilate was administered in eight newborns and infants less than 1 year 
of age, who had completed planned treatment with a low molecular weight heparin or an oral 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 4/11 
 
 
 
 
 
anticoagulant for VTE. All patients received the oral liquid formulation (OLF) of dabigatran etexilate. 
The determination of the total required dose (and consecutively total volume) administrated as oral 
liquid formulation was made based on an age- and weight-adjusted nomogram based on estimated 
renal function. 
All 8 patients received at least the minimum required dose. Of these 8 patients, 2 patients received 
slightly less than the planned dose (5.5 mL instead of 6.0 mL; 2.5 mL instead of 3.0 mL), but more 
than the minimum dose and 1 patient received slightly more than the planned dose (4.0 mL instead of 
3.0 mL). In order to compare the plasma concentration values of these three patients with the other 
patients, the plasma concentration values were normalized to values corresponding to their target dose 
while assuming dose proportionality. When comparing the normalised with the observed values, the 
difference between the gMean values for concentrations 2 h and 12 h after dosing were small (<5%), 
suggesting that the deviation of the dosing was not clinically relevant. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Pharmacokinetics 
The primary PK endpoint was the plasma concentration of total dabigatran (SUM BIBR 953 ZW) 
measured at 2 h and 12 h (±2h) after administration of dabigatran etexilate. Further PK endpoints 
comprised the plasma concentration of free dabigatran (BIBR 953 ZW), unchanged dabigatran 
etexilate (BIBR 1048 BS) and intermediate metabolites BIBR 951 BS and BIBR 1087SE. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The primary PD endpoints were the central measurements of aPTT, ECT, and dTT at 2 h and 12 h (±2 
h) post administration of dabigatran etexilate. Further PD endpoints were the central measurement of 
aPTT, ECT, and dTT at pre-dose. The blood coagulation parameters aPTT, ECT, and dTT were measured 
at identical time points as the assessments of dabigatran plasma concentration. The baseline 
measurement was taken 0.5 h before study medication intake. 
Statistical Methods 
Plasma concentrations of free, non-conjugated dabigatran and of total dabigatran were determined by 
a validated high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) 
method. Blood coagulation parameters aPTT, ECT and dTT were also analysed using validated 
methods. All concentrations were listed (based on the treated set). The centrally measured 
concentrations were summarized descriptively. Further, a population pharmacokinetic (PopPK) model 
developed on adult data was used for the prediction of dabigatran plasma concentrations in this 
paediatric population. Descriptive statistics were also performed for the blood coagulation parameters 
aPTT, ECT and dTT. 
Descriptive statistics were used for the safety, PK and PD endpoints including aPTT, ECT, and dTT. 
Using the centrally measured PD values (aPTT, ECT, dTT), the relationship between total plasma 
dabigatran concentration and PD endpoints was assessed as secondary endpoint and compared with 
the PK/PD relationship observed in older children and adults. For analysis of the PK/PD relationship a 
linear regression model and a non-linear Emax model were used. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Recruitment/Number analysed 
A total of 10 patients were screened in 4 centres in Canada (3 patients), France (1 patient), and Russia 
(6 patients). Of these 10 screened patients, 2 patients were screening failures: 1 patient from Russia 
fulfilled the exclusion criteria and for 1 patient from Canada the recruitment into the study was stopped 
before this patient was treated. All 8 patients who were entered into the study were treated with a 
single dose of dabigatran etexilate. None of the 8 patients prematurely discontinued the trial 
medication or the trial. 
All 8 patients who were entered into the study were treated with a single dose of dabigatran etexilate 
OLF which was adjusted based on age and weight. 
PK/PD 
Pharmacokinetics 
The gMean total dabigatran plasma concentration was 120 ng/mL (2 h post dose) and 60.4 ng/mL (12 
h post dose). The variability was moderate at 2 h (gCV 62.1%) and low at 12 h (gCV 30%) post dose. 
The gMean free dabigatran plasma concentration was 104 ng/mL (2 h post dose) and 55.2 ng/mL (12 
h post dose), with moderate variability at 2 h (gCV 61.1%) and low variability at 12 h (gCV 31.3%). 
Unchanged dabigatran etexilate and the intermediate dabigatran prodrugs taken 2 h and 12 h after 
dosing were almost non-detectable. 
To compare the current study result with the exposure to dabigatran etexilate in adults with VTE, 
gMean concentrations at 10 hours after single dose of dabigatran etexilate were extrapolated to 
steady-state trough conditions. An accumulation ratio was calculated based on the terminal half-life (t 
1/2) to project the steady-state dabigatran plasma concentration. The observed geometric trough 
concentration was 60.4 ng/mL after single-dose administration of dabigatran etexilate. If assuming 
t1/2 in these children was approximately 5 to 10 h, the extrapolated steady-state trough plasma total 
dabigatran concentrations of a neonate would be approximately 74.5 and 107 ng/mL for a half-life of 5 
and 10 h, respectively, which are largely comparable to the observed gMean to Q3 percentile of trough 
concentrations in the adult VTE study RECOVER. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mean aPTT coagulation time was 42.1 s (baseline), 78.9 s (2 h post dose), and 62.8 s (12 h post 
dose). The mean aPTT ratio were 1.86 (2 h post dose) and 1.47 (12 h post dose). The variability was 
low with a CV of less than 30%. 
The mean dTT coagulation time was 30.6 s (baseline), 48.7 s (2 h post dose), and 38.6 s (12 h post 
dose). The mean dTT ratios were 1.59 (2 h post dose) and 1.26 (12 h post dose). The variability was 
low with a CV of less than 26%.  
The mean ECT coagulation time was 40.7 s (baseline), 101 s (2 h post dose), and 66.9 s (12 h post 
dose). The mean ECT ratios were 2.42 (2 h post dose) and 1.63 (12 h post dose). The variability was 
low to moderate with CV mostly less than 35% except for the time point 2 h after dosing which had a 
higher variability (CV of 44.3%). 
Using the centrally measured PD values (aPTT, ECT, dTT) the relationship between plasma 
concentration and PD endpoints was assessed as secondary endpoint and evaluated in comparison to 
the PK/PD relationship observed in older children and adults. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 6/11 
 
 
 
 
 
A linear PK/PD relationship was observed for ECT (ECT ratio) and dTT (dTT ratio). The relationship 
between total dabigatran concentration and aPTT (aPTT ratio) can be described by a non-linear 
function. The observed PK/PD relationships were similar to those observed in VTE studies in adults and 
adolescents. 
Baseline data 
In the small study population of 8 subjects, more patients were female than male (5 of 8 treated 
patients [62.5%] were female). All patients were White except 1 patient (12.5%) who was 
Black/African American. 
The mean age of the treated patients was 2.9 months, corresponding to 89 days. The youngest patient 
was 41 days old; the oldest patient had an age of 169 days (5.55 months). Consistent with the low age 
of most patients, the mean height and weight was low in this population (height: 55 cm, weight 4.4 
kg). The mean baseline eGFR was 93.5 mL/min/1.73m². 
As per inclusion criteria, all patients had the diagnosis of VTE. For the 8 treated patients, 5 patients 
had a jugular vein thrombosis as VTE diagnosis, 1 patient had a limb venous thrombosis and a 
superficial thrombophlebitis, 1 patient had a renal vein thrombosis, and 1 patient had a portal vein 
thrombosis. 
The most frequent relevant medical histories/baseline conditions were congenital, familial and genetic 
disorders (6 patients, 75.0%), vascular disorders (6 patients, 75.0%), hepatobiliary disorders (2 
patients, 25.0%), and respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders (2 patients, 25.0%). Within 
congenital, familial and genetic disorders, there was no tendency towards a single most frequently 
reported condition. 
Laboratory analyses (haematology and clinical chemistry) did not reveal any clinically significant 
findings compared to baseline. Regarding changes relative to the reference range, no clinically relevant 
or unexpected findings were observed for any of the measured parameters. There were no clinically 
meaningful findings or changes from baseline to each measured time point in blood pressure or pulse 
rate values. 
Efficacy results 
Not applicable. 
Safety results 
The safety analysis was descriptive in nature and was based on physical examination, vital signs, 12-
lead ECG, laboratory tests and incidence of adverse events as well as assessment of tolerability by the 
investigator. In this small population of eight paediatric patients, no safety issues were identified. 
During screening and the on-treatment period, none of the patients were documented with any AE. 
There were no deaths, no AEs leading to discontinuation of trial drug, no drug related AEs (in the 
opinion of the investigator), no AEs of special interest, and no other significant AEs according to ICH E3 
at any time of the trial. 
During the post-treatment period, 1 patient was documented with an SAE (aortic stenosis) which was 
of severe intensity and not drug related according to the investigator. The event required/prolonged 
hospitalisation. The AE occurred 7 days after intake of dabigatran etexilate. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
During the entire study, no bleeding or VTE outcome events were reported for the 10 screened 
patients. 
The majority of patients were assessed with ‘good’ tolerability (6 patients, 75.0%). One patient each 
(12.5%) was evaluated with a satisfactory tolerability or tolerated the study medication badly. The 
patient who received a slightly higher than planned dose had a good tolerability of the study 
medication. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
This post-authorisation study was part of the Paediatric Investigation Plan. The main objective was to 
confirm the dosing algorithm of dabigatran etexilate in patients aged 0-<1 years of age and to 
demonstrate a comparable PK/PD relationship to older children and adults. Further, investigation of 
safety and tolerability of the oral liquid formulation was an objective. 
The study population was small (8 subjects) but met the predetermined goal based on power 
calculations. Dabigatran etexilate oral liquid formulation was well tolerated and no AEs, VTEs or 
bleeding events occurred.  
It is considered reasonable that the single reported case of SAE (aortic stenosis) occurring 7 days after 
dabigatran etexilate was not considered related to study medication by the investigator.  
Pharmacokinetic results showed moderate to low variability depending on the time point after 
administration. Further, projected steady state trough concentrations were comparable to those 
observed in adult patients with VTE. 
The PK/PD relationship for dTT and ECT was linear while the relationship between plasma dabigatran 
concentration and aPTT was non-linear. These findings were similar to those observed in adults and 
adolescents with VTE.  
Overall, the present study has not contributed new safety signals regarding dabigatran etexilate.  
The results support the future use of a dosing algorithm based on an age- and weight-adjusted dosing 
nomogram taking into account estimated renal function.  
The MAH has not submitted an updated SmPC reflecting the results obtained in the current study. The 
MAH suggests a SmPC update in September 2019 when the full PIP package is submitted. However, 
this postponement by 3 years of updating the SmPC is not acceptable as the SmPC must reflect 
current knowledge. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall, no new safety signals regarding dabigatran etexilate have emerged following the completion of 
the present study. The Benefit-Risk balance remains positive.  
The MAH has not submitted an updated SmPC reflecting the data generated in children aged 0-<1 
years of age but suggests postponing this until September 2019 when the full PIP package is 
submitted. This is not acceptable as the SmPC must reflect current knowledge. Consequently, the MAH 
is requested to update the SmPC. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 8/11 
 
 
 
 
 
  Fulfilled: 
X  Not fulfilled: 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should provide an updated SmPC reflecting the data generated 
in the present study regarding the use of dabigatran etexilate in children aged 0-<1 years of age (see 
section “Additional clarification requested”). 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following question as part of this procedure: 
1.  The MAH is requested to provide an updated version of the SmPC reflecting the data generated 
in the present study regarding the use of dabigatran etexilate in children aged 0-<1 years of 
age in section 5.2. This update may be submitted in conjunction with an update of the SmPC 
involving the results of study 1160.89 (PIP study 4). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 9/11 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
1. The MAH is requested to provide an updated version of the SmPC reflecting the data 
generated in the present study regarding the use of dabigatran etexilate in children aged 0- 
<1 years of age in section 5.2. This update may be submitted in conjunction with an update of 
the SmPC involving the results of study 1160.89 (PIP study 4). 
MAH response 
BI acknowledges the question provided, however, considers an update of the SmPC at this stage of 
development not warranted based on the justification provided below. 
The current SmPC Guideline (September 2009, Revision 2) accounts for a regular update of section “5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES” once new information becomes available, especially in relation to 
the paediatric population. Noteworthy, the SmPC. 
Guideline, for specific sections, foresees inclusion of scientific data only in case clinical relevance is 
given, e.g. section “5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties”. 
BI considers the results obtained from clinical studies 1160.89 and 1160.105 comprising no new 
information and being of clinically non-relevant nature for the following two reasons: 
 
The PK, PD, and safety data from both studies confirm the previously obtained results in 
adolescents and are similar to that retrieved from adults and are already being presented in 
the current approved PRADAXA SmPC. 
  No safety issues specific to the paediatric population have been observed in above studies, 
which are not yet described per adult SmPC. 
As stated in a comment received by a Member State, the presented studies are only the first steps in 
the agreed PIP, with an aim to establish some preliminary PK/PD guidance for development of a 
therapeutic dosing scheme in the phase IIb/III studies. Both studies are single dose, tolerability, 
pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamics and safety studies only and included a small number of patients 
only. For the multiple dose group (n=3 patients only), very limited PK/PD data are available that does 
not allow for a robust conclusion. 
Moreover, the dosing scheme that had been used in both above studies differs from the dosing 
schedule currently being used in the phase IIb/III paediatric studies, which is based on a specifically 
developed age and weight-based nomogram and potential dose correction based on dabigatran plasma 
level measurements. Age determines the renal function of a child and is essential for dosing of 
dabigatran etexilate. Therefore the dosing in children differs from adult dosing. Whereas changes in 
renal function are physiological across the years of childhood, maturation or renal function is 
completed after adolescence allowing for simplified fixed dosing in healthy adults. Dosing based on the 
Hayton Formula accounts for the maturation of renal function across childhood, which results into a 
more individualized dosing algorithm in children. 
Importantly, the OLF used in the two trials is not commercially available (and not formally 
bioequivalent to capsules) and final dosing instructions can only be defined after phase IIb/III trials are 
completed. Presenting such preliminary paediatric PK/PD data may stimulate offlabel use by 
paediatricians based on an outdated dosing scheme which should not be used for therapeutic dosing. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the rationale above, BI proposes to refrain from including preliminary and potentially. 
misleading PK/PD information from studies 1160.89 and 1160.105 in section 5.2 of the SmPC and 
suggests updating the SmPC with the paediatric PK/PD data obtained at time of submission of the 
paediatric VTE treatment indication, when more robust paediatric PK/PD information is available from 
two larger-sized phase IIb/III studies (1160.106 & 1160.108). 
Conclusion 
The MAH emphasizes that current data are preliminary and based on a very limited number of patients 
making them less robust. Further, the oral liquid formulation used in the two paediatric studies is not 
commercially available and formally no bioequivalence has been established. This is endorsed. 
The MAH proposes to await robust data from Phase IIb/III trials and completion of the full PIP package 
before updating the SmPC. The full PIP package will be completed by September 2019. This strategy is 
considered acceptable.  
Issue resolved.  
5.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall, no new safety signals regarding dabigatran etexilate have emerged following the completion of 
the present study. The Benefit-Risk balance remains positive.  
The MAH proposes to await robust data from Phase IIb/III trials and completion of the full PIP package 
before updating the SmPC. The full PIP package will be completed by September 2019. This is 
considered acceptable.  
  Fulfilled: 
  Not fulfilled: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/169606/2017   
Page 11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
