EMA/628110/2020 
EMEA/H/C/000829 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) 
An overview of Pradaxa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pradaxa and what is it used for? 
Pradaxa is an anticoagulant medicine used for: 
•
•
•
•
preventing the formation of blood clots in the veins in adults who have had an operation to replace
a hip or knee;
preventing stroke (caused by a blood clot in the brain) and systemic embolism (a blood clot in
another organ) in adults who have an abnormal heartbeat called ‘non-valvular atrial fibrillation’ and
are considered to be at risk of stroke;
treating deep vein thrombosis (DVT, a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary
embolism (PE, a clot in a blood vessel supplying the lungs) in adults, and preventing these
conditions from occurring again.
treating blood clots in veins and preventing them from occurring again in children
Pradaxa contains the active substance dabigatran etexilate. 
How is Pradaxa used? 
Pradaxa is taken by mouth and it is available as capsules for adults and children above 8 years of age, 
granules for children less than 12 years of age and a powder and solvent to be made into a solution to 
drink for children less than 1 year of age. Pradaxa can only be obtained with a prescription. The dose 
and duration of treatment depend on the condition Pradaxa is being used to treat, the patient’s age 
and kidney function, and other medicines the patient is taking. For children the dose also depends on 
their weight.  
When changing between the different forms of the medicine, the doctor may need to alter the dose. All 
patients at increased risk of bleeding should be monitored closely and the doctor may reduce the dose 
of Pradaxa.  
In all patients, kidney function should also be assessed before starting treatment to exclude patients 
with severely reduced kidney function, and should be re-assessed during treatment if any worsening is 
suspected. When Pradaxa is used long term in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, or when it is 
used in patients with DVT or PE, kidney function should be assessed at least once a year if their kidney 
function is mildly to moderately reduced or if they are over 75 years old. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
For more information about using Pradaxa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Pradaxa work? 
The active substance in Pradaxa, dabigatran etexilate, is a ‘prodrug’ of dabigatran. This means that it 
is converted into dabigatran in the body. Dabigatran is an anticoagulant, meaning that it prevents the 
blood from coagulating (clotting). It blocks a substance called thrombin, which is central to the process 
of blood clotting. 
What benefits of Pradaxa have been shown in studies? 
Prevention of blood clots after hip or knee replacement 
Pradaxa (220 or 150 mg a day) was as effective as enoxaparin (an anticoagulant given by injection) in 
preventing formation of blood clots or death in patients who had undergone hip or knee replacement in 
two main studies.  
The first study involved a total of 2,101 patients who had had a knee replacement operation. During 
the treatment period, blood clots were detected in 36% of the patients taking 220 mg Pradaxa (183 
out of 503), compared with 38% of the patients receiving enoxaparin (193 out of 512). There was one 
death in each group (less than 1%).  
The second study involved a total of 3,494 patients who had had a hip replacement. During the 
treatment period, blood clots were detected in 6% of the patients taking 220 mg Pradaxa (53 out of 
880), compared with 7% of the patients receiving enoxaparin (60 out of 897). Three patients in the 
Pradaxa group died (less than 1%), but two of these deaths were unrelated to blood clots.  
In both studies, there was some evidence that a 220 mg dose of Pradaxa may be more effective than a 
150 mg dose. 
Prevention of blood clots or stroke in patients at risk of stroke 
Pradaxa (110 mg or 150 mg twice a day) was as effective as warfarin (another anticoagulant given by 
mouth) in preventing stroke or a blood clot blocking blood vessels in other parts of the body in a study 
of patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who were considered to be at risk of stroke.  
In the study, around 18,000 adults were treated for one to three years. The proportion of patients who 
had a stroke or other problems caused by blood clots each year was around 1.5% for patients taking 
110 mg Pradaxa (183 patients out of 6,015) and 1.1% for patients taking 150 mg Pradaxa (135 out of 
6,076), compared with 1.7%  for patients taking warfarin (203 out of 6,022). 
Treatment and prevention of DVT and PE 
Pradaxa was as effective as warfarin in reducing formation of blood clots in the veins (DVT) or lungs 
(PE), or blood-clot-related death during treatment. 
Two main studies in over 5,100 adults with symptoms of DVT or PE, and who were initially treated with 
an injectable anticoagulant, compared Pradaxa with warfarin. Blood clots or blood-clot-related death 
occurred in 2.7% (68 out of 2,553) of patients treated with Pradaxa, compared with 2.4% (62 out of 
2,554) of patients treated with warfarin. 
Another two studies looked at the prevention of VTE or PE in around 4,200 adults with symptoms of 
recurring blood clots and who were on long-term treatment with anticoagulants. One of these studies 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate)  
EMA/628110/2020  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
compared Pradaxa with warfarin and the other compared Pradaxa with placebo (a dummy treatment). 
In the first study, blood clots or blood-clot-related death occurred in 1.8% (26 out of 1,430) of patients 
treated with Pradaxa, compared with 1.3% (18 out of 1,426) of patients treated with warfarin. In the 
second study, blood clots or blood-clot-related death occurred in 0.4% (3 out of 681) of patients 
treated with Pradaxa, compared with 5.6% (37 out of 662) of patients treated with placebo. 
In a study in 267 children with confirmed DVT or PE aged from birth to 18 years of age, Pradaxa was 
compared with standard of care. Treatment with Pradaxa resolved blood clots in 46% of patients 
compared with 42% of patients treated with standard of care. Blood clots did not recur in 96% of 
patients taking Pradaxa compared with 92% of patients treated with standard of care.  
What are the risks associated with Pradaxa? 
The most common side effect with Pradaxa (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is bleeding. 
Pradaxa must not be used in adults who have severely reduced kidney function, or children with 
moderately or severely reduced kidney function. It must also not be used in patients who are currently 
bleeding significantly or who have a condition putting them at significant risk of major bleeding. It 
must not be used in patients taking any other anticoagulant medicine, except when the anticoagulant 
medicine is being switched or when heparin (another anticoagulant medicine) is being used in specific 
medical procedures. Pradaxa must also not be used in patients with serious liver problems, in those 
with artificial heart valves or in patients being treated with certain medicines. For the full list of side 
effects and restrictions of Pradaxa, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Pradaxa authorised in the EU? 
The effect of Pradaxa in preventing blood clots in adults who have undergone a hip or knee 
replacement is comparable to that of enoxaparin. Blood clots occur rarely in children and treatment 
has involved injection of anticoagulant medicines. Pradaxa, which is taken by mouth, is more 
convenient for adults and children. Pradaxa compared well with warfarin in reducing the risk of strokes 
in adults with atrial fibrillation without increasing the risk of major bleeding. Since certain patients who 
take Pradaxa are at increased risk of bleeding, a number of precautions were included in the 
prescribing information. 
In addition, the overall benefit of Pradaxa in the treatment and prevention of DVT and PE is 
comparable to that of warfarin. However, the number of bleeding events was lower for Pradaxa than 
for warfarin. Although the studies showed a small higher risk of heart problems with Pradaxa than with 
warfarin, the benefits of Pradaxa were still considered to outweigh its risks. Therefore, the European 
Medicines Agency decided that Pradaxa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pradaxa? 
The company that makes Pradaxa will provide an educational pack for all doctors who are expected to 
prescribe the medicine, to increase awareness of the risk of bleeding and provide guidance on how to 
manage it. Patients will also receive an alert card summarising key safety information on the medicine. 
The company will also provide a training video and technical support by phone for the preparation and 
dosing of the solution. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pradaxa have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate)  
EMA/628110/2020  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pradaxa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Pradaxa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Pradaxa 
Pradaxa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 March 2008.  
Further information on Pradaxa can be found on the Agency’s website:  
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pradaxa.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2020.  
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate)  
EMA/628110/2020  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
