European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/174363/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Pradaxa 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
dabigatran etexilate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/829 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 5 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 5 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 5 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 6 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 6 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 7 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 32 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 33 
2/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACCP 
ACS 
AE 
aPTT  
AUC  
b.i.d.; bid (in tables) 
BP 
BMI 
CHMP 
CI 
Cmax 
CLCR 
CNS 
CRBE 
CT 
CTR 
CV 
CUS 
dabig etex  
dabig etex 150 
dabig etex 220 
DAB 
DE 
DEM 
DSC 
DTI  
DVT 
ECG 
ECT  
Emax 
EMEA 
Enox (in tables) 
etex 
EU 
FAS 
FAS-m 
FUM 
GC 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
HIT 
HPLC 
INR 
i.v.  
LMWH 
MBE 
MID 
mL 
MOS 
n 
NOAEL 
NSAID 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
American College of Chest Physicians 
Acute Coronary Syndrome 
Adverse event 
activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 
area under the curve 
Twice daily dosing 
Blood Pressure 
Body mass index 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use 
Confidence interval 
Maximum concentration in plasma 
Creatinine clearance 
Central nervous system 
Clinically Relevant Bleeding Events 
Computed tomography (also known as:  CAT scan) 
Clinical Trial Report 
Coefficient of variation  
Compression ultrasound 
Dabigatran etexilate 
Dabigatran etexilate 150 mg 
Dabigatran etexilate 220 mg 
dabigatran 
Dabigatran etexilate 
dabigatran etexilate mesilate 
Differential scanning calorimetry 
Direct Thrombin Inhibitor 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Electrocardiogram 
Ecarin Clotting Time 
maximum effect 
The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products 
Enoxaparin 
Etexilate 
[the] European Union 
Full analysis set 
FAS-major; Full analysis set -major 
Follow-up Measure 
Gas chromatography 
Good clinical practice 
Good laboratory practice 
Good manufacturing practice 
heparin–induced thrombocytopenia 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Normalized Ratio 
intravenous 
Low molecular weight heparin 
Major bleeding event 
Minimum Important Difference 
Milliliter 
major orthopedic surgery 
Number 
No observed adverse effect level 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
3/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
p.o. (po, in tables) 
PD 
PE 
PhEur 
PK 
PT  
q.d. (qd, in tables) 
s.c. 
tDVT 
THR 
TKR 
TT 
UH 
U.S. 
VKAs 
VTE 
per os, oral administration 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pulmonary embolism 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetic 
prothrombin time 
Once daily dosing 
Subcutaneous 
Total deep venous thrombosis 
total hip replacement 
total knee replacement 
thrombin time 
unfractionated heparin 
United States of America 
vitamin K antagonists 
Venous thromboembolism 
4/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH  submitted  on  01  February  2007  an 
application  for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Pradaxa, 
through  the  centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 29 June 2006.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) 
or study(ies). 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  “Primary  prevention  of  venous  thromboembolic 
events  in  adult  patients  who  have  undergone  elective  total  hip  replacement  surgery  or  total  knee 
replacement surgery”.   
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Steffen Thirstrup 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Pierre Demolis 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 1 February 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 February 2007. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
11  May  2007.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 14 May 2007. 
During the meeting 18-21 June 2007, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
21 June 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
6 September 2007. 
The final Integrated inspection report of the inspection carried out in the investigator sites was 
issued on 19 September 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 30 October 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting 12-15 November 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
5/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During the meeting 21-24 January 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Pradaxa  on  24  January  2008.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 22 January 2008. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 18 March 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
The need to prevent venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing total knee [TKR] or hip 
replacement [THR] surgery is well established. In the absence of VTE prophylaxis, the absolute risk 
of VTE ranges from 40-60%; hence, prophylaxis should be administered during the period of highest 
risk. Heparin and especially the low molecular weight heparins (LMWH) are the most commonly used 
anticoagulants  for  the  prevention  of  VTE  after  major  orthopedic  surgery  (MOS).  More  recently, 
fondaparinux  has  been  also  recommended.  Additionally,  vitamin  K  antagonists  (VKAs)  are  also 
frequently  used  in  some  countries.  These  drug  classes  are  highly  effective  therapeutic  agents. 
However,  heparin  and  its  derivatives,  as  well  as  fondaparinux,  must  be  administered  parentally, 
making self administration both challenging and less desirable. Moreover, unfractionated heparin and, 
to  a  lesser  extent,  the  LMWH  can  cause  heparin–induced  thrombocytopenia  (HIT),  a  rare  but 
potentially life-threatening adverse event. Warfarin and other VKAs are given orally; however, their 
use is associated with numerous limitations. These include a high potential for food-drug interactions 
and drug-drug interactions, which necessitates the need for frequent monitoring of INR and occasional 
dose  adjustments.  In  addition,  VKAs  have  a  slow  onset  and  offset  of  action,  which  may  limit  their 
effectiveness as prophylactic agents for the prevention of VTE, since the peri-operative period is when 
the  risk  of  thrombosis  formation  is  greatest.  Consequently,  bridging  therapy  with  a  parenteral  agent 
may  be  necessary  at  the  initiation  of  therapy.  Given  the  limitations  and  inconveniences  of  currently 
available agents, many patients do not receive satisfactory anticoagulant therapy or stop it too early. 
There  is  a  significant  need  for  a  fixed  dose  anticoagulant  that  is  at  least  as  effective  as  available 
anticoagulants, which can be given orally, and is free from the challenges of VKAs.  
Dabigatran etexilate (DE)  is a potent, synthetic, non-peptide competitive, rapidly acting oral direct 
thrombin inhibitor (oral DTI). DE is the oral pro-drug of the active moiety dabigatran (DAB) and does 
not possess anticoagulant activity. The pro-drug dabigatran etexilate is used in its salt form dabigatran 
etexilate mesilate (DEM). That specifically and reversibly inhibits thrombin, the final enzyme in the 
coagulation  cascade.  The  granted  indication  is  primary  prevention  of  VTE  in  patients  undergoing 
elective MOS [(THR or TKR)]. The recommended dose is 220mg once daily taken as 2 capsules of 
110mg. For patients with moderate renal impairment or aged above 75 years, the recommended dose 
is 150mg once daily taken as 2 capsules of 75mg. The treatment should be initiated orally within 1-4 
hours of completed surgery with a single capsule and continuing with 2 capsules once daily thereafter 
for a total of 10 days in knee surgery and 28-35 days in hip surgery. The Phase III DE programme for 
the primary prevention of VTE consisted of three studies: two European (EU) studies, considered as 
pivotal,  and  a  supportive  North  American  study.  These  studies  were  designed  to  be  as  similar  as 
possible.  However,  the  significant  differences  in  practice  patterns,  registered  doses  of  comparator 
drugs  and  differing  recommendations  for  the  duration  of  prophylactic  therapy  for  different  types  of 
surgery  (hip  vs.  knee)  necessitated  some  differences  in  the  Phase  III  study  designs,  which  are 
discussed in the relevant sections of this document.  
A  recommended  primary  endpoint  in  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  as  written  in  the  CHMP 
Guideline  (CPMP/EWP/  707/98)  is  a  composite  endpoint  consisting  of  clinically  relevant  and 
objectively  documented  events  including  venographically  documented  proximal  DVT,  symptomatic 
and well-documented non-fatal pulmonary embolism (PE) and VTE related death or death due to any 
cause.  However,  despite  the  total  DE  development  program  including  over  8000  patients,  the 
individual  studies  were  not  thought  to  be  sufficiently  powered  to  reliably  assess  efficacy  for  the 
composite endpoint including proximal DVT, symptomatic VTE and VTE related death (= major VTE 
and VTE related death).  
6/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A meta- analysis was pre-specified in order to evaluate the effects of DE on the composite endpoint 
specified  in  the  CHMP  Guideline  (CPMP/EWP/  707/98).  This  approach  could  justify  the  deviation 
from the CHMP Guideline if the results of the individual pivotal trials show non-inferiority compared 
to  enoxaparin.  This  could  not  be  shown  in  supportive  US  study.  That  is  why  the  meta-analysis  was 
considered of exploratory, not of the confirmatory nature.  
The  introduction  of  UH  and  later  LMWH  as  standard  prophylactics  has  reduced  the  frequency  of 
major VTE and VTE related mortality significantly. Therefore large study populations are needed in 
order to show non-inferiority. Therefore, a “new” surrogate end-point was proposed which occurs with 
a higher frequency in order to keep the study population at a reasonable size. Total VTE and all-cause 
mortality was used during the treatment period as such “new” surrogate marker. Major VTE and VTE 
related mortality was chosen as one of the secondary endpoints. The MAA for DE was submitted prior 
to the revision of the CHMP Guideline (CPMP/EWP/ 707/98/Rev 1).  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Dabigatran etexilate has been developed as an orally active anticoagulant for the prevention of venous 
thromboembolic events in patients who have undergone elective total hip or knee replacement surgery. 
It  is  available  as  110  mg  and  75  mg  hard  capsules  for  oral  administration  presented  in  aluminium  / 
aluminium blisters or in polypropylene bottles with desiccant. 
The  recommended  dose  is  220  mg  once  daily  taken  as  2  capsules  of  110  mg.  For  patients  with 
moderate renal impairment the recommended dose of dabigatran etexilate is 150 mg once daily, taken 
as 2 capsules of 75 mg. 
The maximum daily dose for dabigatran etexilate mesilate (DEM) is 300 mg. 
Active Substance 
The chemical name (IUPAC) of dabigatran etexilate mesilate is ethyl N-{[2-({[4-((E)-amino 
{[(hexyloxy) carbonyl] imino} methyl) phenyl] amino} methyl)-1-methyl-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl] 
carbonyl}-Npyridin-2-yl-β-alaninate methanesulfonate corresponding to the molecular formula 
C35H45N7O8S. The molecular mass is 723.86 for the salt and 627.75 for the free base.  
Dabigatran etexilate is the pro-drug of the active substance, dabigatran which corresponds to the 
molecular formula C25H25N7O3 and molecular mass 471.5. 
DEM  is  a  yellow-white  to  yellow  non-hygroscopic  powder.  The  partition  coefficient  of  the  neutral 
form (free base) is logP = 3.8, pKa1 = 4.0 ± 0.1 pKa2 = 6.7 ± 0.1. Solubility is strongly pH dependent 
with increased solubility at acidic pH. The solubility in water is 1.8 mg/ml. DEM is freely soluble in 
methanol,  soluble  in  ethanol,  sparingly  soluble  in  isopropanol,  very  slightly  soluble  in  acetone  and 
practically insoluble in ethyl acetate. 
It has no chiral centers and therefore does not form enantiomers. Geometric isomers (tautomers) are 
possible. 
DEM  exhibits  polymorphism.  Two  forms,  modification  I  and  II  are  known.  The  drug  substance  is 
modification  I  in  the  anhydrous  form  and  is  routinely  produced  by  the  commercial  method  of 
synthesis. A hydrated form with a stoichiomety close to a hemihydrate also exists. 
•  Manufacture 
The active substance is synthesised in 3 steps and a number of recrystallisation steps on intermediates 
and  the  final  substance.  Protection  from  humidity  is  implied  during  manufacturing  and  storage  to 
prevent hydrolysis of the pro-drug forming moieties and polymorphic form transformations. Extensive 
experimental  work  and  scientific  evaluation  of  the  potential  carryover  of  these  impurities  and  their 
derivatives during further process steps were carried out. These experiments prove that the proposed 
acceptance  criteria  for  the  identified  impurities  in  each  isolated  intermediate  are  appropriate  and 
ensure  that  these  impurities  (as  well  as  their  potential  derivatives)  are  removed  by  extraction  and 
purification  procedures  of  the  synthesis  process  to  remain  within  the  levels  specified  for  the  drug 
substance.  
7/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data  showing  that  alkyl  methane  sulfonates  compounds  are  not  formed  during  drug  substance 
production have been presented which justify why quality controls in the last step of the synthesis are 
not necessary. 
Appropriate  controls  in  the  last  step  of  the  synthesis  are  carried  out  to  ensure  the  formation  of  the 
desired crystalline modification I.  
•  Specification 
The  specifications  for  the  control  of  the  drug  substance  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual), 
identification (IR), colour and clarity of solution (PhEur), purity and polymorphism (DSC), impurities 
(HPLC), residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (PhEur), water content (PhEur), sulphated ash (PhEur), 
assay (HPLC and titration), particle size (Laser-beam diffraction). 
The  specifications  have  been  established  based  on  analytical  release  data,  stability  studies  and 
pharmaceutical  development  studies.  In  particular, the  limits  for  organic impurities are based on the 
batch data for 38 representative clinical batches made according to the commercial synthesis process 
and on the primary stability data. All results meet the proposed regulatory specifications 
The proposed specifications for impurities in the active substance are for some specified impurities 
above the qualification threshold of the ICH guideline Impurities in new drug substances, however 
toxicological qualification has been presented in Module 4 of the application. 
The  specification  limits  for  two  specific  impurities  of  concern  may  also  be  considered  to  be  fully 
qualified, because they are intermediates metabolites of the active substance and are present in vivo. 
•  Stability 
Stability  data  were  presented  for  three  full-scale  production  batches  of  dabigatran  etexilate  mesilate 
synthesized  according  to  the  proposed  commercial  process  at  the  commercial  site  of  manufacture. 
These batches were stored for 12 months under long-term storage conditions (25°C/60% RH) and for 
6 months under accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH).   
Additional supportive stability data were available for a pilot scale batch stored for 36 months at long-
term  conditions  (25°C/60%  RH).  This  batch  was  also  synthesized  according  to  the  proposed 
commercial process.  
Primary stability studies were conducted in accordance with the ICH Q1A(R2) guideline.  
All  stability  testing  was  performed  according  to  the  regulatory  analytical  procedures  and  the  data 
evaluated according to the current specification for the drug substance. 
After 12 months storage at 25°C/60% RH, the three primary stability batches did not show unexpected 
degree of decomposition, which in any case was in line with the supportive stability data available for 
the drug substance over 36 months at 25°C/60% RH.  
The retest period is justified based on the stability results available for 24 months of storage. 
Stress  stability  studies  of  the  drug  substance  were  performed  on  two  batches  to  elucidate  the  major 
degradation  pathways.  DEM  was  exposed  to  various  stress  conditions  (Solid  state:  elevated 
temperature,  humidity  and  light  irradiation  and  in  aqueous  solutions:  different  pH  values,  elevated 
temperature and exposure to oxidizing conditions).  
In the solid state, DEM is very stable. After  storage for 4 weeks  at 70 °C in a closed container, not 
more  than  0.50  %  total  degradation  was  observed.  The  degradation  rate  of  the  drug  substance  is 
markedly  accelerated  by  the  presence  of  moisture.  This  behaviour  provides  the  rationale  for  the 
selection of a container/closure system that protects the drug substance against exposure to moisture. 
In  aqueous  solution  at  40  °C,  dabigatran  etexilate  mesilate  undergoes  considerable  hydrolytic 
degradation. 
The  results  of  the  stress  stability  studies  show  that  dabigatran  etexilate  mesilate  predominately 
undergoes degradation by hydrolytic pathways. 
DEM is not sensitive to light irradiation in the solid state. 
8/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Based  on  these  physicochemical  and  biopharmaceutical  properties  of  dabigatran  etexilate  mesilate, 
and  the  clinical  requirements  for  a  reliable  drug  release  a  multilayer  pellet  was  selected.  Active 
ingredient layered organic acid containing pellets filled into hard capsules were developed as dosage 
form. Other formulation approaches were evaluated during early development, but were inferior to the 
selected formulation in terms of drug load, stability and in vivo performance. 
DEM has low solubility in water and high intrinsic passive permeability, and is considered a Class II 
compound according to the biopharmaceutical classification system.  
 The  active  substance  is  susceptible  to  hydrolysis  in  presence  of  humidity  under  acidic  conditions, 
which is why a manufacturing process limiting water and acidic conditions is chosen. Drug substance 
particle size limits are established to ensure consistent drug product manufacturability. 
All of the selected excipients, including HPMC capsule shell, are commonly used in oral commercial 
pharmaceutical  dosage  forms  and  are  compendial  materials.    The  selection  of  excipients  and  their 
corresponding  levels  was  based  on  in vitro  dissolution,  stability,  and  in vivo  bioavailability  studies 
using various prototype formulations.   
The compatibility tests results indicate that all tested active-excipient mixtures are sufficiently stable 
for selection as an excipient in the intended commercial formulation 
HPMC capsule shells were selected because DAB is sensitive to hydrolysis and because of the 
minimum brittleness of the capsule material, when desiccants used in primary packaging.. Dissolution 
profiles of gelatine and HPMC capsules demonstrate that the release from the HPMC capsules is 
delayed from about 25% in 15 min but that no difference is observed at 30min. This difference has no 
impact on in vivo release. This was confirmed by a relative bioavailability study performed on 150mg 
strength capsules of HPMC and gelatine. 
In  the  drug  product,  alkyl  methanesulfonates  were  controlled  during  development,  as  these  alkyl 
methane sulfonates might be formed during manufacture and storage of dabigatran etexilate capsules. 
The analysis was performed with dabigatran etexilate pellets final stage, either prior to encapsulation 
or with the final drug product, dabigatran etexilate capsules. 
Batch analysis results confirm that alkyl methane sulfonates that could potentially be formed during 
manufacturing are not formed at detectable levels during the manufacturing of the finished product.  
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  during  the  manufacture  of  the  drug  product 
intermediates  and  for  three  batches  of  75mg  capsules  and  three  batches  of  110mg  capsules  at  the 
production  site.  Retrospective  validation  data  have  been  provided  for  the  manufacture  of  the 
intermediate products. Holding times of the drug product intermediates have been established. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipient used is of animal or human origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The commercial manufacturing process of dabigatran etexilate capsules 75 mg / capsule and 110 mg / 
capsule includes the following operations: 
•  manufacture of drug product intermediates 
•  final blending resulting in dabigatran etexilate pellets final stage  
•  encapsulation 
•  packaging of capsules into blisters or bottles 
A standard process is used to produce the pellets to be filled in the HPMC capsules.  
The same manufacturing process has been utilised for the primary stability batches and the Phase III 
clinical  batches  for  dabigatran  etexilate  capsules  which  were  all  manufactured  at  full  commercial 
batch size with respect to the dabigatran etexilate pellets final stage. 
The  data  gathered  during  process  validation  and  the  provided  batch  analyses  demonstrates  that  the 
manufacturing process is robust and consistently yields drug product, which meets the predetermined 
quality characteristics. The chosen in-process controls have been shown to be suitable for monitoring 
the manufacturing process. 
9/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product Specification 
The specification for batch release and shelf-life include the following tests: appearance (visual), loss 
on  drying  for  pellets  (gravimetry),  loss  on  drying  for  capsule  shell  (gravimetry),  identification  (at 
release  only)  (HPLC,  UV),  active  ingredient  content  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC), 
uniformity  of  dosage  units  (at  release  only)  (PhEur),  dissolution  (PhEur),  microbiological  purity 
(Ph.Eur) 
Residual  solvents  are  controlled  in  the  intermediate  product,  dabigatran  etexilate  pellets  final  stage, 
according to the requirements of ICH Q3C(R3). 
Batch  analysis  results  of  nine  batches  plus  results  from  three  other  batches  (used  for  clinical  trials) 
were presented. Supportive batch analysis data for batches manufactured during the different stages of 
development are also provided. The results comply with the specification and confirm consistency of 
the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Three  pilot  scale  batches  of  each  strength  have  been  stored  at  25ºC/60%  RH  for  12  months  and  at 
40ºC/75% RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging. Batches were of same formulation as 
proposed for commercial batches, except that the capsules were not imprinted.  
Parameters investigated: Appearance, Loss on drying (pellets and shell), degradation products, assay, 
dissolution, microbial contamination. 
No significant changes have been observed after storage at either condition in PP container. However, 
in alu/alu blister an increase in all degradation products are observed, most markedly for BIBR1154 at 
both  accelerated  and  long  term  conditions.  This  behaviour  is  due  to  the  drying  capacity  of  the 
desiccant  in  the  PP  container.  Statistical  evaluation  of  BIBR1154,  total  degradation  products  and 
assay,  has  been  presented  for  the  3  primary  stability  batches  of  each  strength.  Results  reveal  no 
marked trend, therefore the proposed shelf life is considered acceptable. 
Supportive  stability  results  from  one  pilot  scale  150mg  capsule  batch  were  also  provided,  stored  in 
Alu/alu-blister  (with  equivalent  protective  properties  as  the  proposed  blister)  for  36  months  at 
25°C/60%  RH  and  30°C/70%RH,  and  for  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH.  No  significant  changes  were 
observed  for  any  of  the  tested  parameters  (appearance,  loss  on  drying,  dissolution,  degradation  and 
assay)  and  the  proposed  shelf  life  specifications  were  met  after  36  months  storage  under  long-term 
conditions. 
Stability results on formation on methane sulfonic acid alkyl esters impurities in the drug product were 
presented.  These  results  show  there  is  no  risk  of  the  formation  of  these  substances  at  release  and  at 
stability conditions/period of 6 month at 40°C/75%RH and 12 months at 30°C/70%RH. 
Stability results on formation of polymorphic form II during storage is presented in separate report. No 
further conversion to From II is observed even if high amounts of From II was present from t=0. Form 
II is limited in the drug substance. 
In-use  stability:    The  in-use  study  was  carried  out  on  one  batch  of  each  strength  in  proposed  PP 
container. Results support the proposed in-use shelf life for capsules stored in the polypropylene bottle 
container  system  with  desiccant.  Batches  used  had  first  been  stored  for  12  months  at  25°C/60%RH, 
and  then  simulated  use  was  carried  out  by  periodically  opening  and  closing  (twice  a  day)  and 
removing capsules from the bottle (but still stored at 25°C/60%RH). Testing points were after 0, 14 
and 30 days. No change in degradation products is observed.  
The in-use study supports the proposed in-use shelf life for capsules stored in the polypropylene bottle 
container system with desiccant.  
Photostability:  Light  stability  study  of  filled  capsules  revealed  no  relevant  changes  (appearance, 
dissolution, assay and related substances), which is why no further investigation in primary packaging 
was carried out which is in agreement with the ICH Q1B guideline.  
Stress testing: after one day stored open at 40°C/75%RH loss on drying of pellets and of capsule shell 
increased  for the two strengths, as did the hydrolysis degradation products. After 85 days at 60°C 
(uncontrolled humidity) no significant changes were observed apart from declining loss on drying 
results and an increase change in total degradation products. These results were however expected as 
the finished product is sensitive to moisture. 
10/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the stability data obtained and their statistical evaluation the proposed shelf-life and storage 
condition are accepted, as defined in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Pradaxa  hard  capsules  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  sufficient  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical documentation relating to development, manufacture and control of the drug substance 
and drug product has been presented. There are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  all  the  important 
product  quality  characteristics.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  number  of  minor 
unresolved  quality  issues  having  no  impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant 
submitted a Letter of Undertaking dated on 22 January 2008 and committed to resolve these as Follow 
Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
It can be safely concluded that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the 
clinic.  
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pradaxa contains 75 mg or 110 mg of DE, the oral pro-drug of the active moiety dabigatran (DAB). 
The  pro-drug  DE  is  present  in  its  salt  form  dabigatran  etexilate  mesilate  (DEM).  The  marketing 
authorization application dossier for Pradaxa contains data from the preclinical studies performed with 
DEM. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
DAB  is  a  novel,  synthetic,  non-peptide  competitive,  rapidly  acting  and  reversible  inhibitor  of 
thrombin.  Since  thrombin  enables  the  conversion  of  fibrinogen  into  fibrin  during  the  coagulation 
cascade, its inhibition prevents the development of thrombus. DAB also inhibits free thrombin, fibrin-
bound  thrombin  and  thrombin  induced  platelet  aggregation.  DAB  is  a  specific  inhibitor  of  thrombin 
that demonstrates anticoagulant and antithrombotic activity both in vitro and in vivo. In vivo it has a 
relatively wide safety window between antithrombotic efficacy and bleeding side effects. In addition 
according  to  general/safety  pharmacological  profiling,  it  has  no  proarrhythmic  potential  based  on  in 
vitro  and  in  vivo  assays  and  is  generally  well  tolerated.  DAB  is  a  synthetic  non-peptide  compound, 
which acts as a competitive inhibitor at the active site of thrombin. It inhibits human thrombin with a 
Ki of 4.5 nM. In contrast to heparin, which acts by augmenting the activity of anti-thrombin, DTIs also 
inhibit fibrin-bound thrombin, as is observed in a blood clot. DAB is poorly absorbed following oral 
dosing thus it is orally administered in the form of the pro-drug DEM. Administration of i.v. DAB and 
p.o. DEM, produces a dose- and time-dependent prolongation of coagulation time in various species. 
The  effect  of  i.v.  pre-treatment  with  DAB  on  venous  clot  formation  was  investigated  in  a  rat  and  a 
rabbit model of venous thrombosis. A 50% reduction in clot size (ED50) was observed following i.v. 
administration of 33 µg/kg and 66 µg/kg DAB in the rat and rabbit, respectively. DAB did not inhibit 
platelet aggregation in human plasma following the introduction of various platelet activating factors.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
DAB exhibited low affinity (Ki>3.5 µM) towards the serine proteases factor Xa, factor XIa, factor 
VIIa/tissue factor complex, plasma kallikrein, plasmin, urokinase, tissue-type plasminogen activator, 
activated protein C, granulocyte elastase and C1 esterase. DAB inhibited trypsin with a Ki of 50.3 nM, 
however  the  digestive  enzyme  trypsin  does  not  normally  occur  in  the  blood  and  is  not  involved  in 
haemostasis.  The  lack  of  a  broader  receptor  screen  was  considered  acceptable  based  on  the  large 
battery of safety pharmacology and toxicological studies performed. 
11/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies applying i.v. administration of DAB or p.o. administration of DEM 
revealed  no  special  hazard  for  acute  effects  on  the  function  of  the  cardiovascular  system,  central 
nervous system, respiratory system, and renal and gastrointestinal system.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  (PD)  drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  that  was 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
DEM was identified as a  medium-affinity substrate for the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein in the 
human colon carcinoma derived cell line Caco-2. Moreover, DEM inhibited the apical-to-basolateral 
transport of the P-glycoprotein substrate digoxin in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 
25 µM (50-fold clinical Cmax). A clinical study confirmed that no pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions 
occur  when  DEM  is  co-administered  with  digoxin.  Following  single  administration,  the  oral 
bioavailability of [14C]-DEM was 16% in rat, 5% in rabbit, 8% in Rhesus monkey and 7% in man. The 
clearance was 4.5 to 6-fold higher in rat, rabbit and monkey when compared to man and consequently 
the half-life was lower in these species. Tmax was obtained 0.5 h following p.o. dosing in mouse and 
rat,  at  1.3  h  in  rabbit  and  monkey  and  at  1.5  h  in  man.  No  gender  differences  were  observed  with 
respect  to  absorption  following  repeated  dosing  of  mice,  rats  and  monkeys.  No  consistent  trend 
towards lower plasma exposure levels with repeated dosing was observed in the species tested. 
Distribution 
DEM  related  radioactivity  distributed  into  most  tissues  30  minutes  following  oral  dosing  in  rats 
whereas  only  very  limited  levels  of  radioactivity  were  detected  in  the  CNS.  Besides  the 
gastrointestinal  tract,  DEM  related  radioactivity  was  predominantly  detected  in  liver,  urinary  tract, 
artery wall and adrenal medulla. Minor levels of radioactivity were detected in skin and bone marrow. 
24 hours following oral dosing, traces of radioactivity were only detected in the liver. DEM and DAB 
displayed no affinity for melanin containing tissues. The distribution of [14C]-DAB from plasma into 
blood  cells  was  negligible.  Only  very  low  levels  of  radioactivity  were  detected  in  foetal  tissues 
following p.o. dosing to rats thus DEM exhibits low placental transfer. The plasma protein binding of 
[14C]-DAB was low in plasma of mice (22-26%), rat (29-33%), rabbits (32%), Rhesus monkeys (38 -
39%) and humans (29-30%). 
Metabolism 
The  metabolism  of  DEM  was  investigated  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  Rhesus  monkeys.  Following 
DEM  administration,  the  two  intermediate  pro-drugs  BIBR  1087  SE  (most  predominant)  and  BIBR 
951 CL are formed. This intermediate BIBR 951 CL is pharmacologically active however due to the 
intermediate nature of BIBR 1087 SE and BIBR 951 CL, they constitute only trace amounts in human 
plasma samples. Subsequently, these pro-drugs are converted into DAB. Only traces of BIBR 1087 SE 
undergo further oxidative metabolism. Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes did not contribute to the 
metabolism of DEM, DAB nor of the two intermediate pro-drugs BIBR 1087 SE and BIBR 951 CL. 
Instead,  the  metabolism  of  DEM  is  catalysed  by  esterases,  such  as  soluble  esterases  and  also 
microsomal  carboxylesterases.  More  than  20  metabolites  were  detected  in  the  investigated  animal 
species  but  DAB  was  the  predominant  compound  in  all  samples  of  matrices  investigated.  The 
chemical structure of DAB contains a carboxyacid functional group which is metabolically converted 
to the 1-O-acyl glucuronide. Due to non-enzymatic isomerization of the 1-O-acyl glucuronide, several 
positional isomers are formed. The 1-O-acyl glucuronide as well as its isomers prolonged the APTT to 
the same extent as the parent compound DAB. All acyl glucuronides present in man are also generated 
in  significant  amounts  in  the  main  animal  species  (rats  and  Rhesus  monkeys)  used  in  preclinical 
studies thus they are considered qualified. There were no human-specific metabolites.  
Excretion 
Following p.o. administration of [14C]-DEM, excretion of radioactivity is predominantly via faeces 
in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  Rhesus  monkeys  (87-93%).  DAB  is  secreted  into  the  bile.  However, 
12/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enterohepatic  circulation  of  DAB  occurs  only  to  a  very  limited  extent  (0.4%  of  the  administered 
radioactivity  within  6  hrs)  due  to  the  fact  that  DAB  cannot  readily  be  reabsorbed  by  the  gut.  The 
excretion of radioactivity into milk was in the range of 0.08 to 0.13% of the dose administered to the 
dams. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interaction 
DEM  and  DAB  neither  induced  the  activity  of  major  CYP450  enzymes  in  primary  human 
hepatocytes  nor  in  vivo  in  rat  liver  microsomes.  However,  the  potential  for  induction  of  CYP2C9, 
2C19 and 2C8 enzymes have not been investigated. DEM, DAB, BIBR 951 CL and BIBR 1087 SE 
had  no  effect  on  the  activity  of  major  CYP450  enzymes  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations.  DEM 
absorption  is  not  significantly  affected  by  P-glycoprotein-mediated  efflux.  Altogether,  the  risk  for 
CYP450  and  P-glycoprotein  mediated  PK  drug  interactions  following  DEM  administration  are 
considered very limited.  
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose p.o. administration of DEM did not give rise mortalities in mice and rats at doses up to 
2000 mg/kg and up to 600 mg/kg in Rhesus monkeys. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The pivotal studies consisted of 26-week studies performed in rats and monkeys and a 52-week study 
conducted  in  monkeys.  The  toxicity  observed  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  mice, 
rats, dogs and Rhesus monkeys was associated to the exaggerated pharmacological activity of DEM. 
The  clinical  and  biochemical  findings  consisted  of  bruising,  pallor,  decreased  activity,  swelling  of 
limbs and tail (in rodents) or lips and cheeks (monkeys), blood in faeces, mildly increased fibrinogen 
levels, increased aPTT, PT and TT values and regenerative anaemia. Histopathological findings in rats 
consisted  predominantly  of  signs  of  recurrent  haemorrhage  in  thymus,  heart  and  pancreas.  These 
organs were possibly particularly susceptible to haemorrhage due to the mechanical forces exerted on 
these  tissues  during  gavage.  In  monkeys,  the  site  of  haemorrhage  varied  from  the  urinary  bladder, 
subcutaneous tissue on the head, thymus, uterus, vagina, and to the skin. All treatment-related findings 
were reversible. Mortalities due to excessive bleeding possibly induced by the exertion of mechanical 
forces  during  gavaging  were  observed  at  300  mg/kg  in  rats.  Similarly,  a  single  female  monkey 
administered 200 mg/kg died due to excessive menstrual bleeding. Subsequently, the female monkeys 
were not dosed during the menstrual period. Altogether, the major safety concern with DEM is the risk 
for bleeding effects in humans. No signs of hepatotoxicity were observed in the repeat-dose toxicity 
studies conducted with DEM. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The  pro-drug  DEM  and  the  active  moiety  DAB  were  non-genotoxic  in  Ames  tests,  in  the  in  vitro 
mouse lymphoma L5178Y tk+/- assay and in the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been submitted since DEM will not be regularly administered over a 
substantial  part  of  patient’s  lifetime.  Moreover,  there  are  no  causes  for  concern  suggesting  a 
carcinogenic potential for DEM.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Male  fertility  was  not  adversely  affected  in  rats  following  p.o.  treatment  with  doses  of  up  to  200 
mg/kg DEM. A decrease in implantations was observed in females with a NOAEL of 15 mg/kg which 
approximately  corresponds  to  clinical  exposure  levels.  Moreover,  the  incidence  of  early  resorptions 
was  increased  at  200  mg/kg.  At  maternotoxic  and  lethal  doses  (200  mg/kg),  a  decrease  in  viable 
foetuses  was  observed  along  with  an  increase  in  early,  late  and  total  resorptions  in  the  rat  embryo-
foetal study. Moreover, the foetal weight was decreased in the 200 mg/kg group. A slightly increased 
incidence  of  variations  was  observed  in  high-dose  foetuses.  The  NOAEL  for  foetal  effects  was  70 
mg/kg,  which  gives  rise  to  a  safety  margin  of  around  5.  In  a  dose-range  finding  study,  embryo-
lethality  (increased  resorption  rate)  was  observed  in  pregnant  rabbits  administered  200  mg/kg. 
13/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, in the pivotal embryo-foetal study, treatment of rabbit with up to 200 mg/kg DEM had no 
effect  on  corpora  lutea,  implantations,  viable  foetuses,  resorptions  or  resorption  rate.  The  increased 
incidence of foetal variations was not increased. The NOAEL for foetal effects was 200 mg/kg, which 
gives rise to an AUC-based safety margin of 2. Maternal toxicity was observed at doses ≥30 mg/kg in 
the rat pre- and post-natal study and maternal mortality caused by bleeding to death during resorption 
of the embryos and parturition was observed at 70 mg/kg. The post-implantation loss and the number 
of  dead  offspring  were  significantly  increased  in  the  70  mg/kg  group.  However,  treatment  had  no 
negative  effects  on  body  weight,  developmental  landmarks,  CNS  parameters  and  on  fertility  of  the 
pups.  Consequently,  pre-parturition,  the  NOAEL  for  foetal  mortality  was  30  mg/kg  whereas  post-
parturition,  the  NOAEL  for  developmental  effects  in  the  offspring  was  70  mg/kg.  These  values 
correspond  to  AUC-based  safety  margins  of  1.6  and  3.9,  respectively.  Since  the  milk  excretion  of 
DAB only constitutes less than 0.13% of the dose administered to the rat dams, the lack of post-natal 
developmental effects are not unexpected.  Small weights of the testes, epididymides, seminal vesicles 
and prostate gland were observed in monkeys treated with DAB for 52 weeks, but also in untreated 
control animals, and therefore no relationship to treatment is established 
•  Other toxicity studies 
DEM  was  well-tolerated  by  rabbit  skin  and  eyes  and  did  not  have  a  skin  sensitisation  potential  in 
rabbits. Even though a weak phototoxic signal was detected in the 3T3 NRU  assay, a review of the 
extensive  safety  database  for  DEM  showed  no  evidence  of  a  phototoxic  potential  in  patients.  The 
impurities and degradation products BIBR 951, BIBR 1087, BIBR 1150, BIBR 1154, BIBR 1155 and 
CDBA 513 are considered qualified up to the specified limits. The potential presence of the genotoxic 
impurities methyl mesylate, ethyl mesylate, isopropyl mesilate and n-hexyl mesilate at a level up to 1 
ppm  each  does  not  represent  a  significant  safety  risk.  It  is  unlikely  that  DAB  use  will  result  in  an 
environmental risk. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  PECSW  for  DAB  was  calculated  for  total  Europe  as  well  as  for  the  country  with  the  highest 
expected  market  penetration  (France).  The  Fpen  values  were  based  on  current  sales  forecasts  which 
might  be  estimated  based  on  the  expected  number  of  patients.  The  resulting  PECSW  values  were 
0.0036 µg/L and 0.0057 µg/L for EU and France, respectively. These values were below the Phase II 
trigger  value  but  Phase  II  assessment  was  performed.  Log  Kow  for  DAB  was  below  4.5  thus  a 
screening  for  persistence,  bioaccumulation  and  toxicity  was  not  needed.  The  adsorption/desorption 
coefficient KOC was 5758 L/kg (OECD 106) thus an assessment of the drug substance in the terrestrial 
compartment was not required. It was expected that DAB will disappear rapidly from aerobic aquatic 
systems mainly via binding to sediment and formation of several minor metabolites (OECD 308). The 
level of  14C-DAB in the sediment reached a plateau between days 3 and 14 with a maximal detected 
value of 5.7%. However, due to the structural resemblance to not ready biodegradable substances, a 
tier  B  study  on  transformation  in  aquatic  sediment  systems  was  performed  (OECD  308).  The 
calculated PEC/PNEC ratios were all below 1. In summary, due to the low risk further testing in for 
effects on the aquatic environment, microorganisms and the terrestrial compartment were not required. 
In  addition,  due  to  the  low  Kow  a  bioaccumulation  study  was  not  needed.  PECsediment  values  were 
obtained  for  EU  (0.453  µg/kg)  and  the  “worst-case  scenario”  France  (0.718  µg/kg).  Since  the 
PEC/PNEC  ratio  for  the  sediment  was  clearly  below  1,  it  was  concluded  that  with  the  present  use 
pattern,  DAB  constitutes  an  insignificant  risk  for  the  sediment  compartment.  In  conclusion,  it  is 
unlikely that DAB use will result in an environmental risk.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
DAB is a synthetic non-peptide compound, which acts as a competitive inhibitor at the active site of 
thrombin. DAB is poorly absorbed following oral dosing. Thus it is orally administered in the form of 
the pro-drug: DEM. Administration of i.v. DAB and p.o. DEM, produces a dose- and time-dependent 
prolongation  of  coagulation  time  in  various  species.  Safety  pharmacology  studies  revealed  that 
treatment  with  DEM  caused  an  increase  in  respiratory  rate  and  minute  volume  and  an  inhibition  of 
gastric emptying. However, no adverse events have been reported clinically that could be associated to 
these effects. 
14/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  single  administration,  the  oral  bioavailability  of  DEM  was  12%  in  rat,  5.4%  in  rabbit, 
7.7% in Rhesus monkey and 7.2% in man. The clearance was 4.5 to 6-fold higher in rat, rabbit and 
monkey when compared to man and consequently the half-life was lower in these species. A less than 
dose-proportional increase in the exposure parameters Cmax and AUC were generally observed in mice 
and monkeys following repeated dosing. DAB plasma exposure in rats and rabbits was generally dose 
proportional  with  no  consistent  effect  of  gender  or  repeated  dosing.  DEM  related  radioactivity  was 
distributed  into  most  tissues  with  very  limited  levels  in  the  CNS.  The  metabolism  of  DEM  was 
investigated  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  Rhesus  monkeys.  Following  its  administration,  the  two 
intermediate  pro-drugs  were  formed.  These  intermediate  pro-drugs  are  pharmacologically  active 
however  they  constitute  only  trace  amounts  in  human  plasma  samples.  Subsequently,  they  were 
converted  into  DAB.  The  metabolism  of  DEM  is  catalysed  by  esterases  and  the  metabolites  are 
excreted predominantly via faeces in mice, rats, rabbits and Rhesus monkeys. DAB is secreted into the 
bile. However, enterohepatic circulation of DAB occurs only to a very limited extent. 
Single-dose oral administration of DEM did not give rise mortalities in mice and rats at doses 
up  to  2000  mg/kg  and  up  to  600  mg/kg  in  Rhesus  monkeys.  The  toxicity  observed  in  the 
repeat-dose toxicity studies conducted in mice, rats, dogs and Rhesus monkeys was associated 
with  exaggerated  pharmacological  activity  of  DEM.  The  findings  made  in  rats  consisted 
predominantly of recurrent haemorrhage, fibrosis, fibrin deposition and haemosiderosis in the 
thymus,  heart  and  pancreas.  In  monkeys,  the  site  of  haemorrhage  varied  from  the  urinary 
bladder, subcutaneous tissue on the head, thymus, uterus, vagina, and to the skin. In both rats 
and monkeys, haemorrhage was observed without safety margins to the clinical DAB plasma 
AUC level. Altogether, the major safety concern with DEM is the risk for bleeding effects in 
humans. No signs of hepatotoxicity were observed with DE which was of particular concern 
because it was observed with other DTIs. The pro-drug DEM and DAB were non-genotoxic. 
No carcinogenicity studies have been submitted since DEM will not be regularly administered 
over  a  substantial  part  of  the  patient’s  lifetime.  Male  fertility  was  not  adversely  affected  in 
rats but reduced weights and atrophy of the testis, the epididymides, the seminal vesicles and 
prostate were observed in DAB-treated monkeys. Although these effects might in part be due 
to seasonal sexual inactivity at the time of the necropsy, a relationship to treatment cannot be 
excluded. An effect on female fertility was observed in the form of a decrease in implantations and an 
increase in pre-implantation loss at 70 mg/kg (5-fold the plasma exposure level in patients). At doses 
that were toxic to the mothers (5 to 10-fold the plasma exposure level in patients), a decrease in foetal 
body weight and viability along with an increase in foetal variations were observed in rats and rabbits. 
In the pre- and post-natal study, an increase in foetal mortality was observed at doses that were toxic 
to the dams (a dose corresponding to a plasma exposure level 4-fold higher than observed in patients).  
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
DE  is  the  orally  bioavailable  prodrug  of  DAB,  a  novel,  non-peptidic,  reversible  inhibitor  of 
thrombin. The primary objective of this application is to review data demonstrating the efficacy of DE 
150 mg and 220 mg once daily dosing (q.d.) for the prevention of VTE following MOS. Evidence to 
support the claimed indication consists of data from two large EU Phase III therapeutic confirmatory 
clinical trials. These trials were performed in patients undergoing either elective TKR surgery (study 
1160.25) or elective THR surgery (1160.48). These studies compared two doses of DE (150 mg and 
220 mg, given orally as capsules once daily) against the standard comparator drug, enoxaparin (40 mg, 
given once daily subcutaneously). Consistent with medical practice and labelling in the EU, the initial 
dose of enoxaparin was given prior to surgery. In addition, Phase III TKR study (study 1160.24) was 
performed in parallel in North America using a higher daily dose of the same comparator, enoxaparin 
(given subcutaneously 30 mg injection twice daily), consistent with labelling in the US. Prior to the 
Phase III programme, dose-ranging studies were performed in patients undergoing joint replacement. 
The  doses  and  administration  schedule  used  in  Phase  III  were  developed  based  on  the  PK  database 
collected during the Phase II programme. 
15/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Overview of controlled clinical studies pertinent to the claimed indication 
Key endpoints 
Study 
(Phase)  
Treatment groups 
Study design 
ID 
Pivotal  
1160.25  
(III)  
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Total  VTEa  and 
all-cause  mortality 
Major VTEb and  
VTE related  
mortality  
DE 220 mg qd  
DE 150 mg qd  
Enoxaparin 40 mg qd  
1160.48 
(III)  
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Supportive  
1160.24 
(III)  
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Total  VTEa  and 
all-cause  mortality 
Major  VTEb  and 
VTE 
related 
mortality 
Total  VTEa  and 
all-cause  mortality 
Major VTEb and  
VTE related  
mortality  
DE 220 mg qd  
DE 150 mg qd  
Enoxaparin 40 mg qd  
DE 220 mg qd  
DE 150 mg qd  
Enoxaparin 30 mg bid  
Dose-
ranging  
1160.19 (II)   Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Total VTEa  
DE 300 mg qd  
DE 225 mg bid 
DE 150 mg bid  
DE 50 mg bid 
Enoxaparin 40mg qd 
of 
Number 
patients 
randomised 
n = 693  
n = 708  
n = 699  
N = 2101  
n = 1157  
n = 1174  
n = 1162  
N = 3494  
n = 862  
n = 877  
n = 876  
N = 2615  
n = 392  
n = 398  
n = 393  
n = 393 
n = 393 
a  Total  VTE  includes  at  least  one  of  the  following:  confirmed  PE,  confirmed  symptomatic  DVT,  or  DVT  detected  by 
venography 
b Major VTE includes at least one of the following: confirmed PE, confirmed symptomatic proximal DVT, or proximal DVT 
detected by venography 
GCP 
The main dose response study and the phase III studies were performed in accordance with GCP as 
claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  total  of  31  studies  enrolling  approximately  3100  subjects  have  been  conducted  with  DAB  to 
evaluate dose-response, PK/PD relationship, mode of action and potential for drug-drug interactions. 
DE  is  an  oral  prodrug.  This  prodrug  is  present  in  a  salt  form  (methane  sulfonate  or  mesilate).  It 
contains the active moiety DAB and an ethyl-ester group. After oral administration, DE is rapidly and 
completely converted to DAB, which is the active form in plasma. The cleavage of the prodrug DE by 
esterase-catalysed hydrolysis to the active principle DAB is the predominant metabolic reaction. The 
absolute bioavailability of DAB following oral administration of DE was approximately 6.5 %. After 
oral administration of DE in healthy volunteers, the PK profile of DAB in plasma is characterized by a 
rapid  increase  in  plasma  concentrations  with  Cmax  attained  within  0.5  and  2.0  hours  post 
administration.  
•  Absorption  
A  study  evaluating  post-operative  absorption  of  DE,  1-3  hours  following  surgery,  demonstrated 
relatively  slow  absorption  compared  with  that  in  healthy  volunteers,  showing  a  smooth  plasma 
concentration-time profile without high peak plasma concentrations. Peak plasma concentrations were 
16/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reached at 6 hours following administration in a postoperative period due to contributing factors such 
as anesthesia, gastrointestinal paresis, and surgical effects independent of the oral medicinal product 
formulation. It was demonstrated in a further study that slow and delayed absorption is usually only 
present on the day of surgery. On subsequent days absorption of dabigatran is rapid with peak plasma 
concentrations  attained  2  hours  after  medicinal  product  administration.  Food  does  not  affect  the 
bioavailability of dabigatran etexilate but delays the time to peak plasma concentrations by 2 hours.  
•  Distribution 
Low (34-35 %) concentration independent binding of DAB to human plasma proteins was observed. 
The volume of distribution of DAB of 60 – 70 L exceeded the volume of total body water indicating 
moderate  tissue  distribution  of  DAB.  Cmax  and  the  area  under  the  plasma  concentration-time  curve 
were dose proportional. Plasma concentrations of DAB showed a biexponential decline with a mean 
terminal  half-life  of  12  -  14  hours  in  healthy  volunteers  and  14  –  17  hours  in  patients  undergoing 
major orthopaedic surgery. The half-life was independent of dose.  
•  Metabolism and elimination 
Metabolism and excretion of DAB were studied following a single intravenous dose of radiolabeled 
DAB  in  healthy  male  subjects.  After  an  intravenous  dose,  the  DAB-derived  radioactivity  was 
eliminated primarily in the urine (85 %). Faecal excretion accounted for 6 % of the administered dose. 
Recovery of the total radioactivity ranged from 88 - 94 % of the administered dose by 168 hours post 
dose.  DAB  is  subject  to  conjugation  forming  pharmacologically  active  acylglucuronides.  Four 
positional isomers, 1-O, 2-O, 3-O, 4-O-acylglucuronide exist, each accounts for less than 10 % of total 
dabigatran in plasma. Traces of other metabolites were only detectable with highly sensitive analytical 
methods. DAB is eliminated primarily in the unchanged form in the urine, at a rate of approximately 
100 ml/min corresponding to the glomerular filtration rate.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
DAB  Cmax  and  AUC  increased  linearly  with  dose  from  10  to  400  mg.  Repeat  dose  study  was 
performed  with  t.i.d.  dosing  (50  to  400  mg).  Steady-state  was  achieved  on  day  2  of  administration. 
DAB displayed moderate accumulation. The accumulation ratios for AUCss and Cmax ss were about 
1.6 – 2.5. No PK study was performed with the posology recommended in the SPC i.e. 220 mg q.d.. 
Variability:  in  healthy  volunteers  and  in  patients,  the  interindividual  variability  of  Cmax  and  AUC 
expressed as CV was high i.e. approximately 80%. In healthy volunteers the intraindividual variability 
was close to 30%.  
•  Special populations 
Renal insufficiency 
The  exposure  (AUC)  of  DAB  after  the  oral  administration  of  DE  is  approximately  2.7  fold 
higher in volunteers with moderate renal insufficiency (CrCL between 30 – 50 ml/min) than in those 
without renal insufficiency. In a small number of volunteers with severe renal insufficiency (CrCL 10 
-  30 ml/min),  the  exposure  (AUC)  to  DAB  was  approximately  6  times  higher  and  the  half-life 
approximately  2  times  longer  than  that  observed  in  a  population  without  renal  insufficiency.  An 
observational cohort study will be conducted to evaluate efficacy and safety of DAB in patients with 
moderate renal impairment as part of the FUMs. This will better describe the benefit/risk profile of the 
150 mg dose of DAB in patients with moderate renal impairment. 
Elderly patients 
Specific PK studies with elderly subjects showed an increase of 40 to 60 % in the AUC and of 
more than 25 % in Cmax compared to young subjects. Population-based PK studies have evaluated the 
PKs  of  DAB  after  repeated  doses  in  patients  (up  to  88  years).  The  observed  increase  of  DAB 
`exposure correlated with the age-related reduction in creatinine clearance. 
Hepatic insufficiency 
No change in DAB exposure was seen in 12 subjects with moderate hepatic insufficiency (Child 
Pugh B) compared to 12 controls.  
17/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body weight 
Population PK studies have evaluated the PKs of DAB in patients of 48 to 120 kg body weight. 
Body weight had a minor effect on the plasma clearance of dabigatran resulting in higher exposure in 
patients with low body weight.  
Gender 
Active substance exposure in female patients is about 40 % to 50 % higher than in male patients 
and no dose adjustment is recommended.  
Ethnic origin 
The  PKs  of  DAB  was  investigated  in  Caucasian  and  Japanese  volunteers  after  single  and 
multiple doses. Ethnic origin does not affect the PKs of DAB in a clinically relevant manner. No PK 
data in black patients are available.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro  interaction  studies  did  not  show  any  inhibition  or  induction  of  the  principal  isoenzymes  of 
CYT P450. This has been confirmed by in vivo studies with healthy volunteers, who did not show any 
interaction  between  this  treatment  and  the  following  active  substances:  atorvastatin  (CYP3A4), 
digoxin (P-glycoprotein transporter interaction) and diclofenac (CYP2C9). DAB exposure in healthy 
subjects  was  increased  by 60 %  in  the  presence  of  amiodarone.    A  drug-drug interaction  study  with 
steady state concentrations of a specific P-gp inhibitor (clarithromycin) will be performed as part of 
the FUM. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
  DE  is  a  small  molecule  prodrug  which  does  not  exhibit  any  pharmacological  activity.  After  oral 
administration,  DE  is  rapidly  absorbed  and  converted  to  DAB  by  esterase-catalysed  hydrolysis  in 
plasma and in the liver. DAB is a potent, competitive, reversible direct thrombin inhibitor and is the 
main active principle in plasma. Since thrombin enables the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin during 
the coagulation cascade, its inhibition prevents the development of thrombus. DAB also inhibits free 
thrombin,  fibrin-bound  thrombin  and  thrombin-induced  platelet  aggregation.  There  is  a  clear 
correlation  between  plasma  DAB  concentration  and  degree  of  anticoagulant  effect.  DAB  is  a 
reversible inhibitor of thrombin of relatively low affinity (4.5 nM) compared to hidurin and heparin. 
However, no data have been presented on the interest of inhibiting bound thrombin, contrary to what 
was  usually  presented  for  previously  developed  DTI.  These  previous  DTI  were  characterized  by  a 
higher affinity for thrombin. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
As for all other DTI developed until now the effects of DAB were assessed using coagulation tests 
which  are  known  to  be  non  adapted  for  accurate  and  sensitive  evaluation  of  DTI:  activated  partial 
thromboplastin  time  (aPTT),  prothrombin  time  (PT),  expressed  as  International  Normalized  Ratio 
(INR), thrombin time (TT), and one test which is better adapted but not of current practice in clinical 
laboratories: ecarin clotting time (ECT).  
The  maximum  effect  (Emax)  of  DAB  on  PD  parameters  occurred  at  the  same  time  as  Cmax, 
indicating that thrombin inhibition by DAB is a direct effect, linked to the DAB plasma concentration. 
INR, TT and ECT increased in direct proportion to the plasma concentration of DAB, whereas aPTT 
prolongation was linearly related to the square root of the DAB plasma concentration. PK/PD analyses 
confirmed  marked  differences  between  the  various  assays  used  in  terms  of  sensitivity  and  precision 
with varying DAB plasma concentrations.  
A  curvilinear  relationship  was  shown  between  DAB  plasma  concentrations  and  aPTT.  It  is  the 
reason  for  which  the  measurement  of  aPTT  may  provide  a  qualitative  indication  of  anticoagulant 
activity, but it may not be suitable for the precise quantification of anticoagulant effect.  
The data suggest a linear relationship between plasma concentration and INR (<2.0); however, this 
assay  lacked  sensitivity  within  the  clinically-relevant  DAB  plasma  concentration  range  and  showed 
high  variability.  Therefore,  INR  is  not  considered  a  suitable  tool  for  monitoring  the  anticoagulant 
effects of DE. 
18/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  TT  assay  exhibited  a  linear  relationship  with  plasma  concentration  with  a  high  level  of 
sensitivity. TT might be too sensitive to DAB plasma concentrations in the clinically relevant plasma 
concentration range. At DAB concentrations greater than 600 ng/mL, the TT frequently exceeded the 
maximum  measurement time of the coagulometer. TT assay is only presented as a sensitive method 
for  determining  if  any  DAB  is  present.  Additionally,  since  the  reagents  used  for  determining  TT  at 
different  laboratories  are  not  standardized,  the  clinical  utility  of  this  test  during  DAB  dosing  was 
questioned. Nevertheless, it should be mentioned that an adaptation of the test to allow sensitivity and 
an effort of standardization among the clinical labs should allow seeing a modified TT as an easy and 
inexpensive test to monitor DAB and will be done as part of the FUM.  
The ECT assay displayed a linear relationship with drug plasma concentrations over the full range of 
concentrations, and did not plateau at higher concentrations. Furthermore, ECT was more sensitive to 
DAB than, for example, aPTT, as evidenced by an 8-fold maximum ECT prolongation, compared with 
a  2.5-fold  maximum  aPTT  prolongation  at  the  400  mg  multiple  doses  of  DE.  ECT  is  also  a  more 
precise  parameter  than  aPTT.  Overall,  the  ECT  may  provide  a more  accurate  measurement  of  DAB 
anticoagulation than the other PD parameters. However, it should be mentioned that the ECT assay is 
not  regularly  used  in  clinical  lab  and  has  never  been  the  object  of  any  tentative  of  standardization. 
Therefore,  its  routine  use  cannot  be  recommended.  But  again  this  test  could  be  standardized  among 
clinical lab and as such be used in routine even if more expensive than a TT.  
To conclude, at the today’s standards of the clinical lab there is no assay sufficiently sensitive and 
standardized to assess routinely the anticoagulant status of patients following DAB administration. But 
this  situation  could  be  improved  if  an  assay  allowing  DAB  plasma  concentration  monitoring  when 
thought necessary would be developed. A cross-validation of chronometric TT measurements at local 
laboratories will be performed as part of the FUM . Commercially available TT test kits developed for 
measurement of TT following administration of DTIs (i.e. hirudin) will be validated for measurement 
of TT of DAB. 
Clinical efficacy  
There  were  4  multi-center,  double  blind,  double-dummy,  randomised,  parallel  group,  controlled 
clinical studies submitted pertinent to the claimed indication. In all studies, enoxaparin, a recognized 
and widely used LMWH for this indication, was used as an active control.  
•  Dose response study 
In the phase II dose ranging study 1160.19 there were 5 parallel groups: DE 300 mg q.d., DE 225 mg 
b.i.d.,  DE  150  mg  b.i.d.,  DE  50  mg  b.i.d.  and  enoxaparin  40mg  q.d..  DE  was  administered  orally, 
enoxaparin subcutaneously. As in the 2 pivotal studies, DE was administered 1-4 hours post surgery 
and enoxaparin was administered on the evening before surgery. Patients undergoing THR and TKR 
were included, which is acceptable for a dose-finding study, however, stratification according to the 
type  of  surgery  would  have  been  preferred.  The  primary  endpoint  was  rate  of  VTE  events  which 
included  DVT  (proximal  and  distal)  as  detected  by  routine  bilateral  venography  on  Day  8  ±2,  plus 
symptomatic  DVT  occurring  during  the  treatment  period  and  confirmed  by  venography,  or  PE 
confirmed  by  objective 
testing  (chest  X-ray,  ventilation/perfusion  scintigraphy,  pulmonary 
angiography,  spiral  CT).  This  endpoint  is  acceptable  for  a  therapeutic  exploratory  trial  and  in 
accordance with the ‘Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal products for prophylaxis of high 
intra-and post-operative venous thromboembolic risk ‘(CPMP/EWP/707/98 Rev. 1).  
A total of 1973 patients were randomised, of these, 1921 patients were treated and operated (1306 
THR, 615 TKR).  
Different  analyses  sets  were  defined:  the  Safety  Population  (all  randomised  patients  who  were 
treated  and  who  had  any  available  data),  the  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS)  (which  consisted  of  all 
randomised  patients  who  had  at  least  one  s.c.  injection  and  one  oral  dose  of  study  medication,  with 
confirmed VTE data available after surgery) and the Per Protocol data Set (PPS) (FAS minus patients 
with major protocol deviations). The FAS was used for the analysis of efficacy variables. Treatment 
duration was 5-10 days, which was not according to the newest standards for THR but acceptable for 
the time (2002/2003) the study was conducted.  
The  results  of  the  primary  endpoint  showed  a  dose-dependent  effect  of  treatment  with  DE  on  the 
VTE rate. The VTE rate for each treatment group (50 mg b.i.d., 150 mg b.i.d., 300 mg q.d. and 225 
mg b.i.d.) was 28.5%, 17.4%, 16.6%, and 13.1%, respectively, and 24.0 % for enoxaparin. Treatment 
with 50 mg dab b.i.d. was not significantly different from 40 mg enoxaparin q.d. with respect to VTE 
19/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rate  (p=0.2446).  Patients  treated  with  150 mg  and  225 mg  DAB  b.i.d.  had  statistically  significantly 
less  VTE  events  than  patients  in  the  active  control  group  enoxaparin  (p=0.0401  and  p=0.0007, 
respectively). No significant difference in VTE rate was observed for b.i.d. or q.d. dosing for a daily 
dose of 300mg of DE. Subgroup analyses showed that patients >70 years, females, and patients with 
BMI  ≥35  kg/m²,  as  well  as  patients  undergoing  TKR  and  those  with  intake  of  the  drug  >4  h  after 
surgery had a higher VTE rate.  
In  approximately  350  patients  from  dedicated  Scandinavian  centres  a  PK/PD  sub-study  was 
conducted. Plasma concentration-time profiles of DAB were obtained after administration of the first 
dose of DE on the day of surgery and on Day 4 or 5 of treatment. The number of sub-study patients 
per dose group was similar. Steady state trough plasma concentrations of DAB measured from Day 4 
onwards  were  obtained  from  all  patients.  Linear  PK  data  were  observed.  In  general  very  high 
coefficients of variation were observed for all PK parameters. Oral absorption on the day of surgery 
was delayed by approximately 2 hours compared to steady state and the drug exposure after the first 
dose  varied  extremely.  The  majority  of  the  data  for  PK  evaluation  are  derived  from  non-general 
anaesthesia.  The  exposure  in  steady  state  was  comparable  for  the  150mg  b.i.d.  and  the  300mg  q.d. 
dosing. Lower creatinine clearance increased drug concentrations; this appeared to be more distinct in 
female  patients.  Furthermore,  a  higher  exposure  to  the  drug  was  observed  in  females  compared  to 
males, potentially due to lower average creatinine clearance in females. The prolongation of ECT was 
linearly related to DAB plasma concentrations. The major bleeding rates in all dose regimens but the 
50  mg  b.i.d.  regimen  were  higher  than  for  enoxaparin.  Therefore,  none  of  these  doses  was  finally 
chosen for the phase III studies but it was concluded that therapeutic doses must lie between 100 and 
300mg daily. 
•  Main studies    
Three  phase  III  studies  were  conducted.  They  are  summarised  in  the  table  below.  All  were 
randomised, double-blind, parallel group. All phase III studies were non-inferiority studies and their 
margin justified according to guidelines. There was one pivotal study (1160.25) conducted in patients 
with primary elective TKR surgery and one pivotal study (1160.48) in patients with primary elective 
THR  surgery  (both  conducted  predominantly  in  Europe)  as  well  as  one  supportive  study  (1160.24) 
(conducted  in  North  America)  in  patients  with  TKR.  The  latter  study  applied  the  North  American 
dosing  recommendations  for  enoxaparin  which  differ  from  the  European  ones,  randomised  patients 
post  surgery  and  administered  DE  with  a  delay  compared  to  the  other  phase  III  studies  and  what  is 
proposed in the SPC. 
Study design 
Type of 
surgery 
Key endpoints 
Treatment groups   
Study ID 
(Phase)  
Pivotal  
1160.25  
(RE-
MODEL) 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
1160.48  
(RE-
NOVATE) 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Supportive  
1160.24  
(RE- 
MOBILIZE) 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel group  
Total 
knee 
replace
ment 
Total 
hip 
replace
ment 
Total 
knee 
replace
ment 
1ºTotal VTEa and 
all-cause mortality  
2ºMajor VTEb and  
VTE related 
mortality  
1ºTotal VTEa and 
all-cause mortality  
2ºMajor VTEb and 
VTE related 
mortality 
1ºTotal VTEa and 
all-cause mortality  
2ºMajor VTEb and  
VTE related 
mortality  
Dabigatran etexilate 220 mg 
q.d. Dabigatran etexilate 150 
mg q.d. Enoxaparin 40 mg q.d.  
Dabigatran etexilate 220 mg 
q.d. Dabigatran etexilate 150 
mg q.d. Enoxaparin 40 mg q.d.  
Dabigatran etexilate 220 mg 
q.d. Dabigatran etexilate 150 
mg q.d. Enoxaparin 30 mg 
b.i.d.  
Number of  
patients 
randomised 
n = 693  
n = 708  
n = 699  
N = 2101  
n = 1157  
n = 1174  
n = 1162  
N = 3494  
n = 862  
n = 877  
n = 876  
N = 2615  
a primary endpoint: Total VTE includes at least one of the following: confirmed PE, confirmed symptomatic DVT, or DVT 
detected by venography 
20/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b secondary endpoint: Major VTE includes at least one of the following: confirmed PE, confirmed symptomatic proximal 
DVT, or proximal DVT detected by venography 
METHODS 
Studies 1160.25 and 1160.48 
Study Participants  
There were 2101 patients randomised in study 1160.25 and 3494 patients in study 1160.48. In- and 
exclusion criteria were consistent across the phase III studies. The baseline characteristics of patients 
were  well  matched.  Surgery  was  performed  in  general  anaesthesia  in  37.9%  of  patients  in  study 
1160.25 and in 30.5% of patients in study 1160.48. Also patients with risk factors have been entered 
into the studies: in studies 1160.25 and 1160.48, 19.6% and 14.1% of patients, respectively were >75 
years  of  age,  26.5%  and  18.5%  of  patients,  respectively,  had  a  weight  >90  kg,  45%  and  28%  of 
patients,  respectively,  had  a  BMI  >30kg/m2.  Approximately  one  third  of  patient  in  each  of  the  two 
studies had mild renal insufficiency based on calculated creatinine clearance and 5.4% of patients in 
study 1160.25 and 6.6% of patients in study 1160.48 had moderate renal insufficiency with creatinine 
clearance 30 -50 ml/min. However, a large portion of patients, more than 70% in study 1160.25, and 
63% in study 1160.48 were never-smokers and more than 90 % were abstinent at the time of surgery. 
This  fact  does  not  corresponded  with  the  “real  world”  and  raises  concerns  regarding  selection  of 
population and introduction of bias. It is a well known fact that  smokers have higher morbidity and 
mortality and when the primary endpoint include all cause mortality this introduces bias. In addition, a 
rather limited percentage of patients with concomitant diseases, being consistent with an increased risk 
for the patients, have been included. This was true and generally more emphasised in study 1160.48, 
for  patients  with  CAD,  CHF,  history  of  VTE,  history  of  malignancy  (active  malignancy  was  an 
exclusion  criterion).  As  concerns  concomitant  medication,  drugs  influencing  the  coagulation  system 
were excluded, including ASA >160 mg/d or NSAIDs with t½ > 12 h within 7 days prior to surgery.. 
Overall,  NSAIDs  were  used  concomitantly  of  55.2%  and  63.7%  and  ASA  of  4.1%  and  3.3%  of 
patients in studies 1160.48 and 1160.25, respectively.  
Treatments 
Patients  were  randomised  to  DE  220  mg  q.d.,  DE  150  mg  q.d.  or  Enoxaparin  40  mg  q.d..  As 
mentioned  previously  none  of  these  doses  had  been  tested  previously.  For  the  chosen  doses  a 
population  PK  model  was  used  to  predict  plasma  concentration  time  profiles.  Half  dose  was 
administered on the day of surgery. Study 1160.48 is one of the first studies where treatment duration 
of  prophylaxis 
the  EMEA  Guideline 
(CPMP/EWP/707/98  Rev.1)  for  THR  surgery.  Duration  of  prophylaxis  in  study  1160.25  was  6-10 
days and thus suboptimal considering that at least 10 days treatment were recommended at the time 
the study was conducted. 
to  28-35  days  as 
recommended 
is  extended 
in 
Objectives 
The primary objective of these studies was to demonstrate the noninferiority of DE 150 mg and 220 
mg  once  daily  dosing  (q.d.)  per  comparison  to  Enoxaparin  40  mg  bid  for  the  prevention  of  VTE 
following MOS (separately for THR and TKR). The primary efficacy endpoint of these studies was a 
composite  endpoint  of  total  VTE  and  all-cause  mortality  during  the  treatment  period.  Total  VTE 
included proximal and distal DVT based on mandatory venography at the end of the treatment period, 
symptomatic  DVT  confirmed  by  venous  compression  ultrasound,  venography  or  autopsy  and 
objectively confirmed PE. The primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were independently assessed 
by  blinded  adjudication  committees  according  to  guidelines.  The  routine  venography  was  to  be 
performed within 24 hours of last oral study medication dose, i.e. Day 28-35 in study 1160.48 and Day 
8±2 in 1160.25. This means that venographies were performed on out-patient basis in study 1160.48 
(Re-Novate)  and  study  1160.24  (Re-Mobilize)  and  just  prior  to  discharge  in  study  1160.25  (Re-
Model). According to a protocol amendment, VTE observed until 3 days after the last administration 
of  trial  drug  were  considered  as  events  occurring  “during  treatment”  and  therefore  included  in  the 
primary efficacy endpoint and secondary endpoints of events occurring during treatment. There were 
approximately  25%  of unevaluable  venograms  which  is  comparable  with  other  studies  performed  in 
this indication. 
21/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
In  study  1160.25,  2101  patients  were  randomised  and  in  study  1160.48  3494  patients.  These  were 
approximately  equally  distributed  on  the  3  parallel  groups  DE  220  mg  q.d.,  DE  150  mg  q.d.  and 
enoxaparin 40mg q.d.  
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
All phase III studies were randomised and double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
All  phase  III  studies  were  non-inferiority  studies  and  their  margins  were  justified  according  to 
guidelines.  
For evaluation, different analysis sets were defined:  
Safety population or Safety Set: All randomized and treated patients. A patient was regarded as treated 
if he or she received at least 1 dose of trial medication, i.e. DAB, enoxaparin, or placebo. 
FAS-op population: All randomized, treated patients who underwent surgery. A patient was regarded 
as treated if he or she received at least 1 dose of trial medication,  
FAS  population:  Comprised  of  those  patients  who  were  randomised,  received  at  least  one 
subcutaneous  injection  or  one  oral  dose  of  study  medication,  went  through  surgery,  and  had  had 
confirmed VTE data (i.e. evaluable venogram or confirmed symptomatic DVT, PE, or death) during 
the treatment period. 
FAS-major  population:  Comprised  of  those  patients  who  were  randomised,  received  at  least  one 
subcutaneous  injection  or  one  oral  dose  of  study  medication,  went  through  surgery,  and  had  had 
confirmed VTE data (i.e. evaluable venogram for proximal DVT or confirmed symptomatic DVT, PE, 
or death) during the treatment period. 
FAS-pDVT  population:  Comprised  of  those  patients  who  were  randomised,  received  at  least  one 
subcutaneous  injection  or  one  oral  dose  of  study  medication,  went  through  surgery,  and  had  had 
confirmed  VTE  data  (i.e.  evaluable  venogram  for  proximal  DVT  or  confirmed  symptomatic  DVT) 
during the treatment period. 
FAS-tDVT  population:  Comprised  of  those  patients  who  were  randomised,  received  at  least  one 
subcutaneous  injection  or  one  oral  dose  of  study  medication,  went  through  surgery,  and  had  had 
confirmed VTE data (i.e. evaluable venogram for distal and proximal DVT or confirmed symptomatic 
DVT) during the treatment period. 
Per-protocol set or PP or PPS population: Comprised of those patients who were randomised, received 
at least one subcutaneous injection or one oral dose of study medication, went through surgery, and 
had had confirmed VTE data (i.e. evaluable venogram or confirmed symptomatic DVT, PE, or death) 
during the treatment period without relevant protocol deviations. 
According to the statistical plan the primary analysis was based on the FAS, whereas the PPs analysis 
was  foreseen  to  be  used  additionally  only  if  this  population  fell  below  90%  of  the  primary  efficacy 
analysis  population.  In  the  opinion  of  the  Rapporteur  this  approach  is  not  completely  in  accordance 
with the guideline “statistical principles for clinical trials” (CPMP/ICH/363/96) which states that in a 
“non-inferiority  trial  use  of  the  full  analysis  set  is  generally  not  conservative  and  its  role  should  be 
considered  very  carefully.”  The  ”Points  to  Consider  for  switching  between  Superiority  and  Non-
Inferiority”  (CPMP/EWP/482/99)  assigns  equal  importance  to  the  Full  Analysis  Set  and  the  PP 
analysis Set.  Both the FAS and the PP analysis in the pivotal trials provided similar results. 
22/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Outcomes and estimation 
Comparative analysis of total VTE and all-cause mortality during treatment period based on the FAS 
population  
Dabigatran 220 mg 
N(%) 
Dabigatran 150 mg 
N(%) 
Enoxaparin 
N(%) 
1160.25 
1160.25 
1160.48 
1160.48 
1160.25 
Study 
FAS 
Incidence, N (%) 
95% CI* 
Risk difference vs. Enoxaparin (%)* 
95% CI* 
p-value* 
Relative risk over Enoxaparin (%) # 
95% CI 
Odds ratio over Enoxaparin @ 
95% CI 
* based on normal approximation of independent binomial distribution without stratification 
   p-value tested the hypothesis of no difference between two treatment groups (superiority test) 
# based on normal approximation of log relative risk without continuity correction 
@ based on logistic regression including the main factor of treatment derived from contrast that compared the two treatments 
874 
75 (8.6) 
(6.7, 10.4) 
1.9 
(-0.6, 4.4) 
0.1339 
1.28 
(0.93, 1.78) 
1.3 
(0.9, 1.9) 
880
53 (6.0)
(4.5, 7.6)
-0.7
(-2.9, 1.6)
0.5648
0.90
(0.63, 1.29)
0.9
(0.6, 1.3)
526
213 (40.5)
(36.3, 44.7)
2.8
(-3.1, 8.7)
0.3553
1.07
(0.92, 1.25)
1.1
(0.9, 1.4)
503
183 (36.4)
(32.2, 40.6)
-1.3
(-7.3, 4.6)
0.6648
0.97
(0.82, 1.13)
0.9
(0.7, 1.2)
512
193 (37.7)
(33.5, 41.9)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1160.48 
897
60 (6.7)
(5.1, 8.3)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Summary of individual components contributing to the primary endpoint based on the FAS population  
Study 
FAS, N (%) 
Total VTE or death N (%) 
during treatment period #,  
asymptomatic DVT 
symptomatic DVT 
non-fatal PE 
death VTE cannot be ruled out 
death not associated with VTE 
Localisation of DVTs 
distal DVT 
proximal DVT¶ 
during follow- up #@ 
Symptomatic DVT, PE, or 
death (N) 
Dabigatran 220 mg 
Dabigatran 150 mg 
Enoxaparin 
1160.25 
503 (100.0)
183 (36.4)
1160.48 
880 (100.0)
53 (6.0)
1160.25 
526 (100.0)
213 (40.5)
1160.48 
874 (100.0)
75 (8.6)
1160.25 
512 (100.0)
193 (37.7
1160.48 
897 (100.0)
60 (6.7)
181 (36.0)
1 (0.2)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
1 (0.2)
169 (33.6)
13 (2.6)
4 
40 (4.5)
5 (0.6)
5 (0.6)
1 (0.1)
2 (0.2)
23 (2.6)
22 (2.5)
208 (39.5)
3 (0.6)
1 (0.2)
1 (0.2)
0 (0.0)
193 (36.7)
18 (3.4)
63 (7.2)
9 (1.0)
0 (0.0)
3 (0.3)
0 (0.0)
37 (4.2)
35 (4.0)
184 (35.9)
8 (1.6)
0 (0.0)
1 (0.2)
0 (0.0)
175 (34.2)
17 (3.3)
56 (6.2)
1 (0.1)
3 (0.3)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
24 (2.7)
33 (3.7)
1 
2 
3 
2 
2 
# Treatment period: from administration of first dose of study medication and ending 3 days after administration of last dose 
of study medication. Follow-up is from the end of treatment period to the conclusion of subject participation.  
@ Study 1160.25:  For Dabigatran 220mg: 1 symptomatic DVT, 2 PE, and 1 death; for Dabigatran 150 mg: 2 symptomatic 
DVTs, 0 PE, and 0 death; for Enoxaparin: 0 symptomatic DVT, 0 PE, 2 deaths. 
@ Study 1160.48: For Dabigatran 220 mg: 1 symptomatic DVT, 0 PE, 0 death, for Dabigatran 150 mg: 1 symptomatic DVT, 
0 PE, 2 death, for Enoxaparin: 0 symptomatic DVT, 1 PE, 1 death. 
¶ Study 1160.25: Includes patients with confirmed proximal DVT as well as 1 patient with a distal and a proximal DVT. 
Note: patients were counted only once in the most severe category in subcategories of DVT, PE and death 
23/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Major VTE and VTE-related mortality during the treatment period based on the FAS-major population  
Dabigatran  220 mg 
1160.48 
1160.25 
Dabigatran 150 mg 
Enoxaparin 
1160.25 
1160.48 
1160.25 
Study 
FAS-major, N  
Incidence, N (%) 
95% CI* 
Risk difference vs. Enoxaparin (%)* 
95% CI* 
Relative risk over Enoxaparin# 
95% CI 
Odds ratio over Enoxaparin @ 
95% CI 
*  Based  on  normal  approximation  of  independent  binomial  distribution  without  stratification,  p-value  is  for  testing  no 
difference between two treatment groups. 
# Based on normal approximation of log relative risk without continuity correction. 
@  Based  on  logistic  regression  including  the  main  factor  of  treatment,  derived  from  contrast  that  compared  the  two 
treatments. 
888 
38 (4.3) 
(2.9, 5.6) 
0.4 
(-1.5, 2.2) 
1.09 
(0.70, 1.70) 
1.1 
(0.7, 1.7) 
527
20 (3.8)
(2.2, 5.4)
0.3
(-2.0, 2.6)
1.08
(0.58, 2.01)
1.1
(0.6, 2.1)
909
28 (3.1)
(2.0, 4.2)
-0.8
(-2.5, 0.8)
0.78
(0.48, 1.27)
0.8
(0.5, 1.3)
506
13 (2.6)
(1.2, 3.9)
-1.0
(-3.1, 1.2)
0.73
(0.36, 1.47)
0.7
(0.4, 1.5)
511
18 (3.5)
(1.9, 5.1)
-
-
-
-
-
-
1160.48 
917
36 (3.9)
(2.7, 5.2)
-
-
-
-
-
-
In both studies, a  clear dose-response for DAB  was  observed. The results in the DAB 220  mg dose 
group were consistently numerically slightly better than in the DAB 150 mg group. Statistical analysis 
of the primary endpoints and the secondary endpoints showed non inferiority compared to Enoxaparin 
for both high and low dose of DAB. Superiority was not shown (superiority testing was foreseen in the 
statistical analysis plan in case non-inferiority was confirmed). Mainly distal DVTs account for total 
VTE in the TKR surgery study 1160.25. In the THR surgery study 1160.48 proximal DVT account for 
roughly half of the DVTs, independent of the treatment group.The vast majority of DVT in both types 
of surgery were asymptomatic. The total VTE results for TKR are in the range of those seen with other 
oral  DTI  whereas  those  for  THR  are  considerably  lower,  probably  due  to  an  extended  prophylaxis 
period. The incidence of proximal DVTs was comparable in both types of surgery. 
Ancillary analyses 
Exploratory  subgroup  analyses  were  performed  which  showed  an  increased  risk  in  patients  with 
moderate renal insufficiency, patients with general anaesthesia, older patients, females, patients with 
weight  >110  kg  (only  in  study  1160.25)  and  in  patients  who  received  the  first  oral  dose  of  study 
medication <4 hours after surgery.  
A routine inspection was carried out of study 1160.25 at two sites in South Africa and Hungary. A 
critical  finding  was  that  in  approximately  one  third  of  patients  a  starch  derivative  was  used  which 
potentially may affect both the efficacy and the safety of the investigational product. Further analyses 
have therefore been provided by the Applicant. These findings indicate that in both of the European 
pivotal  studies  (1160.25  and  1160.48)  the  rates  of  total  VTE  and  all  cause  mortality  are  lower  in 
patients who received colloidal starch therapy (roughly one third of patients in study 1160.25 and half 
of  patients  in  1160.48)  than  in  those  patients  who  did  not.  The  secondary  endpoint  major  VTE  and 
VTE  related  mortality  confirmed  that  trend.  Bleeding  was  slightly  increased.  These  results  were 
consistent  in  both  DAB  and  enoxaparin  treatment  groups,  and  DAB  results  by  subgroups  are 
homogeneous with overall results.  
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A  meta-  analysis  was  pre-specified  in  order  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  DE  and  enoxaparin  on  the 
composite  endpoint  of  major  VTE  and  VTE  related  mortality  (proposed  primary  endpoint  in  the 
CHMP  guideline  CPMP/EWP/  707/98).  A  meta-  analysis  was  pre-specified  in  order  to  evaluate  the 
effects  of  DE  on  the  composite  endpoint  specified  in  the  CHMP  Guideline  (CPMP/EWP/  707/98). 
This  approach  was  only  acceptable  for  justifying  the  deviation  from  the  CHMP  Guideline  “if  all 
results  of  the  individual  trials  point  all  in  the  same  direction”.  This  was  not  the  case  since  only  the 
pivotal  EU  studies  showed  non  inferiority  compared  to  enoxaparin,  this  could  not  be  shown  in 
supportive  US  study.  Although  it  was  stated  that  the  studies  are  very  similar  and  only  differ  due  to 
clinical  practice  there  are  major  differences  in  key  areas  between  Europe  and  US.  These  comprise 
types  of  surgeries  (hip/knee),  duration  of  treatment  (short/long),  selection  of  patients  by  time  of 
randomization  (pre-/postsurgery),  1st  oral  dosing  time  (0-4  h  post  surgery  vs.  6-12  h  post  surgery), 
dose regimen (enoxaparin 40mg vs. 30mg b.i.d.), and time span between surgery and venography. It 
24/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was also questioned whether data on VTE can be pooled from two different surgical procedures where 
mechanical properties (etc. use of tourniquet during knee surgery and therefore no blood flow in the 
lower leg at all) have different impact on the anatomical regions in question. One would expect that 
this factor had a greater influence on distal DVT than on proximal DVT. In the view of the CHMP 
these differences  makes it highly unlikely that a  meta-analysis can be performed in two so different 
populations. In phase III studies it is rather unusual to perform “no confirmatory statistical hypothesis 
testing”.  No  Delta  value  was  prespecified.  These  analyses  were  not  specified  in  the  protocol  and 
therefore  not  “lege  artis”  and  unacceptable  from  a  statistical  point  of  view.  The  above  mentioned 
points were serious faults and concerns regarding the way the meta-analysis was performed. That is 
why the metaanalysis was considered of exploratory, not of confirmatory nature.  
•  Supportive study 
Supportive  study  (1160.24)  differed  from  the  pivotal  studies  in  the  timing  of  the  study  medication 
and the dosing of enoxaparin. The enoxaparin dose schedule was 30 mg b.i.d. and the first dose was 
given 12-25 h post surgery. The first DE dose was administered 6-12h after surgery (instead of 1-4 h 
after  surgery  as  in  the  pivotal  studies).  More  importantly,  patients  were  randomised  post  surgery, 
provided  that  haemostasis  was  present,  and  it  must  be  assumed  that  bias  was  introduced  by  this 
method.  Those  patients  with  complications  during  surgery  and  long  surgery  time  were  most  likely 
excluded  and  those  patients  would  most  likely  also  be  at  higher  risk  for  VTE.  The  incidence  of  the 
primary endpoint in the DE 220 mg group was 31.1% ( 95%CI 27.4, 34.8), in the DE 150 mg group 
33.7% (30.1, 37.4) and in the enoxaparin group 25.3% (22.0, 28.7). The risk difference vs. enoxaparin 
for the DE 220 mg group was 5.8 ((0.8, 10.8), and for the DE 150mg group 8.4 (3.4, 13.3). The non-
inferiority margin of 9.2% was thus exceeded and non-inferiority not demonstrated.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A  recommended  primary  endpoint  in  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  as  written  in  the  CHMP 
Guideline  (CPMP/EWP/  707/98)  is  a  composite  endpoint  consisting  of  clinically  relevant  and 
objectively  documented  events  including  venographically  documented  proximal  DVT,  symptomatic 
and well-documented non-fatal pulmonary embolism (PE) and VTE related death or death due to any 
cause.  However,  despite  the  total  DE  development  program  including  over  8000  patients,  the 
individual  studies  were  not  thought  to  be  sufficiently  powered  to  reliably  assess  efficacy  for  the 
composite endpoint including proximal DVT, symptomatic VTE and VTE related death (= major VTE 
and VTE related death).  
A meta- analysis was pre-specified in order to evaluate the effects of DE on the composite endpoint 
specified in the CHMP Guideline (CPMP/EWP/ 707/98). This approach was  only acceptable “if the 
results  of  the  individual  trials  point  all  in  the  same  direction”.  This  was  not  the  case  since  only  the 
pivotal  EU  studies  showed  non  inferiority  compared  to  enoxaparin.  This  could  not  be  shown  in 
supportive  US  study.  That  is  why  the  meta-analysis  was  considered  of  exploratory,  not  of  the 
confirmatory nature.  
The  introduction  of  UH  and  later  LMWH  as  standard  prophylactics  has  reduced  the  frequency  of 
major VTE and VTE related mortality significantly. Therefore large study populations are needed in 
order to show non-inferiority. Therefore, a “new” surrogate end-point was proposed which occurs with 
a higher frequency in order to keep the study population at a reasonable size. Total VTE and all-cause 
mortality was used during the treatment period as such “new” surrogate marker. Major VTE and VTE 
related mortality was chosen as one of the secondary endpoints. The MAA for DE was submitted prior 
to the revision of the CHMP Guideline (CPMP/EWP/ 707/98/Rev 1).  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
A total of 10.084 patients were treated in 4 actively controlled VTE prevention trials with at least one 
dose of the medicinal product. Of these 5419 were treated with 150 mg or 220 mg daily of DE, while 
389 received doses less than 150 mg daily and 1168 received doses in excess of 220 mg daily.  
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are bleedings occurring in total in approximately 14 % 
of patients; the frequency of major bleeds (including wound site bleedings) is less than 2 %.  
25/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dabigatran etexilate 
Enoxaparin 
Total 
< 150 mg 
150 mg 
220 mg 
> 220 mg 
Treatment period  
Number of treated 
patients (N [%])  
389 
(100.0)  
2737 
(100.0)  
2682 
(100.0)  
1168 
(100.0)  
3108 (100.0)  
10084 
(100.0)  
Exposure days (N [%])  
≥1  
389 
(100.0) 0  
≥18  
≥43  
Summary statistics  
Mean  
SD  
Median  
Minimum  
Maximum  
Total exposure 
years 
0  
8.0  
2.0  
8.0  
1  
13  
8.5  
•  Adverse events  
2737 
(100.0) 
1038 
(37.9)  
67 (2.4)  
19.8  
12.2  
15.0  
1  
52  
148.5  
2682 
(100.0) 
1044 (38.9) 
1168 
(100.0) 0  
3108 (100.0) 
1043 (33.6)  
64 (2.4)  
0  
63 (2.0)  
20.0  
12.2  
15.0  
1  
69  
146.9  
7.8  
2.1  
8.0  
1  
13  
25.0  
18.4  
12.1  
14.0  
1  
49  
156.5  
10084 
(100.0) 
3125 
(31.0)  
194 (1.9)  
17.6  
12.0  
13.0  
1  
69  
485.4  
The AEs in the 2 pivotal trials as well as the 4 active controlled VTE prevention studies were largely 
comparable,  also  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  most  frequent  AEs  in  the  pivotal  studies  were 
nausea  (21.2%  /  20.5%  /  25%  for  DE  150mg  /220  mg  /enoxaparin  ),  vomiting  (16.0%  /  16.8%  / 
16.8%), constipation (11.0% / 11.9% / 12.3%) , deep vein thrombosis (9.3% / 6.4% / 7.3%), insomnia 
(8.2% / 7.8% / 8.1%), oedema peripheral (7.3% / 6.4% / 5.9%), wound secretion (6.9% / 7.0% / 4.7%). 
There were no marked differences between DAB and the enoxaparin groups with regards to treatment 
emergent AEs classified by system organ class for the 2 pivotal studies, neither was any marked dose 
effect  evident.  Slight  differences  in  the  unfavour  of  DE  were  noted  for  the  following  AEs: 
hypokalemia (1.2% in the DAB 150mg group, 1.6% in the DAB 220mg group, 0.9% in the enoxaparin 
group), oedema peripheral (7.3% in the DAB 150mg group, 6.4% in the DAB 220mg group, 5.9% in 
the enoxaparin group), and wound secretion (6.9% in the DAB 150mg group, 7.0% in the DAB 220mg 
group,  4.7% in  the  enoxaparin  group).  Furthermore,  deep  vein  thrombosis  was  more  frequent  in  the 
DAB 150 mg group (but not in the 220mg group) compared to enoxaparin (9.3% vs. 7.3%). The same 
pattern  was  observed  when  taking  the  4  VTE  active  controlled  trials  together.  Most  AEs  were  mild 
and moderate in severity. The severe AEs were comparable between treatment groups. In all treatment 
groups, AEs increased with increased age group, increased with decreasing creatinine clearance, and 
were more frequent in females. 
Bleeding events 
Bleeding  events  were  classified  as  Major  Bleeding  Events  (MBE),  Clinically  Relevant  Bleeding 
Events (CRBE) and Minor Bleeding Event. The latter were defined as all other bleeding events that 
did not fulfil the criteria of MBE or CRBE. The clinical safety evaluations by MBE are in accordance 
with the CHMP/EMEA guideline. The evaluation of CRBE has been proposed by the Applicant but 
has  not  been  validated.  Many  of  the  criteria  are  not  well  defined  and  one  would  expect  a  large 
variation  between  centres  causing  interpretation  to  be  difficult.  Data  are  presented  according  to  the 
time  of  randomization  (study  1160.24  post  operative  randomization  and  1160.19,  1160.25,  and 
1160.48 pre operative randomization). The table below shows frequencies of patients experiencing a 
bleeding event by category of bleeding severity in the four active-controlled VTE prevention trials. 
26/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dabigatran etexilate 
<150 mg 
150 mg 
220 mg 
>220 mg 
Enoxaparin 
Number (%) 
Post-operative randomisationa 
Treated patients  
NA 
871 (100.0) 
857 (100.0) 
NA 
868 (100.0)
Most severe bleeding 
Major bleeding 
Clinical relevant bleeding 
Minor bleeding 
No bleeding 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Pre-operative randomisationb 
Treated patients 
389 (100.0) 
5 (0.6) 
22 (2.5) 
45 (5.2) 
5 (0.6) 
23 (2.7) 
46 (5.4) 
799 (91.7) 
783 (91.4) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
12 (1.4)
21 (2.4)
51 (5.9)
784 (90.3)
1866 (100.0) 
1825 (100.0)  1168 (100.0) 
2240 (100.0)
Most severe bleeding 
Major bleeding  
Clinical relevant bleeding 
Minor bleeding 
1 (0.3) 
9 (2.3) 
16 (4.1) 
24 (1.3) 
103 (5.5) 
131 (7.0) 
33 (1.8) 
88 (4.8) 
130 (7.1) 
49 (4.2) 
48 (4.1) 
91 (7.8) 
35 (1.6)
87 (3.9)
168 (7.5)
363 (93.3) 
No bleeding 
a  Included Trial 1160.24. 
b  Included Trial 1160.19, 1160.25, and 1160.48. 
Note: For Phase III Trials 1160.24, 1160.25, and 1160.48, bleeding events with onset between study drug initiation and 3 
days after the last study drug administration were considered treatment emergent. For the Phase II Trial 1160.19, treatment-
emergent bleeding events included those with onset up to 1 day after the last dose of study drug. 
1608 (86.2) 
1574 (86.2) 
980 (83.9) 
1950 (87.1)
There  was  a  difference  in  bleeding  frequency  observed  between  pre-  and  post-operative 
randomizations.  As  expected,  the  orthopaedic  surgical  site  was  the  most  frequently  reported  site  of 
major bleeding in all of the VTE prevention trials. A clear dose response with respect to bleeding was 
seen  for  DAB.  For  any  bleeding  event,  there  was  no  statistical  difference  between  DE  150  mg  and 
enoxaparin and between DE 220 mg and Enoxaparin. Patients with MBE who required transfusion in 
the pivotal studies (> 2units or more) were more frequent in DAB 220mg than in enoxaparin and much 
less in DAB 150mg (1.58% , 1.13% and 0.75% respectively). The use of transfusions in the pivotal 
studies is difficult to assess since no strict rules on when to transfuse are given. In a clinical setting 
most  transfusions  are  given  based  on  haemodynamic  parameters,  but  these  are  missing  all  together. 
Discontinuation due to bleeding in the pivotal studies occurred similarly and less frequently in DAB 
150mg  and  enoxaparin  than  in  DAB  220mg  (0.05%  vs  0.16%).  Re-operation  due  to  bleeding  was 
slightly more frequent in DAB 220mg, and similar in DAB 150mg and enoxaparin (0.27% vs 0.21% 
respectively).  A  large  proportion  of  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment  (less  with  moderate  renal 
impairment)  was  included  in  order  to  provide  safety  data  in  this  subpopulation.  Impaired  renal 
function causes increased blood concentration and a raise in bleeding events. The bleeding frequency 
decreased  with  increasing  creatinine  clearance.  Patients  >75  years  and  patients  with  decreased  renal 
function were especially at higher risk of bleeding. 
The use of ASA and derivatives increases bleeding frequency although it remained lower than with 
the  use  of  Enoxaparin.  Very  few  patients  used  concomitant  ASA  or  derivatives  and  the  effect  on 
bleeding events can not be evaluated from these studies. 
Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) 
For clinical trials with DAB that were all blinded, ACS events were based on investigator reported 
SAEs that might represent an ACS event. And for the three ongoing phase III trials, all reported SAEs 
by  the  investigator  and  related  to  ACS  were  adjudicated.  Similar  frequencies  of  ACS  events  in 
orthopaedic  surgical  clinical  trials  were  observed  regarding  both  adjudicated  and  non  adjudicated 
events. 
27/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the pivotal VTE primary prevention trials, frequencies of patients who experienced one or more 
SAEs were similar across treatment groups. Frequencies were 7.2% in the DE 150 mg group, 6.6% in 
the  DE  220  mg  group,  and  6.8%  in  the  enoxaparin  group.  The  SOCs  with  the  most  frequently 
experienced  SAEs  were  injury,  poisoning,  and  procedural  complications  (1.7%  in  the  dab  150  mg 
group, 1.6% in the dab 220 mg group, 2.1% in the enoxaparin group); vascular disorders (1.9% / 1.2% 
/ 1.5%); infections and infestations (0.9% / 1.3% / 1.0%); and cardiac disorders (1.1% / 0.6% / 0.7%). 
For  cardiac  disorders,  no  specific  SAE  was  prominent.  For  injury,  poisoning,  and  procedural 
complications, the most frequent specific SAE was wound secretion, which was slightly more frequent 
in the DE 150 mg group (0.5%) and DE 220 mg group (0.4%) than the enoxaparin group (0.2%). For 
vascular disorders, the most frequent specific SAE by far was DVT, which was 1.4% in the DE 150 
mg group, 0.7% in the DE 220 mg group, and 1.0% in the enoxaparin group. In the active-controlled 
VTE prevention trials (1160.19, 1160.24, 1160.25, and 1160.48) 31 patients (0.3%) died. During the 
treatment 11 patients died, 5 patients (0.2%) in the DE 150 mg group, 5 patients (0.2%) in the DE 220 
mg group, 1 patient (<0.1%) in the enoxaparin group. No patients from the DE <150 mg group and the 
>220  mg  group  died  during  the  treatment.  During  the  post  treatment  period  12  patients  died,  and 
during the post study period 8 patients died. In the pivotal and active-controlled VTE prevention trials, 
most deaths in DE treatment groups had fatal AEs with onsets during the treatment period and most 
deaths in the enoxaparin group had fatal AEs with onsets during the post-treatment period. The most 
frequent  treatment-emergent  SOC  was  cardiac  disorders,  and  the  most  frequent  treatment-emergent 
AE was cardiac arrest. None of the treatment-emergent or post-treatment AEs leading to death were 
considered by investigators to be related to study medication. 
The percentage of patients in the pivotal studies with common comorbidities and/or risk factors for 
VTE  was  rather  low;  there  were  for  instance  2.7%  and  2.3%  of  patients  in  studies  1160.25  and 
1160.48, respectively with heart failure, 11.2% and 8.4% with coronary artery disease, 3.7% and 2.9% 
with  a  history  of  VTE.    This  concern  should  also  be  seen  in  view  of  the  chosen  endpoint  which 
includes all-cause mortality.  
•  Laboratory findings 
No  clinically  significant  haematological  or  other  laboratory  abnormalities  were  consistently 
identified in the trials within the DE clinical development programme. Decrease in haemoglobin and 
heamatocrit were reported in all treatment groups and across all clinical trials and approximately 40% 
of patients had possible clinically significant abnormalities regarding haematocrit and 35% regarding 
haemoglobin in both Re-Model and Re-Novate trials. This is what to be expected in patients exposed 
to MOS. 
Liver function 
During DAB development, additional LFT surveillance was added to all ongoing and planned DAB 
clinical trial protocols, in order to detect any potential signal of hepatotoxicity. Special attention was 
paid to increase of ALT, as increased ALT > 3ULN is considered as a specific indicator of liver injury 
(hepatocyte  necrosis)  and  increased  ALT  >  3ULN  combined  to  elevated  bilirubin  above  2xULN 
within 30 days (in the absence of biliary obstruction) may indicate severe hepatotoxicity. Elevations of 
ALT occurred primarily in the period up to 10 days post surgery. When precisely, is not known, since 
no laboratory testing was done earlier. Disregarding the <150 mg and the >220 mg dosage groups in 
the shorter term trials, no dose response in LFT elevations was noted for DE. 
Shorter  term  VTE  prevention  trials  (1160.19,  1160.24,  1160.25):  Elevations  >2ULN,  >3ULN  and 
>5ULN  were  slightly  more  frequent  in  the  enoxaparin  groups.  Elevations  >10ULN  occurred  in  3 
patients  in  the  dab  150mg  group  (0.2%),  1  patient  in  the  dab  220  mg  group  (  0.1%)  (as  well  as  1 
patient  in  the  >220mg  group)  and  2  patients  in  the  enoxaparin  group  (  0.1%).  The  elevations  in  the 
DAB 150mg group occurred in the periods 11-19 days (2 patients) and 20-56 days (1 patient). There 
was  1  ALT  elevation  >20ULN,  this  occurred  in  the  dab  150  mg  group,  in  the  period  20-56  days. 
Longer  term  VTE  prevention  trial  (1160.48):  all  magnitudes  of  ALT  elevations  were  either  more 
frequent or identically frequent (only in the >20ULN group) in the enoxaparin group compared to the 
DE  groups.  Elevated  ALT  frequencies  were  higher  in  the  longer  term  treatment  trial  1160.48 
compared to the shorter term duration trials.  
In summary, the LFT analyses from the VTE prevention trials do not seem to indicate hepatotoxicity. 
Only few data were provided in the current application from long term ongoing clinical trial in atrial 
28/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fibrillation (PETRO-EX) with DAB. Indeed up to September 2006, only 300 patients were exposed to 
DAB for at least one year. Increased ALT above 3 ULN was reported in eleven patients mostly with 
DAB 150mg b.i.d.. The causality of DAB is difficult to establish. In two cases, normalised LFTs were 
observed while patients remained on treatment, in three cases, a negative rechallenge was reported and 
in  four  cases  a  positive  dechallenge  was  reported.  The  applicant  provided  also  data  from  a 
prespecified,  interim  analysis  of  RE-LY,  a  long-term  trial  of  DE  in  patients  with  atrial  fibrillation. 
Patients  with  active  hepatic  disease  or  with  persistent  ALT,  AST  or  alkaline  phosphatase  >2xULN 
were excluded. Patients were scheduled to receive a minimum of 1 year of treatment with either one of 
two blinded doses of DE (110 mg bid or 150 mg bid) or open label warfarin (target INR 2-3) with the 
goal  of  preventing  strokes  and  systemic  emboli.  The  overall  absolute  frequency  of  transaminase 
elevations >3xULN was low, approximately 1% at 6 months for both warfarin and DAB.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Bleeding  events  are  the  most  relevant  safety  issue  in  special  populations.  The  table  below 
presents  the  frequency  of  bleeding  events  stratified  after  special  populations  in  the  active-
controlled VTE prevention trials (1160.19, 1160.24, 1160.25, and 1160.48). 
Dabigatran etexilate 
<150 mg 
150 mg 
220 mg 
>220 mg 
Enoxaparin 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients with
MBE 
N 
n 
%  N 
n 
%  N 
n 
%  N 
n 
% 
N 
n 
% 
Treated patients  389 
2737 
2682
1168
3108 
Patient with 
MBE 
Gender 
Male 
Female 
Age (years) 
<65 
65-75 
>75 
BMI (kg/m2) 
Missing 
<25 
25-30 
30-35 
>35 
Weight (kg)  
Missing  
<50 
50-110 
>110 
Creatinine 
Clearance 
(mL/min) 
Missing 
<30 
389 
1 
(0.3)  2737  29 
(1.1) 2682 38 
(1.4) 1168 49 
(4.2)  3108  47 
(1.5) 
166 
223 
157 
158 
74 
0 
117 
170 
73 
29 
0 
2 
380 
7 
5 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
(0.6)  1112  16 
(1.4) 1119 12 
(1.1) 441
1625  13 
(0.8) 1563 26 
(1.7) 727
1193  10 
(0.8) 1128 13 
(1.2) 464
(0.6)  1116  13 
(1.2) 1105 12 
(1.1) 483
428 
6 
(1.4) 449
13 
(2.9) 221
1 
539 
0 
9 
2 
0 
0 
(1.7) 534
13 
(2.4) 330
(0.6)  1096  13 
(1.2) 1044 17 
(1.6) 473
680 
421 
0 
15 
3 
4 
0 
0 
(0.4) 708
(1.0) 394
0 
19 
7 
1 
0 
(1.0) 258
(0.3) 107
0 
18 
16 
33 
16 
18 
15 
22 
16 
9 
2 
(3.6)  1234  20 
(1.6) 
(4.5)  1874  27 
(1.4) 
(3.4)  1294  7 
(0.5) 
(3.7)  1289  23 
(1.8) 
(6.8)  525  17 
(3.2) 
5 
0 
(6.7)  665  16 
(2.4) 
(3.4)  1209  17 
(1.4) 
(3.5)  840  10 
(1.2) 
(1.9)  389  4 
(1.0) 
1 
0 
27 
1 
(3.7) 
(0.3)  2542  28 
1.1  2496 38 
1.5  1108 48 
4.3  2915  44 
180 
1 
0.6  167
0 
42 
1 
2.4 
165  2 
1.5 
1.2 
70 
7 
1 
0 
(1.4) 64 
10 
0 
0 
16 
6 
2 
1 
(12.5)  62 
(16.7)  14 
0 
1 
(7.1) 
29/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dabigatran etexilate 
<150 mg 
150 mg 
220 mg 
>220 mg 
Enoxaparin 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients wit
h 
MBE 
Patients with
MBE 
30-50 
50-80 
>=80 
N 
24 
152 
207 
n 
0 
1 
0 
%  N 
185 
n 
0 
%  N 
199
n 
8 
%  N 
(4.0) 109
(0.7)  1011  14 
(1.4) 945
12 
(1.3) 446
1464  14 
(1.0) 1464 18 
(1.2) 591
n 
8 
20 
18 
% 
N 
n 
% 
(7.3)  248  10 
(4.0) 
(4.5)  1148  17 
(1.5) 
(3.0)  1636  19 
(1.2) 
Note: N = number of treated patients; n = number of patients with MBE events. 
The results in the table above remain unchanged even if a patient that were randomized post operative 
(study 1160.24) is excluded due to the fact that this study introduce bias towards less bleeding events. 
A clear dose response with respect to bleeding is seen for DAB. Patients >75 years and patients with 
decreased renal function (well knowing that these factors are related) are especially at risk. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
Anticoagulants  and  platelet  aggregation  agents:  The  following 
treatments  are  not 
recommended concomitantly with DE: UHs and heparin derivatives, LMWH, fondaparinux, desirudin, 
thrombolytic agents, GPIIb/IIIa  receptor antagonists, clopidogrel, ticlopidine, dextran, sulfinpyrazone 
and  vitamin  K  antagonists.  It  should  be  noted  that  UH  can  be  administered  at  doses  necessary  to 
maintain a patent central venous or arterial catheter.  
Interactions  linked  to  DE and  DAB  metabolic  profile:  DE  and  DAB  are  not  metabolised  by 
the CYTP450 system and have no in vitro effects on human CYTP 450 enzymes. Therefore, related 
medicinal product interactions are not expected with DAB.  
NSAIDs:  When  DE  was  coadministered  with  diclofenac,  the  plasma  exposure  of  both 
medicinal  products  remained  unchanged  indicating  a  lack  of  a  PK  interaction  between  DE  and 
diclofenac. However, due to the risk of haemorrhage, notably with NSAIDs with elimination half-lives 
> 12 hours, close observation for signs of bleeding is recommended.  
Transporter  interactions:  Amiodarone  is  an  inhibitor  of  the  efflux  transporter  P-glycoprotein 
and DE a substrate of this transporter. When DE was coadministered with amiodarone, the extent and 
rate of absorption of amiodarone and its active metabolite DEA were essentially unchanged. The DAB 
AUC  and  Cmax  were  increased  by  about  60 %  and  50 %,  respectively.  The  mechanism  of  the 
interaction has not been completely clarified. In view of the long half-life of amiodarone the potential 
for  drug  interaction  may  exist  for  weeks  after  discontinuation  of  amiodarone.  Dosing  should  be 
reduced to 150 mg DE daily in patients who received concomitantly DE and amiodarone.  
P- glycoprotein inhibitors: Caution should be exercised with strong P- glycoprotein inhibitors 
like verapamil, clarithromycin, and others. Quinidine is contraindicated.  
P- glycoprotein inducers: Potent P- glycoprotein inducers such as rifampicin or St John’s wort 
(Hypericum  perforatum),  may  reduce  the  systemic  exposure  of  DAB.  Caution  is  advised  when  co-
administering these medicinal products.  
Digoxin:  In  a  study  performed  with  24  healthy  subjects,  when  DE  was  coadministered  with 
digoxin,  no  changes  on  digoxin  and  no  clinical  relevant  changes  on  DAB  exposure  have  been 
observed.  
Pantoprazole:  When  DE  was  coadministered  with  pantoprazole,  a  decrease  in  the  DAB  area 
under the plasma concentration - time curve of approximately 30 % was observed. Pantoprazole and 
other  proton-pump  inhibitors  were  co-administered  with  DE  in  clinical  trials  and  no  effects  on 
bleeding or efficacy were observed.  
Ranitidine:  Ranitidine  administration  together  with  DE  had  no  clinically  relevant  effect  on  the 
extent of absorption of DAB. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
During  the  two  pivotal  VTE  primary  prevention  trials  alone,  frequencies  of  patients  who 
discontinued  study  medication  because  of  AEs  were  similar  across  the  three  treatment  groups,  with 
30/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1% in the DE 150 mg group, 5.4% in the DE 220 mg group, and 5.3% in the enoxaparin group. The 
only  SOCs  with  specific  AEs  occurring  in  ≥0.3%  of  treated  patients  in  any  treatment  group  were 
cardiac disorders (atrial fibrillation in  0.3% / 0.3% / 0.4%  and myocardial infarction in 0.3% / 0.1% / 
0.3% in the DAB.150mg/ DAB 220mg/ enoxaparin groups), vascular disorders (DVT 0.6% / 0.3% / 
0.4%  in  the  DAB.150mg/  DAB  220mg/  enoxaparin  groups),  and  gastrointestinal  disorders  (nausea 
0.8% / 0.7% / 0.8% and vomiting 0.3% / 0.2% / 0.3% in the DAB.150mg/ DAB 220mg/ enoxaparin 
groups).  The  largest  difference  among  treatment  groups  for  any  of  these  SOCs  was  only  0.5%  for 
cardiac disorders, with 1.2% in the DE 150 mg group, 0.7% in the DE 220 mg group, and 1.1% in the 
enoxaparin  group.  No  specific  AE  varied  by  more  than  0.3%  across  treatment  groups.  The  rates  of 
discontinuation due to AEs did not seem to be clearly dose-dependant for the proposed therapeutic DE 
doses and seem to be similar to the enoxaparin group. It seems, however, that the discontinuation rate 
due to AEs in the DAB>220 mg group, was higher. It should be remembered, though, that these higher 
doses were applied only in study 1160.19. The most common reasons for discontinuation due to AEs 
were nausea, vomiting, injury, poisoning, and procedural complications, and deep vein thrombosis.  
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety data was based on 7942 subjects who received at least one dose of DE, 6976 of these in 
the  VTE  prevention  trials.  The  AEs  in  the  2  pivotal  trials  as  well  as  the  4  active  controlled  VTE 
prevention  studies  were  largely  comparable,  also  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  most  frequent 
AEs  in  the  pivotal  studies  were  nausea,  vomiting,  constipation,  deep  vein  thrombosis,  insomnia, 
oedema  peripheral,  and  wound  secretion.  There  were  no  marked  differences  between  DAB  and  the 
enoxaparin groups with regards to treatment emergent AEs classified by system organ class for the 2 
pivotal studies, neither was any marked dose effect evident. Slight differences in unfavour of DE were 
noted  for  the  following  AEs:  hypokalaemia,  oedema  peripheral  and  wound  secretion.  The  most 
common  reasons  for  discontinuation  due  to  AEs  were  nausea,  vomiting,  injury,  poisoning,  and 
procedural complications, and deep vein thrombosis.  
Bleeding  events  were  classified  as  Major  Bleeding  Events  (MBE),  Clinically  Relevant  Bleeding 
Events (CRBE) and Minor Bleeding Event. The latter were defined as all other bleeding events that 
did not fulfil the criteria of MBE or CRBE. The clinical safety evaluations by MBE are in accordance 
with  the  CHMP/EMEA  guideline.  There  was  a  difference  in  bleeding  frequency  observed  between 
pre-  and  post-operative  randomizations.  As  expected,  the  orthopaedic  surgical  site  was  the  most 
frequently reported site of major bleeding in all of the VTE prevention trials. A clear dose response 
with respect to bleeding was seen for DAB. For any bleeding event, there was no statistical difference 
between DE 150 mg and enoxaparin and between DE 220 mg and Enoxaparin. The use of ASA and 
derivatives increases bleeding frequency although it remained lower than with the use of Enoxaparin. 
Very few patients used concomitant ASA or derivatives and the effect on bleeding events can not be 
evaluated  from  these  studies.  The  possibility  of  drug  monitoring  would  be  valuable,  especially  for 
these patients at risk and commercially available TT test kits will be developed for measurement of TT 
following administration of DTIs (FUM). Also, increased risk of bleeding observed with DE therapy 
in patients with moderate renal impairment or elderly was the reason for deciding that an observational 
cohort study on the risk of bleeding to be conducted in the postauthorisation phase. In the pivotal VTE 
primary  prevention  trials,  frequencies  of  patients  who  experienced  one  or  more  SAEs  were  similar 
across  treatment  groups  in  the  main  studies.  The  most  frequently  experienced  SAEs  were  injury, 
poisoning,  procedural  complications,  vascular  disorders,  infections  and  infestations,  and  cardiac 
disorders. 
The percentage of patients in the pivotal studies with common co-morbidities and/or risk factors for 
VTE was rather low. No clinically significant haematological or other laboratory abnormalities were 
consistently identified in the trials within the DE clinical development programme. 
During DAB development, additional LFT surveillance was added to all ongoing and planned DAB 
clinical trial protocols, in order to detect any potential signal of hepatotoxicity. The LFT analyses from 
the VTE prevention trials do not seem to indicate hepatotoxicity. 
Bleeding events are the most relevant safety issue in special populations. Patients >75 years and 
patients with decreased renal function are especially at risk. 
Drug  interaction  studies  have  only  been  performed  in  adults.  The  following  treatments  are  not 
recommended  concomitantly  with  DE:  UHs  and  heparin  derivatives,  LMWHs,  fondaparinux, 
desirudin,  thrombolytic  agents,  GPIIb/IIIa  receptor  antagonists,  clopidogrel,  ticlopidine,  dextran, 
31/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sulfinpyrazone  and  vitamin  K  antagonists.  It  should  be  noted  that  UH  can  be  administered  at  doses 
necessary to maintain a patent central venous or arterial catheter. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern  Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
will be used to monitor the incidence 
of bleeding. 
Identified risk: 
Bleeding 
Potential risk: 
Hepatotoxicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
will be used to monitor for any 
signs/symptoms of hepatotoxicity. 
Data from ongoing and to be initiated 
controlled clinical trials of dabigatran 
etexilate will be monitored.  In 
particular, there is one large trial 
underway from which data has 
already been provided to the member 
states.  This long term study (RELY 
study [1160.26]) is evaluating the use 
of dabigatran etexilate (2 blinded 
doses) compared to open label 
warfarin in patients with atrial 
fibrillation. It has so far randomized 
18, 114 patients and has a minimum 
12-month follow-up period, which is 
continuing. The primary endpoint is 
the composite of stroke and systemic 
embolism. Criteria for safety include: 
(1) Bleeding events – major and 
minor bleeds: (2) Hepatobiliary 
events including clinically relevant 
changes in liver function tests and 
hepatic dysfunction; and (3) Other 
adverse events. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
An updated RMP including a prescriber 
guide to educate prescribers regarding 
methods of coagulation testing for 
dabigatran and its interpretation. 
An observational cohort study on the risk of 
bleedings to be conducted in the more 
general population of patients with an 
increased risk of bleeding. 
Contraindication for Hepatic impairment or 
liver disease expected to have any impact 
on survival in section 4.3 of the SPC. 
Special warning: Hepatic impairment in 
section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Patients with elevated liver enzymes > 2 
ULN were excluded in controlled clinical 
trials. Therefore the use of Pradaxa is not 
recommended in this population. ALT 
should be measured as part of the standard 
pre-operative evaluation.  
Increase of hepatic enzymes listed as ADR 
in section 4.8 Undesirable effects of the 
SPC. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
32/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  the  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance  of the product were investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are no 
unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology,  repeated  dose  toxicity  and  genotoxicity.  Effects  observed  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies were due to the exaggerated PD effect of DAB. An effect on female fertility was observed in 
the form of a decrease in implantations and an increase in pre-implantation loss at 70 mg/kg (5-fold 
the plasma exposure level in patients). At doses that were toxic to the mothers (5 to 10-fold the plasma 
exposure  level  in  patients),  a  decrease  in  foetal  body  weight  and  viability  along  with  an  increase  in 
foetal  variations  were  observed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  In  the  pre-  and  post-natal  study,  an  increase  in 
foetal mortality was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams (a dose corresponding to a plasma 
exposure  level  4-fold  higher  than  observed  in  patients).  Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  yet  been 
completed with DAB.  
Efficacy 
The  clinical  efficacy  of  DE  in  VTE  prevention  after  elective  THR  or  TKR  has  been 
demonstrated  in  four  multi-centre,  double  blind,  double-dummy,  randomised,  parallel  group, 
controlled  clinical  studies.  In  all  studies,  enoxaparin,  a  recognized  and  widely  used  LMWH  for  this 
indication,  was  used  as  active  control.  The  clinical  confirmatory  trials  were  all  non-inferiority  trials 
with use of non-inferiority margin in accordance with current CHMP guidance. The chosen endpoint 
was not in accordance with the current CHMP guidance. The endpoint proposed by the current CHMP 
guidance was however studied as a secondary endpoint. The proposed therapeutic doses (150 or 220 
mg q.d.) were found to be non-inferior to enoxaparin in the pivotal studies. 
Safety 
The safety data was based on 7942 subjects who received at least one dose of DE, 6976 of these 
in  the  VTE  prevention  trials.  The  most  frequent  AEs  in  the  pivotal  studies  were  nausea,  vomiting, 
constipation, deep vein thrombosis, insomnia, oedema peripheral, and wound secretion. There were no 
marked differences between DAB and the enoxaparin groups with regards to treatment emergent AEs. 
For  any  bleeding  event,  there  was  no  statistical  difference  between  DE  150  mg  and  enoxaparin  and 
between  DE  220  mg  and  enoxaparin.  A  clear  dose  response  with  respect  to  bleeding  was  seen  for 
DAB. From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included 
in  the  SPC.  Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  RMP,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
User consultation 
• 
The Applicant performed a readability testing (“user consultation”) and a satisfactory report has been 
provided. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
• 
Benefits 
In  the  elective  THR  or  TKR  more  than  50%  of  the  patients  develop  DVT  in  the  absence  of 
prophylactic  therapy.  UH  and  more  recently  LMWH  have  been  used  as  anticoagulants  to  prevent 
thromboembolic events in these patients. The advantage of LMHW over UH is no need for blood level 
monitoring. However, the need for parenteral or subcutaneous administration is a clear disadvantage. 
Currently  the  only  orally  administered  alternative  is  vitamin-K-antagonist  which  has  numerous 
33/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limitations such as slow onset of action, a narrow therapeutic range, large inter- and intra-individual 
variability in PK and PD properties as well as many drug-drug interactions all necessitating frequent 
laboratory monitoring to adjust the dosage. In these settings an oral anticoagulant like DE not needing 
laboratory monitoring is therefore highly needed.  
The clinical efficacy in VTE prevention after elective THR or TKR has been demonstrated in four 
multi-centre, double blind, double-dummy, randomised, parallel group, controlled clinical studies. In 
all studies, enoxaparin, a recognized and widely used LMWH for this indication, was used as active 
control. Two pivotal phase III studies were conducted in Europe, 1 supportive phase II study in US. 
Differences  between  European  and  US  studies  relate  to  time  of  randomization  (pre-/postsurgery, 
respectively), 1st oral dosing time (0-4 h post surgery vs. 6-12 h post surgery, respectively), and dose 
regimen (enoxaparin 40mg vs. 30mg b.i.d., respectively). The patient population studied may not fully 
reflect the target population (exclusion of patients on platelet inhibitors such as ASA and patients with 
risk factors for VTE.). The prolonged duration of treatment for 28-35 days in hip surgery is considered 
adequate, being in line with recent guidelines. The duration of treatment in the TKR study was thus 
suboptimal  (6-10  days)  At  the  time  of  initiation  of  the  study  10  days  of  thromboprophylaxis  were 
recommended,  nowadays  it  is  10-14  days.  The  clinical  confirmatory  trials  were  all  non-inferiority 
trials  with  use  of  non-inferiority  margin  in  accordance  with  current  CHMP  guidance.  The  chosen 
endpoint  (all  VTE  [=proximal  and  distal  DVT+PE]  and  all-cause  mortality)  was  not  in  accordance 
with the current CHMP guidance. The endpoint proposed by the current CHMP guidance (major VTE 
[proximal DVT+PE] and VTE related  mortality) was however studied as a secondary endpoint. The 
proposed therapeutic doses (150 or 220 mg q.d.) were found to be non-inferior to enoxaparin in terms 
of efficacy in the pivotal studies. Superiority was not shown (superiority testing was foreseen in the 
statistical  analysis  plan  in  case  of  non-inferiority  was  confirmed).  In  the  US  supportive  study  non-
inferiority  for  both  DE  doses  in  comparison  with  enoxaparin  was  not  met.  Mainly  distal  DVTs 
accounted for total VTE in the study of TKR surgery. In the EU study, there were less distal DVTs in 
the DAB 220mg group as compared with the enoxaparin group and more in the DAB 150mg group. In 
the North-American supportive study, there were more distal DVTs in both DAB groups as compared 
with the enoxaparin group. DVT rates were lower in the US supportive study than in the EU study in 
TKR surgery. This  may be due to the  selection of  patients because of post-operative randomisation, 
but it could also be due to the duration of treatment (not sufficiently long in the pivotal study). In THR 
surgery, about 50% of all DVTs were distal and about 50% were proximal in the DAB groups. There 
were as many distal DVTs in the DAB 220mg group as in the enoxaparin group but more distal DVTs 
in  the  DAB  150mg  group,  whereas  there  were  less  proximal  DVTs  in  the  DAB  220mg  group  as 
compared with the enoxaparin groupand a little more in the DAB 150mg group. The vast majority of 
DVT  in  both  types  of  surgery  were  asymptomatic.  Regarding  the  “Major  VTE  and  VTE  related 
mortality”, secondary endpoint in both pivotal studies there were numerical fewer events in the DAB 
220mg group compared to the enoxaparin group (2.6% vs 3.5% in TKR, 3.1% vs. 3.9% in THR, with 
no statistically significant difference) and a higher number of events in the DAB 150mg group (3.8% 
vs  3.5%  in  Re-Model,  4.3%  vs  3.9%  in  Re-Novate).  The  number  of  symptomatic  DVTs,  PEs,  and 
deaths during the treatment period was low in all three treatment groups of the phase III studies.  
• 
Risks 
The  safety  profile  of  DAB  was  similar  to  the  one  observed  with  enoxaparin.  The  most  frequent 
AEs were related to gastrointestinal disorders, vascular disorders, injury and poisoning and procedural 
complications. Most AE were mild and moderate in severity. In all treatment groups, AEs increased 
with increased age group, increased with decreasing creatinine clearance, and were more frequent in 
females.  A  dose  response  with  respect  to  bleeding  was  seen  for  DE.  For  the  proposed  doses  of  DE 
bleeding events seem overall comparable to enoxaparin. The rate of major bleeding events in the trials 
with  pre-operative  randomisation  (116019,  1160.25,  1160.48)  was  1.3%  (95%  CI  0.8;  1.9)  in  DAB 
150mg, 1.8% (95% CI 1.2; 2.5) in DAB 220mg and 1.6% (95% CI 1.1; 2.2) in the enoxaparin groups. 
Any  bleeding  event  was  seen  in  13.8%  (95%  CI  12.3;  15.4)  in  DAB  150mg,  13.8%  (95%  CI  12.2; 
15.3) in DAB 220mg and 12.9% (95% CI 11.6; 14.3) in enoxaparin groups. Identified risk factors for 
bleeding were female in general (male patients were at increased risk in Re-Model trial), patients aged 
over  75  years,  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance:  50-30ml/min),  BMI  < 
25.  As  expected  the  use  of  ASA  and  derivatives  increases  bleeding  frequency  although  it  remains 
lower than with the use of Enoxaparin. Very few patients use concomitant ASA or derivatives and the 
34/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect  on  bleeding  events  can  not  be  fully  evaluated.  The  possibility  of  drug  monitoring  would  be 
valuable, especially for these patients at risk and commercially available TT test kits will be developed 
for  measurement  of  TT  following  administration  of  DTIs.  No  objective  measures  (e.g.  Hgb,  MAP, 
CVP,  Hct)  were  used  when  deciding  on  whether  a  patient  needed  transfusion  or  not  and  a  non-
validated algorithm was used to evaluate bleeding events.  These circumstances make it very unlikely 
that  patients  across  the  study  sites  are  classified  and  treated  in  the  same  way  when  it  comes  to 
bleeding. No clinically significant haematological or other laboratory abnormalities were consistently 
identified in the trials within the DE clinical development programme. Because pre-clinical toxicology 
studies  did  not  provide  any  indication  of  potential  hepatic  injury,  early  clinical  studies  of  DE 
employed only routine surveillance for hepatotoxicity signals. Additional LFT surveillance intended to 
detect  any  potential  signal  of  hepatotoxicity  was  added  during  all  ongoing  and  planned  DE  clinical 
trial  protocols.  The  applicant  provided  also  data  from  a  prespecified,  interim  analysis  of  RE-LY,  a 
long-term trial of DE in patients with AF. These data do not seem to indicate hepatotoxicity. DE and 
DAB  are  not  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome  P450  system  and  have  no  effects  in  vitro  on  human 
cytochrome  P450  enzymes.  Therefore,  clinically  relevant  drug-drug  interactions  are  not  expected. 
Towards  transport  proteins  such  as  P-glycoprotein,  an  effect  of  DAB  cannot  be  excluded.  Clinical 
relevant PD interactions must be expected with other drugs acting on the coagulation system and their 
use is therefore discouraged. 
•  Balance 
The  use  of  DE  seems  to  be  associated  with  a  clinical  efficacy  comparable  to  that  seen  with  the 
LMWH enoxaparin but with less inconveniency as the therapy can be administered orally instead of 
by  subcutaneous  injections.  There  is  a  clinical  need  for  this  kind  of  product.  The  risks  are  also 
comparable to that seen with LMWH-therapy. Likewise seems the bleeding risk comparable to that of 
LMWH therapy, however, with the limitation that the assessment of bleeding was partially based on a 
non  validated  algorithm.  Hepatotoxicity,  which  previously  was  found  for  another  DTI,  has  not  been 
detected for DAB in the clinical program submitted. Efficacy and safety results in the EU studies show 
a clear dose-effect of DAB for anticoagulation. The objective of non-inferiority of DAB on total VTE 
and all-cause mortality was met in comparison with enoxaparin for both dosages 220mg and 150mg. 
There  is  a  trend  to  higher  efficacy  of  DAB  220mg  compared  with  enoxaparin,  associated  with  an 
increased  bleeding  risk.  On  the  opposite,  with  DAB  150mg,  there  is  a  trend  to  lower  efficacy 
compared with enoxaparin, associated with a lower bleeding risk, which might be useful for some at 
risk  populations  (patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment,  elderly)  which  have  increased  DAB 
exposure. It is important to underline that the PK characteristics of DAB i.e low bioavailability (6.5%) 
with  a  very  large  interindividual  variability,  the  concentration-effect  relationship  and  the  bleeding 
risks  strongly  suggest  that  drug  monitoring  is  needed.  Based  on  the  above  balance  the  benefits 
associated with the proposed use of DE are considered to outweigh the risks. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
35/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Pradaxa  in  the  primary  prevention  of  venous 
thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone elective total hip replacement surgery or 
total  knee  replacement  surgery  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
36/36 
EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
