23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Praluent  
International non-proprietary name: alirocumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003882/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ............................................ 14 
1.1. Submission of the dossier .................................................................................... 14 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 15 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 16 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 16 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 17 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 17 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 17 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 20 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 23 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 24 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 24 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 24 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 24 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 24 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 26 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 27 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 28 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 28 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 29 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 29 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 29 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 33 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 45 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 50 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 53 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 53 
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 53 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 55 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 79 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 82 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 82 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 117 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 121 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ...................................................................................... 122 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 125 
2.9. Product information .......................................................................................... 126 
2.9.1. User consultation ........................................................................................... 126 
2.9.2. Additional monitoring ..................................................................................... 126 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance............................................................................ 126 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 133 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 2/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
µg  
µM 
A  
Microgram 
Micrometer 
Absorbance 
A280 UV  
Absorbance at 280 nm   
AAV 
ACS 
ACTH 
ADA  
Adeno-associated Virus  
Acute coronary syndrome 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone 
Anti-drug antibodies 
ADCC    
Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity 
ADH  
ADI  
AE 
AEX 
ALT 
AMD 
Autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia 
Acceptable daily intake 
Adverse event   
Anion exchange chromatography 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Automated mini doser (formerly referred to as LVI [larger volume injector] and 3.5  
mL personal injector) 
ANOVA   
Analysis of variance 
Apo A-1: 
Apolipoprotein A-1 
ApoB    
Apolipoprotein B 
ApoE  
Apolipoprotein E 
ApoE-/-  
Apolipoprotein E-deficient 
AQL 
AST 
ATP 
Acceptance quality level 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Adult treatment panel   
AUC  
Area under the curve (systemic exposures) 
AUCinf   
Area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity  
AUClast  
Area under the concentration time curve from time 0 to the last quantifiable  
concentration 
AUCx-y  
Area under the concentration-time curve from time x to time y  
AUECx-y 
Area under the effect curve from time x to time y 
BA 
BAV  
Bioavailability 
Bovine adenovirus 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 3/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BBB 
BD 
BE 
BLA 
BMI 
BP  
bpm 
BSA  
BSE  
BUN 
C1q  
CAD 
CAS 
CAS  
CCI  
CD  
Blood Brain Barrier 
Birth day 
Bioequivalence   
Biologics license application 
Body mass index 
Bubble point 
Beats per minute 
Bovine serum albumin 
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
Blood urea nitrogen 
Complement component 1, q subcomponent 
Coronary artery disease 
Completer analysis set   
Chemical Abstracts Service 
Container closure integrity 
Circular dichroism 
CD81    
Cluster of differentiation 81, a major component of the hepatitis C virus entry complex 
CDC  
cDNA 
CDR  
Complement-dependent cytotoxicity 
Complimentary deoxyribonucleic acid 
Complimentary determining region 
CE-HPLC  
Cation exchange  high performance liquid chromatography 
CE-SDS  
Capillary electrophoresis - sodium dodecyl sulfate 
CETP  
Cholesteryl ester transfer protein 
CFU  
Colony forming units 
cGMP    
Current Good Manufacturing Practices 
CH  
CHD  
Constant domain of the heavy chain 
Coronary heart disease  
CHMP    
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
CHO  
Chinese hamster ovary 
CHO-K1  
Epithilioid cell line originally isolated from the Chinese hamster ovaries  
CI  
cIEF  
Confidence interval 
Capillary isoelectric focusing 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 4/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CK 
CL 
CL  
Creatine kinase  
Clearance 
Constant domain of the light chain 
CL/F 
Estimated mean apparent clearance 
Cmax 
Maximum concentration 
CMC 
CMQ 
CNS  
CO2  
CoA 
CPP 
CQA 
CrCL 
CSR 
Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls 
Company MedDRA Query 
Central nervous system 
Carbon dioxide 
Certificate of Analysis 
Critical process parameter 
Critical quality attribute 
Creatinine clearance 
Clinical study report 
CTCAE   
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
CTD 
CV 
CV  
CV 
CVD 
Da  
DBP: 
DDI 
DF  
DM: 
DMC 
DNA  
DO 
DOE  
DP  
DS  
Common Technical Document   
Coefficient of variation 
Column volume 
Cardiovascular   
Cardiovascular disease   
Dalton 
Diastolic blood pressure 
Drug-drug-interactions   
Diafiltration 
Diabetes mellitus 
Data monitoring committee 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
Dissolved oxygen 
Design of experiment 
Drug product 
Drug substance 
EC50 
 Area under the concentration-time curve from week 8 to week 12 required to achieve 
half-maximal response   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 5/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECG 
Eff 
EGF  
eGFR 
Electrocardiogram 
Effect magnitude 
Epidermal Growth Factor 
Estimated glomerular filtration rate 
ELISA    
Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay 
EPC 
EPD 
End of production cells 
Embryo-foetal and Postnatal Development  
ePPND   
Enhanced pre- and post-natal development 
ESI-TOF 
Electrospray ionization - time of flight 
EU  
F 
FAS 
FBS 
Endotoxin units 
Bioavailability 
Full analysis set  
Foetal bovine serum 
FcRn  
Neonatal Fc receptor  
FDA 
FDS 
FH  
Food and Drug Administration   
Formulated drug substance 
Familial hypercholesterolemia   
FTIR  
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy 
G0F,G1F, G2F  Fucosylated glycans with zero (G0F), one (G1F) or two (G2F) galactose residues 
GCP 
GD 
GLP  
GMP  
GOF 
Good Clinical Practice 
Gestation day   
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good Manufacturing Practices 
Gain of Function 
GOFm   
Gain-of function mutation 
GPP 
GQA 
General process parameter 
General quality attribute 
HbA1c   
Hemoglobin A1c 
HC  
HCP  
HCV 
Heavy chain 
Host cell protein 
Hepatitis C Virus 
HDL-C   
High-Density Lipoprotein-Cholesterol 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 6/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HeFH 
HeLa  
Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia 
Human epithelioid carcinoma 
HETP    
Height equivalent to a theoretical plate 
HF 
HH  
HHL  
HIC  
HLT 
Human factors 
Species consisting of 2 heavy chains 
Species consisting of 2 heavy chains associated with a single light chain 
Hydrophobic interaction chromatography 
High level term  
HMG-CoA  
3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA 
HMW 
High molecular weight 
HoHF    
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia 
HPLC    
High pressure liquid chromatography 
HR 
Hr  
Hazard ratio 
Hour 
hs-CRP  
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein 
HT 
IC50  
ICH  
IDL C 
IEF  
IgG  
IgG  
Hold time 
Half maximal inhibitory concentration 
International Conference on Harmonization 
Intermediate density lipoprotein cholesterol 
Isoelectric focusing 
Immunoglobine isotype 
Immunoglobulin G 
IgG1  
Immunoglobin G1 
IMP 
IND: 
INN  
IPC 
ISO  
ISS 
ITT 
IV  
Ka 
Investigational medicinal product 
Investigational New Drug 
International Non-proprietary Name 
In-process control 
International Organization for Standardization 
Integrated summary of safety   
Intention-to-treat 
Intravenous 
Absorption rate constant 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 7/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kb  
KD  
Kilobase pairs 
Dissociation constant 
kD or kDa  
Kilodalton 
kg  
kL  
Km 
KO 
L  
LAL  
LC  
LC  
LDL  
Kilogram 
Kiloliter 
Concentration of half maximal nonlinear clearance 
Knock-out 
Liter 
Limulus amebocyte lysate 
Light chain 
Liquid chromatography  
Low density lipoprotein  
LDL-C    
Low density lipoprotein cholesterol 
LDLR    
Low density lipoprotein receptor 
LFT 
LH 
Liver function test 
Luteinizing hormone 
LIVCA    
Limit of in vitro cell age 
LLOQ 
LMT 
LMW  
LOD  
LOF 
Lower limit of quantification 
Lipid-modifying therapy  
Low molecular weight 
Level of detection 
Loss of function  
LOFm 
Loss-of-function mutation 
LOQ  
Lp(a) 
LS 
M  
m  
Level of quantitation 
Lipoprotein(a)   
Least squares 
Molar 
Meter 
mAb 
Monoclonal antibody  
MACE 
Major adverse cardiac events 
MALS    
Multi-angle Light Scattering 
Man5    
Mannose-5 glycan 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 8/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAR 
max  
MCB  
mg  
MI 
min  
mL  
mm  
mM  
Missing at random 
Maximum 
Master cell bank 
Milligram 
Myocardial infarction 
Minute 
Milliliter 
Millimeter 
Millimolar 
MMRM   
Mixed-effect model with repeated measures 
MMV  
Murine (Mouse) Minute Virus 
mOsm   
Milliosmole 
MRC-5   
Human diploid lung cell 
MS  
N  
N  
N/A  
Nab 
NaCl  
NCEP 
ND 
NDS 
NF 
Mass spectrometry 
Newtons 
Theoretical plate number 
Not applicable 
Neutralizing antibody 
Sodium chloride 
National Cholesterol Education Program 
Not detected 
New drug submission 
National Formulary 
NGHC    
Non-glycosylated heavy chain 
NHP 
NK  
NKC 
nM  
non-human primate  
Natural killer 
Natural Killer Cells 
Nanomolar 
NMAR:   
Not-missing-at-random  
NOAEL   
No observed adverse effect level 
NOEL 
No observed effect level 
non HDL-C 
Non high density lipoprotein cholesterol  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 9/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
non-FH  
Non-familial hypercholesterolemia 
NOR 
normal operating range 
NR  
NR  
NS  
NT  
OD  
OLE 
OOL 
OOS 
PA5 
PA6 
PAR 
pCQA 
PCR  
No reduction 
Not required 
No significant effect 
Not tested 
Optical density 
Open label extension 
Outside of action limit 
Out of specification 
Process area 5 
Process area 6 
proven acceptable range  
Preliminary critical quality attributes 
polymerase chain reaction 
PCSK9   
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 
PCSK9hum/hum   Genotype for humanized PCSK9 mice, which express human PCSK9 in place of mouse  
PCSK9   
PD 
Pharmacodynamic(s) 
PFMEA   
Process failure modes and effects analysis 
PFP 
PFS 
pH  
Pre Filled Pen 
Pre-filled syringe 
Hydrogen potential 
PhEur    
European Pharmacopeia 
pI  
PK 
PMM 
PO  
Isoelectric point 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Pattern-Mixture Model   
Oral 
POP PK  
Population pharmacokinetic 
ppb 
PPD 
ppm  
PPQ 
Parts per billion 
Post partum day 
Parts per million 
Process performance qualification 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 10/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PQA  
Product quality attribute 
ProtA    
Protein A 
PRV  
PT 
Q2W 
Q4W 
QC  
QP 
Pseudorabies virus 
Preferred term   
Every 2 weeks   
Every 4 weeks   
Quality control 
Qualified person 
qPCR    
Quantitative polymerase chain reaction 
qs  
QTcF 
RBC 
Quantum sufficit 
QT interval using Fridericia’s correction  
Red blood cells   
rDNA    
Recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid 
REO3    
Reovirus type 3 
RES 
RNA  
Reticuloendothelial system 
Ribonucleic acid 
RP-HPLC  
Reverse phase - high pressure liquid chromatography   
rpm  
RS  
RSD  
Rotations per minute 
Reference standard 
Relative standard deviation 
RT-PCR  
Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction 
S/N  
SAE: 
SC 
Signal to noise 
Serious adverse event   
Subcutaneous(ly) 
SCORE   
Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation 
SD 
Standard deviation 
SDS-PAGE 
Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
SE 
SEC  
Standard error   
Size exclusion chromatography 
SE-HPLC  
Size exclusion-high performance liquid chromatography 
SHBG 
SME  
Sex hormone binding globulin   
Subject matter expert 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 11/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SoC 
SOC 
SPB: 
Standard of care 
System organ class 
Systolic blood pressure  
SREBP-2 
Sterol regulatory element-binding-protein-2 
SV-AUC  
Edimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation 
t or T    
Time 
t1/2  
Half-life 
TCID50  
50% tissue culture infection dose endpoint 
TCR 
Tissue Cross Reactivity  
TDAR 
T-cell dependent antibody response 
TEAE 
TEM  
TFF  
TG 
TK 
tmax 
TOC  
TOF  
TOT 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Transmission electron microscopy 
Tangential flow filtration 
Triglycerides 
Toxicokinetics   
Time to maximum concentration 
Total organic carbon 
Time of flight 
Time out of refrigerator 
total-C   
Total-cholesterol 
TSE  
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
UC 
UF  
Ultracentrifugation 
Ultrafiltration 
UF/DF    
Ultrafiltration/diafiltration 
ULN 
upper limit of normal 
USAN    
United States Adopted Name 
USP  
United States Pharmacopeia 
UV  
V 
v/v  
VAS 
VH  
Ultraviolet 
Volume of distribution   
Volume per volume 
Visual analog pain scale 
Variable domain of the heavy chain 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 12/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VL  
Variable domain of the light chain 
VLDL  
Very low-density lipoprotein 
VLDL C  
Very low density lipoprotein cholesterol  
VLDL R  
Very low density lipoprotein receptor 
Vmax 
Nonlinear clearance capacity 
Vss 
Vz/F  
w/v  
WCB  
WFI  
Mean volume of distribution at steady state 
Unbound volume of distribution  
Weight per volume 
Working cell bank 
Water for injection 
WHO  
World Health Organization 
XMuLV   
Xenotropic murine leukemia virus 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 13/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant sanofi-aventis groupe submitted on 2 December 2014 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Praluent, through the centralised procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 24 October 2013. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Praluent is indicated, as adjunct therapy to diet, for long-term use in adult patients with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia (non-familial and heterozygous familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia to reduce low-
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). 
Praluent also decreases other atherogenic lipid parameters, such as total cholesterol, non-high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), triglycerides (TG), and lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)]. Praluent also 
increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). 
Praluent is indicated in combination with a statin (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor), with or without other 
lipid-modifying therapy (LMT), in patients not appropriately controlled with a statin. 
Praluent is indicated as monotherapy, or as add-on to other non-statin LMT, in patients who cannot 
tolerate statins. 
The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated 
that alirocumab was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included EMA Decision 
P/0297/2013 for the condition “Treatment of elevated cholesterol” on the agreement of a paediatric 
investigation plan (PIP) and EMA Decision P/0100/2014 on the granting of a (product-specific) waiver 
for the condition “Treatment of mixed dyslipidaemia”.  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0297/2013 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 14/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance alirocumab contained in the above medicinal product to 
be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of 
a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 19/05/2011, 19/04/2012, 19/09/2013 and 
23/01/2014. The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff 
Co-Rapporteur: Alar Irs 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 2 December 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 24 December 2014.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 March 2015. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 March 
2015.  
•  PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 10 April 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 23 April 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 
April 2015. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 May 
2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 24 June 2015. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 15/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview, adopted by PRAC on 9 July 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 23 July 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Praluent.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application supports the following indications for alirocumab: 
“Praluent is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-
familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to 
reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
- 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-
intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined.” 
A large body of epidemiological evidence exists demonstrating a strong positive correlation and causal 
relationship between serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and the risk of coronary heart 
disease (CHD). Other clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis also appear linked to plasma LDL-C 
levels such as cerebrovascular disease (i.e. stroke) or peripheral vascular disease. In addition, clinical 
trials have shown that LDL lowering therapy with HMG-Co A reductase inhibitors (and possibly 
ezetimibe) reduces the risk for CHD. The relationship between LDL-C levels and CHD risk is present 
over a broad range of LDL levels. Epidemiologic data indicate a continuously increasing risk from very 
low to “normal” and high levels of LDL-C (EMA/CHMP/748108/2013). 
A number of interventions to achieve LDL-C control in patients with elevated LDL-C and with high 
cardiovascular risk are available, such as statins and other lipid-lowering therapies. Often, however, 
these are not sufficiently effective or their use is limited by toxicity. Therefore, there is a medical need 
for new effective and well tolerated treatments of lipid disorders. 
The primary goal of treating lipid disorders is to prevent cardiovascular morbidity and mortality 
associated with disturbed lipid levels and ideally this effect should be demonstrated pre-approval. 
When this cannot be met for medicinal products acting on LDL-C, at least a detrimental effect on 
mortality and morbidity should be excluded prior to registration. Until relevant clinical trial data are 
available, it is considered appropriate to mention in section 4.1 of the SmPC that beneficial effects on 
mortality and morbidity have not yet been evaluated. 
Alirocumab is a fully human monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds to PCSK9. PCSK9 binds to the low-
density lipoprotein receptors (LDLRs) on the surface of hepatocytes. The LDLR is the major pathway 
through which cholesterol-rich low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles are cleared from the circulation 
and hepatic LDL uptake is a major determinant of circulating LDL-C levels. When an internalized LDLR 
is bound to PCSK9, this promotes the degradation of the LDLR, preventing its recycling to the cell 
surface. By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDLR, alirocumab increases the number of LDLRs 
available to clear LDL particles, thereby lowering LDL-C levels. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 16/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Alirocumab is intended for long-term use and was developed as a SC treatment for 
hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidaemia. The clinical program was designed to assess the 
efficacy of alirocumab as add-on to statins, with or without other lipid modifying therapies (LMTs), in 
patients with primary heFH and non-FH, including patients with mixed dyslipidaemia and diabetic 
patients, either as monotherapy or as add-on to their existing non-statin LMT, including patients with 
statin intolerance. The alirocumab clinical development program included 11 clinical pharmacology 
studies (10 completed and 1 ongoing), 7 phase 2 studies (5 completed double-blind and 2 ongoing 
open-label) and 17 phase 3 studies (5 completed double-blind studies, 9 ongoing double-blind studies, 
and 3 ongoing open-label studies at the time of the assessment of this application).  
The studies included in the clinical content of the dossier were, unless mentioned otherwise, performed 
in line with the CHMP guidelines on the investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of lipid 
disorders and with the requirements of exposure for safety assessment. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The active substance of Praluent is alirocumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody (IgG1 isotype) that 
targets proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK 9).  
PCSK9 binds to the low-density lipoprotein receptors (LDLRs) on the surface of hepatocytes and this 
promotes the degradation of the LDLR. By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDLR, the number of 
LDLRs available to clear LDL particles increases, thereby lowering LDL-C levels. 
The product is supplied as clear, colourless to pale yellow solution for injection with dosage strengths 
of 75 mg/mL and 150 mg/mL. The solution for injection is filled into a 1 mL single-use pre-filled pen or 
into a 1 mL single-use pre-filled syringe. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The active substance is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) 
cell suspension culture and is manufactured by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., New York, USA. 
Frozen active substance is shipped to the finished product manufacturer, Sanofi Winthrop Industrie in 
Le Trait, France, where it is either filled directly or diluted to 75 mg/mL prior to filling. The general 
information provided on nomenclature, structure and general properties of the active substance, 
alirocumab, is considered sufficient.  
Alirocumab is a covalent heterotetramer consisting of two disulfide-linked human heavy chains, each 
covalently linked through a disulfide bond to a fully human kappa light chain. The heavy chain 
comprises 448 and the light chain 220 amino acids. The alirocumab heavy chain has an IgG1 isotype 
constant region. There is a single N-linked glycosylation site (Asn298) in each heavy chain, located 
within the CH2 domain of the Fc constant region in the molecule. The antibody, based on the primary 
sequence (in the absence of N-linked glycosylation), possesses a molecular weight of 145,983.8 Da 
and comprises 16 disulfide bonds. The variable domains of the heavy and light chains combine to form 
complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) for the binding of alirocumab to its target, proprotein 
convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (PCSK9). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 17/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance corresponds to alirocumab solution at 150 mg/mL formulated with an aqueous 
buffered solution, containing histidine, polysorbate 20, and sucrose.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The formulated active substance, referred to as FDS, is manufactured by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, 
NY, USA. The manufacture of alirocumab active substance corresponds to a conventional monoclonal 
antibody production process (fermentation, recovery, purification including viral inactivation/filtration).   
Upstream processing begins with thawing of a frozen vial of the working cell bank (WCB), and re-
suspending the cells into a shake flask. The cell culture is expanded in a series of cell bags and 
bioreactors of increasing volume until reaching sufficient density for inoculation into the production 
bioreactor. Downstream processing consists of several chromatography steps (rProtein A affinity 
chromatography, anion exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography) as well 
as viral inactivation and filtration steps to purify and clear potential adventitious viral agents from the 
product. Concentration and diafiltration of alirocumab creates pre-formulated active substance. The 
material is then compounded to 150 mg/mL resulting in alirocumab FDS. The FDS is dispensed into 
containers and stored frozen. 
Control of materials 
Sufficient information on compendial and non-compendial raw materials has been provided. The quality 
of all raw materials used in the alirocumab manufacturing process, from construction of the WCB 
through dispensing of the FDS, are controlled. Alirocumab is manufactured without the direct use of 
animal-derived raw materials and sufficient information on analysis of materials of biological origin has 
been provided.  
A two tiered cell banking system  using Alirocumab Master Cell Bank and Working Cell Bank is in place. 
The stability of the stored cell banks is monitored over time to ensure retention of production capacity 
during storage. Virus safety of WCB and cell substrate stability was also demonstrated through end of 
production cells (EPC) testing. The MCB and current WCB, including end of production cells (EPC) and 
cells at the limit of the in vitro cell age have been extensively tested. Test results confirm the 
sequences of the expressed genes, indicate no large insertions or deletions, demonstrate one 
integration site for the heavy and two integration sites for the light chain genes, and the expression of 
a single major transcript for the heavy and light chain.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The overall manufacturing control strategy includes control of raw materials, production process, 
adventitious agents, facilities and equipment (including environmental monitoring) as well as control of 
critical steps and intermediates (the latter through a formal IPC program). The unit operations that are 
designed to be free of, or function to eliminate potential contamination by viral or other microbial 
agents, have been designated as critical steps in the FDS manufacturing process.  
The IPC program provides a framework of process monitoring that includes i) verification that 
operational and performance parameters and attributes are maintained within justified and/or 
validated limits or ranges, and ii) trending of performance over time via statistical process control. 
Process validation 
An interrelated series of laboratory scale and full scale studies, guided by a predetermined master 
plan, were conducted to evaluate and validate the alirocumab bulk FDS commercial manufacturing 
process. Proven acceptable range (PAR) studies were performed to evaluate robustness within normal 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 18/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
operating ranges and to provide indications for consequences when operating outside normal operating 
ranges. Validation of the commercial process has been satisfactorily conducted. 
Process performance qualification (PPQ) lots originating from three consecutive production bioreactor 
harvests were produced using normal operating ranges with normal processing times for all purification 
steps. Each of the lots met the proposed commercial specifications. Time limits for production were 
validated through the manufacture of consecutive full-scale PPQ hold time batches. 
Manufacturing Process development 
Three production processes have been used to produce alirocumab for clinical studies. The main 
objectives of the process changes were to increase production scale, develop the dosage form, and 
improve productivity and process yields. All materials used for phase 3 clinical trials have been 
manufactured with the process intended for commercial production. 
Characterisation 
Alirocumab has a predicted protein molecular weight of 145,983.8 Da and contains a single, conserved 
N-glycosylation site (Asn298) in the Fc portion of each heavy chain subunit. Extensive analytical 
characterization was performed to provide a detailed understanding of the chemical properties of the 
alirocumab protein. Results from these analytical, biochemical, and biophysical characterization assays 
were also used to assess lot to lot comparability.  
Size and charge heterogeneity was investigated by suitable analytical techniques revealing that 
alirocumab exists predominantly as an intact monoclonal antibody and that comparable charge variant 
distribution profiles are exhibited. All expected disulfide bonds were correctly formed with no 
occurrence of mis-paired cysteines. Alirocumab inhibited PCSK9 mediated decreased LDL uptake in a 
cell-based assay. Binding of alirocumab to recombinant soluble PCSK9 protein did not induce Fc 
effector function activity, ADCC and CDC or the formation of complement activating immune 
complexes. 
Specification 
Each FDS batch will be tested for identity by peptide map and imaged Capillary Isoelectric Focusing 
(iCIEF), total protein content by A280, potency by a cell-based bioassay, molecular size integrity and 
purity of the full length protein under reducing and non-reducing conditions by Capillary 
Electrophoresis Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate (CE-SDS), low- and high molecular weights impurities by Size 
Exclusion-High Performance Liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC), charge variants by iCIEF, 
oligosaccharide profiling by glycan analysis, residual host cell proteins, residual DNA, bioburden, 
endotoxin, general characteristics color, clarity and pH of the solution. Most of the methods are 
standard for monoclonal antibodies. The choice of the test methods is adequate to verify the identity, 
heterogeneity, protein content, purity, microbial quality and formulation of the active substance. 
Acceptance criteria are properly based on safety concerns per regulation, clinical experience, process 
capability, manufacturing history and accumulated stability data. 
Analytical methods: 
Analytical procedures used for release or to test in-process samples and analytical procedures used 
during process performance qualification studies were validated or qualified to show that they are 
suitable for their intended purpose. Compendial assays were rather qualified than validated. 
Reference Standards: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 19/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A primary reference standard links all future reference standards to clinically qualified material. 
The same reference material is used both for active substance and finished product in analytical testing 
and is sufficiently described. 
Stability 
Stability studies were performed to evaluate the effects of long term storage, temperature stress and 
light exposure on protein quality. Additional forced degradation studies were also performed to 
evaluate the stability indicating capabilities of the analytical procedures used for routine release and 
stability testing and gain insight into possible alirocumab degradation pathways. 
The primary stability studies were performed using FDS manufactured as part of process performance 
qualification. Results show minimal alirocumab FDS degradation and no changes observed in any of the 
attributes monitored after 18-24 months of storage at the recommended long-term storage condition 
of -30 °C ± 10 °C. On the basis of these results, the following shelf life and storage conditions for the 
FDS is deemed justified: 24 months when at -30 °C ± 10 °C. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product  
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Composition 
The drug product is a solution for injection consisting of L-histidine  and L-histidine monohydrochloride 
and monohydrate, sucrose, polysorbate 20 and water for injection. 
Alirocumab drug product is presented as either a 1 mL prefilled pen (PFP), or a 1 mL prefilled syringe 
(PFS) with two dosage strengths (75 mg/mL and 150 mg/mL). The pre-filled syringe and the prefilled 
pen use the same bulk pre-filled syringe prior to be assembled.  
Compliance with ISO 11608 has been sufficiently demonstrated. 
Pharmaceutical development 
Alirocumab active substance is provided as the FDS which is an aqueous buffered solution, containing 
150 mg/mL purified alirocumab protein, histidine, sucrose, and  polysorbate 20. The alirocumab active 
substance formulation is identical to the formulation for alirocumab finished product at 150 mg/mL and 
is diluted for manufacturing of 75 mg/mL.  
The formulation excipients were selected to meet the desired pH, osmolality, and stability 
requirements established during formulation development. All excipients are compendial. 
The formulation development was conducted in three main steps: 
 
Initial formulation studies 
  Development of a high concentration liquid finished Product for pivotal clinical trial studies and 
commercial use 
 
Proven Acceptable Ranges 
Container closure system functionality and drug delivery were evaluated during development according 
to the appropriate ISO standard respectively for pre-filled syringe and auto-injector. The container 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 20/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
closure system has performance features which function properly. The pre-filled pen meets the 
relevant essential requirements of Annex I to Directive 93/42/EC as far as safety and performance 
related device features are concerned. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The alirocumab finished product manufacturing process including process controls is adequately 
described. The manufacturing process is supported by a continued manufacturing process verification 
program of in-process controls and process parameter monitoring.  Validation data support the CPPs 
and critical IPCs (e.g. holding times), or the CPPs and critical IPCs are in line with current guidance and 
common practice (e.g. bioburden). Other parameters (e.g. mixing speed/mixing time) and associated 
ranges are in general sufficiently justified by the studies described in the section on manufacturing 
process development.   
The bulk PFS, PFS and PFP validation batches were successfully manufactured and support that the 
finished product manufacturing process is able to consistently manufacture a product which meets its 
specifications. 
Bulk PFS manufacture 
Manufacture of the bulk PFS (syringes without a plunger which can be manufactured into either a PFS 
with a plunger or a PFP) is a straightforward process typical for a biopharmaceutical. DS is either used 
directly (150 mg/ml presentation), or diluted first to 75 mg/ml with dilution buffer. The solution is filter 
sterilised and filled into syringes.  
The CPPs (critical process parameters) and cIPCs are stated together with the description of the 
manufacturing process. In addition, the bulk PFS is controlled before further manufacture.   
PFS manufacture 
The finishing steps of pre-filled syringes manufacturing include plunger rod insertion, labelling and 
packaging. 
PFP manufacture 
The production of alirocumab pre-filled pen consists of the assembly of bulk pre-filled syringes (bulk 
PFS) with auto-injector (AI) subassemblies, the labelling and packaging. It is a serial production 
process where all pre-filled pens are produced following the same sequence of process steps on 
automatic assembly/packaging lines. 
Process validation: bulk PFS and PFS 
The applicant manufactured three validation batches of bulk PFS for each strength; in addition a 
comparative batch has been manufactured. The validation batches were manufactured with maximum 
processing (i.e. holding times); other process parameters were apparently at set point. The validation 
batches were successfully manufactured. Additional validation information is provided regarding sterile 
manufacture, shipping, and PFS validation (Plunger rod assembly). 
Process validation: PFP 
Validation of the bulk PFS assembly with auto-injector was assessed through review of in process and 
final quality results for three consecutive batches of each strength. Each validation run was processed 
correctly. All results obtained during the validations runs complied with the specifications and no 
observations or deviations occurred.    
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 21/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The performance of the manufacturing process after the scale-up was evaluated by comparison of 
release testing results and stability data of pre-filled syringe process performance qualification lots to 
historical batches and in a side by side stability study. The comparability exercise data (release testing 
and stability comparison with historical data) indicate that the batches filled on the industrial line were 
highly similar to those of the batches filled previously. 
Product specification 
The tests identified for control by drug product specifications were in general considered appropriate. 
Testing for sterility and endotoxin content is routinely performed at release. 
As for the drug substance, the purity is tested by reduced and non-reduced CE-SDS, size exclusion 
HPLC while charge heterogeneity is monitored by iCIEF analysis. The potency is determined using cell-
based bioassay. Total protein content is assessed by UV spectrophotometry for each concentration. 
Performance tests for each presentation have been adequately set. The product meets pharmacopoeial 
standards for visible and subvisible particles. 
Brief descriptions of both compendial and non-compendial analytical procedures used at release and 
for stability are provided. Several procedures used to test alirocumab PFS are also used for testing of 
alirocumab bulk PFS and alirocumab FDS. Validation or qualification reports have been prepared for 
each analytical procedure. Results of batch release testing for 75 mg/ml and 150 mg/ml alirocumab 
bulk PFS and assembled PFS manufactured are provided. The data demonstrate that the specifications 
which were effective at the time of testing were met. Levels are controlled via the validated 
manufacturing process and release and stability specifications.  
Acceptance criteria for all tests were set based on safety concerns per regulation, clinical experience, 
and process capability and manufacturing history.  
A complete overview of all batches manufactured and used in clinical studies has been provided and 
data complied with the respective specifications.  
The same reference standard as for the drug substance is used for testing of the drug product.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data are provided for primary stability batches of alirocumab in bulk PFS for each 
concentration (150 mg/mL and 75 mg/mL) under long term (5° ± 3°C) and accelerated storage 
conditions. In addition, supporting stability data are provided on the finished prefilled syringes and 
prefilled pens. Statistical comparative analysis and linear regression analyses of the primary stability 
data indicate that the results from PFS primary lots will remain within the stability acceptance criteria 
for at least 24 months. There are no meaningful differences in finished product stability between bulk 
PFS and finished PFS or between bulk PFS and finished PFP. Therefore the bulk PFS stability data can 
support the shelf life of the finished PFS and PFP. Considering all results, a shelf life of 24 months is 
deemed acceptable. 
The applicant claims in the SPC that the product (both PFS and PFP) may be stored at 25°C for 24 
hours.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 22/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
Cell banks have been extensively tested for adventitious as well as endogenous agents. Cell culture is 
performed under serum free conditions using media that contain no components of animal or human 
origin. 
Multiple levels of control have been established throughout the alirocumab manufacturing process to 
minimize the risk of contamination of the finished product with adventitious viruses. Cell banks have 
been extensively tested for adventitious as well as endogenous agents.  
Relevant process steps have been investigated in virus validation studies. 
These studies provide evidence that the production process could remove adventitious virus 
contamination and the overall inactivation/removal capacity is regarded as sufficient.  
Information on materials of animal origin used directly or indirectly in the manufacture of Alirocumab, 
solution for injection is provided and alirocumab finished products comply with BSE/TSE and viral 
safety regulation. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The overall standard of the Module 3 Quality dossier presented in support of this application for 
alirocumab is high, with the descriptions of the manufacture and control of the active substance and 
finished product containing sufficient detail to permit an in depth assessment of the marketing 
authorisation application.  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, which leads to the conclusion that the product 
should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
The manufacturing, characterisation and control of both active substance and finished product are 
considered well established and appropriate.  
No Major Objections but a number of Other Concerns had been raised as regards the Quality 
documentation.  
Some classifications of process parameters and quality attributes potentially affecting the viral safety 
of the product were reconsidered and reclassified, respectively.  
The applicant committed to undertake the development of a binding assay as a complimentary 
characterisation test to the bioassay.  
Further discussions on charge variants as well as the strategy of their control were provided and 
further justification of proposed specification limits was presented. Some limits for specifications were 
suggested for tightening or justification, including potency acceptance criterion for which (additional 
data and analysis have been presented) review after manufacture of at least 30 DP batches was 
recommended. 
Additional real time stability data for substantiation of the 24 month shelf life were presented and 
taken together with results of supporting stability studies, a 24 month shelf life was deemed 
acceptable.  
Cell bank testing had been undertaken according to ICH guidelines (ICH Q5A, ICH Q5B and ICH Q5D). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 23/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been 
presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommended four points for investigation. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Binding of alirocumab to PCSK9 prevents the internalization of the LDL receptor (LDLR) and as a result, 
maintains the turnover of LDL-C. To support the registration of alirocumab, the applicant has supplied 
a non-clinical package, in which the pharmacology of alirocumab has been investigated in multiple 
species including mouse, rat, hamster and Cynomolgus monkey. Toxicological evaluations with 
alirocumab and alirocumab in combination with atorvastatin have been conducted in both rats 
(Sprague Dawley) and Cynomolgus monkeys. In addition, an embryofoetal development study was 
conducted in rats, and an enhanced PPND study was conducted in Cynomolgus monkeys. The pivotal 
toxicology studies supporting the safety of alirocumab were conducted in compliance with Good 
Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations.  
The rodent cholesterol pool composition and LDL cholesterol turnover differs from that of NHP or 
humans. In a testing program where both rat and NHP were used as animal models for RDT studies, 
this may result in a reduced relevance for rat data from safety studies, since they do not adequately 
represent the physiology in humans and NHP are a more elegant model.  
In a program where rodent was the single test species in long term studies, and this was adequately 
justified, for example by taking into account lower binding affinity to establish a dosing regimen, this 
may have been acceptable as a single test species in long term studies. The option to use a single 
species was also suggested by the CHMP in the scientific advice obtained by the applicant. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
In vitro primary pharmacology 
Alirocumab is designed to bind with high specificity and affinity to human Proprotein convertase 
subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). PCSK9 is a soluble protein and a member of the subtilisin serine 
protease family. It is produced in and secreted by the liver and acts by shuttling hepatocyte cell-
surface LDL receptors to the lysosome for degradation. Lack of cell-surface LDLR on hepatocytes 
therefore results in decreased LDL turnover. Alirocumab is intended to inhibit the interaction of PCSK9 
with LDLR, preventing LDLR internalization and degradation. Alirocumab was shown to bind human and 
Cynomolgus monkey PCSK 9 with comparable affinity and lower affinity, but in nanomolar range to 
mouse, hamster, and rat PCSK9. The amino acid sequence homology between human PCSK9 and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 24/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cynomolgus monkey PCSK9 was 96.7% and decreases for other species. Binding assays showed that 
alirocumab competes with the native receptor for binding to PCSK9 in the (sub)nanomolar range and 
inhibits binding of PCSK9 with LDLR. LDL uptake is restored by increasing concentrations of 
alirocumab. Alirocumab did not activate complement, nor did it induce ADCC or CDC in vitro. 
Alirocumab was shown to restore LDLR expression in human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) from either non-
familiar hypercholesterolaemia (FH) subjects, heterozygous FH and homozygous receptor defective 
patients. However, no modulation of receptor null FH fibroblasts was achieved with either PCSK9 or 
alirocumab. This provides an in vitro proof-of-concept that inhibition of PCSK-9 by alirocumab may 
restore LDLR expression in patients with and without a partially defective LDLR allele. 
In vivo primary pharmacology 
In vivo, mice injected with increasing concentrations of alirocumab prior to injection with exogenous 
mPCSK9 to elevate cholesterol and LDL-C, showed a significant and dose dependent reduction in LDL-C 
compared to control. In Gold Syrian hamsters, circulating Total-C and LDL-C in hamsters remained 
significantly and dose-dependently reduced one week after a single injection with a single dose of 
alirocumab compared to controls. Administration of alirocumab to a hyperlipaemic ApoE-/- mouse 
model, which was also fed a modified diet, profoundly reduced serum LDL-C concentrations as a result 
of binding to murine PCSK-9. One mouse study not only evaluated the effects of alirocumab on lipid 
turnover, but also the effects of alirocumab to prevent cardiovascular adverse events. Alirocumab, 
atorvastatin, or alirocumab/atorvastatin combination therapy was administered to APOE*Leiden.CETP 
mice fed a western diet. Mice showed dose dependent reductions in total cholesterol and triglycerides. 
Alirocumab increased hepatic LDLR protein levels but not hepatic cholesterol and triglyceride, and 
atorvastatin or the combination resulted in reduced liver cholesteryl esters. Alirocumab dose 
dependently decreased atherosclerotic lesion size and severity, which was enhanced by co-
administration of atorvastatin. Alirocumab was shown to improve markers of plaque stability. Three 
exploratory PK/PD studies were conducted in Cynomolgus monkey. In these models, SC or IV 
administration of a single dose of alirocumab reduced LDL-C and total cholesterol levels in serum of 
Cynomolgus monkey. LDL is more profoundly decreased after IV injection and was accompanied by 
decreased triglyceride levels. This was also observed in clinical trials and was not expected to have 
adverse effects.  
Secondary pharmacology 
No secondary pharmacology studies were conducted, which is accepted.  
Safety pharmacology 
Safety pharmacology endpoints were integrated in toxicology studies in both rats and Cynomolgus 
monkeys. There were no adverse effects of alirocumab on cardiovascular function in monkeys, and 
there was no physical or anatomic evidence of cardiovascular or respiratory effects in monkey or rats.  
The applicant ruled out an increased risk of susceptibility to hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection after 
treatment with alirocumab due to interaction of PCSK9 with HCV entry complexes, which was 
suggested in literature.  
Pharmacodynamic drug-drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions were investigated for alirocumab in combination with atorvastatin 
in  APOE*Leiden.CETP mice and Cynomolgus monkeys. In both animal models, LDL-C reductions were 
increased compared to either treatment alone in animals which received the combination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 25/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
All assays developed to measure alirocumab, anti-alirocumab antibodies or atorvastatin and its 
metabolites were validated and considered sensitive, specific and robust. Absorption of alirocumab 
after SC administration in Cynomolgus monkeys is relatively fast. An ELISA was developed for 
detection of alirocumab in serum and was appropriately validated for use in Cynomolgus and rat 
serum. Serum samples were acid-treated prior to analysis in order to dissociate alirocumab:PCSK9 
complexes to measure total alirocumab. Acidification to pH 3.2 allows the alirocumab:PCSK9 
complexes completely dissociate and the assay is not a free drug assay, but is a total drug assay. 
An ECL-based bridging immunoassay was used for detection of anti-alirocumab antibodies in serum 
and was adequately validated for use in rat and cynomolgus serum. Serum samples were acid-treated 
prior to analysis in order to dissociate alirocumab:ADA complexes. The assay is considered sufficiently 
sensitive and drug-tolerant. The detection of atorvastatin and its metabolites o-hydroxy- and p-
hydroxy-atorvastatin in cynomolgus plasma, a LC/MS/M/S method was validated. 
After IV administration, the plasma concentration increases in an approximately dose proportional 
manner from 3 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg but is greater than proportional from 1 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg (6 fold) 
and from 1 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg (32 fold). However, after SC administration, serum concentrations 
increase in a larger than dose proportional manner (30 fold). Increases in Cmax were approximately 
dose proportional after both IV and SC administration. The Cmax increased with dose after SC or IV 
administration and ranged from 11.2-179 and 28.8-509 μg/mL. After SC administration of alirocumab, 
Tmax increases dose proportionally. Similarly, in rats alirocumab concentrations increase dose 
proportionally and exposure increases dose proportionally from 5 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg but greater than 
dose proportionally from 1 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg. 
Bioavailability after SC administration ranged from 73-76% in NHP and between 44% and 64% in rats. 
For both species, the total serum concentration has a non-linear, bi-phasic decline with a concentration 
dependent half-life, suggesting a saturable, target-mediated drug disposition. Half-life ranges between 
60 and 150 hours for NHP and between 98 and 111 hours for rats. The pharmacokinetic profile of 
alirocumab follows a target mediated drug disposition. The clearance of alirocumab varied between 
0.257 and 0.650 mL/h/kg in Cynomolgus monkeys. There was no apparent effect of gender on 
pharmacokinetic parameters of alirocumab. The volume of distribution at steady state after IV 
administration of alirocumab to Cynomolgus monkeys ranged from approximately 19 to 73 mL/kg. The 
volume of distribution at steady state in rodent ranged from 71 to 85 mL/kg 
TMDD kinetics of alirocumab are apparent, particularly at lower doses although alirocumab targets a 
soluble protein. However, PCSK9 is a soluble protein that targets LDLR for lysosomal degradation and 
PCSK9 is involved in a novel lysosomal transport complex that would allow it to degrade multiple 
targets, including anti-PCSK9 blocking antibodies, by the same mechanism as with LDLR. In vivo, 
pharmacokinetics of alirocumab are characterized by a terminal target-mediated elimination phase 
predominant at lower concentrations which is again explained by increased binding affinity of 
alirocumab and PCSK9 in the acidic endosome environment, which likely contributes to the target-
mediated clearance of alirocumab via intracellular trafficking of the complex to the lysosome and 
subsequent degradation of alirocumab rather than recycling back to the systemic circulation through 
an FcRn dependent mechanism. 
Pharmacokinetic profiles of process lots from production method C1 (used for non-clinical, Phase I and 
Phase II studies) and C2 (used for Phase III studies) were comparable.. 
The absence of formal distribution and biotransformation studies is justified and acceptable. 
Alirocumab is expected to be degraded to amino acids by the RES after typical IgG binding to FcRn. A 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 26/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tissue cross-reactivity study was performed and showed comparable staining between species in the 
brain cerebrum and cerebellum. Staining in most tissues was localized to the cytoplasm and/or 
cytoplasmic structures. Because monoclonal antibodies do not cross the blood brain barrier or can 
enter the cytosol, these findings are of limited relevance. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeat dose toxicity studies were conducted in rats and Cynomolgus monkeys.  
Cynomolgus toxicology studies 
In monkeys, IV and SC doses of alirocumab up to 75 mg/kg were well tolerated at all doses and 
virtually devoid of adverse effects up to 26 weeks and after recovery. There were no treatment related 
deaths, effects on body weight, food intake, body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, ECG, 
respiratory system, clinical signs, behaviour, reproductive organ function, immune system, 
haematology, and macroscopic or microscopic findings. There were also no gender related effects. 
While the applicant has noted some adrenal vacuolation as a result of alirocumab treatment, this was 
only observed in a few animals. Nevertheless, a treatment related effect could not be ruled out. 
Administration of alirocumab to non-human primates (NHP) up to 26 weeks profoundly reduced serum 
cholesterol levels and LDL-C in serum. This could be accompanied by slight reductions in triglycerides 
and VLDL. Cholesterol, LDL, VLDL and triglyceride levels could remain low at the end of the recovery 
period, which is likely a result of alirocumab remaining in circulation due to its long half-life. The 
decrease observed for HDL-C in animals is absent in clinical trials with alirocumab. The effect of 
alirocumab on the interference with immune surveillance through inhibition of activation and 
proliferation of immune cells by lowering cholesterol was evaluated in adult Cynomolgus monkeys and 
did not suggest any such effect in adult animals.  
Rat toxicity studies 
Repeat dose administration up to 26 weeks of alirocumab to rats resulted in a profound and reversible 
depletion of LDL-C and HDL-C. In contrast to findings in monkeys, triglyceride concentrations were 
increased. VLDL was also increased but showed high inter-animal variability. Also in contrast to repeat 
dose studies in monkeys, adrenal glands of rats were increased in weight in animals treated with 50 
mg/kg or 75 mg/kg without a corresponding macroscopic or microscopic finding, which was considered 
to be the result of exaggerated pharmacology and non-adverse.  
Combination studies of alirocumab with atorvastatin in Cynomolgus monkeys 
Co-administration of alirocumab with atorvastatin was evaluated in a 5 and 13-week repeat dose 
toxicity study. While symptoms of gastrointestinal haemorrhaging were observed in the 5-week 
atorvastatin-alirocumab combination study, these observations included control animals and no 
bleeding was seen in the 13 week study. This effect is therefore not likely to be drug related. In both 
studies reductions of total cholesterol, LDL, VLDL and triglyceride levels were observed. In addition, in 
animals receiving atorvastatin or the combination reductions in serum HDL were also observed, which 
is the expected effect of atorvastatin. A focused investigation of the influence of alirocumab and/or 
atorvastatin on intestinal bile acid load in the 13-week combination study did not reveal any changes. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity  
Embryofoetal development study in rats 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 27/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Embryofoetal development was evaluated in rats. Maternal toxicity in the form of mortality was limited 
to 4 females in the 75mg/kg group and included red vaginal discharge, pale liver with accentuated 
hepatolobular pattern and decreased clinical signs. The maternal toxicity was observed at an exposure 
which was approximately 5-fold higher than the exposure in humans at the proposed alirocumab dose. 
Maternal toxicity was not observed in the cynomolgus ePPND study at an exposure level approx. 80-
fold higher than exposure in humans. There were no adverse effects in offspring due to alirocumab 
exposure apart from an increased incidence of incomplete ossification of the 5th sternebra in offspring 
at the 75 mg/kg dose. This finding was within historical controls and therefore of limited significance.  
Enhanced PPND study in Cynomolgus monkeys 
In mated Cynomolgus dams treated with alirocumab, there were no changes in gestation length, 
embryofoetal loss, stillbirth or prematurity. There were no overt signs of toxicity and no treatment 
related changes were observed. Total cholesterol, LDL and triglycerides were decreased in pregnant 
female animals in all groups during gestation. There were virtually no adverse effects on alirocumab 
treatment in offspring. The F1-offspring has been exposed to alirocumab in utero and through colostral 
milk.  There appeared to be a dose dependent decrease in IgG and, to a lesser extent, IgM in the TDAR 
in the F1-offspring without any other immunological changes. Based on a weight of evidence approach, 
which included comparisons with historical control data, species differences, high exposure, absence of 
biological response or the lack of a plausible mechanism of action the applicant has shown that the 
effect is not likely to be adverse. However, the historical control data were considered highly variable 
and immature for use in comparisons at this time.   
Genotoxicity 
In accordance with ICH S6(R1), genotoxicity studies with alirocumab were not performed.  
Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential has been assessed by evaluating the role of the target in cancer processes 
in a weight of evidence approach; it is decided that alirocumab carcinogenic potential is acceptably 
low. The lack of antigenicity studies is accepted. In all repeat dose toxicity studies, adequate exposure 
was maintained to evaluate safety and the high doses selected for the toxicity studies exceeded the 
human exposure at the intended clinical dose. Almost all animals remained exposed to alirocumab until 
the end of the study. In animals positive for anti-drug antibodies, serum alirocumab concentrations 
could be reduced. However, because the incidence of ADA was generally low, this did not influence the 
overall interpretation of the study. Rat appeared to have a slightly increased incidence of ADA 
compared to Cynomolgus monkey. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Alirocumab is a monoclonal antibody, therefore the product is not expected to pose a risk to the 
environment, in line with section 2 of the 2006 CHMP Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment 
of Medicinal Products for Human Use. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Alirocumab is a monoclonal IgG1 antibody directed against human PCSK9. It binds with a comparable 
affinity to human and cynomolgus PCSK9, while its affinity for murine, hamster and rat PCSK9 is lower. 
The pharmacology of alirocumab and proof of concept were extensively demonstrated in vitro and in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 28/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vivo in various animal models. Alirocumab does not induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated 
cytotoxicity or complement-dependent cytotoxicity nor does it bind to complement, suggesting that 
cytotoxicity of alirocumab is low. There are no concerns regarding effects of alirocumab on 
cardiovascular, respiratory and CNS function. The potential risk of increased susceptibility of HCV 
infection was adequately evaluated in a series of studies, demonstrating that alirocumab (in the 
absence or presence of PCSK9) had no effect on the expression of CD81 in hepatocytes and did not 
affect the entry of HCV pseudoparticles, HCV genome replication or propagation. 
The PK characteristics of alirocumab in rats and cynomolgus monkeys were typical for a monoclonal 
antibody. Elimination was non-linear which is indicative of target-mediated disposition.  
Alirocumab was virtually devoid of toxicity in repeat dose toxicity studies in rats and Cynomolgus 
monkeys and all observed effects were related to the sometimes profound reduction of LDL-C and total 
cholesterol, the intended pharmacological effect.  
In mated cynomolgus dams treated with alirocumab, there were no changes in gestation length, 
embryofoetal loss, stillbirth or prematurity. There were no overt signs of toxicity and no treatment 
related changes were observed. Total cholesterol, LDL-C and triglycerides were decreased in pregnant 
female animals in all groups during gestation. There were virtually no adverse effects on alirocumab 
treatment in offspring.  
However, the F1-offspring had been exposed to alirocumab in utero and through colostral milk and 
there appeared to be a decrease in IgG in the TDAR in the F1-offspring. However, based on a weight of 
evidence approach, this single finding is considered not to be clinically relevant.  
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
An adequate non-clinical data package was provided in support of the application. Based on these 
data, no concerns precluding a marketing authorisation did arise. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
The alirocumab clinical program consists of 11 clinical pharmacology studies (10 completed and 1 
ongoing), 7 phase 2 studies (5 completed double-blind and 2 ongoing open-label) and 17 phase 3 
studies (5 completed double-blind studies, 9 ongoing double-blind studies, and 3 ongoing open-label 
studies) (Table 0).  
Table 0. Overview of the alirocumab clinical studies at CTD data cut-off date 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 29/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Subjects/Patients 
randomizeda 
Phase 1 
Completed phase 1 studies 
Type of control 
Duration 
Main objectives 
(background 
therapy if 
applicable) 
CL-0902 
40 
Placebo 
Single dose 
Tolerability of 
ascending intravenous 
doses 
CL-0904 
32 
Placebo 
Single dose 
Tolerability of 
ascending SC doses 
CL-1001 
72 
Placebo 
Single to 
Tolerability of 
multiple doses 
ascending SC doses 
(monotherapy or add-
on to atorvastatin) 
TDU12190 
32 
Placebo 
Single dose 
Safety, PK, and PD of 
ascending SC doses 
PKD12010 
24 
Not applicable 
Single dose 
Safety, PK, and PD of 
SC doses 
PKD12011 
24 
Not applicable 
Single dose 
Safety, PK, and PD of 
SC doses 
PKD12275 
36 
Not applicable 
Single dose 
Safety, PK, and PD of 
SC doses 
BDR13362 
60 
Not applicable 
Single dose 
Relative bioavailability, 
PD, and safety at 3 
different injection sites 
PKD12910 
72 
Not applicable 
8 weeks 
PD and PK profiles of 
alirocumab 
(monotherapy or add-
on to ezetimibe or 
fenofibrate) 
POP12671 
25 included 
Not applicable 
Single dose  
Safety and PK in 
subjects with mild and 
moderate hepatic 
impairment 
Ongoing phase 1 studies at the CTD cut-off date 
PDY13670 
21 planned 
Placebo 
10 weeks 
PD effect on lipids and 
Phase 2 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
lipoprotein metabolism 
and kinetics 
Page 30/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Subjects/Patients 
randomizeda 
Completed phase 2 studies 
Type of control 
Duration 
Main objectives 
(background 
therapy if 
applicable) 
CL-1003 
77 
Placebo 
12 weeks 
Dose-finding study in 
HeFH (add-on to 
statins ± ezetimibe) 
DFI11565 
183 
Placebo 
12 weeks 
Dose-finding study 
(add-on to 
atorvastatin) 
DFI11566 
92 
Placebo 
8 weeks 
Safety and efficacy 
(add-on to 10 and 80 
mg of atorvastatin) 
DFI12361 
100 
Placebo 
12 weeks 
Dose-finding study 
(add-on to statins) in 
Japan 
GOF [CL-
23 
Placebo 
14 weeks 
Evaluate PD and safety 
1018] 
in patients with gain of 
function mutations in 
PCSK9 gene or loss of 
function mutation in 
Apo B gene 
Ongoing phase 2 studies at the CTD cut-off date 
CL-1032 
58 included 
Not applicable 
Up to 4 years 
Long-term safety and 
Open-label 
21 included 
Not applicable 
extension of 
CL-1018 
Phase 3 
tolerability (open-label 
extension study of CL-
1003) 
Long-term safety and 
tolerability 
Completed studies or ongoing studies with completed first step analysis period (*) 
FH I 
486 
Placebo 
78 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[EFC12492] 
(*) 
FH II [CL-
1112] (*) 
249 
Placebo 
78 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
HeFH (add-on to MTD 
statins ± other LMT) 
HeFH (add-on to MTD 
statins ± other LMT) 
HIGH-FH 
107 
Placebo 
78 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[EFC12732] 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
HeFH# (add-on to 
Page 31/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Subjects/Patients 
randomizeda 
(*) 
Type of control 
Duration 
Main objectives 
(background 
therapy if 
applicable) 
MTD statins ± other 
LMT) 
COMBO I 
316 
Placebo 
52 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[EFC11568] 
high CV risk non-FH 
(add-on to MTD statins 
± other LMT) 
COMBO II 
720 
Ezetimibe 
104 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[EFC11569] 
(*) 
high CV risk non-FH 
(add-on to MTD 
statins) 
LONG-TERM 
2341 
Placebo 
78 weeks 
Long-term safety and 
[LTS11717] 
(*) 
efficacy in HeFH and in 
high CV risk non-FH 
(add-on to MTD statins 
± other LMT) 
OPTIONS I 
355 
Ezetimibe/atorvastatin 
24 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[CL-1110] 
titration/rosuvastatin 
high CV risk patients 
(add-on to non-max 
atorvastatin ± other 
LMT) 
OPTIONS II 
305 
Ezetimibe/ 
24 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[CL-1118] 
rosuvastatin titration 
high CV risk patients 
(add-on to non-max 
rosuvastatin ± other 
LMT) 
Double-blind 
314 
Ezetimibe/atorvastatin  24 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
period of 
ALTERNATIVE 
[CL-1119] 
statin intolerant 
patients (monotherapy 
or add-on to non-
statin LMT) 
MONO 
103 
Ezetimibe 
24 weeks 
Efficacy and safety in 
[EFC11716] 
Phase 3 
moderate CV risk 
patients 
(monotherapy) 
Ongoing double-blind studies and open-label extension studies/periods at the CTD cut-off 
date 
OLE 
493 
Not applicable 
At least 
Long-term safety and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 32/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Subjects/Patients 
randomizeda 
Type of control 
Duration 
Main objectives 
(background 
therapy if 
applicable) 
[LTS13463] 
2.years 
efficacy (open-label 
extension study of FH 
I, FH II, HIGH-FH, and 
HeFH stratum of 
LONG-TERM) 
Open-label 
281 included 
Not applicable 
Approximately 
Long-term safety and 
extension of 
ALTERNATIVE 
3 years 
efficacy (open-label 
extension) 
CHOICE I 
803 
Placebo 
52 weeks 
Efficacy and safety 
[CL-1308] 
(monotherapy or add-
on to statins) 
CHOICE II 
233 
Placebo 
24 weeks 
Efficacy and safety 
[EFC13786] 
(monotherapy or add-
on to non-statin LMT) 
EFC13672 
216 
Placebo 
52 weeks 
Efficacy and safety 
[EFC13672] 
(add-on to statins ± 
other LMT) 
OUTCOMES 
6527 
Placebo 
Up to 5 years  Occurrence of 
[EFC11570] 
cardiovascular events 
in patients who had 
recently experienced 
an acute coronary 
syndrome  
Open-label 
41 included 
Not applicable 
Up to 2 years   Long-term safety and 
extension of 
CHOICE 
a   Patients included for nonrandomized studies 
efficacy (open-label 
extension) 
* Ongoing studies with primary (first-step analysis) double-blind treatment period completed 
# HeFH patients with LDL-C ≥160 mg/dL (4.14 mmol/L) 
For ongoing double-blind studies, the CTD includes only blinded safety data from the 
pharmacovigilance database  
 HeFH: heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia; LMT: lipid modifying therapy 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of alirocumab has been extensively evaluated. During phase 1 studies, an 
intensive blood sampling schedule was implemented to allow for non compartmental PK analysis of 
alirocumab. In addition, concentrations of free PCSK9 (not bound to alirocumab) and total PCSK9 (free 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 33/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and bound to alirocumab) were also collected with dense sampling in phase 1 dose escalation clinical 
studies. Five phase 2 and four phase 3 studies included alirocumab PK and PCSK9 assessment using 
sparse sampling in the target populations. The clinical pharmacology studies (except studies CL-1001 
and POP12671) were conducted in healthy volunteers with an LDL-C >100 mg/dL (>2.59 mmol/L) who 
were not indicated for LMT. Study CL-1001 assessed hyperlipidaemic patients with LDL-C >100 mg/dL 
(>2.59 mmol/L) on a stable dose of atorvastatin and hyperlipidaemic patients with LDL-C >130 mg/dL 
(>3.36 mmol/L) on diet alone. Study POP12671 assessed subjects with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
In addition, POP PK and POP PK/PD models were developed for further estimation of PK parameters 
and to analyse the relationship between alirocumab concentrations and LDL-C concentrations in phase 
2 and phase 3 studies. 
Because alirocumab is a monoclonal antibody, there were no in vitro permeability, in vitro metabolism, 
or in vitro metabolic drug-drug interaction studies that used human biomaterials in this program. 
Table PK1. - Clinical studies 
Study type 
Study code 
Alirocumab dose or dose range 
Number 
enrolled 
Biopharmaceutical studies (phase 1 studies) 
Single SC dose of 
PKD12010 
SC 200 mg as 175 mg/mL or 150 mg/mL 
24 
2 formulations 
solution  
Single SC dose of 
PKD12011 
SC 200 mg as 175 mg/mL solution produced 
24 
2 formulations 
by cell line C1 or C2 
Single SC dose of 
PKD12275 
SC 300 mg as 175 mg/mL solution (1 injection 
36 
2 formulations 
of 1.71 mL) or as 150 mg/mL solution (2 
injections of 1 mL or 1 injection of 2 mL)  
Single SC dose 
BDR13362 
SC 75 mg as 75 mg/mL solution  
60 
with 3 different 
injection sites 
Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and initial tolerability in healthy subjects (phase 1 
studies) 
Single ascending 
CL-0902 
IV 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 6.0 or 12 mg/kg 
dose (healthy 
subjects) 
Single ascending 
CL-0904 
SC 50, 100, 150 and 250 mg  
dose (healthy 
subjects) 
40 
32 
Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and initial tolerability in patients (phase 1 studies) 
Single to multiple 
CL-1001 
SC 50, 100, and 150 mg, (Part A) 
ascending dose 
200 mg (Part B) 
62 
10 
Intrinsic factors (phase 1 studies) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 34/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study type 
Study code 
Alirocumab dose or dose range 
Number 
enrolled 
Race (Japanese), 
TDU12190 
SC 100, 150, 250 and 300 mg,  
32 
single dose 
(healthy 
subjects)  
(Japan) 
Hepatic 
POP12671 
SC 75 mg 
impairment (mild 
and moderate), 
single dose  
25 (17 with 
hepatic 
impairment) 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics in healthy subjects (phase 1 
studies) 
PD, PK, Safety 
PKD12910 
SC 150 mg Q4W (as add-on to ezetimibe, 
72 
Repeated doses  
fenofibrate, or placebo) 
Pharmacokinetics in patients (efficacy/safety studies) in phase 2 studies 
Dose finding study 
DFI11565 
SC 
(non-FH) - Efficacy, 
Safety, PK 
50 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg Q2W, and 200 
mg and 300 mg Q4W 
Dose finding study 
CL-1003 
SC 
(heFH) - Efficacy, 
Safety, PK 
150 mg Q2W, and 150 mg, 200 mg, and 300 
mg Q4W  
Dose finding study 
DFI12361 
SC 
(non FH/Japan) 
Efficacy, Safety, PK 
50 mg, 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W 
Efficacy, Safety, PK  DFI11566 
SC 150 mg, Q2W 
Pharmacokinetics in patients (efficacy/safety studies) in phase 3 studies 
Monotherapy study 
MONO 
SC 
- Efficacy, Safety, 
(EFC11716) 
 75 mg Q2W, (could be up-titrated to 150 mg 
PK 
Q2W at Week 12) 
183 
77 
100 
92 
103 
Long-term study - 
LONG TERM  
SC 150 mg Q2W 
2341 
Safety, Efficacy, PK 
(LTS11717) 
HeFH study 
FH I 
SC  
Efficacy, Safety, PK 
(EFC12492) 
75 mg Q2W (could be up-titrated to 150 mg 
Q2W at Week 12) 
High CV risk study 
COMBO II 
SC 
Efficacy, Safety, PK 
(EFC11569) 
75 mg Q2W, (could be up-titrated to 150 mg 
Q2W at Week 12) 
486 
720 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 35/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study type 
Study code 
Alirocumab dose or dose range 
Number 
enrolled 
Population pharmacokinetics in efficacy/safety studies 
POP PK MM  
POP PK/PD 
POH0377 
POH0394 
Pooled data from phase 1 (CL-0902, CL0904, 
Not applicable 
CL-1001, TDU12190 and PKD12910), phase 2 
(DFI11565, DFI11566, DFI12361 and CL-
1003) and phase 3 (MONO, COMBO II, FH I, 
LONG TERM) clinical studies 
TMDD 
POH0400 
Pooled data from phase 1, phase 2 
Not applicable 
(DFI11565, DFI11566, DFI12361 and CL-
1003) and phase 3 (MONO) clinical studies 
Apo B = apolipoprotein B; HeFH = heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia; GOFm = gain of 
function mutation; IV = intravenous; LOFm = loss of function mutation; MM = Michaelis-Menten; 
PD = pharmacodynamics; PK = pharmacokinetics; Q2W = every 2 weeks; Q4W = every 4 weeks; 
SC = subcutaneous; TMDD = target-mediated drug disposition 
Analytical methods 
During the development of alirocumab, several analytical methods have been developed. Two enzyme-
linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were developed for determining total alirocumab and ELISA 
methods were  developed to determine free PCSK9 and total PCSK9 in human serum. Further, an anti-
alirocumab antibodies assay using electrochemiluminescence  was  developed to detect antidrug 
antibodies (ADA) in human serum and an electrochemiluminescence-based competitive ligand binding 
assay was developed to detect neutralizing anti-alirocumab antibodies (Nab) in human serum. These 
analytical methods were appropriately validated and had an acceptable precession, accuracy and 
sensitivity.  
Pharmacokinetic data analysis 
To estimate the pharmacokinetic properties of alirocumab non-compartmental parameters were 
calculated using WinNonlin (v. 5.2). In most studies the pharmacokinetic parameters were summarized 
by treatment using descriptive statistics.  
All single dose pharmacokinetic studies that compared different treatments had a parallel design. The 
statistical analyses compared the different treatments Test (T) and Reference (R) for log-transformed  
Cmax, AUC and when applicable also the concentrations at day 28, and AUC up to day 14 or 28 and 
t1/2z, . The relative bioavailability between T and R was assessed using a linear fixed effects model. 
Estimate and 90% confidence interval (CI) for the ratio of geometric means between T and R 
treatments were provided for each parameter. 
Population Pharmacokinetic studies 
The applicant presented the reports of two "classical" compartmental  population models, one POP PK 
model in study POH0377 and one POP PK/PD model in study POH0394 and also developed a 
mechanism-based PK model in study POH0400. All Pop PK and Pop PK/PD analysis were performed 
with the NONMEM computer program (version 7.2). 
Study POH0377 and POH0394 both used the same data set, which included the data from 2799 
subjects, from five phase 1, all four phase 2 and from pre-specified phase 3 studies covering the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 36/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
different patient populations. The data sets contained 13717 alirocumab concentrations and 14346 
LDL-C values. In this pooled dataset, alirocumab was administered as a single dose by IV or SC routes, 
and after repeated SC administration every 2 weeks (Q2W) or every 4 weeks (Q4W), alone or in 
combination with various LMTs.  
In both population studies the influence of demographic factors free and total PCSK9 levels, laboratory 
parameters, ADA formation, and concomitantly used other antihypercholesterolaemia drugs were 
tested as covariates. The results of these covariate analyses are discussed in the relevant paragraphs 
of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic sections of this overview. 
The company also developed a Target-Mediated Drug Disposition (TMDD) Pop PK model in study 
POH0400. The main objective of this TMDD model was to predict the alirocumab PK by integrating all 
of the information regarding the association/dissociation of alirocumab to/from the target PCSK9 and 
the clearance of alirocumab (linear clearance), PCSK9 (Kdeg) as well as the clearance (internalization, 
Kint) of the alirocumab - PCSK9 complex. This analysis included the data of 527 subjects/patients 
(9379 concentrations) enrolled in 9 studies, a subset of the population included in the other population 
studies. The TMDD model was a 2-compartment model with linear absorption and additional receptor-
ligand binding kinetics. As a full TMDD model requires many rate constants that were not accessible 
from the collected data, a quasi-steady-state (QSS) approximation was used.  
The potential relationships between population parameters and demographic covariates, antibody drug 
status, disease status (healthy vs patients), administration site and device and several relevant 
biologic constants (albumin levels) were explored. Other covariates included the type of disease and 
coadministration of other anti-hypercholesterolemia drugs and the (baseline free and total) PCSK9 
levels. In the final Pop PK model only one covariate was included, disease status was relevant for the 
distribution volume of central compartment, Vc is estimated to be 1.56-fold higher in patients (n=377, 
and mainly with statin comedication) compared to healthy subjects (n=150, mainly without statins). 
The individual concentration versus time curves were examined and Visual Predictive Check (VPC) 
were performed to validate the TMDD Pop PK model.  Further the TMDD Pop PK model was compared 
to the "classical" PK model obtained in study POH0377 (that included 2799 subjects/patients from 13 
Phase I/II/III studies) to determine the accuracy of the Michaelis-Menten POP PK model, in comparison 
with the TMDD model, and to predict alirocumab PK using the large dataset.  
Absorption 
The intended route of administration for alirocumab is SC. Absolute bioavailability of alirocumab when 
administered SC was 85%, as determined by pop PK analysis. After single dose SC administration of 
50 mg to 300 mg to healthy subjects, alirocumab Cmax was observed at a median time of 3 days to 7 
days. In patients at steady-state, alirocumab Cmax was observed with a median time of 3 days at 75 
mg and 150 mg Q2W. The PK profile of alirocumab following single SC administration showed an initial 
absorption phase followed by biphasic elimination. The mean maximum serum concentration Cmax was 
dose-proportional over a dose range of 50-250mg and the mean AUClast was slightly greater than dose 
proportional (study CL-0904). Following IV administration, the mean Cmax was also dose proportional, 
however the mean AUClast was greater than dose proportional when the dose was increased up to 3 
mg/kg, while dose-proportional kinetics were generally observed at doses higher than 3 mg/kg (study 
CL-0902). 
The analysis of the total and free and PCSK9 concentrations showed that Total PCSK9 level increased 
with the dose, and a plateau appears to be almost reached at the highest SC concentration (250mg), 
free PCSK levels decrease with the dose.  PCSK9 was almost completely bound to alirocumab at IV 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 37/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3mg/kg dose and above. Concentrations of free PCSK9 were below the LLOQ level when concentrations 
of alirocumab were above about 10 mg/L. 
In the population PK study POH0377 the absolute bioavailability of SC alirocumab was estimated to be 
0.862. 
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of alirocumab after SC administration at different 
injection sites was evaluated in study (study BDR13362) and in a  population PK study. In study 
BDR13362 the LDL-C profiles for abdomen and thigh injection site groups were nearly superimposable 
(mean % reduction on Day 15 of 48.4% and 45.6%; respectively, there was a trend for a slightly 
smaller PD effect in the upper arm injection site group observed at nadir values for LDL-C (-39.5%), 
Apo B, and cholesterol, but not for the overall time course. However the Cmax of alirocumab was only 
slightly lower after injection in the upper arm compared to injection in thigh and abdomen 
The population PK study evaluated the effect of injection site on alirocumab pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics in patients from the ODYSSEY program. The Pop PK analysis demonstrated that 
injection site was not a significant covariate, and that alirocumab steady-state exposure was 
comparable when administered into the abdomen, upper arm, or thigh. Furthermore, the efficacy of 
alirocumab was also comparable across the 3 injection sites demonstrating that alirocumab could be 
administered subcutaneously into the abdomen, upper arm or thigh.  
Bioequivalence  
The formulations applied for are developed as a liquid formulation containing alirocumab 75 and 150 
mg/mL, for subcutaneous (SC) injection. These formulations will be supplied as a pre-filled syringe 
(PFS) or assembled into a disposable pre-filled pen (PFP) to deliver doses of 75 and 150 mg, 
respectively. 
During clinical development several formulations were tested in the clinical studies. The bioavailability 
of different alirocumab formulations and comparability of different manufacturing processes, cell lines, 
volumes of injection, or number of injections were assessed in a total of 3 clinical biopharmaceutical 
studies in healthy volunteers (study PKD12010, PKD12011 and  PKD12275). These studies all 
evaluated alirocumab pharmacokinetics, but pharmacodynamics, safety and tolerability, and 
immunogenicity were also evaluated. The pharmacokinetic comparability of the different formulations 
was tested by comparing the ratio of Cmax and AUC of alirocumab, applying the standard 
bioequivalence criteria.  
Bioequivalence between formulations has been demonstrated and no meaningful differences in safety, 
tolerability or PD were observed between: 
 
The 175 mg/mL and the 150 mg/mL formulations, tested in study PKD12010 
  Alirocumab derived from the C1 or C2 cell lines, evaluated in study PKD12011 
  Alirocumab 150 mg/mL2mL single SC dose, alirocumab 175 mg/mL1.71mL single SC dose and 
150 mg/mL1mL twice SC dose in study PKD12275. 
Dosing regimen 
During the clinical development of alirocumab different dosing regimens were evaluated in study R727-
CL-1003 in which alirocumab 150mg Q2W, 150mgQ4W, 200mg Q4W, and 300mg Q4W were 
compared. The highest trough concentrations of total alirocumab and the greatest suppression of free 
PCSK9 at day 85 (week 12) were observed in the 150mg Q2Wand 300mg Q4W dose groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 38/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The150mg Q2W dose regimen was selected for further development as the fluctuation in alirocumab 
levels, total PCSK9 levels and PD parameters was smaller.  
Distribution 
Alirocumab has a small volume of distribution of  0.04 - 0.05 L /kg after IV administration at a dose 
level of 3 to 12 mg/kg. For lower doses the apparent volume of distribution was greater probably due 
to distribution to the target PCSK (Study CL-0902). 
Metabolism 
Specific metabolism studies were not conducted because alirocumab is a protein. It is generally 
recognized that antibodies are metabolized by degradation into small peptides and individual amino 
acids. 
Elimination 
Alirocumab clearance decreased by approximately 2-fold from 0.00620 to 0.00317 L/day/kg after 
single IV administration of doses ranging between 0.3 mg/kg and 12 mg/kg. Mean t½z ranged from 
4.8 days to 8 days without meaningful dose effect (Study CL-0902). In all single SC dose PK studies 
the terminal elimination half life of 5-8 days was observed which is in line with target mediated 
clearance. In the multiple dose studies a mean residence time (MRT) of about 12 days with statins and 
about 17-20 day for alirocumab monotherapy was observed. These MRTs are reflecting the half life of 
the beta elimination phase dominated by the systemic clearance of alirocumab. Based on the POP PK 
analysis, elimination of alirocumab was characterized by two elimination processes: by saturable target 
mediated clearance and linear clearance from the central compartment. While the target-mediated 
process predominates at lower alirocumab concentrations, the linear clearance predominates at higher 
alirocumab concentrations. At concentrations achieved over the dosing interval at therapeutic doses, 
the target-mediated clearance contributes to total clearance for about 50-60%. 
Dose proportionality  
The alirocumab exposure increased dose proportionally in the therapeutic range, between the 75mg 
and 150mg dose. At lower doses the alirocumab AUCs increased more than dose proportional and Cmax 
appeared to increase in a dose proportional manner. When the dose-response SC and IV profiles of 
alirocumab with free and total PCSK9 are considered together the data are consistent with saturation 
of the target-mediated elimination of alirocumab at a SC dose of 250mg and an IV dose of 3 mg/kg. 
Time dependency  
None of the studies conducted in healthy subjects were designed to assess steady state achievement 
and accumulation ratio. After SC administration of alirocumab 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W in patients, 
steady state is reached within 2-3 doses. In patients the trough concentration of alirocumab did not 
change significantly over a period of 24 weeks. Based on post-hoc individual predicted PK parameters 
from the pop PK analysis, the median accumulation ratio was 1.7 and 1.9 after alirocumab 75 mg and 
150 mg Q2W dosing regimens, respectively, with no apparent difference when administered as 
monotherapy or in combination with other LMTs. This means that no unexpected accumulation occurs 
and the pharmacokinetics are not time dependent. 
Variability  
The company presented single dose and multiple dose variability data. In healthy subjects the 
variability of alirocumab exposure ranged between 22.6% and 58.7% after single dose administration, 
in patients the variability was similar, after the first dose between 31.3 and 38.1% and at steady state 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 39/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between 37.4% and 53.7% Comparable data were obtained in the population PK study Study 
POH0377. In this study the inter patient/subject variability in alirocumab linear clearance, the 
Michaelis-Menten constant, the distribution volume of central and peripheral compartments, and the 
total bioavailability was 48%, 55%, 77%, 27%, and 103%, respectively. The variability in the 
pharmacodynamic response at 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W dosing regimens was below 24% and 30% at 
maximum effect and at trough, respectively (Study POH0394). 
Pharmacokinetics in patients 
Pharmacokinetics in patients was evaluated in four phase II studies and four phase III studies (see 
table PK1). No major differences in alirocumab PK were observed between healthy subjects and 
patients, or between heFH and non-FH patients. The disease status, FH versus non-FH, was not a 
significant covariate in the population analysis. The LDL-C lowering effects were similar in heFH and 
non-heFH patients.  
The mean steady state Cmax levels and exposure over the dosing interval AUC0-336 are different for 
patients using alirocumab monotherapy and in combination with other statins. The Cmax levels and 
AUC0-336 are about 30% and 35% lower in patients using statins, respectively.   
The following pharmacokinetic parameters obtained in the phase III studies should be taken into 
account for the safety and efficacy evaluation: 
Table PK2 -Alirocumab steady state through concentrations and AUC0-336 in patients after 75 
mg and 150 mg Q2W 
75 mg Q2W 
75/150 mg Q2W or 
150 mg Q2Wa 
Ctrough (mg/L) 
Monotherapy :Study  EFC11716 
30 
6.99 (4.42) 
10 
14.8 (10.2) 
n 
Mean (SD) 
n 
Mean (SD) 
(MONO) 
EFC12492 (FHI) 
EFC11569 (COMBO) 
AUC0-336(mg.day/L) 
Monotherapy: EFC11716 
(MONO) 
146 
313 
n 
40 
4.47 (2.47) 
113 
12.1 (8.94) 
3.95 (2.73) 
62 
8.38 (10.9) 
Mean (SD) 
n 
Mean (SD) 
3080 (1450) 
15 
7660 
(3960) 
5050 
(2690) 
EFC12492/EFC11569/LTS11717  514 
2150 (908) 
1625 
Special populations  
The applicant evaluated the pharmacokinetics in subjects with hepatic impairment and in Japanese 
subjects in dedicated phase 1 studies. The influence of other intrinsic factors was evaluated through 
population PK analysis in study POH0377.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 40/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This POPPK study evaluated the influence of the demographic factors body weight, BMI, age, sex race 
and renal function. Further, the effect of baseline PCSK9 levels and the concomitant use of statins was 
evaluated. 
The steady state AUC0-336 (determined by POP PK analysis) observed in the target phase 3 patient 
population at 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W, with or without intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting 
alirocumab PK, is presented in Figure PK-1. The impact of these individual intrinsic and extrinsic factors 
is described in the following sections. 
Figure PK.1   Alirocumab steady state AUC0-336 as function of several covariates in patients 
from phase 3 studies (Pop PK study POH0377) 
Renal impairment  
In the population PK study, the alirocumab exposure (AUC0-336) at steady state was significantly higher 
in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment. The alirocumab exposure (AUC0-336) at steady 
state at both 75 and 150 mg Q2W dosing regimen increased by 22%-35%, and 49%-50% in patients 
with mild and moderate renal impairment, respectively. Despite this,  renal function was not identified 
as a significant covariate impacting alirocumab population parameters. The observed higher exposere 
can probably be attributed to weight and age differences.  
Alirocumab is a monoclonal antibody and the size of the protein is larger than approximately 60kDa. 
Therefore the kidneys are not expected to play a significant role in the metabolism or clearance of 
alirocumab. Therefore alirocumab PK is not expected to be affected by alterations in renal function. 
Severe renal impairment was an exclusion criterion for all phase 3 studies. Consequently, no 
conclusion could be drawn for this renal category based on the very low number of patients with 
severe renal impairment included in the POP PK analysis, ie, 5 patients with a creatinine clearance 
range of 27-29 mL/min. 
Hepatic impairment  
Compared with healthy subjects, subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment had mean 
AUClast values that were 9% and 18% lower, respectively and mean Cmax values and tmax values were 
comparable despite comparable baseline PCSK9 levels between the groups. Also a longer suppression 
of mean free PCSK9 concentrations and lower mean concentrations of total PCSK9 were observed in 
normal hepatic function (control) subjects compared to HI subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 41/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PCSK9 
Although the PCSK9 baseline concentrations were relevant for the single dose pharmacokinetics of 
alirocumab, PCSK9 baseline concentrations had a limited impact on the alirocumab exposure (AUC0-336) 
at steady state; patients with high PCSK9 baseline concentrations had a 9% and 19% lower exposure  
after 75 and 150 mg Q2W dosing regimen.  
Gender  
A 19% higher exposure was observed in females compared to males. This small difference is likely 
explained by the body weight difference between genders (+13 kg in females compared to males). By 
contrast a slightly lower reduction in LDL-C from baseline was observed in females as compared with 
males, the difference was in general less than 10% between genders (see clinical efficacy) . 
Weight 
Weight was identified as a relevant covariate in the population analysis impacting alirocumab linear 
clearance. The linear clearance increased by 40% in patients weighing 100 kg compared to a typical 
patient weighing 82.9 kg (corresponding to medium body weight). This translated to a  29% and 36% 
decrease in alirocumab steady state exposure (AUC0-336) after 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W administration, 
respectively, for patients weighing more than 100 kg compared to patients weighing between 50 kg 
and 100 kg (Table PK5).  Consistently, steady state exposure decreased by 23% (75 mg dose) and 
46% (150 mg dose) in patients with a BMI ≥ 30 compared to patients with a BMI <25. These results 
are in line with the finding that alirocumab has a small volume of distribution of 3.8 l. 
Table PK3. -Alirocumab steady state exposures by body weight and body mass index 
category in patients from phase 3 studies - Study POH0377 
The applicant also investigated whether weight and BMI are relevant for the pharmacodynamic effects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 42/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of alirocumab, and presented the statistics of percent change from baseline in calculated LDL-C at 
Week 12 and Week 24 by body weight category and BMI (see table PK6) 
Table PK4.  Percent change from baseline calculated in LDL-C (%) by body weight and body 
mass index category in patients from phase 3 studies - Study POH0377 
Covariate  
Percent change from baseline calculated in LDL-C (%) 
Alirocumab 75mg/ Up 150mg Q2W   Alirocumab 150mg Q2W 
N 
Mean 
N 
Mean 
N 
Mean 
To week 12 
To week 24 
To week 12 
Body weight   <50 
5 
-56.7 
3 
-53.0 
6 
-56.8 
[50-100[ 
547  -51.1 
514 
-52.1 
979 
-65.9 
[100-125[  125  -45.2 
119 
-51.2 
193 
-65.4 
>125 
22 
-47.8 
20 
-56.4 
51 
-57.4 
BMI 
<20 
7 
-63.6 
5 
-56.4 
9 
-51.7 
[20-25[ 
108  -53.0 
108 
-51.7 
193 
-64.9 
[25-30[ 
295  -52.1 
279 
-53.1 
498 
-66.7 
[30-35[ 
187  -48.0 
173 
-51.8 
328 
-66.9 
>35 
102  -43.6 
91 
-49.7 
197 
-60.7 
Age 
Age was identified as a relevant covariate in the population analysis. The impact of age on the 
pharmacokinetics is limited, small differences in alirocumab steady state exposure (AUC0-336) were 
observed for both dosing regimens with an increase of 8% in patients between 65 and 75 years 
compared to patients below 65 years, and an increase of 10% to 36% in patients older than 75 years 
compared to patient below 65 years. 
Race 
Based on the results of the pop PK study it can be concluded that race does not effect the 
pharmacokinetics of alirocumab in a clinically significant way. The results of single dose and multiple 
dose studies in Japanese subjects  (study DFI12361 and TDU12190) are consistent with results in 
Caucasians (study CL-0904). In both Caucasian and Japanese healthy subjects, alirocumab exposure 
increased in a more than dose proportional manner, which was similar between the 2 populations.  
Albumin  
Albumin has been tested as a potential covariate in the Pop PK analysis POH0377, but was not 
identified as a significant covariate impacting alirocumab 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 43/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions 
No in vitro interaction studies were performed as no interactions on the level of CYP co-enzymes or 
transporters are expected as alirocumab is a human monoclonal immunoglobulin  
As alirocumab is not metabolised by specific enzymes, the potential for interaction is low. Alirocumab is 
partially eliminated through target-mediated clearance. Hence, statins or other LMTs that impact the 
concentration of PCSK9 are expected to affect alirocumab PK by alteration in target-mediated 
disposition of alirocumab. Therefore the interaction with statins or other lipid modifying therapies 
(LMTs) was evaluated in several studies.  
Statins do decrease the alirocumab exposure in a clinically significant way. Fenofibrate and ezetimibe 
also decreased alirocumab exposure, to a lesser extent. These interactions may be caused by the 
higher basal levels of PCSK9 and consequently higher initial clearance of alirocumab. In steady state 
this effect is less pronounced, but still present 
After co administration with atorvastatin , the Alirocumab Cmax was reduced by 25% and  AUClast by 
40%, irrespective of the atorvastatin dose (study CL-1001 and DFI11566).  
At steady state alirocumab co-administered with ezetimibe demonstrated similar Cmax values, about 
15% lower alirocumab AUC0-D28, and a faster elimination compared to alirocumab alone (study 
PKD12910). 
A statistically significant difference in alirocumab PK parameters was found after the co administration 
with fenofibrate, the Alirocumab Cmax was reduced by 30% and  AUC0-D28 by 35%. An analysis of tmax 
showed no differences (Study PKD12910). 
The pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin and its metabolites, rosuvastatin, ezetimibe, and fenofibrate was 
not significantly affected by alirocumab (study CL-1001, PKD12910, and PKD12910) 
In the phase 3 studies only 40 and 15 patients received alirocumab 75 mg SC and 150 mg SC, 
respectively, without a statin. Number of patients who received alirocumab concomitantly with statins 
was 514 (75 mg SC) and 1625 (150 mg SC). In the pop PK analysis, the systemic exposure of 
alirocumab was significantly higher in patients without a statin. 
Antidrug antibodies  
In the pop PK study POH0377 and pop PK/PD study POH0394 the presence of antidrug antibodies 
(ADA) was also evaluated. ADA assay results were reported either as negative (“0”) or positive (“1”), 
irrespective of the ADA titer. The presence of ADA's was not identified as a relevant covariate. The 
majority of subjects had low ADA titers (below 240) and therefore the POPPK analysis confirms the 
applicants claim that an ADA titer below 240 had no impact on PK or PD.  
The company also evaluated the impact of a high ADA titer (>240) on the post hoc exposure at steady 
state. Only a few patients (16) with high ADA titres were identified. Despite the low number of patients 
with high ADA titres it can be concluded that these patients appear to have slightly lower exposure to 
alirocumab compared to the ADA negative patients. However, this difference did not result in a 
meaningful impact on LDL-C reduction. Therefore it was concluded that also high ADA titers do not 
affect the alirocumab PK/PD in a significant way.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 44/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Alirocumab is a fully human monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds to PCSK9. PCSK9 binds to the low-
density lipoprotein receptors (LDLRs) on the surface of hepatocytes. The LDLR is the major pathway 
through which cholesterol-rich low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles are cleared from the circulation 
and hepatic LDL uptake is a major determinant of circulating LDL-C levels. When an internalized LDLR 
is bound to PCSK9, this promotes the degradation of the LDLR, preventing its recycling to the cell 
surface. By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to LDLR, alirocumab increases the number of LDLRs 
available to clear LDL particles, thereby lowering LDL-C levels. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
A single IV dose phase 1 proof-of-concept first-in-human study conducted in 40 healthy subjects 
(Study CL-0902), showed that the dose response for decrease in free PCSK 9 over time correlated 
well with dose responses for a decrease in LDL-C. Subsequent studies only used SC administration 
since SC injection is the proposed route of administration for alirocumab. In Study CL-0904, a second 
in-human single SC dose phase 1 proof-of-concept study conducted in 32 healthy subjects, a similar 
pattern was observed (Figure PD01 and PD02). SC administration of alirocumab induced rapid and 
substantial reductions in LDL-C of 51.5% to 55.9% on Day 11 at doses of 100 mg to 250 mg. When 
PCSK9 was maximally bound, increasing the dose did not result in larger reduction in LDL-C, but 
prolonged the overall duration of maximal LDL-C reduction. 
Figure PD01. Mean (SD) concentrations of free PCSK9 vs. nominal day by dose group 
following a single SC infusion in normal healthy volunteers (Study CL-0904) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 45/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure PD02. Mean percent change from baseline in serum LDL-C vs. nominal day by dose 
group following a single SC infusion in normal healthy volunteers (Study CL-0904) 
A single-to-multiple ascending dosing study (Study CL-1001) in patients with elevated cholesterol 
(FH and non-FH) showed that multiple dosing with alirocumab resulted in dose-dependent decreases in 
PCSK9 and LDL-C on top of statin treatment (Figure PD03 and PD04). The free PCSK9 and LDL 
cholesterol response was similar for familial or non-familial hypercholesterolemia. Data of 150 mg 
alirocumab in non-FH patients showed that co-administration of atorvastatin (10 or 40 mg) resulted in 
a greater maximal reduction in LDL-C, but decreased the duration of maximum LDL-C reduction. This 
is presumably due to increased PCSK9 levels and subsequently enhanced target mediated clearance of 
alirocumab.  
Also other lipid modifying therapies (LMT), such as ezetimibe and fenofibrate affect the PK/PD profile of 
alirocumab, although this effect was less pronounced compared to statins. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 46/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure PD03. Mean concentrations of free PCSK9 vs time (nominal days) by treatment group 
following SC injections of alirocumab in FH and non-FH patients (Study CL-1001) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 47/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure PD04. Mean percent change in calculated serum LDL-C from baseline vs study day by 
treatment group (Study CL-1001: Part A) 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The PK/PD relationship between systemic concentrations of alirocumab and LDL-C results in a 
clockwise hysteresis loop (Figure PD05). A rapid decrease in free PCSK9 below LLOQ was observed 
within 1 day after a single SC administration of alirocumab, which subsequently returned to baseline 
after achievement of Cmax of alirocumab (Figure PD06). Reductions in LDL-C were directly observed 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 48/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(as early as day 2), however with a delayed maximum effect after 14 days. Additionally, a delayed 
return to baseline was observed for LDL-C in comparison to the alirocumab concentration. 
Figure PD05. Mean (SE) % change of LDL-C concentrations versus mean concentrations of 
alirocumab (healthy subjects) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 49/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure PD06. Mean (+SE) % change of free PCSK9 concentrations versus mean 
concentrations of alirocumab (healthy subjects) 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Methods 
The analytical methods used for determination of the active substance and pharmacodynamic variables 
were well described and validated. Appropriate pharmacokinetic and statistical methods were used to 
assess the pharmacokinetic characteristics of alirocumab. 
Population models 
The applicant developed two "classical" compartmental population models and one TMDD Pop PK 
model. Acceptable population PK development methods were used and the models were adequately 
validated.    
The applicant also developed a preliminary pop PK model in study POH0376, which was used as 
astarting point for the population PK analysis in study POH0377. This preliminary study contains a 
subset of the patients included in study POH0377, without data from EFC11569, EFC12492, LTS11717 
and DFI12361 studies. For this preliminary study no report was submitted, however an adequate 
summary of main results and the methodology of this study have been provided.     
The population pharmacokinetic model POH0377 fitted the study data adequately. In the final PK 
covariate model, body weight, coadministration of any statin, free time-varying PCSK9 serum levels 
(FPCSK) and age emerged as statistically significant covariates on alirocumab pharmacokinetics.   
The POP PK/PD model POH0394 also fitted the study data adequately. In the final POP PK/PD model 
sex, age, weight, the free baseline PCSK9 serum levels (FBSPCSK), the total time-varying PCSK9 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 50/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
serum levels (TPCSK), the co-administration of statins and the disease state were identified as relevant 
covariates.  
The TMDD Pop PK model adequately predicts the total alirocumab concentrations. However, the  
predictions based on the classical population model POH0377 seem to predict the total alirocumab 
concentrations slightly better. Therefore the predictions of the classical population model POH0377 can 
be used to present the main PK characteristics of alirocumab. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In healthy subjects, following both single-dose IV and SC administrations, alirocumab AUCs increased 
slightly more than dose proportional and Cmax appeared to increase in a dose proportional manner.  
Alirocumab is eliminated mainly by target mediated binding to PCSK9 at low concentrations. This is a 
saturable process and causes non-linear pharmacokinetics in the lower concentration range. Further 
alirocumab is eliminated by non specific cleavage to small peptides. 
When the dose-response SC and IV profiles of alirocumab with free and total PCSK9 are considered 
together the data are consistent with saturation of the target-mediated elimination of alirocumab at SC 
dose of 250mg and an IV dose of 3 mg/kg. Thus, at the proposed dosing of 75 mg or 150 mg SC Q2W, 
alirocumab  is mainly eliminated by target mediated clearance. The elimination half-life of 5-8 days is 
in line with target mediated clearance. 
At steady state the mean residence time is about 12 days with statins and about 17-20 days for 
alirocumab monotherapy. This mean residence time is reflecting the half life of the beta elimination 
phase dominated by the systemic clearance of alirocumab (with relatively slow elimination). This mean 
residence time is in line with the elimination half lives reported for other human IgG antibodies (usually 
14-21 days).  
Based on the results of the population pharmacokinetic analyses it can be concluded that the absolute 
bioavailability of alirocumab after SC administration is about 85%. Although it should be noted that the 
pharmacokinetics of alirocumab after single doses of IV and SC administration was not directly 
compared at the same dose level. 
During clinical development several different devices, cell lines, manufacturing processes, and 
formulations were used in clinical studies. The pharmacokinetics of three different formulations was 
evaluated and no meaningful differences in pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability or PD were observed 
between the tested formulations. Therefore it is considered acceptable to bridge the result of the 
studies conducted with these formulations and the choice of liquid formulation containing alirocumab 
75 and 150 mg/mL.In study BDR13362 small differences in LDL-C reductions were observed between 
injection in the upper arm and  the other injection sites. Probably these differences in LDL-C reduction 
can be attributed to individual subject variability in response. The single dose and steady state 
variability of Alirocumab in Cmax and AUC is moderate. The absence of a considerable reduction in 
variability after repeated doses can probably be explained by the fact that the target mediated 
clearance still represents a meaningful portion of the total clearance. The variability in the 
pharmacodynamic response was low and consistent with the high responder rates. 
The intrasubject variability was not evaluated; however this is not considered a critical issue. The 
variability is not expected to be caused by the characteristics of the product but is mainly related to 
the intrasubject variation in PCSK9 levels. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 51/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within subject there is a clear relationship between the alirocumab pharmacokinetics and its 
pharmacodynamic effects. However at population level the relationship between the absolute total 
alirocumab exposure and the actual lipid lowering effect is less clear 
Special populations 
In the population PK analysis Age and Body weight were identified as relevant covariate affecting the 
exposure to alirocumab.   
Approximately 4-fold differences in alirocumab systemic exposure were seen in subjects with body 
weight < 50 kg compared to subjects > 100 kg after administration of 150 mg Q2W. Similarly, 
subjects with body weight >100 kg had low systemic exposure after administration of 75 mg Q2W.  
There were large differences in alirocumab Ctrough concentrations, particularly in patients with body 
weight < 50 kg and > 125 kg, indicating a strong association between body weight and dose. 
However, supported by data from phase 3 studies with an up-titration scheme, the proposed up-
titration of the dose guided by individually set LDL-C targets is considered acceptable. 
In the population PK analysis renal impairment was not identified as a relevant covariate, however 
unexpectedly, alirocumab exposure (AUC0-336) at steady state at both 75 and 150 mg Q2W dosing 
regimen was increased in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment. This difference is likely 
explained by the indirect effect of 2 confounding factors (body weight and age). The limited available 
data from patients with severe renal impairment shows that the AUCTau is roughly two-fold higher 
compared with subjects with normal renal function. Data are sparse and implications of these findings 
are yet unknown.  
A lower exposure to alirocumab was observed in patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment 
despite comparable baseline PCSK9 levels between the groups. Although 90% CI exceeded the 
standard bioequivalence limits, it was a small study (n=8 per group), not powered to show 
equivalence. The clinical impact of this observation is further discussed in clinical efficacy. Currently, 
no data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment, hence, alirocumab is not 
recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Although the PCSK9 baseline concentrations were relevant for the single dose pharmacokinetics of 
alirocumab, PCSK9 baseline concentrations had a limited impact on the alirocumab exposure (AUC0-336) 
at steady state, patients with high PCSK9 baseline concentrations had a 9% and 19% lower exposure  
after 75 and 150 mg Q2W dosing regimen. 
Interactions 
In the pop PK analysis, the systemic exposure of alirocumab was significantly higher in patients 
without a statin. The Applicant has justified that the up-titration based on LDL-C reduction from 75 mg 
to 150 mg Q2W dose is reasonable in patients not on a concomitant statins. The additional mean 
reduction in LDL-C after up-titration from 75 mg to 150 mg Q2W was approximately 3% in patients not 
receiving a statin, with vast majority not achieving any further reductions. However, 25% of these 
patients achieved at least an additional 10% LDL-C lowering after up-titration, which is considered 
clinically important.  
A recommendation regarding up- and down-titration has been provided in section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
The pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, ezetimibe, and fenofibrate were not significantly 
affected by alirocumab. Although it should be noted that the dosing regimen of alirocumab was 150mg 
SC Q4W in the interaction studies evaluating the interaction with ezetimibe or fenofibrate   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 52/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rosuvastatin and atorvastatin. Because the proposed alirocumab dosing regimen is 150 Q2W, the 
impact of these interactions may have been slightly under estimated. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The proof of concept of alirocumab in inhibition of PCSK9, as measured by a decrease in free PCSK9, 
and the subsequent decrease in LDL-C has been sufficiently demonstrated. Reduction in LDL-C has 
both been demonstrated in healthy subjects after a single dose of alirocumab as well as in FH and non-
FH after a single-to-multiple ascending dose of alirocumab. In addition, genetic differences such as the 
presence of FH did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacodynamic profile of 
alirocumab.  
LMTs, including statin, fenofibrate and ezetimibe, have been shown to affect the PK and PD of 
alirocumab. A greater maximal reduction in LDL-C and a faster return towards baseline LDL-C values 
was observed when statin was co-administered with alirocumab, and to a lesser extent when 
fenofibrate and ezetimibe were co-administered with alirocumab. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of alirocumab have been sufficiently evaluated and did 
not give rise to significant concern. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Alirocumab has been developed as a SC treatment for hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidaemia. 
The clinical program was designed to assess the efficacy of alirocumab as add-on to statins, with or 
without other LMTs, in patients with primary HeFH and non-FH, including patients with mixed 
dyslipidaemia and patients with diabetes, either as monotherapy or as add-on to their existing (non-
statin) LMT, including patients with statin intolerance. For all these identified groups, an indication is 
being sought, with the exception of monotherapy in patients who are not statin intolerant. 
The alirocumab clinical development program included 7 phase 2 studies (5 completed double-blind 
studies and 2 ongoing open-label studies/periods) and 17 phase 3 studies (5 completed double-blind 
studies, 9 ongoing double-blind studies of which 5 had completed their primary efficacy period, and 
3 ongoing open-label studies/periods) (see Table 0 Section 2.4.1).  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
In the phase 2 evaluation several doses and two dose regimens (Q2W and Q4W) have been 
investigated in different patient populations, including HeFH and non-FH on a stable statin dose (with 
or without ezetimibe)(Table E01). The primary objective of these phase 2 dose studies was to assess 
the effect of 12 weeks alirocumab on the percent change in calculated LDL-C from baseline compared 
with placebo. In all studies, a dose dependent effect can be observed for the treatment of alirocumab 
for both the Q2W and Q4W in comparison to the control group, although for the Q4W dose the LDL-C 
effect could not be maintained in all the statin-treated patients. (Figure E01). Data of the main dose 
finding phase 2 studies DFI11565 and CL-1003 indicated that alirocumab treatment results in 
substantial LDL-C reduction regardless of the background therapy of different doses of atorvastatin 
(10, 20, 40 mg) (DFI11565) or statin therapy with or without ezetimibe (CL-1003).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 53/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 150 mg Q2W dose was selected for the phase 3 clinical program, since in all the three phase 2 
studies, 150 mg alirocumab Q2W resulted in the largest LDL-C reduction (-57 to -69%) compared to 
placebo, with a safety profile comparable with the lower doses tested. The 75 mg Q2W was selected 
based on dose-response modelling and was predicted to provide a 50% decrease in LDL-C from 
baseline. Based on this modelling, a nearly dose proportional effect could be observed from 0 mg to 
the 75 mg dose with reaching the near maximum effect on the dose response curve for the 150 mg 
dose. 
Table E01. Summary of alirocumab efficacy results from individual dose response phase 2 
studies. 
Phase 2 studies completed 
Change in LDL-
C at 12 weeks 
(%) vs placebo 
Study 
A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicenter study 
DFI11565 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of five doses and two dose regimens of SAR236553 
over 12 weeks in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and LDL-cholesterol ≥ 100 
mg/dL (≥ 2.59 mmol/L) on ongoing stable atorvastatin therapy 
N= 183 
12 weeks 
50 mg Q2W 
-35 
100 mg 
150 mg  
-59 
-67 
200 mg Q4W 
-38 
300 mg 
-43 
Study  
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study to 
CL-1003 
assess the efficacy and safety of alirocumab in patients with HeFH on a stable daily statin 
dose (with or without ezetimibe) and with LDL-C levels ≥ 100 mg/dL (2.59 mmol/L). 
N= 77 
12 weeks 
150 mg Q2W 
-57 
150 mg Q4W 
-18 
200 mg  
300 mg 
-21 
-32 
Study 
A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study 
DFI12361 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of three doses of alirocumab (SAR236553/ REGN727) 
over 12 weeks in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and LDL-cholesterol ≥ 100 
mg/dL (≥ 2.59 mmol/L) on ongoing stable atorvastatin therapy 
N= 100 
12 weeks 
50 mg Q2W 
-52 
75 mg 
150 mg 
-60 
-69 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 54/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 2 studies ongoing 
Change in LDL-
C (%) from 
baseline 
Study  
A Phase 2, Open-Label Extension of Study R727-CL-1003 to Evaluate the Long-Term 
CL-1032 
Safety and Efficacy of REGN727 Administered by Subcutaneous Injection in Patients with 
Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia 
N= 58 
OLE up to 4 years 
150 mg Q2W 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 52 
-62 
-65 
-55 
Figure E01. LDL-C mean percent change from baseline – DFI11565 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
In the 10 phase 3 clinical studies, alirocumab was evaluated as add-on to statin with or without other 
LMT, or as monotherapy only or add-on to LMT other than statin or ezetimibe in patients with HeFH 
and non-FH, including mixed dyslipidaemia. The aim was to demonstrate the superiority of alirocumab 
versus placebo on top of statins ± other LMT (Studies FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I, and LONG-
TERM) and versus ezetimibe (ALTERNATIVE, MONO, COMBO II, OPTIONS I, and OPTIONS II).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 55/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The integrated efficacy database includes 5 studies which have been completed (COMBO I, OPTIONS 
I, OPTIONS II, ALTERNATIVE, and MONO) and 5 ongoing studies for which the primary (first-step 
analysis) double-blind treatment period has been completed (FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO II, and 
LONG-TERM). In addition, several other double-blind studies (CHOICE I, CHOICE II, EFC13672, 
and OUTCOMES) and open-label studies (OLE ALTERNATIVE, LTS13463, OLE CHOICE II) are 
ongoing, however, they are currently not part of the efficacy database (see Table 1 Section 3.4). 
Treatments 
Overall, the study design was similar in all phase 3 studies, with the exception of the absence of an up-
titration scheme in the HIGH-FH and LONG-TERM studies where an initial dose of 150mg Q2W was 
used. A screening period of up to 2 – 6 weeks was used to fully assess the baseline status and to train 
the patient or care-giver on drug injection. The double-blind treatment period was 24-104 weeks, 
followed by a follow-up period of 8 weeks after the end of the treatment visit, unless patients were 
elected to participate in an OLE study. Eight studies used an up-titration scheme with treatment 
initiated at a dose of 75 mg Q2W, and potential up-titration to 150 mg Q2W at Week 12 in patients 
who did not achieve pre-defined LDL-C targets based on their level of CV risk at Week 8. 
Figure E02. General design of phase 3 studies with up-titration scheme 
Study Participants  
The inclusion criteria for the phase 3 studies were: 
- 
In FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I, COMBO II, and LONG-TERM, patients with very high 
CV risk defined as a history of CHD, ischaemic stroke, symptomatic peripheral artery disease 
(PAD) with severity criteria, moderate CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR]: 30 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 56/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≤ eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m² for 3 months or more) or DM with at least 2 additional risk 
factors other than hypercholesterolemia.  
-  OPTIONS I and OPTIONS II included non-FH and HeFH patients at high and very high CV 
risk with the following definitions:  
  Very high risk: Patients (non-FH and HeFH) with history of CHD, ischaemic stroke, transient 
ischaemic attack (TIA), symptomatic PAD, other peripheral arterial diseases (carotid or renal, 
or abdominal aortic aneurysm), DM with target organ damage. 
  High risk: Distinction was made between HeFH and non-FH patients. As mentioned above, 
heFH patients without any other CV risk as defined by a history of CHD or CHD risk equivalent 
were classified as “high CV risk”. Non-FH patients were requested to have either a calculated 
10-year fatal CVD risk Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation (SCORE) ≥ 5%, or a moderate 
CKD, or DM with no target organ damage.  
-  Statin intolerant patients included in ALTERNATIVE were at high or very high CV risk (similar 
definition to OPTIONS studies) or at moderate CV risk, defined as a calculated 10-year fatal 
CVD risk SCORE ≥ 1 and <5%. 
  Statin-intolerance was defined as follows: The inability to tolerate at least 2 statins: one statin 
at the lowest daily starting dose (defined as rosuvastatin 5 mg, atorvastatin 10 mg, 
simvastatin 10 mg, lovastatin 20 mg, pravastatin 40 mg, fluvastatin 40 mg, or pitavastatin 2 
mg), AND another statin at any dose, due to skeletal muscle-related symptoms, other than 
those due to strain or trauma, such as pain, aches, weakness, or cramping, that began or 
increased during statin therapy and stopped when statin therapy was discontinued.  
- 
Patients at moderate CV risk were also enrolled in the MONO study, defined as a calculated 10-
year fatal CVD risk SCORE ≥ 1 and <5%. 
Exclusion criteria were LDL-C< 70 mg/dL with history of documented cardiovascular disease or LDL-
C< 100 mg/dL without history of documented CVD for FH I, FH II, COMBO I, COMBO I, OPTIONS I 
and OPTIONS II; LDL-C< 160 mg/dL for HIGH-FH study; LDL-C < 100 mg/dL or > 190 mg/dL for 
MONO study; LDL-C < 70 mg/dL and very high CV risk or LDL< 100mg/dL and high or moderate CV 
risk for the ALTERNATIVE study. 
Other exclusion criteria were related to the patients’ underlying health status and especially unstable 
conditions that might interfere with the evaluation of efficacy and safety of alirocumab. They included 
history of New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure within the past 12 months, 
recent (within 3 months prior to entry) CV events (eg, myocardial infarction [MI], stroke) or 
revascularization procedure, and known history of haemorrhagic stroke. Patients with uncontrolled 
hypertension (ie, resting supine systolic blood pressure [SPB] >160 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure 
[DBP] >100 mmHg in most studies) were excluded as well.  
Background LMT 
In the MONO study and for some of the statin intolerant patients enrolled in the ALTERNATIVE 
study, background therapy was diet only. 
In most of phase 3 studies, with the exception of OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, ALTERNATIVE, and 
MONO, patients were required to be on maximally tolerated dose of the following statins: atorvastatin, 
rosuvastatin, and simvastatin. High doses were defined as follows:  
-  Rosuvastatin 20 mg or 40 mg daily. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 57/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Atorvastatin 40 mg or 80 mg daily. 
-  Simvastatin 80 mg daily only if patient was already on this dose for more than 1 year. For this 
statin, known not to be as potent as rosuvastatin or atorvastatin, the dose of 80 mg was not 
considered as high intensity dose for stratification and analysis purpose. 
The efficacy of alirocumab in combination with less-than-maximal doses of atorvastatin and 
rosuvastatin was explored in the OPTIONS I and OPTIONS II studies. These studies provide 
supportive efficacy data for patients who are not able to tolerate a high dose of statin. 
With the exception of COMBO II and MONO, other LMTs were allowed as background therapy. They 
included ezetimibe (except for OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, and ALTERNATIVE using ezetimibe as 
comparator), bile acid binding sequestrants (eg, cholestyramine), nicotinic acid, fenofibrate, and fish 
oils with daily doses of ≥1000 mg of omega-3 fatty acids. 
Baseline data 
Major baseline characteristics for the phase 3 studies are presented in Table E02 and lipid 
parameters at baseline in pool of phase 3 studies are provide in Table E03. 
Among 5296 patients enrolled in these studies, 5138 (97%) patients were at high/very high CV risk: 
-  3392 (64.1%) patients with a history of any CHD; which was prevalent in 35.3% to 90.1% of 
patients among the 9 studies enrolling high risk patients. 
-  1816 (34.3%) patients with prior MI; which was prevalent in 13.7% to 57.8% of patients 
among the 9 studies enrolling high risk patients. 
-  2390 (45.1%) patients with prior revascularization procedures; which was prevalent in 23.4% 
to 68.8% of patients among the 9 studies enrolling high risk patients. 
-  416 (7.9%) patients with prior ischaemic stroke; which was prevalent in 2.4% to 9.9% of 
patients among the 9 studies enrolling high risk patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 58/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E02. Summary of key baseline demographics in the phase 3 studies 
N 
Age (years) mean (SD) 
Age Group (years) [n(%)] 
<45 
≥ 45 to <65 
≥ 65 to < 75 
≥ 75 
FH I 
FH II 
486 
52 (13) 
249 
52 (13) 
142 (29%) 
263 (54%) 
72 (15%) 
9 (2%) 
59 
(24%) 
139 
(56%) 
43 
(17%) 
8 (3%) 
Male [n(%)] 
274 (56%)  131 
85 (17) 
29 (5) 
(53%) 
85 (16) 
28 (5) 
HIGH-
FH 
107 
51 (13) 
31 
(29%) 
62 
(58%) 
13 
(12%) 
1 (1%) 
57 
(53%) 
83 (16) 
29 (5) 
LONG-
TERM 
2341 
61 (10) 
157 (7%) 
1317 
(56%) 
678 (29%) 
189 (8%) 
COMBO I 
COMBO II  OPTIONS 
316 
63 (9) 
720 
62 (9) 
I 
355 
63 (10) 
OPTIONS 
II 
305 
61 (10) 
ALTERNATI
VE  
314 
63 (10) 
MONO 
103 
60 (5) 
13 (4%) 
172 (54%) 
99 (31%) 
32 (10%) 
24 (3%) 
410 (57%) 
229 (32%) 
57 (8%)  
18 (5%) 
174 (49%) 
125 (35%) 
38 (11%) 
15 (5%) 
173 (57%) 
93 (31%) 
24 (8%) 
9 (3) 
161 (51%) 
100 (32%) 
44 (14%) 
0 
84 (82%) 
19 (18%) 
0 
1457 (62) 
208 (66%)  530 
231 (65%)  187 (61%) 
172 (55%) 
55 (53%) 
87 (18) 
30 (6) 
95 (21) 
32 (7) 
(73.6%) 
89 (18) 
30 (5) 
90 (22) 
31 (6) 
89 (20) 
31 (7) 
84 (19) 
29 (6) 
86 (18) 
29 (6) 
Weight (kg) mean (SD) 
BMI (kg/m2) 
Mean (SD) 
Race [n(%)] 
    White 
    Black or Africa American 
    Asian 
    American Indian of Alaska 
native 
    Native Hawaiian or other 
Pacific Islander 
    Other 
444 (91%) 
5 (1%) 
6 (1%) 
2 (0.4%) 
1 (0.2%) 
28 (6%) 
244 
(98%) 
2 (1%) 
3 (1%) 
0 
0 
94 
(88%) 
2 (2%) 
6 (6%) 
0 
0 
2171 
(93%) 
77 (3%) 
18 (1%) 
46 (2%) 
0 
0 
5 (5%) 
29 (1%) 
258 (82%) 
51 (16% 
3 (1%) 
3 (1%) 
0 
610 (85%) 
28 (4%) 
53 (7%) 
2 (0.3%) 
0 
306 (86%) 
38 (11%) 
6 (2%) 
3 (0.8%) 
1 (0.3%) 
256 (84%) 
27 (9%) 
11 (4%) 
10 (3%) 
0 
295 (94%) 
12 (4%) 
4 (1%) 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
93 (90%) 
10 (10%) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
27 (4%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (0.6%) 
0 
Any cardiovascular history /risk 
factors 
Coronary heart diseasea 
    Acute myocardial infarction 
    Silent myocardial infarction 
    Unstable angina 
    Coronary revascularization 
procedures 
    Other clinically significant 
CHDb 
249 (51%)  96 
225 (46%) 
114 (24%) 
10 (2%) 
61 (13%) 
158 (33%) 
135 (28%) 
(39%) 
88 
(35%) 
41 
(17%) 
3 (1%) 
23 (9%) 
70 
(28%) 
61 
(57%) 
53 (50) 
24 
(22%) 
1 (1%) 
13 
(12%) 
25 
(23%) 
2121 
(91%) 
1607 (69) 
872 (37%) 
69 (3%) 
291 (12%) 
1081(46%
) 
678 (29%) 
44 
(18%) 
30 
(28%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
305 (100%) 
314 (100%) 
102 (99%) 
312 (99%)  718 
247 (78%) 
130 (41%) 
14 (4%) 
54 (17%) 
193 (61%) 
(100%) 
649 (90%) 
416 (58%) 
15 (2%) 
152 (21%) 
495 (69%) 
355 
(100%) 
200 (56%) 
92 (26%) 
16 (5) 
32 (9%) 
136 (38%) 
177 (58%) 
84 (28%) 
11 (4%) 
40 (13%) 
130 (43%) 
146 (47%) 
43 (14%) 
11 (4%) 
27 (9%) 
102 (33%) 
52 (17%) 
266 (37%) 
143 (40%) 
139 (46%) 
89 (28%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Page 59/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coronary heart disease risk 
equivalentsa 
    Ischaemic stroke 
    Peripheral arterial disease 
    Moderate chronic kidney 
disease 
    Known history of DM(T 1 or 
2) or     more additional risk 
factors 
    Abdominal aortic aneurysm 
    Carotid artery occlusion > 
50% without symptoms 
    Carotid endarterectomy of 
carotid artery stent procedure 
    Renal artery stenosis 
    Renal artery stent procedure 
    Type 1 or 2 DM with target 
organ damage  
Categorization of  CV risk per 
protocol 
Very high CV risk 
High CV risk 
Moderate CV risk 
79 (16%) 
19 (8%) 
16 (3%) 
13 (3%) 
29 (6%) 
29 (6%) 
6 (2%) 
6 (2%) 
3 (1%) 
7 (3%) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
18 
(17%) 
4 (4%) 
1 (1%) 
5 (5%) 
9 (8%) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
962 (41%) 
136 (43%) 
223 (31%) 
100 (28%) 
79 (26%) 
73 (23%) 
232 (10%) 
122 (5%) 
326 (14%) 
482 (21%) 
27 (9%) 
11 (4%) 
61 (19%) 
67 (21%) 
60 (8) 
35 (5%) 
84 (12%) 
90 (13%) 
26 (7%) 
11 (3%) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
16 (5%) 
12 (4%) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
29 (9%) 
6 (2%) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
8 (2%) 
0 
  10 (3%) 
0 
8 (3%) 
22 (7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (1%) 
11 (4%) 
0 
0 
43 (12.1) 
0 
0 
32 (11%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
11 (4%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
249 (51%) 
237 (49%) 
0 
96 
(39%) 
153 
(61%) 
0 
61 
(57%) 
46 
(43%) 
0 
2141 
(92%) 
200 (9%) 
0 
316 
(100%) 
0 
0 
720 
(100%) 
0 
0 
214 (60%) 
141 (40%) 
0 
192 (63%) 
11 (37%) 
0 
170 (54%) 
89 (28%) 
43 (14%) 
0 
0 
103 
(100%) 
Hypertension 
210 (43%)  81 
Type 1 Diabetes 
Type 2 Diabetes 
0 
56 (12%) 
(33%) 
1 (0.4%)  0 
10 (4%) 
Family history of premature 
CHD 
Current Smoker 
218 (45%)  122 
69 (14%) 
(49%) 
49 
(20%) 
61 
(57%) 
15 
(14%) 
61 
(57%) 
21 
(20%) 
Type of hypercholesterolemia 
    HeFH 
    non-FH 
Taking statins 
486 
(100%) 
249 
(100%) 
0 
107 
(100%) 
0 
0 
405 (83%)  219 
(88%) 
85 
(79%) 
280 (89%)  580 (81%)  278 (78%)  221 (73%) 
1762 
(75%) 
23 (1%) 
2 (0.3%) 
809 (35%)  136 (43%)  221 (31%)  177 (50%)  126 (41%) 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (0.7%) 
0 
197 (63%) 
32 (31%) 
0 
75 (24%) 
0 
4 (4%) 
762 (33%)  109 (35%)  153 (21%)  85 (24%) 
88 (30%) 
114 (36%) 
4 (4%) 
484 (21%)  60 (19%) 
155 (22%)  66 (19%) 
56 (18%) 
21 (7%) 
11 (11%) 
415 (18%) 
0 
0 
32 (9%) 
41 (13%) 
47 (15%) 
0 
1926 
(82%) 
1096 
(47%) 
316 
(100%) 
198 (63%)  494 (69%)  355 
720 
(100%) 
323 (91%) 
264 (87%) 
267 (85%) 
305 (100%) 
17 (5%)  
103 
(100%) 
0 
(100%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 60/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free PCSK9 level (ng/mL) 
Total PCSK9 level (ng/mL) 
Calculated LDL-C (mg/dL) 
Mean (SD) 
Calculated LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Mean (SD) 
315(128) 
853 (293) 
145 (50) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
134 (41) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
198 (53) 
305 (122) 
679 (298) 
122 (42) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
102 (32) 
283 (99) 
620 (187) 
107 (36) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
105 (34) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
111 (39) 
n.a. 
n.a. 
191 (69) 
186 (56) 
498 (154) 
140 (26) 
3.7 (1.3) 
3.5 (1.1) 
5.1 (1.4) 
3.2 (1.1) 
2.6 (0.8) 
2.8 (0.9) 
2.7 (0.9) 
2.9 (1.0) 
5.0 (1.8) 
3.7 (0.7) 
*according to the items pre-listed in the e-crf 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 61/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E03. LDL-C values at baseline – pools of phase 3 studies 
Pool of FH 
studies 
Pool of monotherapy 
studies 
Pool of Options 
studies 
Pool of all phase 
3 studies 
All 
(N=735) 
All 
(N=354) 
All 
(N=615) 
All 
(N=5296) 
735 
353 
615 
5294 
141.2 (47.2) 
177.0 (66.3) 
107.8 (36.4) 
125.9 (48.6) 
631 
214 
559 
4349 
137.2 (45.1) 
183.6 (71.9) 
103.8 (35.2) 
119.0 (45.5) 
726 
26.0 
339 
16.0 
599 
25.0 
5165 
23.4 
10.0 : 79.0 
6.0 : 42.0 
10.0 : 72.0 
7.9 : 67.0 
735 
354 
51.0 (15.5) 
51.9 (16.0) 
615 
49.3 (13.2) 
5296 
49.7 (13.5) 
Calculated LDL-C (mg/dL) 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Measured LDL-C (mg/dL)a 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Lp(a)(mg/dL) 
Number 
Median 
Q1 : Q3 
HDL-C (mg/dL) 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In all phase 3 studies, the primary endpoint was the percent change in calculated LDL-C from 
baseline to week 24 in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. The percent change from baseline for 
ApoB, non-HDL-C, Total-C, Lp(a), fasting TG, HDL-C, and ApoA-1 was incorporated as secondary 
efficacy endpoints. 
The mixed effect model with repeated measures (MMRM) was used for primary efficacy analysis. 
The MMRM model relied on the “missing-at-random” (MAR) assumption. As the possibility for a not-
missing-at-random (NMAR) missingness mechanism cannot be excluded, sensitivity analyses to 
explore the impact of non-ignorable missingness on the primary efficacy analysis were conducted.  
Sample size and Randomisation 
A total of 5296 patients were included in the phase 3 clinical program, of which 3188 patients were 
randomized to alirocumab, 1175 patients to placebo, 620 to ezetimibe and 313 to statin treatment. In 
all phase 3 studies, the percentage of patients who did not complete study treatment period after 
treatment with investigational product was in the range of 4%-34% (Table E03). 
The data from 5296 patients included the phase 3 studies were collected in 30 countries worldwide, 
including 2017 (~38% in 276 centres) patients in North America, 20 countries in Europe including 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 62/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1741 patients from Western Europe (~33% in 184 centres), 824 patients from Eastern EU (~16% in 
89 centres), and 714 patients from the rest of the world (~13% in 72 centres). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 63/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
Table E04. Summary of subject disposition 
FH I 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
FH II 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
HIGH-FH 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 150 Q2W 
Combo I 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
Combo II 
Ezetimibe 10 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
LTS11717 
Placebo 
Randomized 
and treated 
Did not complete study 
treatment period* 
Discontinued 
due to adverse 
event 
Discontinued due 
to poor compliance 
to protocol 
Discontinued due 
to other reasons 
  163 
  322 
  81 
  167 
  35 
  72 
  107 
  207 
  241 
  479 
  18 (11.0%) 
  36 (11.1%) 
  8   (4.9%) 
  12   (3.7%) 
4 (2.5%) 
8 (2.5%) 
6   (3.7%) 
  16   (5.0%) 
  3   (3.7%) 
  11   (6.6%) 
  1   (1.2%) 
  5   (3.0%) 
1 (1.2%) 
2 (1.2%) 
1   (1.2%) 
4   (2.4%) 
  6 (17.1%) 
  15 (20.8%) 
  1   (2.9%) 
  3   (4.2%) 
1 (2.9%) 
4 (5.6%) 
4 (11.4%) 
8 (11.1%) 
  32 (29.9%) 
  51 (24.4%) 
  8   (7.5%) 
9 (8.4%) 
  13   (6.2%) 
  10 (4.8%) 
  15 (14.0%) 
  28 (13.4%) 
  35 (14.5%) 
  73 (15.2%) 
  13   (5.4%) 
7 (2.9%) 
  36   (7.5%) 
  13 (2.7%) 
  15   (6.2%) 
  24   (5.0%) 
Alirocumab 150 Q2W 
 1550 (99.8%) 
311 (20.0%) 
  98   (6.3%) 
  54 (3.5%) 
  788 
146 (18.5%) 
  44   (5.6%) 
  34 (4.3%) 
  67   (8.5%) 
  159 (10.2%) 
Options I 
Patients on atorvastatin 20mg 
before randomization 
Atorvastatin 40 
Ezetimibe 10+atorvastin 20 
  57 
  55 
  13 (22.8%) 
  15 (27.3%) 
  4   (7.0%) 
  3   (5.5%) 
2 (3.5%) 
4 (7.3%) 
7 (12.3%) 
8 (14.5%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 64/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 
Q2W+atorvastatin 20 
Patients on atorvastatin 40mg 
before randomization 
Atorvastatin 80 
Rosuvastatin 40 
Ezetimibe 10+atorvastin 40 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 
Q2W+atorvastatin 40 
Options II 
Patients on rosuvastatin 10mg 
before randomization 
Rosuvastatin 20 
Ezetimibe 10+Rosuvastatin 10 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 
Q2W+Rosuvastatin 10 
Patients on rosuvastatin 20mg 
before randomization 
Rosuvastatin 40 
Ezetimibe 10+Rosuvastatin 20 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 
Q2W+Rosuvastatin 20 
Alternative 
Atorvastatin 20 
Ezetimibe 10 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
Mono 
Ezetimibe 10 
Alirocumab 75 Q2W/Up150 Q2W 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
  47 
  45 
  46 
  47 
  48 
  48 
  49 
  53 
  53 
  54 
  63 
  124 
  126 
  51 
  52 
Randomized 
and treated 
Did not complete study 
treatment period* 
Discontinued 
due to adverse 
event 
Discontinued due 
to poor compliance 
to protocol 
Discontinued due 
to other reasons 
  57 
  11 (19.3%) 
  5   (8.8%) 
  8 (17.0%) 
  6 (13.3%) 
  6 (12.8%) 
  3   (6.4%) 
  1   (2.2%) 
  1   (2.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 (10.5%) 
5 (10.6%) 
5 (11.1%) 
5 (10.6%) 
  9 (19.1%) 
  2   (4.3%) 
1 (2.1%) 
6 (12.8%) 
  5 (10.4%) 
  14 (29.2%) 
  2   (4.2%) 
  6 (12.5%) 
1 (2.1%) 
2 (4.2%) 
2   (4.2%) 
6 (12.5%) 
  11 (22.4%) 
  3   (6.1%) 
2 (4.1%) 
6 (12.2%) 
  8 (15.1%) 
  9 (17.0%) 
  3   (5.7%) 
  2   (3.8%) 
0 
0 
5   (9.4%) 
7 (13.2%) 
  13 (24.1%) 
  2   (3.7%) 
2 (3.7%) 
9 (16.7%) 
  21 (33.3%) 
  42 (33.6%) 
  30 (23.8%) 
  16 (25.4%) 
  31 (24.8%) 
  23 (18.3%) 
2 (3.2%) 
0 
0 
3   (4.8%) 
  11   (8.8%) 
7   (5.6%) 
  7 (13.7%) 
  8 (15.4%) 
  4   (7.8%) 
  5   (9.6%) 
1 (2.0%) 
0 
2   (3.9%) 
3   (5.8%) 
Page 65/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Alirocumab demonstrated a substantial reduction in primary efficacy of LDL-C reduction after 24 weeks 
in a consistent fashion across all of the pivotal phase 3 studies evaluating HeFH and non-FH at high 
risk and patients at moderate CV risk (Table E04 and Figure E03-E04). On top of standard treatment 
a reduction of between 39% and 62% compared to placebo could be observed. When alirocumab 
treatment was compared with ezetimibe, a reduction of 24%-36% was found in patients not receiving 
statins (including statin intolerant patients) on top of placebo or non-statin LMT . Primary endpoint 
analyses were supported by the secondary cholesterol profile evaluation showing significant reductions 
in e.g. ApoB, Total-C, non-HDL-C, Lp(a) and fasting triglycerides and increases in HDL-C and ApoA-I 
(Table E05). 
Table E05. Summary of Efficacy (primary outcome parameter; ITT analysis) for trials: FH I 
(EFC12492), FH II (CL-1112), HIGH-FH (EFC12732), LONG-TERM (LTS11717), COMBO I 
(EFC11568), COMBO II (EFC11569), ALTERNATIVE (CL-1119), MONO (EFC11716), OPTIONS 
I (CL-1110) and OPTIONS II (CL-1118) 
Change in LDL-C 
from baseline (%) 
N 
Design 
Baseline 
LDL-C 
Vs 
EZT 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of SAR236553/REGN727 in patients with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia not adequately controlled with their lipid-modifying therapy 
N= 485 
3.7 (1.3)  vs placebo 
Doses used 
Vs PLB 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of SAR236553/REGN727 in patients with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia not adequately controlled with their lipid-modifying therapy 
N= 247 
3.5 (1.1)  vs placebo 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of SAR236553/REGN727 in patients with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia and LDL-C higher or equal to 160 mg/dL with their lipid-
modifying therapy 
N= 106 
5.1 (1.4)  vs placebo 
Long-term safety and tolerability of SAR236553/REGN727 in high cardiovascular risk 
patients with hypercholesterolemia not adequately controlled with their lipid-modifying 
therapy: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 
N= 2310 
3.2 (1.1)  vs placebo 
75/150mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
75/150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
-58 
-56 
-51 
-59 
-39 
-39 
-62 
-61 
Phase 3 
Study 
FH I 
(EFC12492) 
FH II 
(CL-1112) 
HIGH-FH 
(EFC12732) 
LONG-TERM 
(LTS11717) 
COMBO I 
(EFC11568) 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of SAR236553/REGN727 in high cardiovascular risk patients with 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 66/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypercholesterolemia not adequately controlled with their lipid-modifying therapy 
N= 311 
2.6 (0.8)  vs placebo 
75/150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
-46 
-43 
COMBO II 
(EFC11569) 
A randomized, double-blind, parallel group study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
SAR236553/REGN727 versus ezetimibe in high cardiovascular risk patients with 
hypercholesterolemia not adequately controlled with their statin therapy 
N= 707 
2.8 (0.9)  vs ezetimibe  75/150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
Week 52 
-30 
-31 
ALTERNATIVE 
(CL-1119) 
A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled study of the efficacy and 
safety of REGN727/SAR236553 in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia who are 
intolerant to statins 
N= 248 
5.0 (1.8)  vs ezetimibe  75/150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
-30 
MONO 
(EFC11716) 
A randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of alirocumab over 24 weeks in patients with hypercholesterolemia 
N= 103 
3.7 (0.7)  Vs ezetimibe  75/150 mg Q2W 
Week 24 
-32 
Study 
OPTIONS I 
(CL-1110) 
N 
Design 
Doses used 
Baseline 
LDL-C 
Vs 
EZT 
A randomized, double-blind study of the efficacy and safety of REGN727 added-on to 
atorvastatin versus ezetimibe added-on to atorvastatin versus atorvastatin dose 
increase versus switch to rosuvastatin in patients who are not controlled on 
atorvastatin 
N=355 
2.7 (0.9)  vs ezetimibe  75/150 mg Q2W (ator 20) 
Change in LDL-C 
from baseline (%) 
Vs statin 
uptitration 
vs ator up 
Vs switch 
Week 24 
75/150 mg Q2W (ator 40) 
Week 24 
Vs Rosuva switch 
-39 
-49 
-33 
-24 
-31 
OPTIONS II 
(CL-1118) 
A randomized, double-blind study of the efficacy and safety of REGN727 added-on to 
rosuvastatin versus ezetimibe added-on to rosuvastatin versus rosuvastatin dose 
increase in patients who are not controlled on rosuvastatin 
N= 300 
2.9 (1.0)  vs ezetimibe  75/150 mg Q2W (rosu 10) 
Vs rosu up 
Week 24 
75/150 mg Q2W (rosu 20) 
Week 24 
-34 
-20 
-36 
-25 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 67/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E03. Percent change from baseline in calculated LDL-C at week 24: Comparison of 
MMRM vs Pattern-Mixture model analysis – phase 3 
studies
MMRM: mixed effect model with repeated measures; PMM: Pattern-Mixture model  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 68/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E04. Percent change from baseline in calculated LDL-C at week 24: Comparison of 
MMRM vs Pattern-Mixture model analysis – phase 3 OPTIONS studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 69/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E06. Summary of Efficacy (secondary outcome parameters; ITT analysis) for trials: FH I (EFC12492), FH II (CL-1112), HIGH-FH 
(EFC12732), LONG-TERM (LTS11717), COMBO I (EFC11568), COMBO II (EFC11569), ALTERNATIVE (CL-1119), MONO (EFC11716), OPTIONS 
I (CL-1110) and OPTIONS II (CL-1118) 
Mean % change from baseline 
vs control (placebo or 
ezetimibe) 
Calculated LDL-C at week 24 on-
treatment 
P value 
Calculated LDL-C week 12 –ITT 
P value 
Calculated LDL-C week 52 –ITT 
P value 
Measured LDL-C at week 24- ITT 
P value 
Total-C at week 24 – ITT 
P value 
Apo B at week 24 –ITT 
P value 
Non-HDL-C at week 24 –ITT 
P value 
Lp (a) at week 24 –ITT 
P value 
Fasting TG at week 24 – ITT 
P value 
HDL-C at week 24 – ITT 
P value 
Apo-A1 at week 24 – ITT 
P value 
Absolute change from baseline 
vs control (placebo or 
ezetimibe) 
Calculated LDL-C at week 24 
(mg/dL) 
P value 
% of patients reaching target 
Reaching LDL < 70 mg/dL at 
week 24 –ITT 
P value 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
FH I 
FH II 
HIGH-FH 
LONG-
TERM 
COMBO I 
COMBO II 
OPTIONS I 
OPTIONS II 
ALTERNATI
VE 
MONO 
Vs Placebo 
Vs placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
-58 
-52 
-39 
-64 
-50 
-31 
-28 
-29 
-35 
-37 
<0.0001 
-49 
<0.0001 
-56 
<0.0001 
-50 
<0.0001 
-39 
<0.0001 
-46 
<0.0001 
-52 
<0.0001 
-18 
<0.0001 
-16 
<0.0001 
8.0 
<0.0001 
4.7 
0.0002 
<0.0001 
-48 
<0.0001 
-59 
<0.0001 
-50 
<0.0001 
-33 
<0.0001 
-39 
<0.0001 
-46 
<0.0001 
-20 
<0.0001 
-11 
0.0012 
6.8 
0.0009 
4.4 
0.0062 
<0.0001 
-40 
<0.0001 
-39 
<0.0001 
n.a. 
-28 
<0.0001 
-30 
<0.0001 
-36 
<0.0001 
-15 
0.0164 
-9 
0.1386 
3.6 
0.2745 
3.6 
0.1715 
<0.0001 
-65 
<0.0001 
-61 
<0.0001 
-61 
<0.0001 
-38 
<0.0001 
-54 
<0.0001 
-52 
<0.0001 
-26 
<0.0001 
-17 
<0.0001 
4.6 
<0.0001 
2.8 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
-47 
<0.0001 
-43 
<0.0001 
-46 
<0.0001 
-25 
<0.0001 
-36 
<0.0001 
-38 
<0.0001 
-15 
<0.0001 
-0.6 
0.8699 
7.3 
<0.0001 
5.8 
0.0002 
<0.0001 
-29 
<0.0001 
-31 
<0.0001 
-30 
<0.0001 
-15 
<0.0001 
-22 
<0.0001 
-23 
<0.0001 
-22 
<0.0001 
-0.3 
0.9117 
8.1 
<0.0001 
6.3 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
? 
<0.0001 
? 
n.a. 
n.a. 
-23 
<0.0001 
-17 
<0.0001 
-25 
<0.0001 
-24 
<0.0001 
-20 
<0.0001 
-7.2 
0.0568 
5.2 
0.0306 
7.2 
<0.0001 
-22 
<0.0001 
-15 
<0.0001 
-21 
<0.0001 
-25 
<0.0001 
-20 
<0.0001 
-0.2 
0.9632 
7.3 
0.0026 
4.7 
0.0142 
<0.0001 
-32 
<0.0001 
n.a. 
-33 
<0.0001 
-21 
<0.0001 
-25 
<0.0001 
-26 
<0.0001 
-19 
<0.0001 
-6 
0.1426 
0.9 
0.6997 
1.9 
0.2768 
<0.0001 
-29 
<0.0001 
n.a. 
n.a. 
-19 
<0.0001 
-26 
<0.0001 
-26 
<0.0001 
-4 
0.4013 
1 
0.1827 
4.4 
0.1116 
5.3 
0.0371 
Vs Placebo 
Vs placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Placebo 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
Vs Ezetimibe 
-84 
-69 
-75 
-71 
-46 
-31 
-26 
-33 
-51 
-44 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
< 0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Vs Placebo 
59 
Vs placebo 
67 
Vs Placebo 
30 
Vs Placebo 
71 
Vs Placebo 
66 
Vs Ezetimibe 
31 
Vs Ezetimibe 
26 
Vs Ezetimibe 
26 
Vs Ezetimibe 
32 
Vs Ezetimibe 
57 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0082 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Page 70/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long term effect 
Six of the 10 studies in the alirocumab phase 3 program had a duration of at least 52 weeks (FH I, FH 
II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I, COMBO II, and LONG-TERM). The percent reduction in LDL-C from 
baseline was well maintained from week 24 out to week 52 in these studies (Table E04 and Figure 
E05). 
Figure E05. Calculated LDL-C over time: mean percent change from baseline (ITT) – LONG-
TERM study 
Up titration when individual LDL-C level is not reached 
The LDL-C reduction seen at week 12 was sufficient to achieve individual LDL-C target in 50.5-%-
83.2% of the patients across the phase 3 studies (Table E06 and E07). As expected, the proportion 
of patients who required an up-titration to alirocumab 150 mg Q2W was higher in the studies with 
higher baseline LDL-C, respectively, the 2 studies in HeFH patients (FH I, FH II, and HIGH-FH), the 
ALTERNATIVE study in statin-intolerant patients and the MONO study. 
After up titration, an additional mean reduction in LDL-C of  14.2% was obtained in studies using 
statin as background therapy (FH I, FH II, COMBO I, COMBO II, OPTIONS I, and OPTIONS II). 
For studies not using statin as background therapy (MONO and ALTERNATIVE, respectively), after 
up titration, an additional mean reduction in LDL-C of -3.1% was noted.  Even though the additional 
mean reduction in LDL-C after up-titration from 75 mg to 150 mg Q2W was approximately 3% in 
patients not receiving a statin, 25% of these patients achieved at least an additional 10% LDL-C 
lowering after up-titration, which is considered clinically important.
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 71/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E07. Percent change in calculated LDL-C after up-titration (on-treatment analysis in patients in the alirocumab group)- Phase 3 studies 
on top of statins 
Number (%) of patients with up-titration 
  135  (43.4%) 
  61  (38.6%) 
  32  (16.8%) 
  82  (18.4%) 
  13  (14.0%) 
  17  (18.5%) 
340  (26.3%) 
FH I 
FH II 
(N=311) 
(N=158) 
Combo I 
(N=191) 
Combo II 
Options I 
Options II 
Pool of studies on 
top of statins 
(N=446) 
(N=93) 
(N=92) 
(N=1291) 
Percent change from baseline to Week 12 in 
calculated LDL-C in patients with up-titration 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
Percent change from baseline to Week 24 in 
calculated LDL-C in patients with up-titration 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
Additional percent change in calculated LDL-C from 
Week 12 to Week 24 in patients with up-titration 
124 
54 
29 
72 
11 
15 
305 
-36.3 (21.5) 
-38.1 (26.1) 
-25.9 (26.9) 
-31.3 (29.2) 
-26.7 (40.0) 
-20.3 (28.0) 
-33.3 (26.2) 
-40.9 
-74 : 28 
-41.5 
-34.8 
-85 : 114 
-64 : 37 
-37.4 
-84 : 68 
-25.2 
-84 : 59 
-17.1 
-54 : 35 
-39.0 
-85 : 114 
124 
54 
29 
72 
11 
15 
305 
-51.4 (27.1) 
-55.0 (28.1) 
-48.7 (32.0) 
-41.7 (33.7) 
-22.6 (82.9) 
-32.2 (51.3) 
-47.5 (34.7) 
-58.6 
-94 : 69 
-62.0 
-96 : 51 
-51.0 
-98 : 25 
-48.0 
-55.6 
-40.7 
-56.1 
-87 : 68 
-85 : 158 
-98 : 115 
-98 : 158 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
124 
54 
29 
72 
11 
15 
305 
-15.1 (23.8) 
-16.9 (26.1) 
-22.8 (27.1) 
-10.5 (32.6) 
4.0 (64.2) 
-11.9 (48.1) 
-14.2 (30.5) 
-16.4 
-84 : 77 
-19.9 
-29.4 
-6.8 
-20.9 
-15.2 
-16.8 
-108 : 67 
-61 : 48 
-98 : 81 
-68 : 169 
-109 : 132 
-109 : 169 
At least 10% additional reduction in calculated LDL-C 
from Week 12 to Week 24 
77  (62.1%) 
  35  (64.8%) 
  18  (62.1%) 
  34  (47.2%) 
6  (54.5%) 
8  (53.3%) 
178  (58.4%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 72/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E08. Percent change in calculated LDL-C after uptitration (on-treatment analysis in patients in the alirocumab group) – phase 3 studies 
without statins 
Number (%) of patients with up-titration 
54  (49.5%) 
14  (30.4%) 
68  (43.9%) 
Alternative 
(N=109) 
Mono 
(N=46) 
Pool of studies 
without statins 
(N=155) 
Percent change from baseline to Week 12 in calculated 
LDL-C in patients with up-titration 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
Percent change from baseline to Week 24 in calculated 
LDL-C in patients with up-titration 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
Additional percent change in calculated LDL-C from Week 
12 to Week 24 in patients with up-titration 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
43 
12 
55 
-50.6 (13.8) 
-49.2 (10.6) 
-50.3 (13.1) 
-51.2 
-85 : -19 
-48.8 
-69 : -33 
-51.2 
-85 : -19 
43 
12 
55 
-54.3 (15.1) 
-50.6 (11.7) 
-53.5 (14.4) 
-57.9 
-79 : -17 
-48.5 
-68 : -31 
-56.7 
-79 : -17 
43 
-3.6 (13.1) 
-1.9 
-41 : 16 
12 
-1.4 (8.9) 
-2.0 
-15 : 15 
55 
-3.1 (12.3) 
-1.9 
-41 : 16 
At least 10% additional reduction in calculated LDL-C from 
Week 12 to Week 24 
11  (25.6%) 
3  (25.0%) 
14  (25.5%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 73/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy of alirocumab administered by prefilled syringe versus prefilled pen 
In the LONG-TERM study, alirocumab was administered by using a prefilled syringe, whereas in all the 
other phase 3 studies alirocumab was administered by using a prefilled pen. 
All injections were administered SC in the abdomen, thigh, or outer area of the upper arm Q2W and it 
was recommended to rotate within an anatomical area or change the anatomical area based on the 
patient’s preference. Furthermore, the first injection of alirocumab or placebo was administered at the 
site; the subsequent injections were performed outside the clinical site. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Age categories 
Four hundred sixty eight (468 (8.8%)) patients of < 45 years of age, 2955 (55.8%) patients of ≥45 to 
<65 years of age, 1471 (27.8%) patients of ≥65 to <75 of age and 402 (7.6%) patients of ≥ 75 years 
old have been included. For subjects ≥ 75 years old, LDL-C reductions were similar to those observed 
for the integrated phase 3 cohort (Figure E06). 
Figure E06. Percent change from baseline in calculated LDL-C at week 24: subgroup analysis 
according to age  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 74/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Study POP126 was conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and 
tolerability of alirocumab in subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment compared to matched 
subjects with normal hepatic function. 
The peak percent LDL-C decrease in the HI groups (reaching 33.2% and 35.8% in mild and moderate 
HI groups, respectively), was somewhat less than in healthy subjects (peak decrease reaching 45.4%) 
(Figure E07 and E08). 
Figure E07. Time profile of mean +/- SEM free PCSK9 and LDL-C % change for the normal 
and mild hepatic impairment 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 75/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E08. Time profile of mean +/- SEM free PCSK9 and LDL-C % change for the normal 
and moderate hepatic impairment 
Other baseline variables 
No clinically relevant differences in LDL-C lowering effect of alirocumab according to subgroups, 
including patients with mixed dyslipidaemia, Diabetes Mellitus, BMI, gender, chronic kidney disease 
(Figure E09), baseline factors [statin treatment (Figure E10) and free PCSK 9], region, and the 
presence of ADA have been identified.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 76/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E09. Percent change from baseline in LDL-C at week 24: Subgroup analysis according 
to chronic kidney disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 77/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E10. Percent change from baseline in LDL-C at week 24: Subgroup analysis according 
to statin treatment 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND meta-analysis) 
See analysis above. 
Supportive study  
Study DFI11566 (exploratory study) 
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 3 parallel-group, placebo-controlled, 8-week study 
in 92 subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia. Subjects had LDL-C levels ≥ 100 mg/dL when 
treated with a stable dose of atorvastatin 10 mg for at least 6 weeks. Subjects were randomized using 
a 1:1:1 ratio into an alirocumab group (150 mg in combination with atorvastatin 10 or 80 mg Q2W) or 
placebo in combination with 80 mg. The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of 
alirocumab 150 mg Q2W on LDL-C levels compared with placebo after 8 weeks of treatment when 
coadministered with 80 mg of atorvastatin in patients previously on atorvastatin 10 mg. This 
treatment scheme is anticipated to be used when a rapid decrease in LDL C levels is needed, e.g., 
after an ACS. 
The mean percent change in LDL-C from baseline after 8 weeks was approximately similar in both 
atorvastatin groups compared to placebo (-49 % and - 56% for alirocumab with 10 mg and 80mg 
atorvastatin, respectively). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 78/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
General 
The applicant has conducted several studies in different types of patients and in different therapeutic 
settings. Alirocumab treatment was evaluated in patients with primary HeFH and non-FH, including 
patients with mixed dyslipidaemia, as add-on to maximum statin therapy with or without other LMTs, 
or either as monotherapy or as add-on to their existing non-statin LMT, including patients with statin 
intolerance. The criteria applied to identify statin intolerant patients are considered sufficiently rigorous 
with patients who had to have tried at least 2 statins and were unable to tolerate based on adverse 
events which resolved or improved when statin dose was decreased or discontinued. For all these 
identified groups an indication has been sought, with the exception of monotherapy in patients who are 
not statin intolerant. The objectives of the presented studies are considered appropriate to justify the 
claimed indications. 
Clinical evaluation has been conducted in double blind controlled studies for 24-104 weeks. The 
primary endpoints are considered appropriate to establish the LDL-C lowering effect of alirocumab at 
24 weeks of treatment. Patients are or will subsequently be enrolled in open label long term studies, 
which are currently ongoing and not part of the efficacy database, to evaluate longer term effects in 
terms of efficacy and safety. However, only HeFH patients and patients who are statin intolerant will be 
included in the long term follow up studies, while non-FH patients with high CV will not be part of 
thisAt time of finalisation of this procedure, a long term study that includes but is not limited to high 
risk non-FH patients (OUTCOMES [EFC11570]) is ongoing. 
The 12 week period used in the main dose finding phase 2 studies is considered appropriate to provide 
reasonable results on the LDL-C lowering (and other cholesterol parameters) effect of several doses 
and two dose regimens (Q2W and Q4W) of alirocumab. 
The designs of the 10 phase 3 studies (with or without up-titration) are very similar and considered 
appropriate. The screening period of 2-6 weeks is considered sufficient to assess the baseline status 
for eligibility and to train the patient on drug injection. Prior training on drug injection is considered 
essential since only the first injection of alirocumab or placebo was administered at the site and the 
subsequent injections were performed outside the clinical site. For studies in which adjustments in the 
background therapy were necessary (OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, and ALTERNATIVE), a run-in period 
of 4 weeks was considered sufficient to establish a stable run-in cholesterol level. The relevance of the 
OPTIONS I and OPTIONS II studies can be disputed as patients in these studies were not on 
maximum (tolerated) doses of statins but were considered supportive of the application. Since a 
parallel comparison is made between alirocumab and statin up-titration this may not reflect clinical 
practice or at least the intended  usage of alirocumab as second line treatment. The duration of the 
double-blind controlled period of 24 -104 weeks is sufficient to evaluate the long term efficacy of 
alirocumab treatment. However, regarding safety, this period seems limited for a treatment that is 
intended to be for life.  
Eight studies used an up-titration scheme with treatment initiated at a dose of 75 mg to 150 mg Q2W. 
The potential of up-titration to 150 mg at week 12 in patients who did not achieve pre-defined LDL-C 
targets at Week 8 seems appropriate since maximum LDL-C reduction have been achieved in this 
period on the starting dose of 75 mg Q2W. 
The methods to measure LDL-C (LONG-TERM study) and to calculate LDL-C (all other phase 2/3 
studies) are considered appropriate. The randomisation is considered appropriate. General inclusion 
and exclusion criteria, which were based on several CHD risk categories and on the level of LDL-C 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 79/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
according to current guideline criteria, seem appropriate to reflect the patient population for which an 
indication has been sought. The randomisation and general blinding principals seem appropriate. In 
studies where ezetimibe was the comparator, a double dummy design was used to ensure blinding. 
Appropriate secure blinding principles of measurements and evaluation were applied of assessment of 
laboratory values by the central laboratory and independent physicians in order to proceed with 
potential up-titration in a blinded manner and to review the safety data. Appropriate blinding measures 
for patients reaching very low LDL-C levels have also been applied. The statistical methods used seem 
appropriate as well. 
The objective to evaluate other lipid parameters can provide a good understanding of the overall effect 
of alirocumab on lipids. An important limitation of the currently presented data is the lack of outcome 
data with regard to cardiovascular events. Although LDL-C reduction is considered an established 
surrogate marker for cardiovascular risk reduction, this has primarily been demonstrated for statin 
therapy and not for newer therapies such as alirocumab treatment. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Phase 2 dose finding studies 
In the phase 2 evaluation, several doses and two dose regimens (Q2W and Q4W) have been 
investigated in different patient populations, including HeFH and non-FH on a stable daily statin dose 
(with or without ezetimibe). In all studies, a dose dependent effect can be observed for the treatment 
of alirocumab for both the Q2W and Q4W in comparison to the control group, although for the Q4W 
dose the LDL-C effect could not be maintained for the entire dose interval in all statin-treated patients.  
Data of the main dose finding phase 2 studies indicated that alirocumab treatment results in 
substantial LDL-C reduction regardless of the background therapy of different doses of atorvastatin 
(10, 20, and 40 mg) (DFI11565) or statin therapy with or without ezetimibe (CL-1003). 
The 150 mg Q2W dose was selected for the phase 3 clinical program, since in all the three phase 2 
studies, 150 mg alirocumab Q2W resulted in the largest LDL-C reduction (-57% to -69%) compared to 
placebo. The 75 mg Q2W starting dose was selected based on dose-response modelling and was 
predicted to provide a 50% decrease in LDL-C from baseline. Based on this modelling, a nearly dose 
proportional effect could be observed from 0 mg to the 75 mg dose with reaching the near maximum 
effect on the dose response curve from the 150 mg dose. 
Phase 3 evaluation 
In all phase 3 studies, the percentage of patients who did not complete study treatment period after 
treatment with investigational product was substantial (11-33 %), with the exception of study FH II 
(4-7%). However, the number of patient discontinuations due to adverse events were generally 
acceptable (1.2%-12.5%) with the exception of the ALTERNATIVE study (18.3%-25.4%). The higher 
frequency in the ALTERNATIVE study can be explained by the higher incidence of skeletal muscle-
related TEAEs, which were slightly lower in the alirocumab groups (15.9% compared with control 
20.2%). In general, most discontinuations were due to other reasons. 
The phase 3 studies were multicentre studies and recruited patients across the globe, including 2017 
(~38%) patients in North America, 20 countries in Europe including 1741 patients from Western 
Europe (~33%), 824 patients from Eastern EU (~16%), and 714 patients from the rest of the world 
(~13%). This is considered sufficiently representative for Europe.  
The LDL-C levels at baseline were comparable between the alirocumab and the control group in the 
different pools of studies. As expected the study with patients intolerant to statins (ALTERNATIVE) 
and the study with severe HeFH (HIGH-FH) have the highest baseline LDL-C levels (5.0 and 5.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 80/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mmol/L, respectively), while the study with non-FH patients at high risk not adequately controlled with 
statin (COMBO I and II) and study with HeFH or non-FH not adequately controlled with a less-than-
maximal dose of statin (OPTIONS I and OPTIONS II) showed the lowest levels of LDL-C (range 2.6- 
2.9 mmol/L).  Regardless of the LDL-C levels at baseline, the levels of PCSK9 at baseline ranged from 
283 to 315 ng/mL in studies where patients received background statin therapy, as compared with the 
lower baseline level (186 ng/mL) in the MONO study where patients received alirocumab as 
monotherapy, which can be explained by increased production of PCSK9 under statin therapy. 
Due to the objectives of the phase 3 studies, in the ALTERNATIVE and MONO studies only patients 
with moderate CV risk were included, whereas in the other studies patients with high or very high CV 
risk were included. 
Alirocumab demonstrated a substantial reduction in the primary efficacy of LDL-C reduction after 24 
weeks in a consistent fashion across all of the pivotal phase 3 studies evaluating HeFH and non-FH at 
high risk and patients at moderate CV risk. On top of standard treatment a reduction between 39 and 
62% compared to placebo could be observed. When alirocumab treatment was compared with 
ezetimibe, a reduction of 24%-36% was found in patients not receiving statins (including statin 
intolerant patients) on top of placebo or non-statin LMT. In addition, the effect of LDL-C reduction was 
maintained during 52 weeks of treatment in the FH I, II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I and II studies and 78 
weeks of alirocumab treatment in the LONG-TERM study. 
Primary endpoint analyses were supported by the secondary cholesterol profile evaluation showing 
significant reductions in e.g. ApoB, Total-C, non-HDL-C, Lp(a) and fasting triglycerides and increases in 
HDL-C and ApoA-I (with no significant reductions in fasting triglycerides versus ezetimibe).  
The percentage of patients who required a dose up-titration was in the range of 14-50% in the phase 3 
studies, indicating the additional value of the higher 150 mg Q2W dose. Patients who are statin 
intolerant (ALTERNATIVE) and patients with HeFH at high risk (FH I and FH II), showed the highest 
percentage of up-titration, as baseline levels of LDL-C were highest. The additional mean reduction in 
LDL-C was more pronounced in patients on a background of statin therapy (~-14%), whereas up-
titration in patients not using statin as background therapy resulted in an additional mean reduction in 
LDL-C of -3%. Even though the additional mean reduction in LDL-C after up-titration from 75 mg to 
150 mg Q2W was of approximately 3% in patients not receiving a statin, 25% of these patients 
achieved at least an additional 10% LDL-C lowering after up-titration, which is considered clinically 
important. Increased production of PCSK9 under statin therapy may be part of the explanation. 
Differences in free PCSK9 values at baseline between up-titrated compared to the group not up-
titrated did not play a role.  
Two different devices (prefilled syringe [PFS] and prefilled pen [PFP]) were used for the administration 
of alirocumab or placebo during the phase 3 clinical development program. The PFS was used in the 
LONG-TERM study only, whereas the PFP was used in all other studies. Studies to demonstrate 
comparable efficacy between the different devices have not been conducted. Comparison between the 
LONG TERM and HIGH HF studies using patients with approximately similar characteristics demonstrate 
approximately similar efficacy. It is likely that no meaningful differences will be present between both 
dosage forms although direct bridging data are lacking. 
A sufficient number of elderly patients have been included, although the number of patients > 75 years 
of age were limited. However, in this subgroup of > 75 years a similar efficacy was demonstrated. 
Slightly lower LDL-C reductions were observed in patients with hepatic impairment (HI) compared with 
healthy subjects (-33.2%, -35.8%, and -45.4% in mild HI, moderate HI, and healthy subjects, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 81/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively) on 75 mg Q2W alirocumab treatment. Some non-responders likely affected the overall 
response. Therefore, it is acceptable that no dose adjustment is necessary.  
Other baseline factors including statin treatment and PCSK9 levels, geographic region, diabetes, CV 
risk, chronic kidney disease and the presence of ADAs also demonstrated no major differences in the 
treatment effect of LDL-C reduction with alirocumab. 
In a small study, a higher dose of atorvastatin in combination with alirocumab treatment did not result 
in substantially greater LDL-C reductions (-49 % and - 56% for alirocumab with 10 mg and 80 mg 
atorvastatin, respectively). This was in line with OPTIONS I study were an additional LDL-C reduction 
of -49% was found vs statin up-titration. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
In conclusion, alirocumab demonstrated a substantial and consistent reduction in LDL-C and other lipid 
parameters on top of ongoing lipid-modifying therapies in primary HeFH and non-FH, including patients 
with mixed dyslipidaemia. Up-titration of 75 mg Q2W to 150 mg Q2W alirocumab resulted in additional 
LDL-C reduction (~-14% in patients on background statin and -3% in patients not on statin therapy. 
Long term studies provided data of maintenance of effect of LDL-C reduction over a period of 52 to 78 
weeks.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The integrated safety database includes ten phase 3 studies, as well as four completed phase 2 
studies: 3 dose finding studies (DFI11565, CL-1003, and DFI12361) and the exploratory study in 
subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia with statin up titration comparison (DFI11566). For the 
ongoing phase 3 studies, analyses referred to as the “first-step analyses” include all safety data up to 
each individual study cut-off date. The following pools were analyzed: 
 
Pool of 9 placebo-controlled phase 2/3 studies (that is, alirocumab versus placebo, each as 
add-on to statin), including the 4 phase 2 studies and 5 phase 3 studies (FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, 
COMBO I, and LONG-TERM), 
 
Pool of 5 ezetimibe-controlled phase 3 studies, including studies with (COMBO II, OPTIONS I, 
OPTIONS II) and without (ALTERNATIVE, MONO) concomitant statin usage. 
  Global pools to evaluate selected safety topics:  
- a global pool to assess injection site reactions; deaths; ADA; and AEs in patients in 2 consecutive 
LDL-C< 25mg/dL 
- a global subpool of placebo/ezetimibe-controlled phase 3 studies to evaluate adjudicated CV events 
  Comparison between the 75 mg and the 150 mg dose. 
The other ongoing studies (double-blind or open-label extensions studies) are not included in the 
integrated safety database because the data are not yet unblinded. Some data of these other ongoing 
studies are presented sporadically, as a consequence, no systematic review of these data is provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 82/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
In the phase 2/3 safety database, 3340 subjects were exposed to alirocumab, with 2856 subjects for 
at least 24 weeks, 2408 subjects for ≥ 52 weeks and 638 alirocumab exposed subjects for at least 76 
weeks (Table S01). 
Since submission of the MAA (cut-off date 31-Aug-2014) the number of patients treated with 
alirocumab for up to 76 weeks has increased to 1717 patients (as of the data cut-off of 31-Dec-2014). 
Table S01. Exposure to investigational medicinal product 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
(N=1276) 
(N=2476) 
(N=618) 
(N=864) 
1407.6 
2758.5 
419.4 
692.2 
1275 
2470 
617 
861 
57.60 (22.39) 
58.27 (21.86) 
35.47 (21.96) 
41.94 (23.09) 
65.10 
65.10 
24.00 
27.30 
2.0 : 84.9 
2.0 : 84.0 
2.0 : 94.1 
2.0 : 93.4 
Cumulative injection exposure 
(patient-years) 
Duration of IMP injection exposure 
(weeks) 
Number 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min : Max 
Duration of IMP injection exposure 
by category [n (%)] 
Number 
1275 
  2470 
  617 
  861 
≥1 day to <4 weeks 
  13   (1.0%) 
24   (1.0%) 
  15   (2.4%) 
≥4 weeks to <8 weeks 
  20   (1.6%) 
54   (2.2%) 
  26   (4.2%) 
≥8 weeks to <12 weeks 
  47   (3.7%) 
105   (4.3%) 
  18   (2.9%) 
≥12 weeks to <16 weeks 
  93   (7.3%) 
111   (4.5%) 
  18   (2.9%) 
≥16 weeks to <24 weeks 
  20   (1.6%) 
41   (1.7%) 
  53   (8.6%) 
21   (2.4%) 
27   (3.1%) 
15   (1.7%) 
18   (2.1%) 
59   (6.9%) 
≥24 weeks to <36 weeks 
  35   (2.7%) 
66   (2.7%) 
  277 (44.9%) 
  297 (34.5%) 
≥36 weeks to <52 weeks 
  37   (2.9%) 
70   (2.8%) 
1   (0.2%) 
15   (1.7%) 
≥52 weeks to <64 weeks 
  277 (21.7%) 
576 (23.3%) 
  132 (21.4%) 
  250 (29.0%) 
≥64 weeks to <76 weeks 
  444 (34.8%) 
848 (34.3%) 
  47   (7.6%) 
≥76 weeks 
  289 (22.7%) 
575 (23.3%) 
  30   (4.9%) 
95 (11.0%) 
64   (7.4%) 
Adverse events 
A large proportion of patients experienced at least 1 treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) with 
75.8% for alirocumab and 76.4% in the placebo group in the placebo-controlled pool and 70.3% and 
68.1% for alirocumab and ezetimibe in the ezetimibe-controlled pool (Table S02). Additionally, the 
percentages of patients who experienced at least 1 treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
(TESAE), and any TEAE leading to permanent treatment discontinuation were approximately similar 
between the alirocumab and placebo or ezetimibe groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 83/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S02. Overview of adverse event profile: Treatment emergent adverse events (Safety 
population) 
n(%) 
(N=1276) 
(N=2476) 
(N=618) 
(N=864) 
Patients with any  TEAE 
 975 (76.4%) 
  1876 (75.8%) 
  421 (68.1%) 
  607 (70.3%) 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Patients with any  treatment 
emergent SAE 
Patients with any  TEAE leading to 
 182 (14.3%) 
340 (13.7%) 
  69 (11.2%) 
  113 (13.1%) 
death 
  11   (0.9%) 
13   (0.5%) 
7   (1.1%) 
2   (0.2%) 
Patients with any  TEAE leading to 
permanent treatment 
discontinuation 
  65   (5.1%) 
131   (5.3%) 
  60   (9.7%) 
76   (8.8%) 
Placebo-controlled studies: phase 3 (LTS11717, FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I), phase 2 (DFI11565, DFI11566, CL-1003, 
DFI12361)  
Ezetimibe-controlled studies: phase 3 (COMBO II, MONO, OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, ALTERNATIVE)  
n (%) = number and percentage of patients with at least one TEAE  
Common TEAEs 
Placebo-controlled pool 
TEAEs that are reported in ≥5% of patients in any group were (by decreasing order in the alirocumab 
group): nasopharyngitis (11.3% in the alirocumab group versus 11.1% in the placebo group), injection 
site reaction (6.7% versus 4.8%), upper respiratory tract infection (6.1% versus 7.0%), influenza 
(5.7% versus 4.6%), headache (4.8% versus 5.2%), and arthralgia (4.0% versus 5.5%).  
When TEAEs were reported as a higher proportion of patients in the alirocumab group compared to 
placebo (i.e. incidence ≥2.0% in the alirocumab group and difference ≥ 0.5% versus placebo) these 
were: injection site reaction, influenza, myalgia, muscle spasms, contusion, and musculoskeletal pain 
(Table S03). In contrast, TEAEs reported in a higher proportion of patients in the placebo group 
compared to alirocumab (i.e., incidence ≥2.0% in the placebo group and difference ≥0.5% versus 
alirocumab) were, arthralgia, dizziness, pain in extremity, fall, and depression.  
The overall percentages of patients (per patient-months) in the pool of placebo-controlled phase 3 
studies who experienced their first common AEs during the treatment period were greater in the first 
24 weeks of treatment (≤24 weeks) than in the subsequent time intervals, i.e., [>24 to ≤52 weeks], 
and [>52 to ≤78 weeks] in both the alirocumab group (16.5%, 6.2%, and 4.4%, respectively) and the 
placebo group (16.8%, 6.7%, and 4.7%, respectively). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 84/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S03. Number (%) of patients with TEAE(s) that occurred ≥ 2% in alirocumab group 
and a incidence at least 0.5% higher in the alirocumab than placebo group. 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
TEAEs that are reported in ≥5% of patients in any group were as follows (by decreasing order in the 
alirocumab group): myalgia (6.7% in the alirocumab group versus 7.6% in the ezetimibe group), 
upper respiratory tract infection (5.9% versus 6.0%), and nasopharyngitis (5.4% versus 5.7%). 
When TEAEs were reported as a higher proportion of patients in the alirocumab group compared to the 
ezetimibe group (incidence ≥2.0% in the alirocumab group and difference ≥0.5% versus ezetimibe) 
these were: accidental overdose, headache, influenza, injection site reaction, fatigue, and constipation 
(Table S04). In contrast, TEAEs reported in a higher proportion of patients in the ezetimibe group 
than the alirocumab group (≥2.0% in the alirocumab group and difference ≥1.0%), were in order of 
decreasing frequency: myalgia, dizziness, back pain, urinary tract infection, nausea, and sinusitis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 85/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S04. Number (%) of patients with TEAE(s) that occurred ≥ 2% in alirocumab group 
and a incidence at least 0.5% higher in the alirocumab than ezetimibe group 
Adverse events across therapeutic settings 
No meaningful differences for frequencies of TEAEs was observed between alirocumab-treated patients 
and comparator treatment across different therapeutic settings (i.e. patients with diabetes versus non 
diabetic patients; statin intolerant patients versus non statin intolerant patients, patients at high CV 
risk versus moderate CV risk, monotherapy versus on top of maximum statin therapy) and only slight 
differences appeared between frequencies of disease state. 
Safety data by individual dose 
For analyses in the alirocumab group, safety data of the 2 regimens of alirocumab 75 mg and150 mg  
were combined. The rationale for combining the 2 regimens of alirocumab 75 mg and 150 mg was 
supported by the results of all completed phase 2 studies showing no dose related safety signals, 
according to the Applicant. In addition, the following approaches were applied to assess the safety of 
the 2 doses: 
1.  Description of 75 mg dose 
A total of 165 (47.0%) patients in the alirocumab group versus 338 (48.6%) patients in the placebo 
group and 402 (46.5%) patients in the alirocumab group and 288 (46.6%) patients in the ezetimibe 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 86/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group reported at least 1 TEAE over the first 12 weeks of 75 mg Q2W alirocumab treatment. The 
incidences in serious TEAEs, TEAEs leading to deaths and TEAEs leading to discontinuations are 
presented in  Table S05. 
Table S05. Overview of adverse event profile: TEAE up to week 12 (75 mg Q2W dose). 
In the phase 3 placebo-controlled pool, TEAEs reported with a higher incidence at the 75 mg dose of 
alirocumab compared to placebo were injection site reaction (alirocumab: 7.2% versus placebo: 
3.7%), nasopharyngitis (4.9% versus 3.4%), influenza (2.9% versus 2.3%), and diarrhea (2.3% 
versus 1.1%). TEAEs reported with a higher incidence in the placebo group compared to alirocumab 
were gastroenteritis (alirocumab: 0.3% versus placebo: 2.3%), headache (2.4% versus 3.4%), and 
myalgia (1.7% versus 2.3%). 
In the ezetimibe-controlled pool, TEAEs reported with a higher incidence at the 75 mg dose of 
alirocumab compared to ezetimibe were injection site reaction (alirocumab: 2.5% versus ezetimibe: 
1.0%), upper respiratory tract infection (3.0% versus 1.9%), and headache (2.4% versus 1.8%). 
TEAEs reported at a higher incidence in the ezetimibe group compared to alirocumab were myalgia 
(alirocumab: 4.1% versus ezetimibe: 5.3%) and dizziness (1.6% versus 2.6%). 
2.  Up-titration 
A total of 228 up-titrated and 432 non-titrated patients were identified in the placebo-controlled pool, 
and 180 up-titrated and 606 non-titrated patients in the ezetimibe-controlled pool. Patients of the 
LONG-TERM and HIGH-FH study are not included in this analysis since they were designed with a 
150 mg Q2W dosing regimen only. TEAEs with an incidence ≥ 2% with a difference ≥ 0.5% in up-
titrated versus non-titrated is presented in Table S06. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 87/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S06. Reported TEAEs with an incidence ≥ 2% and a difference ≥ 0.5% up-titrated 
versus non-titrated group. 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Up-titrated 
Non-titrated 
Up-titrated 
Non-titrated 
(N= 228) 
(N=432) 
(N=180) 
(N=606) 
TEAEs reported at higher incidence in the up-titrated group compared to non-titrated 
3.9% 
3.5% 
3.1% 
3.1% 
3.1% 
2.2% 
2.6% 
2.2% 
2.2% 
1.9% 
2.8% 
1.2% 
1.9% 
0.5% 
1.6% 
0.7% 
1.4% 
0.9% 
Back pain 
Sinusitis 
Diarrhea 
Gastroenteritis 
Abdominal pain 
Muscle spasms 
Oedema peripheral 
Influenza-like illness 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase ꜛ increse 
Injection site reaction 
Bronchitis 
Myalgia 
Headache 
Hypertension 
Accidental overdose 
2.2% 
1.3% 
2.2% 
3.9% 
3.9% 
5.0% 
3.9% 
0.8% 
3.0% 
1.3% 
2.0% 
3.3% 
TEAEs reported at higher incidence in the non-titrated group compared to up-titrated group 
Injection site reaction 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Urinary tract infection 
Nasopharyngitis 
Influenza 
Arthralgia 
Bronchitis 
Dizziness 
Osteoarthritis 
Hypertension 
Myalgia 
Nausea 
3.9% 
3.1% 
3.1% 
5.7% 
3.9% 
1.8% 
1.8% 
1.8% 
0.9% 
0.9% 
1.3% 
0.9% 
4.9% 
4.4% 
3.7% 
6.7% 
5.1% 
2.8% 
3.5% 
2.3% 
2.3% 
2.5% 
2.5% 
2.3% 
2.8% 
3.5% 
2.8% 
0.6% 
3.3% 
2.6% 
1.1% 
2.1% 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 88/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Description of 150 mg dose as starting dose versus up-titration regimen 75/150 mg Q2W 
Table S07 summarized patients with any TEAE, serious TEAE, and TEAEs leading discontinuation 
comparing the 150 mg as the starting dose with the up-titration scheme. TEAEs reported at an 
incidence ≥ 2% with a difference ≥ 0.5% versus the control arm are presented in Table S08.  
Table S07. Overview of adverse event profile: TEAEs according to dosing regimen 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 89/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S08. TEAEs reported at an incidence ≥ 2% with a difference ≥ 0.5% versus the control 
arm 
Studies with 150 mg as starting 
Studies with up-titration 
dose 
Placebo 
(N=823) 
regimen 
Alirocumab 150 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
mg Q2W 
(N=1622) 
(N=251) 
75mg/150mg 
Q2W 
(N=696) 
TEAEs reported at higher incidence in the alirocumab group compared to control 
4.3% 
4.6% 
3.3% 
2.2% 
0.9% 
5.9% 
5.2% 
4.9% 
3.1% 
2.3% 
Injection site reaction 
Bronchitis 
Myalgia 
Cough 
Contusion 
Influenza 
Urinary tract infection 
Back pain 
Sinusitis 
Diarrhea 
Muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal pain 
7.1% 
9.6% 
4.1% 
2.8% 
3.7% 
3.1% 
2.6% 
0.9% 
1.1% 
7.0% 
4.6% 
4.2% 
3.9% 
3.7% 
2.4% 
2.0% 
TEAEs reported at higher incidence in the control group compared to alirocumab 
Upper respiratory tract 
7.7% 
6.9% 
6.6% 
5.3% 
infection 
Urinary tract infection 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
fatigue 
Depression 
Pain in extremity 
Fall 
Dizziness 
Osteoarthritis 
Atrial fibrillation 
headache 
Myalgia 
Cough 
Non cardiac chest pain 
6.0% 
5.7% 
5.7% 
3.6% 
3.0% 
4.4% 
3.9% 
3.5% 
2.9% 
2.1% 
5.3% 
4.7% 
4.3% 
3.1% 
1.7% 
2.9% 
2.7% 
2.5% 
2.2% 
1.% 
5.7% 
3.9% 
3.1% 
2.0% 
4.3% 
5.4% 
4.6% 
2.8% 
2.8% 
2.4% 
1.4% 
3.6% 
4.9% 
3.4% 
1.9% 
1.3% 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 90/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in subjects who achieved LDL-C < 25 mg/dL 
In the global pool, a total of 1371 (41.0%) patients treated with alirocumab had at least 1 value of 
LDL-C <25 mg/dL (versus 12 [0.6%] in the control group) and 796 (23.8%) patients had 2 
consecutive values of LDL-C <25 mg/dL (versus 0 in the control group). These mostly occurred in the 
studies involving only the 150 mg Q2W dose, i.e. 65-80% of all patients with low levels of LDL-C 
(including patients with at least 1 value or 2 consecutive values) had only received the 150 mg Q2W 
dose regimen. In addition, in 722 (21.6%) alirocumab treated patients at least 1 value of  LDL-C <15 
mg/dL was observed, while 288 (8.6%) patients treated with alirocumab had 2 consecutive values of 
LDL-C<15mg/dL.  
No differences were observed in the rate of patients with at least 1 TEAE, treatment-emergent SAE, 
TEAE leading to death, and TEAE leading to treatment discontinuation in patients with 2 consecutive 
values of LDL-C <25 mg/dL or 2 consecutive values of LDL-C <15 mg/dL compared with  LDL-C ≥25 
mg/dL (Table S09) or LDL-C ≥15 mg/dL (Table S10).  
Table S09. Overview of adverse event profile: treatment-emergent adverse events in 
patients with an LDL-C threshold of 25 mg/dL (0.65 mmol/L) (Safety population) – global 
pool 
Control 
Alirocumab 
Alirocumab LDL-
C≥25mg/dL 
n(%) 
(N=1894) 
(N=3340) 
(N=2544) 
Alirocumab 2 
LDL-
C<25mg/dL 
(N=796) 
Patients with any 
TEAE 
1396 
(73.7%) 
2483 
(74.3%) 
Patients with any 
treatment 
emergent SAE 
 251 
(13.3%) 
 453 
(13.6%) 
1867 (73.4%) 
  543 (68.2%) 
333 (13.1%) 
  104 (13.1%) 
Patients with any 
TEAE leading to 
death 
Patients with any 
TEAE leading to 
permanent 
treatment 
discontinuation 
  18  (1.0%) 
  15  (0.4%) 
12  (0.5%) 
3  (0.4%) 
 125  (6.6%) 
 207  (6.2%) 
179  (7.0%) 
28  (3.5%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 91/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S10. Overview of adverse event profile: treatment-emergent adverse events in 
patients with an LDL-C threshold of 15 mg/dL (0.39 mmol/L) (Safety population) – global 
pool 
Control 
Alirocumab 
Alirocumab LDL-
C≥15mg/dL 
n(%) 
(N=1894) 
(N=3340) 
(N=3052) 
Alirocumab 2 
LDL-
C<15mg/dL 
(N=288) 
Patients with any 
TEAE 
1396 
(73.7%) 
2483 
(74.3%) 
Patients with any 
treatment 
emergent SAE 
 251 
(13.3%) 
 453 
(13.6%) 
2259 (74.0%) 
  193 (67.0%) 
417 (13.7%) 
28  (9.7%) 
Patients with any 
TEAE leading to 
death 
Patients with any 
TEAE leading to 
permanent 
treatment 
discontinuation 
  18  (1.0%) 
  15  (0.4%) 
15  (0.5%) 
0 
 125  (6.6%) 
 207  (6.2%) 
193  (6.3%) 
14  (4.9%) 
Comparing incidences in AEs of specific interest with regard to patients with very low levels of LDL-C 
showed that in the global pool, the incidence in neurocognitive TEAEs was lower in patients with two 
consecutive LDL-C values <25 mg/dL (4 patients (0.5%)) versus 24 (0.9%) patients without two 
consecutive LDL-C values <25 mg/dL (<0.65 mmol/L). Serious neurocognitive TEAEs were reported in 
4 (0.12%) patients in the alirocumab group and 3 (0.16%) patients in the control group. Among the 4 
patients on alirocumab, 2 patients had reached at least 2 consecutive LDL-C values < 25 mg/dL and 
the other 2 patients had LDL-c values> 25 mg/dL, and thus not showing an LDL-C level –related effect 
for the defined threshold. Furthermore, analysis in patients treated for at least 52 weeks showed no 
case of neurocognitive TEAE in patients at LDL-C <25 mg/dL (<0.65 mmol/L) for at least 52 weeks 
The number and percentage of neurological TEAEs was lower in patients with two consecutive LDL-C 
values <25 mg/dL (15 (1.9%)) versus 91 (3.6%) patients without two consecutive LDL-C values <25 
mg/dL. 
Furthermore, in patients who achieved 2 consecutive LDL-C levels below 25 mg/dL, no differences in 
ophthalmological events were noted compared to patients who did not achieve such levels (1.5% vs 
1.4%). Only 1 event, cataract, was observed at a higher rate in patients with 2 consecutive LDL-C 
values <25 mg/dL compared to patients who did not achieve such levels. However, in this subgroup 
analysis defined by post-randomization criteria, the baseline differences between treatment groups 
described above include many that are risk factors for cataracts. 
Comparable or slightly lower incidences in the SOCs, including infections and infestations; neoplasms 
benign, malignant and unspecified; blood and lymphatic system; immune system disorders; ear and 
labyrinth disorders; cardiac disorders; vascular disorders; respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders; gastrointestinal disorders; hepatobiliary disorders; skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders; 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders; renal and urinary disorders; reproductive system and 
breast disorders; congenital, familial and genetic disorders; general disorders and administration site 
conditions; investigations; injury, poisoning and procedural complications were observed in patients 
having reached either 2 consecutive values of LDL-C < 25 mg/dL or 15 mg/dL compared with the 
respective subgroups of > 25mg/dL or > 15 mg/dL.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 92/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incidences in AEs in SOCs of specific interest with regard to patients with very low LDL-C levels are 
presented in Table S11. Eye disorders, endocrine disorders, and metabolism and nutrition disorders 
were found with slightly higher frequency in the lower lipid groups, while nervous system disorders and 
psychiatric disorders were slightly lower (Table S11) 
Table S11. Number (%) of patients with TEAEs > 0.2% experienced by patients from 
alirocumab group with 2 consecutive values LDL-C< 25mg/dL or LDL-C < 15 mg/dL – Global 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C ≥ 25 
mg/dL 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C < 25 
mg/dL 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C ≥ 15 
mg/dL 
N (%) 
N (%) 
(N) 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C < 15 
mg/dL 
N(%) 
pool 
Primary SOC 
    Preferred term 
Endocrine disorders 
Hypothyroidism 
Hyperthyroidism 
Goitre 
Hyperparathyroidism 
Thyrotoxic crisis 
15 (0.6%) 
5 (0.2%) 
0  
5 (0.2%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders  164 (6.4%) 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Diabetes mellitus 
Gout 
Diabetes mellitus inadequate 
control 
Hypoglycaemia 
Dehydration 
21 (0.8%) 
27 (1.1%) 
20 (0.8%) 
7 (0.3%) 
12 (0.5%) 
6 (0.2%) 
Glucose tolerance impaired 
2 (<0.1%) 
Hyperuricaemia 
6 (0.2%) 
Eye disorders 
Cataract 
Vision blurred 
Cataract nuclear 
103 (4.0%) 
13 (0.5%) 
10 (0.4%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
Conjunctival haemorrhage 
5 (0.2%) 
Lenticular opacities 
Posterior capsule opacification 
0 
0 
Presbyopia 
3 (0.1%) 
Retinal haemorrhage 
0 
Vitreous floaters 
4 (0.2%) 
Abnormal sensation in eye 
Diplopia 
8 (1.0%) 
3 (0.4%) 
2 (0.3%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
56 (7.0%) 
14 (1.8%) 
12 (1.5%) 
9 (1.1%) 
7 (0.9%) 
3 (0.4%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
42 (5.3%) 
12 (1.5%) 
6 (0.8%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
18 (0.6%) 
6 (0.2%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
5 (0.2%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
5 (1.7%) 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
206 (6.7%) 
21 (7.3%) 
30 (1.0%) 
32 (1.0%) 
29 (1.0%) 
13 (0.4%) 
12 (0.4%) 
7 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
4 (1.4%) 
7 (2.4%) 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (0.7%) 
3 (1.0%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
0 
130 (4.3%) 
20 (6.9%) 
19 (0.6%) 
13 (0.4%) 
0 
5 (0.2%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
5 (0.2%) 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
7 (2.4%) 
3 (1.0%) 
0 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 93/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary SOC 
    Preferred term 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C ≥ 25 
mg/dL 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C < 25 
mg/dL 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C ≥ 15 
mg/dL 
N (%) 
N (%) 
(N) 
Alirocumab 
LDL-C < 15 
mg/dL 
N(%) 
Nervous system disorders 
384 (15.1%) 
82 (10.3%) 
455 (14.9%) 
26 (9.0%) 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Sciatica 
Syncope 
Diabetic neuropathy 
Lethargy 
Paraesthesia 
Carotid arteriosclerosis 
81 (3.1%) 
122 (4.8%) 
16 (0.6%) 
17 (0.7%) 
5 (0.2%) 
9 (0.4%) 
23 (0.9%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
Decreased vibratory sense 
5 (0.2%) 
Hypoaesthesia 
Nerve compression 
Presyncope 
Tremor 
Ulnar nerve palsy 
20 (0.8%) 
5 (0.2%) 
7 (0.3%) 
4 (0.2%) 
0 
Carpal Tunnel syndrome 
8 (0.3%) 
Cervicobrachial syndrome 
0 
Psychiatric disorders 
137 (5.4%) 
Depression 
Anxiety 
Insomnia 
Alcohol abuse 
Agitation 
Bipolar disorder 
Confusional state 
Euphoric mood 
Initial insomnia 
35 (1.4%) 
22 (0.9%) 
42 (1.7%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
7 (0.3%) 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
Adverse events of special interest 
Muscle adverse events 
14 (1.8%) 
14 (1.8%) 
11 (1.4%) 
4 (0.5%) 
3 (0.4%) 
3 (0.4%) 
3 (0.4%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
28 (3.5%) 
10 (1.3%) 
8 (1.0%) 
6 (0.8%) 
3 (0.4%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
95 (3.1%) 
140 (4.6%) 
25 (0.8%) 
20 (0.7%) 
7 (0.2%) 
0 
4 (1.4%) 
4 (1.4%) 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
28 (0.9%) 
1 (0.3%) 
6 (0.2%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
6 (0.2%) 
7 (0.2%) 
5 (0.2%) 
0 
9 (0.3%) 
0 
161 (5.3%) 
44 (1.4%) 
27 (0.9%) 
0 
3 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%)) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
9 (3.1%) 
3 (1.0%) 
5 (1.7%) 
0 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.3%) 
0 
0 
0 
In the placebo-controlled pool, 15.1% patients in the alirocumab group versus 15.4% patients in the 
placebo group experienced a skeletal muscle-related TEAE (Table S12). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 94/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S12. Number (%) patients with skeletal muscle-related TEAEs (Safety population)- 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Analysis were not performed on the ezetimibe-controlled pool since the great majority of 
musculoskeletal related events in this pool were from the ALTERNATIVE study, that specifically enrolled 
statin intolerant patients due to skeletal muscle AEs. In the ALTERNATIVE study, fewer patients with 
skeletal muscle-related TEAEs in the alirocumab group (32.5%) than in the atorvastatin (46.0%:HR 
0.61 [0.38 to 0.99]) or ezetimibe (41.1%:HR 0.70 [0.47 to 1.06]) groups were reported. 
Hepatic adverse events 
Hepatic disorder TEAEs were reported slightly more for alirocumab (61 (2.5%) and 23 (1.8%)) in the 
placebo-controlled pool, but slightly less ( 16 (1.9%) and 14 (2.3%) ) in the ezetimibe-controlled pool 
for the alirocumab and ezetimibe groups, respectively.  
Diabetes 
Diabetes mellitus or diabetes complication TEAEs were slightly more reported for alirocumab 
(83 (3.4%) and 40 (3.1%)) in the placebo-controlled pool, but slightly less (17 (2.0%) and 17 (2.8%)) 
in the ezetimibe-controlled pool for the alirocumab and ezetimibe groups, respectively.  
Furthermore, in the placebo-controlled and ezetimibe-controlled pools, changes in mean fasting 
glucose and HbA1c over time were up to Week 78 were similar between the treatment groups. 
Neurocognitive events 
Neurocognitive events were reported with approximately similar frequency, 21 (0.8%) patients versus 
9 (0.7%) patients in the placebo-controlled pool and in 8 (0.9%) patients versus 6 (1.0%) patients in 
the ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab and control, respectively (Table S13). Overall, the 
neurocognitive events were of mild to moderate intensity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 95/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  S13.  Number  (%)  of  patients  with  neurocognitive  disorders  TEAE(s)  by  PT  (Safety 
population) 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
(N=1276) 
(N=2476) 
(N=618) 
(N=864) 
Any neuro-cognitive disorders TEAE 
n(%) 
95% mid-p CI 
9 (0.7%) 
0.3% to 
1.3% 
21 (0.8%) 
6 (1.0%) 
8 (0.9%) 
0.5% to 1.3% 
0.4% to 2.0% 
0.4% to 1.8% 
Number of patients with an event 
per 100 patient year a 
0.6 
0.7 
1.3 
1.1 
95% CI 
0.3 to 1.2 
0.5 to 1.1 
0.5 to 2.8 
0.5 to 2.2 
Hazard ratio versus control (95% 
CI) b 
1.18 (0.54 to 
2.58) 
0.94 (0.32 to 
2.74) 
Neuro-cognitive disorders TEAE 
n(%) 
Neuro-cognitive disorders (CMQ) 
  9   (0.7%) 
  21   (0.8%) 
Confusional state 
Amnesia 
Memory impairment 
Disturbance in attention 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  2   (0.2%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
Confusion postoperative 
  0 
Dementia 
Disorientation 
Frontotemporal dementia 
  2   (0.2%) 
  0 
  0 
Transient global amnesia 
  1 (<0.1%) 
6   (0.2%) 
5   (0.2%) 
5   (0.2%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
Aphasia 
Delirium 
Dementia Alzheimer's type 
Hallucination 
  0 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 (1.0%) 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.3%) 
0 
2 (0.3%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8 (0.9%) 
2 (0.2%) 
1 (0.1%) 
3 (0.3%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
Renal adverse events 
TEAEs in the renal and urinary disorders SOC were less reported with alirocumab (96 (3.9%) patients 
and (4.7%) patients) in the placebo-controlled pool and 32 (3.7%) patients and 24 (3.9%) patients in 
the ezetimibe-controlled pool for the alirocumab and control group, respectively (Table S14). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 96/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S14. Subject incidence in renal and urinary disorders > 0.2% 
Device related adverse events 
Two different devices (PFS and PFP) were used for the administration of alirocumab or its placebo 
during the phase 3 clinical development program. 
In patients using the PFS in the LONG-TERM study, device-related events were observed in 10 (0.6%) 
and 3 (0.4%) patients in the alirocumab and the placebo groups, respectively. Device-related events 
with the pre-filled syringe were all reported as ‘unknown’. However, based on previous experience, 
these may represent needle stick injuries.  
Among patients using the PFP, in the placebo-controlled pool, a higher frequency than with PFS were 
reported, with a total of 70 (9.1%) and 23 (6.0%) patients in the alirocumab and the placebo groups, 
respectively, reporting device-related events .  
Vital signs 
The incidences of PCSA changes in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were 
similar between the treatment groups in both the pools. 
Injection site reactions 
Overall, the percentages of patients who reported local injection site reactions were larger with 
alirocumab, 6.1% and 4.1% in the alirocumab and pooled control groups, respectively. Local injection 
site reactions led to permanent treatment discontinuation in only 8 (0.2%) patients in the alirocumab 
treatment group and 6 (0.3%) patients in the control group. Symptoms associated with local injection 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 97/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
site reactions included erythema/redness (2.9%), swelling (2.3%), pain (1.9%), and hematoma 
(0.3%) 
Among the 147 patients in phase 3 studies with positive treatment-emergent anti-alirocumab 
antibodies (ADA) in the alirocumab group, local injection site reactions occurred at a higher frequency 
of 10.2% in patients with ADA compared to 5.9% in patients without treatment-emergent ADA 
(n = 2886). 
Ophthalmologic events 
Ophthalmologic TEAEs were reported at a higher frequency with alirocumab, in 44 (1.8%) versus 
18 (1.4%) patients in the placebo-controlled group and in 7 (0.8%) versus 3 (0.5%) patients in the 
ezetimibe-controlled group for alirocumab and control, respectively (Table S15). Overall, 
ophthalmologic events were generally mild or moderate in intensity in both pools. Severe 
ophthalmologic events were reported in 2 (4.5%) (optic nerve disorder and retinal disorder) versus 
none (0.0%) patients in the placebo-controlled group and no severe TEAEs were reported in the 
ezetimibe-controlled group. 
Serious ophthalmologic TEAEs were reported in 7 (0.3%) versus 3 (0.2%) patients in the placebo-
controlled group and in 1 (0.1%) versus none (0.0%) in the ezetimibe-controlled group for alirocumab 
and control, respectively. 
An ophthalmologic substudy was conducted in a subset of 139 patients in the LONG-TERM study. In 
the safety population of LONG-TERM as a whole, 38 patients (2.5%) in the alirocumab group and 15 
patients (1.9%) in the placebo group experienced TEAEs related to ophthalmological disorders. Among 
the 139 subjects in the ophthalmologic sub-study, 4 patients (4.5%) in the alirocumab group (age-
related macular degeneration, demyelination, detachment of the retinal pigment epithelium, retinal 
haemorrhage, and retinal tear) and 2 patients (3.9%) in the placebo group (diabetic neuropathy and 
macular degeneration) reported ophthalmological TEAEs.  
Table S15.  Number (%) of patients with Ophthalmological TEAE(s) by SMQ and PT (Safety 
population) - Pool of placebo-controlled studies and Pool of ezetimibe-controlled studies 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Placebo 
(N=1276) 
Alirocumab 
(N=2476) 
Ezetimibe 
(N=618) 
Alirocumab 
(N=864) 
Any ophthalmological TEAE 
n(%) 
18 (1.4%) 
44 (1.8%) 
3 (0.5%) 
7 (0.8%) 
95% mid-p CI 
Number of patients with an event 
per 100 patient year a 
0.9% to 
2.2% 
1.3% to 2.4% 
0.1% to 1.3% 
0.4% to 1.6% 
1.2 
1.6 
0.6 
1.0 
95% CI 
0.7 to 2.0 
1.1 to 2.1 
0.1 to 1.9 
0.4 to 2.0 
Hazard ratio versus control (95% 
CI) b 
1.24 (0.72 to 
2.15) 
1.36 (0.35 to 
5.31) 
Ophthalmological TEAE n(%) 
Corneal disorders (SMQ) 
Corneal abrasion 
Ophthalmological examination 
abnormal 
Corneal scar 
Injury corneal 
Keratitis 
Keratoconus 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
  5   (0.4%) 
  2   (0.2%) 
  0 
  0 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
Page 98/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
Placebo 
(N=1276) 
Alirocumab 
(N=2476) 
Ezetimibe 
(N=618) 
Alirocumab 
(N=864) 
Optic nerve disorders (SMQ) 
  3   (0.2%) 
  17   (0.7%) 
Visual acuity reduced 
Visual impairment 
Colour vision tests abnormal 
Optic nerve cupping 
Amblyopia 
Arteritis 
Colour blindness acquired 
Demyelination 
Ophthalmological examination 
abnormal 
Optic atrophy 
Optic neuritis 
  2   (0.2%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
4   (0.2%) 
3   (0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Retinal disorders (SMQ) 
 13   (1.0%) 
  35   (1.4%) 
3 (0.5%) 
Diabetic retinopathy 
Vitreous floaters 
Visual acuity reduced 
Vitreous detachment 
Visual impairment 
  2   (0.2%) 
  2   (0.2%) 
  2   (0.2%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
Colour vision tests abnormal 
  0 
Macular degeneration 
  1 (<0.1%) 
Retinal detachment 
Retinal haemorrhage 
Age-related macular 
degeneration 
Chorioretinopathy 
Colour blindness acquired 
Detachment of retinal pigment 
epithelium 
Diabetic retinal oedema 
  0 
  0 
  1 (<0.1%) 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
Macular fibrosis 
  2   (0.2%) 
Retinal artery embolism 
Retinal tear 
Retinal vein thrombosis 
Retinopathy hypertensive 
Arteriosclerotic retinopathy 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
Retinal vein occlusion 
  3   (0.2%) 
5   (0.2%) 
5   (0.2%) 
4   (0.2%) 
4   (0.2%) 
3   (0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 (0.7%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 99/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious adverse events 
The overall incidence of treatment-emergent SAEs was similar in the alirocumab and control groups: 
340 (13.7%) versus 182 (14.3%) in the placebo-controlled pool and 113 (13.1%) versus 69 (11.2%) 
in the ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab and control respectively. No relevant difference 
between the treatment groups was observed for any individual SOC. The most frequent treatment-
emergent SAEs, i.e. those reported in at least 0.5% of patients in any treatment group are presented 
in Table S16. 
Table S16. Number (%) patients with TESAEs – most frequently reported i.e. in at lease 
0.5% of patients in any treatment group. 
Serious adverse events 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
(N=1276) 
(N=2476) 
(N=618) 
(N=864) 
Any class 
182 (14.3%)  
340 (13.7%)   
69 (11.2%)  
113 (13.1%) 
Placebo-controlled pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled pool 
109 (4.4%) 
25 (4.0%) 
Cardiac disorders 
Unstable angina 
Angina pectoris 
Coronary artery disease 
Acute MI 
Atrial fibrillation 
MI 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia 
Nervous system disorders 
Syncope 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
58 (4.5) 
9 (0.7%) 
7 (0.5%) 
3 (0.2%) 
11 (0.9%) 
9 (0.7%) 
6 (0.5%) 
26 (2.0%) 
6 (0.5%) 
19 (1.5%) 
7 (0.5%) 
15 (1.2%) 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary 
7 (0.5%) 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Noncardiac chest pain 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
15 (1.2%) 
6 (0.5%) 
18 (1.4%) 
Ulcer haemorrhage 
0 
25 (1.0%) 
16 (0.6%) 
15 (0.6%) 
7 (0.3%) 
9 (0.4%) 
7 (0.3%) 
44 (1.8%) 
6 (0.2%) 
47 (1.9%) 
11 (0.4%) 
23 (0.9%) 
5 (0.2%) 
19 (0.8%) 
14 (0.6%) 
22 (0.9%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
Vomiting 
Haemorrhoids 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
2 (0.3%) 
6 (1.0%) 
2 (0.3%) 
3 (0.5%) 
3 (0.5%) 
0 
7 (1.1%) 
2 (0.3%) 
10 (1.6%) 
3 (0.5%) 
3 (0.5%) 
0 
8 (1.3%) 
5 (0.8%) 
4 (0.6%) 
0 
0 
0 
48 (5.6%) 
12 (1.4%) 
8 (0.9%) 
12 (1.4%) 
11 (1.3%) 
5 (0.6%) 
3 (0.3%) 
23  (2.7%) 
7 (0.8%) 
15 (1.7%) 
3 (0.3%) 
5 (0.6%) 
3 (0.3%) 
5 (0.6%) 
2 (0.2%) 
13 (1.5%) 
3 (0.3%) 
2 (0.2%) 
2 (0.2%) 
Adjudicated cardiovascular events 
In the global phase 3 pool, the adjudicated MACE events (CHD death, nonfatal MI, fatal or 
nonfatal ischaemic stroke, and unstable angina requiring hospitalization) composite endpoint 
occurred at a slightly lower frequency with alirocumab (52 (1.6%) patients in the alirocumab group 
and 33 (1.8%) patients in the control group). The incidence rate (per 100 patient-years) was 1.5 and 
1.8 in the alirocumab and control groups, respectively, with HR (95% CI): 0.81 (0.52 to 1.25) (Table 
S17 and Figure S01). The adjudicated composite MACE endpoint showed contrasting results with 35 
(1.5%) versus 27 (2.3%) patients in phase 3 placebo-controlled pool and 17 (2.0%) versus 6 (1.0%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 100/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the ezetimibe-controlled pool in the alirocumab versus control groups, respectively. Figure S02 
summarizes the HR versus control by study. 
Table S17. Positively adjudicated cardiovascular TEAEs: MACE EVENT – Global pool of phase 
3 studies 
Category of adjudication n(%) 
Any patients with treatment emergent MACE event 
n(%) 
95% mid-p CI 
Number of patients with an event per 100 patient year  
95% CI 
Hazard ratio versus control (95% CI)  
CHD death (including undetermined cause) 
Non-fatal MI 
Fatal and non-fatal ischemic stroke (including stroke not otherwise 
specified) 
Unstable angina requiring hospitalization 
Control 
Alirocumab 
(N=1792) 
(N=3182) 
33 (1.8%) 
52 (1.6%) 
1.3% to 
2.5% 
1.2% to 2.1% 
1.8 
1.5 
1.2 to 2.5 
1.1 to 1.9 
0.81 (0.52 to 
1.25) 
  9   (0.5%) 
8   (0.3%) 
 23   (1.3%) 
  30   (0.9%) 
  3   (0.2%) 
  12   (0.4%) 
  1 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 101/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure S01. Positively adjudicated cardiovascular TEAEs: MACE EVENT – Study-adjusted 
Kaplan-Meier cumulative incidence curve for time to first event – Global pool of phase 3 
studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 102/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure S02. Positively adjudicated cardiovascular TEAEs: MACE EVENT- Forest plot of hazard 
ratio versus control by study (Safety population)- Pool of phase 3 studies 
The majority of CV events confirmed by adjudication were revascularizations, which were not included 
in the MACE endpoint. CV events including MACE, CHF hospitalization or revascularization showed a 
slightly higher frequency for alirocumab with 110 (3.5%) patients in the alirocumab group and 53 
(3.0%) patients in the control group. Figure S03 summarizes the HR of MACE event, CHF 
hospitalization or revascularization control by study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 103/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure S03. Positively adjudicated cardiovascular treatment-emergent MACE EVENT, CHF 
HOSPITALIZATION or REVASCULARIZATION - Forest plot of hazard ratio versus control by 
study (Safety population) - Pool of phase 3 placebo-controlled studies and Pool of 
ezetimibe-controlled studies 
Deaths 
In the global pool, a slightly lower proportion of deaths was reported with alirocumab, with 20 deaths 
(0.6% of patients) in the alirocumab group and 17 deaths (0.9% of patients) in the control group 
reported on study. In these patients, mostly at high CV risk, the primary causes of death were CV 
events (Table S18). A meta-analysis performed on the incidences of TEAEs leading to death found an 
exact odds ratio (OR) versus control, stratified by study, of 0.44 (95% CI: 0.21 to 0.93) (Table S19). 
In the LONG-TERM study, which is the study with the largest database, the incidence of TEAEs leading 
to death in the alirocumab group was half of the incidence in the placebo group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 104/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S18. Summary of deaths adjudication results (safety population) – Global pool of 
phase 3 studies 
Primary cause of death as per adjudication n(%) 
Death on-study 
CHD death 
Control 
(N=1792) 
  17   (0.9%) 
Alirocumab 
(N=3182) 
20   (0.6%) 
9   (0.5%) 
12   (0.4%) 
Any cardiovascular 
  11   (0.6%) 
15   (0.5%) 
Acute myocardial infarction 
Cardiovascular haemorrhage 
Cardiovascular procedure 
Heart failure or cardiogenic shock 
Stroke - haemorrhagic 
Sudden cardiac death 
Any non-cardiovascular 
Accidental 
Pancreatic 
Pulmonary 
Suicide 
Other non-cardiovascular 
Non cardiovascular: Infection 
Non cardiovascular: Malignant 
New malignancy 
Worsening prior malignancy 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
8   (0.4%) 
6   (0.3%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
2   (0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
2   (0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
4   (0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
6   (0.2%) 
4   (0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
2 (<0.1%) 
0 
0 
0 
2 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
Not adjudicated 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
Placebo-controlled studies: phase 3 (LTS11717, FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I)  
Ezetimibe-controlled studies: phase 3 (COMBO II, MONO, OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, ALTERNATIVE)  
Only the primary cause of death is adjudicated. a includes all deaths that occurred after the start of the treatment up to the last 
protocol planned visit of the patient  
Haemorrhage: excl. haemorrhagic strokes and bleeding in the setting of coronary revascularization.  
Accidental: e.g. physical accidents or drug overdose or trauma.  
Prescription drug error: e.g. prescribed drug overdose, use of inappropriate drug, or drug-drug interaction.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 105/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S19. Meta-analysis of death: Incidence of TEAEs leading to death by studies (Safety 
population)- Global pool 
Placebo-controlled studies 
LONG-TERM 
FH I 
FH II 
HIGH-FH 
COMBO I 
DFI11565 
DFI11566 
CL-1003 
DFI12361 
Ezetimibe-controlled studies 
COMBO II 
MONO 
OPTIONS I 
OPTIONS II 
ALTERNATIVE 
OR versus control  
Control  
n/N(%) 
11/1276 (0.9%) 
8/788 (1.0%) 
0/163 (0.0%) 
0/81 (0.0%) 
0/35 (0.0%) 
3/107 (2.8%) 
0/31 (0.0%) 
0/31 (0.0%) 
0/15 (0.0%) 
0/25 (0.0%) 
7/618 (1.1%) 
4/241 (1.7%) 
0/51 (0.0%) 
2/101 (2.0%) 
1/101 (1.0%) 
0/124 (0.0%) 
Alirocumab  
n/N(%) 
13/2476 (0.5%) 
7/1550 (0.5%) 
4/322 (1.2%) 
0/167 (0.0%) 
0/72 (0.0%) 
2/207 (1.0%) 
0/31 (0.0%) 
0/61 (0.0%) 
0/16 (0.0%) 
0/50 (0.0%) 
2/864 (0.2%) 
2/479 (0.4%) 
0/52 (0.0%) 
0/104 (0.0%) 
0/103 (0.0%) 
0/126 (0.0%) 
0.44 
(0.21 to 0.93) 
95% CI 
Placebo-controlled studies: phase 3 (LTS11717, FH I, FH II, HIGH-FH, COMBO I), phase 2 (DFI11565, DFI11566, CL-1003, 
DFI12361)  
Ezetimibe-controlled studies: phase 3 (COMBO II, MONO, OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, ALTERNATIVE)  
n(%) = number and percentage of patients with at least one TEAE leading to death  
OR: Exact odds ratio stratified by study based on Gart method  
PGM=PRODOPS/SAR236553/OVERALL/POOL_2014_01/REPORT/PGM/ae_metadth_s_t.sas  
OUT=REPORT/OUTPUT/TMFCLAO_ae_metadth_s_t_i.rtf (08OCT2014 - 20:34)  
Laboratory findings 
Liver function tests 
In the placebo-controlled pool, slightly more patients in the alirocumab group (1.4%) had ALT 
increased >3 ULN compared to placebo (1.4%), however, an opposite trend was observed for ALT 
increased >5 ULN (0.3% versus 0.6%). In the ezetimibe-controlled pool, a slightly higher incidence in 
>3 ULN ALT was observed in the alirocumab group compared to the ezetimibe group (1.1% versus 
0.2%). 
Renal function test 
In both the placebo- and ezetimibe-controlled pools, no relevant differences were observed between 
treatment groups in the incidence of abnormalities of creatinine levels ≥150 µmol/L (≥1.70 mg/dL), an 
increase in creatinine levels ≥30%, ≥100% from baseline, or an increase in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 
at any time under the TEAE period.  
The percentages of patients who reported PCSA urate value >408 µmol/L (>6.86 mg/dL) were slightly 
higher in the alirocumab group (39.2%) compared to placebo (37.3%), in the placebo-controlled pool. 
In the ezetimibe-controlled pool, a similar pattern was observed with slightly higher incidences in the 
alirocumab group (39.9%) compared with the ezetimibe group (33.8%). Furthermore, slightly higher 
frequencies in abnormalities in GFR in the alirocumab group were found compared with control. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 106/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Creatine kinase 
Both in the placebo- and ezetimibe controlled-pool, no changes over time in creatine kinase were 
observed. During the entire treatment-emergent period, the percentages of patients with potentially 
clinically significant abnormality (PCSA) of increase in CK>3 ULN and >10 ULN were similar between 
the 2 treatment groups in both the placebo controlled pool and ezetimibe-controlled pool. 
Vitamins 
The effect of alirocumab on fat-soluble vitamins was measured in the LONG-TERM study. The results 
of the LONG-TERM study showed that there were no relevant changes in vitamin A, D, and K and no 
apparent correlation was observed with calculated LDL-C and vitamins A, D, and K.  
Vitamin E decreased post-baseline in the alirocumab group compared with the placebo group which 
showed little to no change over time, with a mean change from baseline in the alirocumab versus 
placebo groups as follows:-11.06 versus -0.34 μmol/L at Week 24, -11.38 versus 0.18 μmol/L at Week 
52, and -10.40 versus 1.78 μmol/L at Week 78, which is consistent with the fact that most vitamin E in 
plasma is associated with LDL. 
When vitamin E was normalized by LDL-C, i.e. ratio of vitamin E to calculated LDL-C, a large increase 
in vitamin E post-baseline in the alirocumab group was found, again compared to no change in the 
placebo group, indicating that despite reduction of plasma vitamin E levels, the vitamin E content of 
LDL increased with alirocumab therapy. 
Analyses of serum vitamin E level based on propensity score adjustment (and not adjusted for serum 
LDL-C) showed a hazard ratio (95% CI) of 3.05 (1.30 to 7.14) for patients with 2 consecutive LDL-C 
values <25 mg/dL (<0.65 mmol/L) versus patients with >25 mg/dL (>0.65 mmol/L) which is 
consistent with the fact that most vitamin E in the plasma is carried by LDL-C. Similar results were 
observed with 15 mg/dL threshold. 
Steroid analytes 
Parameters cortisol and gonadal hormone assessment were measured in the LONG-TERM study. The 
number of patients with a post-baseline cortisol value < LLN was similar between treatment groups 
(295 (19.6%) and 154 (20.1%) in the alirocumab and control group, respectively). No relevant 
changes from baseline in gonadal hormones (male), i.e. total testosterone, luteinizing hormone (LH), 
sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) were observed (Table S20). However, FSH seems to decrease 
over time in males to a greater extent in the alirocumab group compared with the placebo group 
although levels remained within normal ranges, with a mean change from baseline in the alirocumab 
versus placebo groups, respectively, as follows: -0.49 versus -0.04 IU/L at Week 12, -0.48 versus -
0.03 IU/L at Week 24, and -0.60 versus -0.16 IU/L at Week 52. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 107/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S20. Change from baseline over time during treatment period- Safety population-
males 
Total testosterone 
*nmol/L) 
    Placebo 
    Alirocumab 
Luteinizing hormone 
(IU/L) 
    Placebo 
    Alirocumab 
Follicle stimulating 
hormone (IU/L) 
    Placebo 
    Alirocumab 
Sex hormone 
binding globuline 
(nmol/L) 
    Placebo 
    Alirocumab 
Baseline   
(Mean (SD)) 
Week 12-change 
from baseline 
(mean (SD)) 
Week 24 change 
from baseline 
(mean (SD)) 
Week 52 change 
from baseline 
(mean (SD)) 
14.56 (5.36) 
14.21 (5.53) 
-0.10 (3.34) 
-0.08 (3.85) 
-0.04 (3.77) 
-0.01 (6.78) 
0.30 (5.01) 
0.14 (4.39) 
4.46 (3.82) 
4.54 (4.01) 
0.17 (2.28) 
0.10 (2.04) 
0.29 (1.87) 
0.39 (1.91) 
0.27 (2.04) 
0.32 (2.20) 
8.84 (9.42) 
8.85 (9.05) 
0.04 (3.40) 
-0.48 (2.19) 
0.03 (1.77) 
-0.49 (1.97) 
-0.16 (2.19) 
-0.60 (2.69) 
37.5 (15.2) 
36.4 (15.2) 
1.2 (7.0) 
2.0 (6.6) 
0.63 (6.8) 
1.8 (6.8) 
2.1 (8.1) 
2.6 (8.1) 
There was no apparent correlation observed with calculated LDL-C and total testosterone, LH, and FSH 
Analyses based on propensity score adjustment showed that the hazard ratio (95% CI) of 2 
consecutive LDL-C values <25 mg/dL (<0.65 mmol/L) versus >25 mg/dL (>0.65 mmol/L) is 0.61 
(0.43 to 0.87) for total testosterone below LLN. Similar results were observed with 15 mg/dL (<0.39 
mmol/L) threshold 
Safety in special populations 
Hepatic Impairment 
A single administration of alirocumab 75 mg in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (HI) 
was generally well tolerated in the very small study POP12671. TEAEs were reported in 2/8 subjects 
(25%) with mild HI, 6/9 subjects (66.7%) with moderate HI, and 5/8 matched healthy subjects 
(62.5%) with normal hepatic function. 
The most frequently reported TEAEs (reported by at least 2 subjects in any group) were upper 
abdominal pain (3/9 subjects [33.3%] in the moderate HI group, and none in the other groups), 
nasopharyngitis (2/8 subjects [25.0%] in the normal hepatic function group, and none in the other 
groups), headache (2/9 subjects in the moderate HI group [22.2%] and 1/8 subjects [12.5%] in the 
normal hepatic function group) and peripheral oedema (2/9 subjects [22.2%] in the moderate HI 
group, and none in the other groups). All other TEAEs were sporadic among the 3 groups.  
All TEAEs were mild or moderate in intensity with the exception of 2 severe TEAE (both considered 
SAEs). Serious adverse events were reported by 3 subjects: one subject with normal hepatic function 
who experienced an SAE of transient acantholytic dermatosis (reported as Grover disease), one subject 
with normal hepatic function who experienced a TIA and another subject with moderate HI who 
experienced renal impairment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 108/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal Impairment 
The number of patients in the safety population with TEAE and SAE according to baseline eGFR 
catagories is presented in Table S21 and S22. 
Table S21  Overview of treatment-emergent adverse events according to baseline e-GFR – 
pool of placebo controlled studies 
eGFR <60 
mL/min/1.73m² 
eGFR ≥60 to <90 
mL/min/1.73m² 
eGFR ≥90  
mL/min/1.73m² 
n(%) 
Patients with any TEAE 
Patients with any 
treatment emergent SAE 
Patients with any TEAE 
leading to death 
Patients with any TEAE 
leading to permanent 
treatment discontinuation 
Placebo 
(N=189) 
148 
(78.3%
) 
39    
(20.6%
) 
5 
(2.6%) 
16   
(8.5%) 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
(N=405) 
(N=794) 
(N=1557) 
(N=293) 
(N=512) 
322    
(79.5%) 
614 
(77.3%) 
1177    
(75.6%) 
213 
(72.7%) 
375    
(73.2%) 
71 
(17.5%) 
111 
(14.0%) 
215 
(13.8%) 
32    
(10.9%) 
54 
(10.5%) 
4 
(1.0%) 
40 
(9.9%) 
5 
(0.6%) 
33    
(4.2%) 
6 
(0.4%) 
67 
(4.3%) 
1 
(0.3%) 
16    
(5.5%) 
3 
|(0.6%) 
24 
(4.7%) 
 Table S22.  Overview of treatment-emergent adverse events according to baseline e-GFR – 
pool of ezetimibe controlled studies 
eGFR <60 
mL/min/1.73m² 
eGFR ≥60 to <90 
mL/min/1.73m² 
eGFR ≥90  
mL/min/1.73m² 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
n(%) 
(N=104) 
(N=152) 
(N=413) 
(N=570) 
(N=101) 
(N=142) 
Patients with any TEAE 
Patients with any 
treatment-emergent SAE 
Patients with any TEAE 
leading to death 
Patients with any TEAE 
leading to permanent 
treatment discontinuation 
74    
(71.2%) 
17    
(16.3%) 
2 
(1.9%) 
9 
(8.7%) 
103    
(67.8%) 
30 
(19.7%) 
1 
(0.7%) 
280   
(67.8%) 
44 
(10.7%) 
5 
(1.2%) 
21 
(13.8%) 
46 
(11.1%) 
409    
(71.8%) 
67 
(11.8%) 
1 
(0.2%) 
45 
(7.9%) 
67    
(66.3%) 
8 
(7.9%) 
95 
(66.9%) 
16 
(11.3%) 
0 
0 
5 
(5.0%) 
10 
(7.0%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 109/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
Elderly 
The safety population was split into 4 age groups and safety data are presented in Table S23 for the placebo-controlled pool and in Table S24 for the 
ezetimibe-controlled pool. 
Table S23   Overview of adverse events in placebo-controlled studies 
<65 years 
≥65 to <75 years 
≥75 to <85 years 
≥85 years 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
n(%) 
(N=878) 
(N=1671) 
(N=322) 
(N=642) 
(N=73) 
(N=154) 
(N=3) 
(N=9) 
Total AEs 
Serious AEs – Total 
650   
(74.0%) 
107   
(12.2%) 
 1244 (74.4%) 
  202 (12.1%) 
257   
(79.8%) 
 55 
(17.1%) 
  500 (77.9%) 
  106 (16.5%) 
 66 
(90.4%) 
 20 
(27.4%) 
  126 (81.8%) 
 2 
(66.7%) 
  6 (66.7%) 
  31 (20.1%) 
     0  
  1 (11.1%) 
Fatal 
  6  (0.7%) 
8  (0.5%) 
  4  (1.2%) 
5  (0.8%) 
  1  (1.4%) 
Life-threatening 
  6  (0.7%) 
4  (0.2%) 
  5  (1.6%) 
8  (1.2%) 
  1  (1.4%) 
0 
0 
     0  
     0  
  0 
  0 
Hospitalization/prolo
ng existing 
hospitalization 
 89 
(10.1%) 
  171 (10.2%) 
 48 
(14.9%) 
  89 (13.9%) 
 16 
(21.9%) 
  30 (19.5%) 
     0  
  1 (11.1%) 
Disability/incapacity 
  3  (0.3%) 
3  (0.2%) 
  0 
5  (0.8%) 
  0 
1  (0.6%) 
     0  
  0 
Other (medically 
significant) 
 28  (3.2%) 
  46  (2.8%) 
 11  (3.4%) 
  30  (4.7%) 
  8 
(11.0%) 
6  (3.9%) 
     0  
  0 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 110/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<65 years 
≥65 to <75 years 
≥75 to <85 years 
≥85 years 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
n(%) 
(N=878) 
(N=1671) 
(N=322) 
(N=642) 
(N=73) 
(N=154) 
(N=3) 
(N=9) 
AE leading to drop-out 
 40  (4.6%) 
  72  (4.3%) 
 15  (4.7%) 
  43  (6.7%) 
  71 
(8.1%) 
 159 
(18.1%) 
  121  (7.2%) 
  304 (18.2%) 
  21 
(6.5%) 
  85 
(26.4%) 
  46  (7.2%) 
  126 (19.6%) 
 10 
(13.7%) 
  9 
(12.3%) 
  21 
(28.8%) 
  15  (9.7%) 
     0  
  1 (11.1%) 
  18 (11.7%) 
  0 
  0 
  40 (26.0%) 
  0 
  2 (22.2%) 
157   
(17.9%) 
  361 
(21.6%) 
 69 
(21.4%) 
 120 
(18.7%) 
21 
(28.8%) 
  37 
(24.0%) 
 103 
(11.7%) 
 154 
(17.5%) 
  208 (12.4%) 
  310 (18.6%) 
  63 
(19.6%) 
  88 
(27.3%) 
  99 (15.4%) 
  149 (23.2%) 
  17 
(23.3%) 
  26 
(35.6%) 
  39 (25.3%) 
  44 (28.6%) 
 1 
(33.3%) 
  2 
(66.7%) 
  2 
(66.7%) 
  3 (33.3%) 
  3 (33.3%) 
  4 (44.4%) 
  7 (0.8%) 
  20  (1.2%) 
  2 (0.6%) 
9 (1.4%) 
  1 (1.4%) 
5 (3.2%) 
0  
0  
 347 
(39.5%) 
  705 (42.2%) 
 129 
(40.1%) 
  272 (42.4%) 
  38 
(52.1%) 
  61 (39.6%) 
  2 
(66.7%) 
  3 (33.3%) 
  0 
0 
0  
  0 
  0 
0 
     0  
  0 
 66 (7.5%) 
  117 (7.0%) 
 44 
(13.7%) 
  61 (9.5%) 
 15 
(20.5%) 
  20 (13.0%) 
 1 
(33.3%) 
  3 (33.3%) 
Psychiatric disorders  
Nervous system 
disorders 
Accidents and injuries  
Cardiac disorders  
Vascular disorders 
Cerebrovascular 
disorders  
Infections and 
infestations  
Anticholinergic 
syndrome 
Sum of postural 
hypotension, falls, 
black outs, syncope, 
dizziness, ataxia, 
fractures 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 111/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table S24   Overview of adverse events in ezetimibe-controlled studies 
<65 years 
≥65 to <75 years 
≥75 to <85 years 
≥85 years 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
n(%) 
(N=375) 
(N=511) 
(N=185) 
(N=275) 
(N=58) 
(N=71) 
(N=0) 
(N=7) 
Total AEs 
Serious AEs – Total 
Fatal 
 252 
(67.2%) 
  35 
(9.3%) 
  3 
(0.8%) 
  343 (67.1%) 
  57 (11.2%) 
2  (0.4%) 
Life-threatening 
  0 
5  (1.0%) 
Hospitalization/prolo
ng existing 
hospitalization 
Disability/incapacity 
Other (medically 
significant) 
  25 
(6.7%) 
  1 
(0.3%) 
  11 
(2.9%) 
  52 (10.2%) 
1  (0.2%) 
  16  (3.1%) 
 131 
(70.8%) 
  28 
(15.1%) 
  4 
(2.2%) 
  3 
(1.6%) 
  24 
(13.0%) 
  1 
(0.5%) 
  7 
(3.8%) 
  203 (73.8%) 
  39 (14.2%) 
0 
1  (0.4%) 
  36 (13.1%) 
  38 
(65.5%) 
  6 
(10.3%) 
  0 
  1 
(1.7%) 
  5 
(8.6%) 
  55 (77.5%) 
     0  
  6 (85.7%) 
  13 (18.3%) 
     0  
  4 (57.1%) 
0 
     0  
  0 
2  (2.8%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
  11 (15.5%) 
     0  
  2 (28.6%) 
2  (0.7%) 
  0 
0 
     0  
  0 
7  (2.5%) 
  1 
(1.7%) 
4  (5.6%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 112/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<65 years 
≥65 to <75 years 
≥75 to <85 years 
≥85 years 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
n(%) 
(N=375) 
(N=511) 
(N=185) 
(N=275) 
(N=58) 
(N=71) 
(N=0) 
(N=7) 
AE leading to drop-out 
Psychiatric disorders  
Nervous system 
disorders 
Accidents and injuries  
Cardiac disorders  
Vascular disorders 
Cerebrovascular 
disorders  
Infections and 
infestations  
Anticholinergic 
syndrome 
Sum of postural 
hypotension, falls, 
black outs, syncope, 
dizziness, ataxia, 
fractures 
  37 
(9.9%) 
  27
(7.2%)  
  58 
(15.5%) 
  52 
(13.9%) 
  49 
(13.1%) 
  61 
(16.3%) 
  4   
(1.1%) 
  97 
(25.9%) 
  45  (8.8%) 
  33  (6.5%) 
  75 (14.7%) 
  81 (15.9%) 
  69 (13.5%) 
  88 (17.2%) 
2 (0.4%) 
  152 (29.7%) 
  16 
(8.6%) 
  9
(4.9%) 
  26 
(14.1%) 
  28 
(15.1%) 
  30 
(16.2%) 
  35 
(18.9%) 
  2   
(1.1%) 
  53 
(28.6%) 
  23  (8.4%) 
  18  (6.5%) 
  53 (19.3%) 
  40 (14.5%) 
  38 (13.8%) 
  46 (16.7%) 
6 (2.2%) 
  72 (26.2%) 
  7 
(12.1%) 
  3 
(5.2%) 
  13 
(22.4%) 
  7 
(12.1%) 
  10 
(17.2%) 
  10 
(17.2%) 
  1   
(1.7%) 
  21 
(36.2%) 
7  (9.9%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
  4  (5.6%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
  19 (26.8%) 
     0  
  3 (42.9%) 
  16 (22.5%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
  17 (23.9%) 
     0  
  1 (14.3%) 
  21 (29.6%) 
     0  
  2 (28.6%) 
1 (1.4%) 
     0   
     0 
  23 (32.4%) 
     0  
  3 (42.9%) 
  0 
0 
0  
  0 
  0 
0 
     0  
  0 
  26   
(6.9%) 
  35 (6.8%) 
  16   
(8.6%) 
  17 (6.2%) 
  9 
(15.5%) 
  11 (15.5%) 
     0  
      0 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 113/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunological events 
General findings 
General allergic TEAEs were reported with a slightly higher frequency in alirocumab, with 213 (8.6%) 
and 99 (7.8%) patients in the placebo-controlled pool and in 59 (6.8%) and 33 (5.3%) patients in the 
ezetimibe-controlled pool for the alirocumab and ezetimibe groups, respectively. The majority of 
general allergic TEAEs were mild or moderate in intensity. 
General allergic TEAEs with a higher incidence in the alirocumab group than the placebo group (in 
≥ 0.3% patients in any treatment group), in order of decreasing incidence in the alirocumab group, 
were: pruritus (1.1% versus 0.4%), seasonal allergy (0.8% versus 0.5%), contact dermatitis (0.4% 
versus 0.2%), drug hypersensitivity (0.3% versus <0.1%), and urticaria (0.3% versus <0.1%). 
General allergic TEAEs with a higher incidence in the alirocumab group compared to the ezetimibe 
group were rash (1.4% versus 1.0%), pruritus (0.8% versus 0.5%), asthma (0.3% versus 0.2%), 
eczema (0.6% versus 0.5%), hypersensitivity (0.3% versus 0.2%), contact dermatitis (0.5% versus 
0.2%), and dermatitis (0.3% versus 0%).  
Anti-alirocumab antibody formation 
Across phase 1 studies, at the 75 mg dose and 150 mg dose, 22.4% and 16.7% of the subjects were 
positive in the ADA assay, respectively.  
In the phase 3 studies, treatment-emergent positive ADA responses were observed more in 
alirocumab, with 147 (4.8%) versus 10 (0.6%) patients in the alirocumab and control group, 
respectively. Most of these treatment-emergent ADA responses (63%) in the alirocumab group were 
classified as transient responses.  
Treatment-emergent TEAEs were comparable in patients with treatment emergent ADA positive 
responses (112 (76.2%)) compared to patients negative for treatment-emergent ADAs (2191 (75.9%), 
with the exception of an increased rate of injection site reactions (see section on, injection site 
reactions, above). Serious TEAEs were reported in 16.3% in patients with treatment-emergent ADA, 
compared to 14.1% patients without treatment-emergent ADA. 
Thirty-six patients (1.2%) exhibited neutralizing antibodies (Nab), all of them in the alirocumab group, 
which were not associated with any specific safety pattern. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No studies on potential drug drug or drug food interactions were conducted with alirocumab. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
The overall incidence of TEAEs leading to treatment discontinuation was similar between both groups in 
both the placebo-controlled pool (5.3% and 5.1 % in the alirocumab and placebo group, respectively) 
and the ezetimibe-controlled pool (8.8% and 9.7% in the alirocumab and ezetimibe group, 
respectively). Table S25 summarizes the most frequently reported TEAEs (in at least 3 patients) that 
led to treatment discontinuation in the placebo-controlled pool and ezetimibe-controlled pool; other 
TEAEs were isolated cases reported in 1 or 2 patients. 
The relatively high rate of skeletal muscle-related TEAEs is primarily driven by the ALTERNATIVE study 
which included a patient population solely with documented statin intolerance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 114/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A similar incidence of discontinuation due to AE over time was observed in the alirocumab and placebo 
groups and in the alirocumab and ezetimibe groups (Figure S04 and S05). 
Table S25. Number (%) of patients with TEAEs that led to treatment discontinuation – Most 
frequently reported (in at least 3 patients). 
TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation 
  Placebo-controlled pool 
pool 
Ezetimibe-controlled 
Placebo 
Alirocumab 
Ezetimibe 
Alirocumab 
(N=1276) 
(N=2476) 
(N=618) 
(N=864) 
65 
131 (5.3%)
60 
76 
Any class 
(5.1%)  
(9.7%)  
(8.8%) 
Injection site reaction 
Nausea 
Myalgia 
Fatigue 
ALT increased 
Anaemia 
Vertigo 
Diarrhea 
Pruritus 
Dizziness 
Back pain 
Headache 
4 (0.3%) 
2 (0.2%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
4 (0.3%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
1 (<0.1%) 
2 (0.2%) 
0 
3 (0.2%) 
3 (0.2%) 
2 (0.2%) 
5 (0.2%) 
5 (0.2%) 
4 (0.2%) 
4 (0.2%) 
4(0.2%) 
3 (0.1%) 
3 (0.1%) 
3 (0.1%) 
3 (0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
1 (<0.1%) 
Muscular weakness 
1 (<0.1%) 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
2 (0.3%) 
3 (0.3%) 
2 (0.2%) 
23 (3.7%) 
21 (2.4%) 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
0 
1 (0.2%) 
2 (0.3%) 
3 (0.5%) 
3 (0.5%) 
2 (0.2%) 
2 (0.2%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
2 (0.2%) 
2 (0.2%) 
3 (0.3%) 
1 (0.1%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 115/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure S04. Study-adjusted  Kaplan-Meier cumulative incidence curve for time to premature 
treatment discontinuation due to AE (Safety population)- Pool of placebo-controlled studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 116/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure S05. Study-adjusted Kaplan-Meier cumulative curve for time to premature treatment 
discontinuation due to AE (safety population)- Pool of ezetimibe-controlled studies 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In the phase 2/3 safety database, a substantial number of 3340 subjects were exposed to alirocumab, 
with 2856 subjects for at least 24 weeks, 2408 Subjects for ≥ 52 weeks and 638 alirocumab exposed 
subjects for at least 76 weeks. In terms of numbers this is sufficient according to guideline 
recommendations. However, considering that alirocumab is one of the first in an entirely novel class of 
medicines, information from 638 patients exposed for at least 76 weeks is still considered as limited for 
a treatment that is intended to be for life. However, this will be further addressed by a number of 
longer term studies, including a study to generate long-term data for more than 5 years as included in 
the risk management plan. 
For analyses in the alirocumab group, combining the safety data of the 2 regimens of alirocumab 75 
mg/150 mg was considered adequately justified, since no clear pattern of adverse events related to 
the higher alirocumab dose in comparison to the lower dose can be identified.  
The safety of alirocumab was evaluated with two safety sets, i.e. placebo-controlled phase 2/3 safety 
set and the ezetimibe-controlled safety set. TEAEs were frequently reported, however, the incidences 
were approximately similar (75.8% and 76.4% in the placebo-controlled pool and 70.3% and 68.1% in 
the ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab and control, respectively). Although TEAEs were 
commonly reported, alirocumab displays a safety profile approximately similar to that of the control 
treated groups (background treatment of statins and other LMTs, or ezetimibe). The most common 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 117/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAEs were nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, 
headache, myalgia, and arthralgia, which occurred at approximately similar incidences across the 
treatment groups in both pools. The prominent exception are injection site reactions which showed a 
higher incidence in the alirocumab groups compared with control (6.1% compared to 4.1% in the 
control group). However, these were of mild intensity and transient and did not result in more 
discontinuations (0.2% compared to 0.3% in the control group). The higher incidence in patients with 
treatment-emergent ADA (10.2%) compared with patients without treatment emergent ADA (5.9%), 
suggest that these AEs may partly be explained by an immunological response. 
In the placebo-controlled pool, the incidence in TEAE is higher in the first 24 weeks compared to the 
>24 to ≤ 52 weeks, and >52 to ≤ 78 weeks periods both in the alirocumab and placebo group. 
However, no specific AEs could be identified that could explain this phenomenon. Also, this seems not 
related to up-titration of alirocumab as AEs were found at similar frequency in the placebo group. That 
only the first event was reported or inclined to report an AE with a newly introduced drug can be 
considered reasonable explanations, in addition to the nature of some adverse effects to be reported 
early after start of treatment. 
The incidences of serious adverse events were relatively low, making any firm conclusions difficult, 
although comparable frequency was noticed between the alirocumab group and the control group in 
both pools. The most common serious adverse events were related to cardiac disorders, however no 
pattern could be observed for the combined incidence of cardiac disorders, with similar incidence in the 
placebo-controlled pool and higher incidence in the ezetimibe- controlled pool for alirocumab. Also, for 
the individual cardiac adverse events no conclusion can be drawn due to the low incidence. 
Cardiovascular events and deaths are of major interest, as a harmful effect should at least be excluded 
prior to marketing authorisation for a new pharmacological class according to the guideline for the 
treatment of lipid disorders (Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal products in the treatment 
of lipid disorders [EMA/CHMP/748108/2013]). The Applicant provided several analyses for the 
adjudicated MACE events. The number of MACE events (CHD death, nonfatal MI, fatal or nonfatal 
ischemic stroke, and unstable angina requiring hospitalization) was limited (n=85), which may be 
lower than expected considering 97% of the 5138 patients included were at high/very high CV risk and 
the mean exposure was ~58 weeks. Exclusion of patients with recent (within three months) ACS or 
coronary intervention during the phase 3 studies may provide part of the explanation. These event 
rates seem however to be in line with findings for patients of comparable CV risk in the REduction of 
Atherothrombosis for Continued Health (REACH) Registry and the Treating to New Targets (TNT) trial: 
but slightly lower than in the Study of the Effectiveness of Additional Reductions in Cholesterol and 
Homocysteine (SEARCH) trial.  Despite the limited number of events, a trend toward less events was 
observed in the global phase 3 pool (52 [1.6%] versus control 33 [1.8%]). Such an observation could 
also be obtained from the placebo-controlled pool (1.5% versus 2.3% in the alirocumab and placebo 
group, respectively) and in particular for the large LONG-TERM study (HR of 0.46 [95% CI: 0.26 to 
0.82]), which seems reassuring. However, data are limited, and interpretation is complicated by 
contrasting data of increased events with the use of alirocumab observed for the very limited number 
of events in the ezetimibe-controlled studies when revascularization and CHF requiring hospitalisation 
are  added as an endpoint to the MACE definition for the global pool of phase 3 studies. A long-term 
cardiovascular outcome study (OUTCOMES [EFC11570]) to evaluate a possible cardiovascular benefit 
of alirocumab is ongoing. 
During the clinical development program, no signs of a detrimental effect on mortality could be 
observed, with alirocumab showing relatively less deaths among the different analyses pools of phase 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 118/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 studies and global pool (0.6% for alirocumab versus 0.9% for control in the global pool), although 
the incidence of deaths was low (n=37), precluding any firm conclusions. 
Alirocumab seems to be well tolerated, as adverse events leading to discontinuations were infrequent 
and comparable between the alirocumab (5.9%) and control (6.6%) group. Also, the Kaplan-Meier 
cumulative curves do not indicate any specific time related or dose effects concerning discontinuation 
of patients. The most frequently reported TEAEs that led to treatment discontinuation in the placebo-
controlled pool were injection site reactions and nausea (5 [0.2%] each); myalgia, fatigue, and an 
increase of ALT (4 [0.2%] each); and anaemia, vertigo, diarrhea, and pruritus (3 [0.1%] each); other 
TEAEs were isolated cases reported in 1 or 2 patients. In the ezetimibe-controlled pool these were 
headache and injection site reaction (3 [0.3%] each); other TEAEs were isolated cases reported in 1 or 
2 patients. 
The prefilled pen (PFP) and prefilled syringe (PFS) are devices requested for registration in this MAA. 
The PFS was used in the LONG-TERM study only and the pre-filled pen (PFP) was used in all other 
studies. A higher incidence in device related adverse event was observed in patients using the PFP 
(9.1% vs 6.0% for alirocumab versus placebo) compared to patients using the PFS (0.6% and 0.4% 
for alirocumab versus placebo).  
Of particular interest was whether patients achieving very low levels of LDL-C would display a different 
safety profile compared to patients who have achieved a less low LDL-C level, in particular, as very low 
levels of LDL-C reduction have been associated with increased risk of cancer, haemorrhagic stroke, 
non-cardiovascular death and neurocognitive abnormalities and could affect steroid production. Almost 
half of the patients (1371 (41.0%)) treated with alirocumab had at least 1 value of LDL-C <25 mg/dL 
and 796 (23.8%) patients had 2 consecutive values of LDL-C <25 mg/dL (versus 0 in the control 
group). These mostly occurred in the studies involving only the 150 mg Q2W dose, i.e. 65-80% of all 
patients with low levels of LDL-C (including patients with at least 1 value or 2 consecutive values) had 
only received the 150 mg Q2W dose regimen. The Applicant has evaluated the incidences in TEAEs, 
which showed a slightly higher incidence for patients reaching very low levels for endocrine disorders 
(8 (1.0%) vs 15 (0.6%)), metabolism and nutrition disorders (56 (7.0%) vs 164 (6.4%)), and eye 
disorders (42 (5.3%) vs 103 (4.0%)) for LDL-C < 25 mg/dL vs LDL-C ≥ 25 mg/dL in alirocumab 
treated patients. In contrast, nervous system disorder (82 (10.3%) vs 384 (15.1%) and psychiatric 
disorders (28 (3.5%) vs 137 (5.4%)) were lower for alirocumab. However, due to the limited number 
of events, in particular, when specific adverse events are considered, drawing any conclusions based 
on these observations was not possible. For neurocognitive adverse events and steroid analytes no 
meaningful differences were found for the for LDL-C < 25 mg/dL vs LDL-C ≥ 25 mg/dL. For vitamin E,  
lower levels were found in the LDL-C < 25 mg/dL, which can be expected, while vitamin E/LDL-C ratio 
increased, which can be considered reassuring. 
Incidences of neurocognitive events have been evaluated for the entire pool. These were 
approximately comparable between the treatment groups in both the placebo- and ezetimibe-
controlled groups, although the number of events was very limited, making any conclusions difficult. In 
light of the very limited number of events, however, slightly higher incidences of memory impairment 
were observed in the alirocumab group in both pools, and of confusional state, for alirocumab versus 
placebo. Neurocognitive events have been related to very low levels of LDL-C. However, no meaningful 
differences appear for these events in very low levels of LDL-C. Neurocognitive disorders have been 
identified in the risk management plan and neurocognitive events will be collected and assessed in part 
of the ongoing studies. 
Ophthalmologic events were infrequent but showed a trend towards higher incidence in TEAEs in 
alirocumab groups in both pools, including higher incidences in severe and serious TEAEs. In the small 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 119/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ophthalmologic substudy (n=139) conducted in the LONG-TERM study, a higher incidence in general 
was found, probably because of the specific attention toward ophthalmological AEs. But this substudy 
also showed slightly higher incidences in ophthalmological TEAEs in the alirocumab group (4.5%) 
compared to placebo (3.9%). Besides these observations, in patients reaching very low LDL-C levels, a 
slightly higher incidence of ophthalmological events were found in comparison to patients in whom 
LDL-C levels remained higher. Inherited lipoprotein disorders characterized by low concentrations or 
absence of LDL-C and ApoB in plasma are associated with ophthalmological and neurological 
abnormalities and deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. Ophthalmological events were more frequently 
reported with alirocumab, however when comparing incidences reported for the <25 mg/dL category in 
comparison to >25 mg/dL, no differences appear in the total number of events, except that cataract 
was more frequently observed in the lower LDL-C category. Due to the limited number, no conclusion 
can be drawn on these differences in cataract events. 
Since alirocumab is a human monoclonal immunoglobulin, specific attention has been given to anti-
alirocumab antibodies. These were higher (4.8% versus 0.6% of the patients in the alirocumab and 
control group, respectively) for alirocumab but still infrequent. Apart from the issues discussed with 
injection site reactions, no other related clinically relevant adverse events were detected. The incidence 
in anti-alirocumab antibodies is higher (range 17-22%) in the phase 1 studies compared with the 
phase 3 studies (0.6%-4.8%), which can be partly explained by a different cut-off level. Comparing 
patients with low (≤ 240) or high (> 240) ADA titers, the incidence of AEs is approximately similar, 
112 (75%) for positive ADA < 240 subgroup compared to 13 (77%) for positive ADA >240 subgroup, 
which is reassuring, although patient numbers are limited.  Additionally, a low incidence in neutralizing 
anti-alirocumab antibodies was reported (1.2%), of which all cases were in the alirocumab group. Most 
patients exhibited only a transient neutralizing response. In general, the incidence of AEs was slightly 
lower (67% vs 76%) for the negative ADA population (n=2866) and similar for allergic AEs (8.3% vs 
8.2%). Also the rate of injection site reaction being comparable to that of ADA positive patients do not 
raise concern, although this is based on limited numbers of patients with neutralizing antibodies.  
Specific attention has been given to musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders, hepatic 
disorders, renal disorders, and diabetes, as these are known to be associated with several lipid 
lowering agents:  
No muscle-related safety signal has been identified. The incidence in skeletal muscle-related TEAEs 
was comparable between patients in the alirocumab group (15.1%) versus patients in the placebo 
group (15.4%). The most common TEAEs (> 2%) in the placebo-controlled group were: back pain, 
myalgia, muscle spasms, pain in extremity and musculoskeletal pain, which were comparable between 
the alirocumab and placebo group. Similar findings apply to the statin intolerant patients 
(ALTERNATIVE), where even fewer skeletal muscle related TEAEs were observed in the alirocumab 
group (32.5%) than in the statin re-challenge group (46%) or ezetimibe group (41.1%). In addition, 
no patterns indicative of clinically important abnormalities in creatine kinase were observed. 
No clear pattern was observed in hepatic disorders or liver function tests between alirocumab and the 
control group. The incidence in hepatic disorder TEAEs was low and a higher incidence could not be 
clearly identified for alirocumab. Furthermore, no pattern could be identified among the types of 
adverse events. The incidence in hepatic disorder TEAEs was somewhat higher in the alirocumab group 
(2.5%) compared to the placebo group (1.8%), whereas it was somewhat lower in the alirocumab 
group (1.9%) compared to the ezetimibe group (2.3%). Although slightly more patients in the 
alirocumab group had ALT increased >3 ULN compared to placebo, these data were limited. And for 
the placebo-controlled group an opposite trend was observed for ALT increases >5 ULN. Also, such 
observations were not supported by the AST data. In addition, the small phase 1 study (POP12671) in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 120/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment did not indicate any issues on safety and 
tolerability of alirocumab, although the size of this study limits drawing conclusions. 
In general, the incidences of renal adverse events do not indicate any adverse effect of alirocumab on 
the kidney, based on the limited number of events reported, with similar number of events compared 
to the control group (96 [3.9%] and 60 [4.7%] patients in the placebo-controlled pool and 32 [3.7%] 
and 24 [3.9%] patients in the ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab and control group, 
respectively). Regarding renal function tests, no differences in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen were 
observed. The incidence in urate value >408 µmol/L (>6.86 mg/dL) was slightly higher in the 
alirocumab group (39.2% and 37.3% in the placebo-controlled pool and 39.9% and 33.8% in the 
ezetimibe-controlled) compared to the control group. Furthermore, although based on limited 
numbers, small increases in abnormalities in GFR appear, but these do not result in clinical relevant 
treatment related safety issues. In addition, a total of 7 patients with an eGFR ≥ 15 to < 30 (severe), 
843 patients with an eGFR of ≥ 30 to < 60 (moderate),  3334 patients with an eGFR ≥60 to 90 (mild) 
and 1048 patients with eGFR ≥ 90 has been included in the phase 3 clinical program. No meaningful 
differences appear between treatment groups. For severe or very severe renal function, the data on 
these subgroups do not allow any safety conclusion to be drawn due to the limited number evaluated.   
No effect on incidence of diabetes or incidences of abnormalities in fasting glucose or HbA1C was found 
for alirocumab.  
For the safety set, no patterns indicative of clinical changes due to treatment-related laboratory 
abnormalities in vitamin E were observed. Changes in gonadal hormones were evaluated in males 
during the LONG-TERM study. No alterations in the mean change from baseline for total testosterone, 
LH and SHBG was observed; however, FSH seems to decrease over time in males, although it 
remained within the normal range.  
Changes from baseline for systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate did not reveal clinically 
important differences among treatment groups.  
Safety according to age categories did not show meaningful differences. Furthermore, no meaningful 
differences between frequencies of identified TEAEs were found compared between alirocumab-treated 
patients and comparator treatment across the different therapeutic settings i.e. patients with diabetes 
versus non diabetic patients; statin intolerant patients versus non statin intolerant patients, patients at 
high CV risk versus moderate CV risk, monotherapy versus on top of maximum statin therapy, and 
only slight differences appeared between frequencies of disease state. 
There is limited amount of data from the use of alirocumab in pregnant women and in women who are 
breast-feeding. As a result, as proposed by the Applicant in the SmPC, alirocumab should not be used 
during pregnancy or during breast-feeding. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Alirocumab displays an acceptable safety profile comparable to that of comparator therapies (placebo 
or standard of care), with a very limited number of patients discontinuing treatment or showing serious 
adverse events. No clear signs of a detrimental effect on cardiovascular morbidity or mortality could be 
identified, although data are limited. For patients achieving very low LDL-C levels specific TEAES of 
interest including neurocognitive events, levels of vitamin E and of steroid analytes did not indicate 
meaningful safety risks. Although ophthalmologic events were infrequent, a trend towards a higher 
incidence of those TEAEs in alirocumab groups in both pools was demonstrated. Any antibody 
formation was common however seems not a cause for concern, although some association with a 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 121/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher incidence of injection site reactions seems to exist. None of the safety effects commonly 
associated with other lipid lowering therapies, such as liver disorders, renal disorders, diabetes and 
musculoskeletal disorders, seem to arise with alirocumab treatment. Overall, the safety profile of 
alirocumab was found to be acceptable by CHMP. 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risk 
Immunogenicity 
Important potential 
risks 
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions 
Cataract (in context of very low LDL-C*) 
Neurocognitive disorders 
Missing information 
Use in children and adolescents 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Long-term use (>5 years) 
Clinical impact of very low LDL-C* for extended period of time 
Use in chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) carrier/hepatitis  
Influence of alirocumab on gonadal steroid hormones and gonadotropins (in men and 
women) 
* ie, less than 25 mg/dL (0.65 mmol/L) 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Study/activity 
Type, title and 
category (3) 
LTS11717 (LONG 
TERM) 
EFC12492 (FH I) 
CL-1112 (FH II) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status  
Date for 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports*  
Long-term safety and tolerability of 
alirocumab 150 mg Q2W in patients 
with non-FH or heFH at high CV risk 
not adequately controlled with a 
statin ± other LMTs (18-month 
duration) 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 
75/150 mg Q2W in patients with 
heFH not adequately controlled with 
statin ± other LMTs (18-month 
duration) 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 
75/150 mg Q2W in patients with 
heFH not adequately controlled with 
statin ± other LMTs (18-month 
duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population  
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
ongoing 
14-Aug-2015 
ongoing 
31-Aug-2015 
ongoing 
15-Sep-2015 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 122/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
Type, title and 
category (3) 
EFC12732 (HIGH FH) 
CL-1308 (CHOICE I) 
EFC11569 (COMBO 
II) 
EFC13672 
PDY13670 
EFC13786 (CHOICE 
II) 
LTS13463 (OLE of 
heFH studies) 
OLE of CL-1119 
(ALTERNATIVE) 
OLE of CL-1018 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status  
Date for 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports*  
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 150 
mg Q2W in patients with heFH not 
adequately controlled with statin ± 
other LMTs and with LDL-C ≥160 
mg/dL (4.14 mmol/L) (18-month 
duration) 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 300 
mg Q4W or 75/150 mg Q2W versus 
placebo in patients with 
hypercholesterolemia at moderate to 
very high CV risk, not adequately 
controlled with LMT (12-month 
duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population  
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 
75/150 mg Q2W in patients at high 
CV risk with hypercholesterolemia 
not adequately controlled with statin 
therapy (24-month duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 
versus placebo in Japanese patients 
with heFH or high CV risk patients 
with hypercholesterolemia not 
adequately controlled with LMT (12-
month duration) 
Pharmacodynamic effect of repeated 
doses of alirocumab Q2W on lipids 
and lipoprotein metabolism (10-week 
duration) 
Safety including long- 
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population (Japanese)  
Safety of alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 150 
mg Q4W or 75/150 mg Q2W versus 
placebo in patients with 
hypercholesterolemia not treated with  
statin (6-month duration) 
Safety of alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
(hypercholesterolemia 
not treated with statin) 
Open-label extension study of FH I, 
FH II, HIGH FH, and LTS11717 to 
assess long-term safety and efficacy 
of alirocumab 75/150 mg Q2W in 
patients with heFH  (>=40-month 
duration from 1st study initiation) 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab 
75/150 mg Q2W in statin intolerant 
patients with primary 
hypercholesterolemia (heFH and 
non-FH) at moderate or high CV risk 
(6-month duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Safety, including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Open-label extension study to CL-
1018 study to assess the long-term 
efficacy and safety of alirocumab 150 
mg Q2W in patients with ADH (up to 
36-month duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
ongoing 
17-Sep-2015 
ongoing 
15-Nov-2015 
ongoing 
27-Jan-2016 
ongoing 
29-Jan-2016 
ongoing 
26-Aug-2016 
ongoing 
26-Jun-2015 
ongoing 
03-Jan-2018 
ongoing 
10-Mar-2017 
ongoing 
10-Mar-2017 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 123/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
Type, title and 
category (3) 
CL-1032 (OLE of 
R727-CL-1003) 
OLE of EFC13786 
(CHOICE II) (Phase 3) 
EFC11570  
(OUTCOMES) 
LTS14580 (post-
ODYSSEY 
OUTCOMES registry 
study (PASS): 
prospective registry) 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status  
Date for 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports*  
Open-label extension study to CL-
1003 to assess long-term safety and 
tolerability of alirocumab 150 mg 
Q2W in patients with heFH receiving 
concomitant statins ± other LMTs (up 
to 48-month duration) 
Open-label extension study of 
CHOICE II to assess long-term safety 
of alirocumab 150 mg Q4W or 75/150 
mg Q2W versus placebo in patients 
with hypercholesterolemia not treated 
with a statin 
Effect of alirocumab (75 mg/mL or 
150 mg/mL, Q2W) versus placebo on 
the occurrence of CV events in 
patients who had recently 
experienced an ACS (up to 64-month 
duration) 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population  
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
Safety including long-
term safety of 
alirocumab in 
considered target 
population 
ongoing 
10-Mar-2017 
ongoing 
03-Jan-2018 
ongoing 
28-Jul-2018 
Evaluate safety in long-term use (>5 
years) 
Safety in long-term use 
(>5 years) 
planned 
Q3 2022 (Final 
report) 
Evaluate potential clinical impact of 
very low LDL-C for extended period 
of time 
Clinical impact of very 
low LDL-C for extended 
period of time 
Include a specific neurocognitive 
evaluation  
Neurocognitive 
disorders 
Evaluate the influence of alirocumab 
on gonadal steroid hormones and 
gonadotropins (in men and women)  
A PASS in patients 
infected with HIV 
Gather relevant safety data in 
patients infected with HIV 
Circulating gonadal 
steroid hormones and 
gonadotropins levels 
measured in both men 
and women  
Safety data in patients 
infected with HIV 
Prospective assessment of 
neurocognitive function using a 
neurocognitive battery of tests 
Evaluate neurocognitive 
disorders considered as 
potential risk 
A trial with a dedicated 
prospective 
assessment of 
neurocognitive function 
Drug utilization survey 
planned 
planned 
Q2 2016 (protocol 
submission) 
Q2 2016 (protocol 
submission) 
To assess the effectiveness of dosing 
recommendation as per labeling 
Clinical impact of very 
low LDL-C for extended 
period of time 
planned 
Q2 2016 (protocol 
submission) 
*Stands for date of final report, dates updated as of 8 May 2015; ACS: acute coronary syndrome; ADH: autosomal dominant 
hypercholesterolemia; CV: cardiovascular; heFH: heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia; LDL-C: low density lipoprotein - cholesterol; 
LMTs: lipid modifying therapy; non-FH: non- familial hypercholesterolemia; OLE: Open label extension; Q2W: once in 2 weeks; Q4W: once in 4 
weeks; HIV: human immunodeficiency virus, PASS: post-authorization safety study 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 124/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation 
activities 
Important identified risks 
Immunogenicity 
Appropriate SPC statement/information 
None 
Systemic hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Appropriate SPC/PL 
statements/information 
Important potential risks 
Cataract (in context of very low 
LDL-C*) 
 None  
Neurocognitive disorders 
None 
Missing information  
Use in children and adolescents  Appropriate SPC/PL 
statements/information 
Use in pregnant and lactating 
women 
Appropriate SPC/PL 
statements/information 
Use in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment 
Appropriate SPC/PL 
statements/information 
Use in patients with chronic 
HCV carrier/hepatitis 
Not applicable 
Long-term use (>5 years) 
Not applicable 
Clinical impact of very low LDL-
C for extended period of time 
Appropriate dosing recommendations in 
SPC/PL 
Not applicable 
Influence of alirocumab on 
gonadal steroid hormones and 
gonadotropins (in men and 
women) 
* ie, less than 25 mg/dL (0.65 mmol/L) 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the Risk Management Plan version 1.2 is acceptable. 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance  
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 125/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Praluent (alirocumab) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as it is a biological product that is not covered by the previous category and 
authorised after 1 January 2011.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that 
this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Alirocumab is one of the first in class fully human monoclonal IgG1 antibodies that binds to proprotein 
convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). By inhibiting the binding of PCSK9 to the LDL receptor 
(LDLR) on the liver cell surface, alirocumab prevents PCSK9-mediated LDLR degradation and increases 
the number of LDLRs available to clear LDL particles, thereby lowering LDL-C levels. 
The pharmacokinetics of alirocumab is similar to other human monoclonal antibodies. At low 
concentrations the elimination is target mediated by PCSK9 and at higher concentration by non-specific 
processes. 
The proposed indication for alirocumab includes patients with primary HeFH and non-FH, including 
patients with mixed dyslipidaemia and diabetic patients. 
The alirocumab clinical program consists of 11 clinical pharmacology studies (10 completed and 1 
ongoing), 7 phase 2 studies (5 completed double-blind and 2 ongoing open-label) and 17 phase 3 
studies (5 completed double-blind studies, 9 ongoing double-blind studies, and 3 ongoing open-label 
studies).  
Studies were conducted in patients with primary HeFH and non-FH, including patients with mixed 
dyslipidaemia,  diabetic patients and patients with statin intolerance. Treatment with alirocumab was 
evaluated as add-on to statins, with or without lipid modifying therapies (LMTs) or either as 
monotherapy or as add-on to other existing non-statin LMT. 
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
LDL-C levels were reduced by 39-62% in comparison with placebo when alirocumab was administered 
on top of a statin (including maximal doses of atorvastatin and rosuvastatin) with or without other 
LMTs. An LDL-C reduction of 24-36% was seen in comparison with ezetimibe in statin intolerant 
patients and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia with baseline levels between 102-198 
mg/dL (2.6-5.1 mmol/L). A substantial reduction in LDL-C has been demonstrated in different types of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 126/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients, i.e. HeFH (n=1377) and non-FH (n=3919), including patients with mixed dyslipidaemia, 
patients with high and moderate CV risk  (97% and 3% of the study participants, respectively, across 
the different studies) and statin intolerant patients (n= 314). Efficacy was supported by significant and 
beneficial changes in other lipid parameters, i.e. significant reductions in ApoB, Total-C, non-HDL-C, 
Lp(a), and fasting triglycerides (-10–15%) and increases in HDL-C (3- 5%) and ApoA-I (with no 
significant reductions in fasting triglycerides versus ezetimibe). A sustained effect of alirocumab in 
lowering of LDL-C has been demonstrated up to 52 weeks by the FH I, FHII, HIGH-FH, COMBO I 
and COMBO II studies and up to 78 weeks by the LONG-TERM study. 
Most of the studies comprised the dose regimen 75/150 mg, with an up-titration after 12 weeks from 
75 mg to 150 mg Q2W for patients who did not meet their individual LDL-C target levels on 75 mg 
Q2W (15-50% of the patients across the phase 3 studies). The proportion of patients who required up-
titration was higher in the studies with higher baseline LDL-C. Up-titration to 150 mg Q2W 
demonstrated an additional reduction in LDL-C of ~14 % in patients on a background therapy with a 
statin and ~3% in patients not using such a background therapy. Patients with very low levels of LDL-
C were mostly found in the studies involving only the 150 mg Q2W dose, i.e. 65-80% of all patients 
with low levels of LDL-C (including patients with either at least 1 value or 2 consecutive values) had 
only received the 150 mg Q2W dose regimen. 
Efficacy was consistent in all subgroups, i.e. race, ethnicity, age, gender, region, BMI, CV risk, glucose 
tolerance status, moderate chronic kidney disease, anti-alirocumab antibody level, statin treatment 
and PCSK 9 levels. However, limited data indicate a slight reduction in effect for hepatic impaired 
patients of ~10% less LDL-C reduction on the 75 mg Q2W dose. 
In the clinical program, studies were conducted with alirocumab from different cell lines (C1 and C2) 
and manufacturing processes (P1 and P2). Adequate studies to bridge these different formulations of 
alirocumab have been performed and showed comparability regarding PK, tolerability, safety and PD. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Efficacy has been demonstrated with regard to lowering LDL-C, an established surrogate marker for 
cardiovascular risk; however, outcome data with regard to cardiovascular events are currently not 
available. Furthermore, long-term efficacy data of alirocumab in LDL-C reduction is only available up to 
78 weeks. 
Although similar efficacy of alirocumab was demonstrated in patients over 75 years of age, the number 
of patients in this subgroup was limited.  
In the pop PK analysis, the systemic exposure of alirocumab was significantly higher in patients 
without a statin. The Applicant has justified that the up-titration based on LDL-C reduction from 75 mg 
to 150 mg Q2W dose is also reasonable in patients not on a concomitant statin. The additional mean 
reduction in LDL-C after up-titration from 75 mg to 150 mg Q2W was approximately 3% in patients not 
receiving a statin, with vast majority not achieving any further reductions. However, 25% of these 
patients achieved at least an additional 10% LDL-C lowering after up-titration, which is considered 
clinically important. Recommendations regarding up- and down-titration have been provided in section 
4.2 of the SmPC.  
Very limited data indicate a slightly attenuated LDL-C lowering effect in patients with hepatic 
impairment (33% and 36% in mild and moderate hepatic impairment, respectively) compared with 
healthy volunteers (45%), although some non-responders likely affected this overall response. Patients 
with severe hepatic impairment have not been included in the clinical program and, as a consequence, 
the efficacy of alirocumab in this subgroup has not been investigated. Furthermore, alirocumab has 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 127/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
also not been investigated in patients with severe renal impairment. Hence, warning statements for the 
use of alirocumab in patients with severe hepatic or renal impairment are included in the SmPC in 
sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2. 
The two devices (prefilled syringe (PFS) and prefilled pen (PFP)) have not been directly compared for 
efficacy in the clinical program. Some indirect comparison between the LONG TERM and HIGH HF 
studies using patients with comparable characteristics demonstrate approximately similar efficacy. 
Alirocumab is advised to be administered at 3 different injection sites, i.e. abdomen, upper arm, and 
thigh. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
A substantial number of patients have been evaluated for safety according to Guideline ICH E1 “The 
extent of population exposure to assess clinical safety for drugs intended for long-term treatment of 
non-life-threatening conditions”, including 2856 subjects for at least 24 weeks, 2408 for at least 52 
weeks and 638 alirocumab exposed subjects for at least 76 weeks. 
Alirocumab displayed a safety profile similar to that of the control with regard to the frequency of 
TEAEs (75.8% and 76.4% in the placebo-controlled pool and 70.3% and 68.1% in the ezetimibe-
controlled pool for alirocumab and control, respectively). The most common TEAEs were 
nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, headache, myalgia, 
and arthralgia, which occurred at approximately similar incidences across the treatment groups in both 
pools (with the exception of injection site reactions, see below).  
No meaningful differences between frequencies of identified TEAEs were found compared between 
alirocumab-treated patients and comparator treatment across the different therapeutic settings i.e. 
patients with diabetes patients versus non diabetic patients; statin intolerant patients versus non statin 
intolerant patients, patients at high CV risk versus moderate CV risk, monotherapy versus on top of 
maximum statin therapy. 
The safety profile of 75 mg and 150 mg Q2W was comparable with no clear pattern in incidences 
in the types of adverse events between up-titrated and non-titrated patients.  
Alirocumab was well tolerated with relatively low numbers of serious adverse events, which were 
comparable between the alirocumab and the control group in both pools (13.7% and 14.3% in the 
placebo-controlled pool and 13.1% and 11.2% in the ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab versus 
control respectively). Also, a low number of adverse events led to discontinuation, and this was 
comparable between the alirocumab (5.9%) and the control (6.6%) group.  
The incidence of local injection site reactions was slightly higher in the alirocumab group (6.1% 
versus 4.1% in the control group), however, the adverse events were of mild intensity and transient 
and did not result in more discontinuations. The differences in injection site reactions may partly be 
explained by immunological responses due to the presence of anti-alirocumab antibodies. Anti-
alirocumab antibodies were infrequent but more frequent in the alirocumab group (4.8%) compared 
with the control group (0.6%). Apart from the issues discussed with injection site reactions, no other 
clinically relevant adverse events were detected. The incidence in neutralizing antibodies was low 
(1.2%) in the alirocumab group versus none in the control group. Alirocumab treatment was not 
associated with any apparent skeletal muscle–related TEAEs, adverse events known to be 
associated with existing LMT. The incidences in skeletal muscle-related AE was comparable between 
patients in the alirocumab group (15.1%) versus patients in the placebo group (15.4%) in the placebo-
controlled pool, particularly, with even fewer incidences in the alirocumab group (32.5%) than in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 128/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ezetimibe group (41.1%) and in the statin re-challenge group (46%) in patient who are statin 
intolerant (ALTERNATIVE study). In addition, the incidence of abnormalities in creatine kinase levels 
was comparable across the treatment groups in both pools.  
Specific attention has also been given to hepatic disorders, as such adverse events can be associated 
with LMT. The incidence in hepatic disorder TEAEs was low and a higher incidence could not be clearly 
identified for alirocumab (2.5% and 1.8 % in the placebo-controlled pool and 1.9% and 2.3% in the 
ezetimibe-controlled pool for alirocumab and control, respectively). However, slightly more patients in 
the alirocumab group displayed ALT increased > 3 ULN compared to placebo, although an opposite 
trend was observed for ALT > 5 ULN for the limited data available. No difference in AST elevations was 
observed. 
No effect on systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and ECG was found for alirocumab.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Several analyses have been conducted to evaluate the incidence of adjudicated MACE events, 
defined by CHD death, nonfatal MI, fatal or nonfatal ischemic stroke, and unstable angina requiring 
hospitalization. The number of MACE events was 87 in 4974 patients, which is lower than could have 
been expected since 97% of the included patients were at high/very high CV risk and given the mean 
exposure of ~58 weeks. However the MACE rate seems in line with other data in such patients groups. 
Exclusion of patients with recent (within three months) ACS or coronary intervention during the phase 
3 studies may be partly responsible. Despite the limited number of events, a trend towards a lower 
number of events was observed in the global pool of phase 3 studies (52 [1.6%] versus control 33 
[1.8%]). A similar trend could also be observed in the placebo-controlled pool (1.5% versus placebo 
2.3%). However, interpretation of the data is complicated since contrasting data of increased events 
for alirocumab were observed for the ezetimibe–controlled studies and when revascularization and CHF 
requiring hospitalization were added as an endpoint to the MACE definition. Thirty-seven deaths have 
been reported in the global pool with less death reported in the alirocumab group (0.6%) than in the 
control group (0.9%). Although the data is reassuring and do not indicate a higher incidence in deaths, 
no firm conclusions can be made due to the limited number of these deaths. 
Considering safety during longer treatment, lower incidences in TEAEs were found over time in 
both the alirocumab group 16.5%, 6.2%, and 4.4% and the placebo group 16.8%, 6.7%, and 4.7% 
for the time-intervals ≤24 weeks, >24 to ≤52 weeks, and >52 to ≤78 weeks, respectively, which 
could likely be due to a higher inclination to report a first event with a newly introduced drug and 
possibly due to the occurrence of an event early after start of therapy.   
Of particular interest was whether patients achieving very low levels of LDL-C (i.e. at least 1 or 2 
consecutive values of LDL-C< 25mg/dL or LDL<15 mg/dL) with alirocumab treatment would 
demonstrate specific safety concerns, in particular since very low levels of LDL-C have been associated 
with increased risk of cancer, haemorrhagic stroke, non-cardiovascular death, neurocognitive 
disorders, and ophthalmological disorders. In the global pool, a total of 1371 (41.0%) patients treated 
with alirocumab had at least 1 value of LDL-C <25 mg/dL (versus 12 [0.6%] in the control group) and 
796 (23.8%) patients had 2 consecutive values of LDL-C <25 mg/dL (versus 0 in the control group). 
These mostly occurred in the studies involving only the 150 mg Q2W dose.  
For these patients reaching very low levels of LDL-C, a slightly higher incidence of endocrine disorders 
(8 (1.0%) vs 15 (0.6%)), metabolism and nutrition disorders (56 (7.0%) vs 164 (6.4%)), and eye 
disorders (42 (5.3%) vs 103 (4.0%)) for LDL-C < 25 mg/dL vs LDL-C ≥ 25 mg/dL in alirocumab 
treated patients were found. In contrast, nervous system disorder and psychiatric disorders were lower 
for alirocumab (82 (10.3%) vs 384 (15.1%) and 28 (3.5%) vs 137 (5.4%), respectively). No 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 129/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences for other type of AEs were found. However, due to the limited number of events, in 
particular, when specific adverse events are considered, drawing any conclusions based on these 
observations was not possible. For specific TEAEs of interest, i.e. neurocognitive adverse events, and 
steroid analytes, no meaningful differences were found. For vitamin E lower levels were found in the 
group with LDL-C < 25 mg/dL, which can be expected, while vitamine E/LDL-C ratio increased, which 
can be considered reassuring. 
Although the events were infrequent, slightly higher incidences of ophthalmological adverse events 
(optic nerve disorders and retinal disorders) were found in the alirocumab group compared to the 
control in the global pool, including higher incidences in severe and serious TEAEs. A similar trend of 
higher incidences was observed in the ophthalmological substudy conducted in the LONG-TERM study 
and in patients reaching very low LDL-C levels. Inherited lipoprotein disorders characterized by low 
concentrations or absence of LDL-C and ApoB in plasma are associated with ophthalmological and 
neurological abnormalities and deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins. Therefore, any association between 
very low LDL-C levels and higher risk in ophthalmological adverse events cannot be excluded, although 
no differences appear in the total number of events, except that cataract was more frequently 
observed in the lower LDL-C category. 
In general, alirocumab treatment was not associated with any apparent renal adverse events. 
Similar number of events in the alirocumab group compared to the control groups was reported (96 
[3.9%] and 60 [4.7%] patients in the placebo-controlled pool and 32 [3.7%] and 24 [3.9%] patients 
in the ezetimibe-controlled pool). In addition, regarding renal function tests, no differences in 
creatinine and blood urea nitrogen was found. However, the incidence in urate value > 408 µmol/L was 
slightly higher in the alirocumab group (950 [39.2%] and 467 [37.3%] patients in the placebo-
controlled pool and 366 [39.9%] and 204 [33.8%] patients in the ezetimibe-controlled pool), but this 
was not reflected in an increase in gout, questioning the clinical relevance of the finding. Furthermore, 
increases in abnormalities in GFR appear with slightly higher frequencies in alirocumab, but this was 
based on limited numbers. These differences were unexpected since alirocumab is not cleared by the 
kidney and may be a chance finding. 
Substantial numbers of patients with mild (n=3334), moderate (n=843) but small number of patients 
with severe (n=6) renal impairment have been included in the phase 3 clinical program. Data do not 
indicate a different safety profile for alirocumab based on renal function, although more AEs occurred 
in the lower GFR categories, but data in the severe renal impairment category are limited. As only a 
few patients with severe renal dysfunction were included in clinical trials and exposure to alirocumab 
was roughly two-fold higher in these subjects compared to subjects with normal renal function, “use in 
patients with severe renal impairment” is included in the RMP as an area of missing information, is 
advised to be used with caution as included in section 4.4 of the SmPC and the efficacy and safety of 
alirocumab in this population will be monitored post marketing. 
No safety signal has been identified for alirocumab in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. However, firm conclusions cannot be made since the number of patients with hepatic 
impairment was limited and attenuated alirocumab exposure and LDL-C response was found in patients 
with hepatic impairment, which was not expected as alirocumab is not metabolised by the liver.   
No effect on incidence of diabetes or incidences of abnormalities in fasting glucose or HbA1c, 
which have been suggested to be associated with statin therapy, were observed for alirocumab.  
Alirocumab treatment did not result in changes from baseline in gonadal hormones, which were only 
evaluated in males regarding total testosterone, LH, and SHBG. However, FSH seems to decrease over 
time in males although levels remained within normal ranges.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 130/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher incidence in device related adverse events was observed in patients using the prefilled pen 
(PFP) (9.1% and 6.0% for alirocumab versus placebo) compared to patients using the prefilled syringe 
(PFS) (0.6% and 0.4% for alirocumab versus placebo). However, the higher incidence in device related 
events does not appear to have impacted injection site reactions, as approximately similar rates 
between the devices were observed.   
Benefit-risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Alirocumab has demonstrated a substantial and consistent reduction in LDL-C and other lipid 
parameters in patients with HeFH and non-FH, including mixed dyslipidaemia, at high and moderate CV 
risk on top of standard treatments including statins and ezetimibe, as monotherapy or in statin 
intolerant patients. These are considered to be clinically relevant effects as LDL-C is an important 
surrogate endpoint for potential benefits in terms of cardiovascular outcome. However, the actual 
impact of long-term effect of lowering LDL-C by alirocumab in terms of improved cardiovascular 
outcome has not yet been determined. 
Regarding safety, alirocumab displays an acceptable safety profile with a comparable or slightly higher 
incidence of adverse events compared to the control group (placebo or ezetimibe), with a very limited 
number of patients showing serious adverse events or discontinuing treatment due to adverse events. 
In addition, alirocumab treatment does not seem to cause any of the known safety effects associated 
with other lipid lowering therapies such as skeletal muscle–related disorders, liver disorders, and 
diabetes. In patients with very low levels of LDL-C, assessment of specific AEs, such as neurocognitive 
adverse events which are sometimes associated with these low levels of LDL-C, did not demonstrate 
an adverse safety profile in that regard, although the limited number of events precludes any firm 
conclusions. 
The long-term studies provided data indicating maintenance of effect size and safety profile, although 
the time period covered is limited for a treatment that is intended to be given for life. The MACE events 
(CHD death, nonfatal MI, fatal or nonfatal ischaemic stroke, and unstable angina requiring 
hospitalization) reported in the global pool and the placebo-controlled pool did not give rise to specific 
concerns, although the number was limited. Besides the low number of events, interpretation is further 
complicated since a trend towards more events was obtained for alirocumab treatment in the 
ezetimibe-controlled pool and when revascularization and CHF requiring hospitalization were added as 
endpoint to the MACE definition, precluding any firm conclusion regarding exclusion of a detrimental 
effect on mortality and morbidity. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Alirocumab demonstrated a consistent and substantial beneficial  LDL-C lowering effect in patients with 
HeFH and non-FH, including patients with mixed dyslipidaemia and diabetic patients at high or 
moderate CV risk; this effect was demonstrated with alirocumab as add-on to maximum statin therapy 
with or without LMTs or as add-on to their existing non-statin LMT, including patients with statin 
intolerance. Alirocumab administered every 2 weeks has an acceptable safety profile and is well 
tolerated, which is considered important for a life-long intended treatment. Thus, the B/R balance is 
positive regarding the LDL-C lowering effect. However, duration of treatment is still limited and further 
data are necessary and is already being collected to assess long term safety and the occurrence of 
unexpected events. One remaining major uncertainty is whether the substantial LDL-C reduction 
translates into a cardiovascular benefit. This is reflected in the labelling. A cardiovascular outcome trial 
(OUTCOMES trial [EFC11570]) is already ongoing to provide reassurance on the cardiovascular benefit, 
and is also part of the risk management plan of the product. .  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 131/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
The Applicant has conducted studies in HeFH and non-FH patients still in need of further LDL-C 
reduction based on their increased CV risk profile, including patients on maximum statin therapy and 
patients intolerant to statins. Across the different studies, two dose regimens were evaluated, i.e. 1) 
an up-titration scheme with initiation at a dose of 75mg Q2W which could be up-titrated to 150 mg 
Q2W after 12 weeks in patients who did not meet LDL-C target levels and 2) a 150mg Q2W dose 
regimen. Up-titration to 150 mg Q2W resulted in an additional reduction in LDL-C (3%-14%) 
demonstrating the additional value of this higher dose. Although the safety profile was comparable 
between the two doses, the incidence in patients who had at least 1 or 2 values of very low LDL-C 
levels (< 25mg/dL) occurred mostly in the studies involving only the 150 mg Q2W. Therefore, the 
applicant proposed to only initiate therapy with the higher dose if LDL-C reduction of > 60% is  needed 
to achieve treatment goal, which was agreed. Optimal treatment targets are widely debated, with a 
general opinion shifting towards treating patients to LDL-C levels as low as possible, but concerns 
whether a so-called J-shaped effect curve may exist remain. With alirocumab, very low levels of LDL-C 
(< 25mg/dL) can be achieved in a substantial number of patients. In the past, with statins, concerns 
have been raised of possible increased safety risks when cholesterol would be lowered too much, 
including an increased risk for cancer, haemorrhagic stroke and non-cardiovascular death. Data with 
respect to these specific adverse events in these patients are still limited, although a similar safety 
profile was observed which is reassuring. Longer term safety data will be obtained in ongoing open 
label extension studies and an ongoing CV outcome trial and is expected to provide more data on this.  
Adverse events specifically known to be associated with existing lipid lowering therapy, including 
muscle related events, hepatic events, renal events, and diabetes risk, have been closely monitored 
throughout the clinical program. These did not generally give rise to specific concerns. No safety signal 
was identified regarding changes from baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate, as 
these measurements did not reveal clinically important differences among the treatment groups.  
Finally, an important limitation of the dossier is the lack of cardiovascular outcome data. Although 
reduction in LDL-C is considered to be a strong surrogate for CV risk reduction, this is mainly based on 
outcome data obtained with statins. Data from the recent “IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin 
Efficacy International Trial” (IMPROVE-IT) indicates a moderate CV beneficial effect of ezetimibe, a 
different therapeutic class than statins, thus strengthening the value of LDL-C as a surrogate 
parameter, but this remains to be confirmed with alirocumab as a member of the new class of PCSK9 
inhibitors. Although no signs of a detrimental effect were detected, the number of CV events and 
deaths were low and therefore no conclusions possible. A CV outcomes study in patients who have 
experienced an ACS is already ongoing.  
Long-term experience with alirocumab as a product with a new mechanism of action is limited. 
Therefore, the use of alirocumab is restricted to a second line therapy in patients not sufficiently 
controlled by a maximum tolerated dose of a statin or who are intolerant to statins. The indication 
includes both patients with hypercholesterolaemia and with mixed hyperlipidaemia (including patients 
with diabetes mellitus). This patient population is expected to be at increased cardiovascular risk and 
in need of further lowering of LDL-cholesterol, in line with current guidelines.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 132/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Praluent in the following indication is favourable. 
Praluent is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-
familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
- 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to 
reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
- 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-
intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
 
The MAH shall perform the required  pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 133/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that alirocumab is qualified as a new active substance. 
Paediatric Data 
No significant studies in the agreed paediatric investigation plan P/0297/2013 have been completed, in 
accordance with Article 45(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, after the entry into force of that 
Regulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/392430/2015 
Page 134/134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
