Summary of risk management plan for PRALUENT (Alirocumab) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for PRALUENT. The RMP details 
important risks of PRALUENT, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about PRALUENT’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
PRALUENT’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how PRALUENT 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for PRALUENT should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
PRALUENT’s RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
PRALUENT is authorized for indications as noted below (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains alirocumab as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneously (SC). 
Primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia: 
PRALUENT is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia, and in pediatric patients 8 years of age and older with 
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) as an adjunct to diet: 
 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients 
unable to reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin, or  
  alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are 
statin-intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease: 
PRALUENT is indicated in adults with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease to 
reduce cardiovascular risk by lowering LDL-C levels, as an adjunct to correction of other risk 
factors: 
 
in combination with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin with or without other 
lipid-lowering therapies or, 
  alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin 
intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Further information about the evaluation of PRALUENT’s benefits can be found in 
PRALUENT’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/praluent 
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of PRALUENT, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about PRALUENT’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients; 
  Both HCPs and patients are also provided with packaging information relative to the use 
of medical device, such as Instructions for Use (IFU) and quick reference guide inside the 
lid packaging; both elements convey key messages for an optimal use of the medical 
device; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. Alirocumab is a prescription only 
medicine. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
As part of routine surveillance, a “specific pregnancy/drug exposure via parent data collection 
form” is used to document spontaneous or solicited cases of pregnancy exposed to alirocumab. 
In addition, a neonates/children form, added to the pregnancy form has been put in place to 
document any developmental defects up to 12 months post-birth of children whose mothers are 
exposed to alirocumab during pregnancy. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of PRALUENT is not yet available, it is 
listed under “missing information” outlined in the next section. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of PRALUENT are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of PRALUENT. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table 1 - List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risk 
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions 
Important potential risk 
None 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
II.B 
Summary of important risks  
Table 2  Important identified risk with corresponding risk minimization activities: Systemic 
hypersensitivity reactions  
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Literature, non-clinical, clinical trials. 
No risk groups or risk factors have been identified. Risk factor analyses 
included: demographics (age, gender, race, ethnicity, BMI) medical history at 
baseline, estimated glomerular filtration rate, type of hypercholesterolemia and 
medical history of allergy, region, statin treatment at randomization. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
  Labelled in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC. 
  Labelled in sections 2 and 4 of PL. 
  Prescription only medicine. 
BMI: Body Mass Index; PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Table 3  Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities: Use in pregnant and 
lactating women  
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
  Labelled in section 4.6 of SmPC. 
  Labelled in section 2 of PL. 
  Prescription only medicine. 
PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 
Table 4  Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities: Use in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment  
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
  Labelled in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of SmPC. 
  Labelled in section 2 of PL. 
  Prescription only medicine. 
PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
PRALUENT. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
There are no studies required for PRALUENT. 
