explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
EPAR summary for the public 
EMA/403892/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002291 
conditions of use for Pramipexole Accord. 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pramipexole Accord. It 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
Pramipexole Accord 
pramipexole 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Pramipexole Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Pramipexole Accord is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Mirapexin. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
disease including the later stages when levodopa starts becoming less effective. 
What is Pramipexole Accord used for? 
How is Pramipexole Accord used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
What is Pramipexole Accord? 
tablets (0.088, 0.18, 0.35, 0.7 and 1.1 mg). 
Pramipexole Accord is a medicine that contains the active substance pramipexole. It is available as 
its own or in combination with levodopa (another medicine for Parkinson’s disease), at any stage of 
seven days until symptoms are controlled without causing side effects that cannot be tolerated. The 
that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle stiffness. Pramipexole Accord can be used either on 
Pramipexole Accord is used to treat the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, a progressive brain disorder 
The starting dose is one 0.088 mg tablet three times a day. The dose should be increased every five to 
maximum daily dose is three 1.1 mg tablets. Pramipexole Accord must be given less often in patients 
who have problems with their kidneys. If treatment is stopped for any reason, the dose should be 
decreased gradually. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Pramipexole Accord work? 
The active substance in Pramipexole Accord, pramipexole, is a dopamine agonist (a substance that 
imitates the action of dopamine). Dopamine is a messenger substance in the parts of the brain that 
dopamine begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. The patients then lose their 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Mirapexin. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Pramipexole Accord has been shown to 
Because Pramipexole Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
ability to control their movements reliably. Pramipexole stimulates the brain as dopamine would, so 
that patients can control their movement and have fewer of the signs and symptoms of Parkinson’s 
Because Pramipexole Accord is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
disease, such as shaking, stiffness and slowness of movement. 
How has Pramipexole Accord been studied? 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Pramipexole Accord been approved? 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Mirapexin. Two medicines are 
What are the benefits and risks of Pramipexole Accord? 
control movement and co-ordination. In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells that produce 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pramipexole Accord? 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
The full EPAR for Pramipexole Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Other information about Pramipexole Accord 
This summary was last updated in 06-2016.  
Pramipexole Accord on 30 September 2011. 
Accord be given marketing authorisation. 
and the package leaflet.  
doctor or pharmacist. 
treatment with Pramipexole Accord, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
and effective use of Pramipexole Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
for Mirapexin, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Pramipexole 
Pramipexole Accord  
EMA/403892/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
