European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/597029/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Pramipexole Teva 
International Nonproprietary Name: pramipexole 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000940 
 Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 11 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 12 
Page 2/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  22  October  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Pramipexole Teva, in accordance with 
the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’ 
The legal basis for this application refers to: Article 10(1). 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Reference medicinal product which is or has been authorised for not less than 6/10 
years in the EEA:  
  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sifrol 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg and 0.7 
mg tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
  First authorisation:  14-10-1997 
  Member State (EEA)/Community: EU registration 
 
■  Reference medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State  
where the application is made:  
 Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sifrol 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg and 0.7  
     mg tablets 
 Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
 Marketing authorisation number(s): EU 1/97/050/001-006 and EU 1/97/050/011-012 
■ Medicinal Product used for bioequivalence study  
 Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sifrol 0.18 mg tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
  Member State of source: Germany 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur : 
Pharmacovigilance Rapporteur : 
Dr. Tomas Salmonson 
Dr. Steffen Thirstrup 
Scientific Advice:  
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 22 October 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 November 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 08 February 
2008.  
Page 3/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the meeting on 19 March 2008, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
25 March 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 July 
2008. 
The  summary  report  of  the  inspection  carried  out  at  the  clinical  site,  and  analytical, 
pharmacokinetics, statistical and report issuing site was issued on 08 April 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 05 September 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22  to  25  September  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
During  the  meeting  on  20  to  23  October  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Pramipexole  Teva  on  23  October  2008.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 22 October 2008  
Page 4/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
is  presented  as 
The  medicinal  product  Pramipexole  Teva 
tablets  containing  pramipexole 
dihydrochloride monohydrate. Pramipexole Teva tablets are available in the strengths 0.088 mg, 0.18 
mg, 0.35 mg and 0.7 mg. The active ingredient is present in crystalline form. 
Other  ingredients  include  mannitol,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch  glycolate,  povidone, 
colloidal silicon dioxide, sodium stearyl fumarate and magnesium stearate.  
The tablets are packaged in aluminium blister packs, the 90 tablets pack-size are packaged in High 
density polyethylene bottles with a child resistant polypropylene cap.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Active Substance  
The chemical name for pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate is (S)-2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-
6-(propylamino) benzothiazole dihydrochloride monohydrate. It is a white to off-white, crystalline 
powder soluble in methanol. The active substance has no polymorph forms. 
The chemical structure of the active substance has been confirmed using analytical data by elemental 
analysis,  IR  absorption  spectroscopy,  UV  absorption  spectroscopy,  1H  NMR  spectroscopy,  mass 
spectrometry and optical isomerism. All data are consistent with the proposed structure. 
  Manufacture  
The active substance is manufactured by a one step process followed by a purification step. Detailed 
information  about  the  manufacturing,  validation  and  analytical  controls  of  the  active  substance  has 
been supplied in the form of an active substance master file (ASMF). The starting materials have been 
adequately characterized and the manufacturing process has adequately been validated. 
All  relevant  impurities  have  been  appropriately  discussed  and  characterized.  The  levels  of  the 
impurities are considered acceptable and appropriate specifications have been set. 
Information on stability studies conducted for pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate is provided. 
Batches are stored for up to 18 months in long term stability condition, and up to 6 months in 
accelerated stability condition. The stability data support the proposed retest period.  
  Specification 
The active substance specifications include appropriate tests for appearance, identifications (UV and 
IR  spectra,  test  for  chlorides),  organic  impurities  (HPLC),  assay  (titration),  enantiomeric  purity, 
sulphated ash, specific optical rotation, residual solvents, heavy metals and water content. 
The impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern in relation with safety or efficacy.  
The batch analysis data support the proposed acceptance limits.  
  Stability  
Stability studies have been performed in accordance with the ICH requirements.  
Long-term and accelerated stability studies have been conducted at 30ºC/65% RH during 66 months 
and at 40ºC/75% RH during 6 months. The test parameters evaluated in these studies were description, 
identity by IR, water content, specific optical rotation, enantiomeric purity by HPLC, chromatographic 
purity  by  HPLC  and  assay.  The  stability  data  provided  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  without 
special storage conditions. 
Page 5/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product  
  Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain an immediate-release tablet containing 
qualitatively and quantitatively the same active substance as the reference product already on the 
market Sifrol, and exhibiting the same bioavailability.  
The formulation composition was based on the qualitative composition of the innovator product with 
minor changes in the excipients. All excipients are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry. 
  Adventitious Agents 
None of the materials used in the manufacture of the medicinal product is of animal and/or human 
origin. 
  Manufacture of the Product 
Pramipexole Teva is manufactured by means of a wet granulation process, followed by drying of the 
wet granules, mixing with excipients and tabletting. The manufacturing process is regarded as a non-
complex method.  
The excipients used in the formulation comply with the monographs of the current Ph.Eur. Certificates 
of analysis for all excipients are provided.  
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in-process controls. 
The  manufacturing  process  demonstrates  to  be  reproducible  and  provides  a  finished  product  that 
complies with the finished product specifications.  
  Product Specification 
Appropriate medicinal product specifications have been set. The specifications for the finished product 
at release and shelf life are classical for this pharmaceutical form and include tests for appearance, 
identification and assay of the active substance, uniformity of dosage units, dissolution, degradants, 
water content, hardness, and microbial contamination. All tests included in the specification have been 
satisfactorily described and validated, according to the state of the art.  
Appropriate data have been presented to justify the release specifications for each quality 
characteristic that is controlled. The specifications for dissolution, uniformity of dosage units and 
microbial contamination comply with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. for tablets. 
Batch analysis data show that the proposed specifications are met. 
  Stability of the Product 
Long term (18 months at 25C/60% RH) and accelerated stability (6 months at 40°C/75% RH) studies 
have been carried out according to the ICH requirements on at least two batches of each of the four 
strengths.  
The  parameters  tested  and  analytical  methods  used  were  identical  to  those  used  for  the  release 
specifications.  In  all  cases  the  stability  results  presented  were  satisfactory  and  support  the  proposed 
shelf life for the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Page 6/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Pramipexole  Teva  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The Pramipexole Teva tablets intended for marketing are well suited; the manufacturing process is 
under control and ensures both batch to batch reproducibility and compliance with standard 
procedures and specifications; the analytical methods have been validated and seem to be suitable to 
ensure consistent quality of the active substance and the finished product, the synthetic pathway is 
presented and the structure and impurity profile are well characterised and in line with current ICH 
guidelines. The stability data on the active substance supports the proposed re-testing period. 
The stability data of the finished product in the proposed packages support the shelf life stated in the 
SPC. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion there were some unresolved minor quality issues which had no 
impact on the benefit/risk profile. The applicant committed in a letter of undertaking to provide the 
necessary information as follow up measures within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
No further studies are required and the applicant justified why new data were not provided. 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of pramipexole dihydrochloride are 
well known. As pramipexole is a widely used, well-known active substance, the applicant has not 
provided additional studies and further studies are not required.  
No ERA was submitted. Pramipexole Teva is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
combined sales volumes for all pramipexole containing products. 
The non-clinical overview based on literature review is, thus, appropriate. 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The Rapporteur’s assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of bioequivalence studies. 
One study (study 2007-1412) was submitted to support this indication. 
GCP aspects 
The bioequivalence study is stated to have been performed in accordance with GCP. The laboratory 
performing the clinical and analytical parts of the bioequivalence study has been inspected several 
times and has been found satisfactory. In connection with the examination of Pramipexole Teva, the 
CHMP asked for an inspection to be carried out of the conduct of the clinical study 2007-1412, in 
accordance with Article 57 of Council Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
No critical or major deviations were found during the inspection. Based on these findings it was 
concluded that the study was in compliance with GCP. 
Exemption  
The applicant submitted only one comparative bio-availability study with 0.25 mg tablets to determine 
whether Pramipexole TEVA 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7 mg Tablets to be licensed by TEVA 
Pharma B.V. demonstrate equivalent pharmacokinetic characteristics to the Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH Sifrol 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg and 0.7 mg Tablets. However, the applicant 
Page 7/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adequately justified the lack of the bioequivalence studies for the other strengths according to the 
requirements of the Guideline CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 section 5.4. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study (study 2007-1412). 
The objective of this study was to evaluate the comparative bioavailability between Pramipexole 
TEVA 0.25 mg Tablets and Sifrol 0.18 mg Tablets, Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH,  after 
a single-dose in healthy subjects under fasting conditions. 
Since this is a generic application, no further clinical studies were required and the applicant provided 
none. The clinical overview provided an adequate summary of the clinical data of pramipexole. It 
consisted of an overview of the published literature regarding clinical pharmacodynamics, 
pharmacokinetics, and efficacy and safety aspects of orally administered pramipexole hydrochloride. 
Pharmacokinetics  
 
Methods 
The applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study. The clinical part of the study was performed at 
Pharma Medica Research Inc. Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The bioanalysis, statistic and 
pharmacokinetic analyses were performed at Pharma Medica Research Inc., Ontario, Canada. 
STUDY DESIGN  
In study 2007-1412, the pharmacokinetics of pramipexole was investigated after a 0.25 mg single dose 
under fasting conditions in 24 healthy male and female healthy volunteers. Pramipexole was 
administered with 240 mL of room temperature potable water. Zofran (Ondansetron Hydrochloride) 8 
mg was administered with 180 mL of room temperature potable water, approximately 1 hour prior to 
the administration of pramipexole. Blood samples were collected prior to drug administration and at 
0.33, 0.67, 1, 1.33, 1.67, 2, 2.33, 2.67, 3, 3.5, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20, 24, 30 and 36 hours after dosing 
in pre-chilled Vacutainers containing K2EDTA as anticoagulant. There was a 1-week washout 
between treatments. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Pramipexole Dihydrochloride 0.25 mg Tablets, (Novopharm Limited, Canada). 
Sifrol  0.18  mg  Tablets  (0.25  mg  pramipexole  dihydrochloride  monohydrate  containing  0.18  mg 
pramipexole), (Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, Germany). 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
The study population included non-smoking, male and female volunteers between 18-55 years of age 
with a BMI between 19 and 30 (inclusive), who were judged to be healthy based on a medical 
examination. 
Of the 24 subjects who were included in the data analysis, 13 were caucasian, 8 were black, 2 were 
asian and 1 was hispanic. Thirteen (13) were female and 11 were male. 
Page 8/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Pramipexole was analysed in plasma by liquid-liquid extraction followed by reversed phase LC-
MS/MS.  
Data on long-term storage stability was missing in both the within-study and pre-study analytical 
report. The longest period for sample storage was fifty (50) days (June 07, 2007 – July 27, 2007). This 
period was stated to be covered by a long term stability program; however the CHMP asked the 
applicant to submit the long-term stability data supporting stability during long-term storage of 
samples. 
Data on storage stability was submitted by the applicant and showed that Pramipexole was stable in 
EDTA treated plasma for at least 139 days at -20ºC. 
The CHMP considered the issue resolved, as the storage stability data covered the storage period of 
the BE study.  
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The parameters calculated were AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Cmax, Tmax, Kel, Thalf.  
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Descriptive statistics were calculated by treatment for the estimated pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was also carried out on the natural log-transformed AUCt, AUCinf, 
Cmax, and untransformed Kel and t1/2 data. Values for the Tmax parameter were analyzed by a 
nonparametric approach. Based on the log-transformed parameters, the following criteria were used to 
evaluate the bioequivalence between the test and reference products: 
The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean AUCt, AUCinf and Cmax of the test to reference 
products should be between 80% and 125%. 
 
Results 
All 24 participants completed the study.  
Note that Test Product (A) was Pramipexole Dihydrochloride 0.25 mg Tablets (Novopharm Limited, 
Canada), and Reference Product (B) was Sifrol 0.18 mg Tablets (0.25 mg pramipexole 
dihydrochloride monohydrate containing 0.18 mg pramipexole) (Boehringer Ingelheim International 
GmbH, Germany). 
The results are presented in Table 1 below. 
Table 1 Main pharmacokinetic parameters and their 90% confidence intervals 
Page 9/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A statistically significant difference (p=0.05) was detected between the two periods of the study in the 
analysis of Kel (p=0.0105) and Thalf (p=0.0091) parameters. The least-squares means of the 
formulation effect were adjusted for the period effect therefore the final results are not influenced by 
the statistically significant period effect noticed for Kel and half-life parameters.  
Safety evaluation: 
There were 60 adverse events (AEs) involving 24 subjects in the study. 
A summary of the AEs by severity and relation to the drug and necessity for treatment is presented in 
the table below. 
No serious AEs were reported during the conduct of this study. 
None of the AEs had a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the integrity of 
the study results. 
Treatment A 
There were 28 Adverse Events associated with Treatment A, which consisted 
of: 
• Creatine increase (8) 
• Headache (4) 
• Somnolence (4) 
• Leukocytosis (3) 
• Urin abnormalities (3) 
• Diarrhea (2) 
• Edema peripheral (1) 
• Hypertension (1) 
• Pain Abdominal (1) 
• GGTP increase (1) 
Page 10/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment B 
There were 32 Adverse Events associated with Treatment B, which consisted 
of: 
• Creatinine increase (8) 
• Somnolence (7) 
• Headache (5) 
• Urine abnormalities (3) 
• Diarrhea (3) 
• Eosinophilia (1) 
• Hypertension (1) 
• Tachycardia (1) 
• Pain (1) 
• Asthenia (1) 
• Fever (1) 
  Conclusions 
Bioequivalence has been shown between the generic product and the reference innovative product.. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No pharmacodynamic studies were conducted by the applicant.  
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
The efficacy, safety and clinical pharmacology of the active ingredient pramipexole dihydrochloride 
monohydrate are already well established and documented for the original medicinal product Sifrol. 
The submitted bioequivalence study is designed and reported in accordance with the relevant EU note 
for guidance. The data of this study sufficiently demonstrate that the tested formulation intended for 
marketing is bioequivalent to the innovator product. The bioequivalence demonstrated for tablets of 
the strength 0.25 mg may be extrapolated also to strengths 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7 mg. The 
validity of the BE data was confirmed following the positive outcome of a GCP inspection conducted 
at the clinical and analytical sites. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
  PSURs  
The PSUR submission schedule for Pramipexole Teva should follow the PSURs submission schedule 
for the reference medicinal product. 
  Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Page 11/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Risk Management Plan 
The applicant justified that for this generic product with well-known safety profile it is not necessary 
to establish a risk management plan containing other measures than routine pharmacovigilance.  
  User consultation 
The package leaflet of Pramipexole Teva has passed a user consultation test. The package leaflet with 
a few minor exceptions has been harmonised with the reference medicinal product PL. 
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Pramipexole Teva is indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's 
disease, alone (without levodopa) or in combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, 
through to late stages when the effect of levodopa wears off or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations 
of the therapeutic effect occur (end of dose or “on off” fluctuations). 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Pramipexole  Teva  in  the  above  mentioned  indication  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 12/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
