EMA/79515/2011  
EMEA/H/C/001243 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pravafenix 
pravastatin/fenofibrate 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pravafenix. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Pravafenix. 
What is Pravafenix? 
Pravafenix is a medicine that contains the active substances pravastatin and fenofibrate. It is available 
as green and olive capsules containing 40 mg pravastatin and 160 mg fenofibrate. 
What is Pravafenix used for? 
Pravafenix is used in adults at high risk of heart disease whose ‘low-density-lipoprotein’ (LDL or ‘bad’) 
cholesterol is already being controlled with pravastatin alone but who still need to improve their 
cholesterol levels and to reduce their levels of triglycerides (a type of fat). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Pravafenix used? 
Before starting treatment with Pravafenix, the doctor should first investigate all possible causes of the 
patient’s abnormal cholesterol and triglycerides levels and place the patient on a suitable diet. 
The recommended dose is one capsule a day taken during the evening meal. The medicine should 
always be taken with food as it is less well absorbed from an empty stomach. The patient’s blood 
should be monitored regularly to see how the medicine is working. The doctor should stop treatment if 
an adequate response is not seen within three months.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Pravafenix work? 
The active substances in Pravafenix, pravastatin and fenofibrate, work in different ways and their 
actions have a complementary effect. 
Pravastatin belongs to the group called ‘statins’. It reduces total blood cholesterol by blocking the 
action of HMG-CoA reductase, an enzyme in the liver involved in the production of cholesterol. As the 
liver needs cholesterol to produce bile, the reduced blood cholesterol level causes the liver cells to 
produce receptors that draw cholesterol from the blood, reducing its level even further. The cholesterol 
drawn out of the blood in this way is the LDL, or ‘bad’ cholesterol. 
Fenofibrate is a ‘PPAR agonist’. It activates a type of receptor called the ‘peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor alpha’, which is involved in breaking down fat from the diet, especially 
triglycerides. When the receptors are activated, the breakdown of fats is accelerated, and this helps 
clear the blood of cholesterol and triglycerides. 
How has Pravafenix been studied? 
Because pravastatin and fenofibrate have been used in medicines for a number of years, the company 
presented information from the scientific literature in addition to results from its own studies.  
The company carried out one main study, in which Pravafenix was compared with pravastatin alone in 
248 patients at high risk of heart disease who had abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglyceride fats. 
The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in the level of cholesterol after 12 weeks 
(excluding HDL or ‘good’ cholesterol).  
What benefit has Pravafenix shown during the studies? 
In the main study Pravafenix was shown to be more effective than pravastatin alone in reducing non-
HDL-cholesterol levels. Non-HDL-cholesterol levels were reduced on average by around 14% in 
patients taking Pravafenix compared with 6% in patients taking pravastatin alone. 
What is the risk associated with Pravafenix? 
The most common side effects with Pravafenix (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
abdominal distension (bloating), abdominal pain (stomach ache), constipation, diarrhoea, dry mouth, 
dyspepsia (heartburn), eructation (belching), flatulence (gas), nausea (feeling sick), abdominal 
discomfort, vomiting and raised blood levels of liver enzymes. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Pravafenix, see the package leaflet. 
Pravafenix should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances 
or any of the other ingredients. Pravafenix must not be used in patients aged below 18 years or in 
patients with severe liver problems, moderate to severe kidney problems, photo allergy or phototoxic 
reactions (allergic reaction or skin damage due to light exposure) during treatment with fibrates or 
ketoprofen. It must also not be used in patients with gall bladder disease, chronic or acute pancreatitis 
(inflammation of the pancreas) or a history of myopathy (muscle disorders) or rhabdomyolysis 
(breakdown of muscle fibres) following treatment with a statin or a fibrate. It must not be given to 
women who are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
Why has Pravafenix been approved? 
The CHMP looked at newly published data on the benefits of the combination of statins and fenofibrate. 
The Committee also noted that the benefits of Pravafenix were mainly in patients who had high levels 
Pravafenix  
EMA/79515/2011  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
of triglyceride fats and low levels of HDL cholesterol. The Committee therefore decided that 
Pravafenix’s benefits are greater than its risks in this group of patients and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Pravafenix 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pravafenix to Laboratoires SMB s.a. on 14 April 2011. The marketing authorisation is valid for five 
years, after which it can be renewed. 
The full EPAR for Pravafenix can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Pravafenix, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2011. 
Pravafenix  
EMA/79515/2011  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
