24 September 2015 
EMA/713107/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Praxbind  
International non-proprietary name: idarucizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003986/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 7 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 16 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 16 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 16 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 17 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 20 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 22 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 25 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 26 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 27 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 27 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 27 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 33 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 37 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 41 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 42 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 43 
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 43 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 43 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 81 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 84 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 84 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 90 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 91 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 91 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 94 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 94 
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 94 
2.9.2. Labelling exemptions ....................................................................................... 95 
2.9.3. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 95 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 2/101 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 95 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 100 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 3/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ACT 
AIC 
ADA 
ALT 
aPTT 
AST 
AUC 
AUEC 
BID 
BLQ 
BMI 
CGE  
CHO  
CI 
CL 
Cmax 
Cov 
CPP  
Cpre,ss 
CQA 
CrCl 
CT 
CTR 
CV 
CWRES 
DE 
DNA 
DP  
DS  
DSC  
dTT 
DV 
DVT 
EBE 
EC50 
ECT 
EDQM 
EMA  
Emax 
Epsilon (
EST 
Eta (η) 
F 
Fab 
Fc 
FMEA  
FOCE 
GI 
GMP 
HC  
HCP  
Ɛ
) 
Activated clotting time 
Akaike information criteria 
Anti-drug antibody 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Activated partial thrombin time 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
area under the curve 
Area under the effect curve 
Twice daily 
Below limit of quantification 
Body mass index 
capillary gel electrophoresis  
Chinese hamster ovary 
confidence intervals 
clearance 
maximal concentration 
covariance 
critical process parameter  
Trough concentration in steady state 
critical quality attributes  
Creatinine clearance 
Computer tomography 
Clinical trial report 
coefficient of variation 
conditional weighted residuals 
Dabigatran etexilate 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
drug product 
drug substance 
differential scanning calorimetry  
Diluted thrombin time 
dependent variable 
Deep vein thrombosis 
empirical Bayes estimates 
drug concentrations to achieve 50% of the maximum effect 
Ecarin clotting time 
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare 
European Medicines Agency 
maximum observed or estimated efficacy or PD effect 
residual variability in NONMEM 
estimation ($estimation) 
interindividual variability in NONMEM 
absolute bioavailability 
antigen-binding fragment 
crystallizable fragment 
failure mode and effect analysis  
first-order conditional estimation (estimation method in NONMEM) 
Gastrointestinal 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
heavy chain  
host cell protein  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 4/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HMWCs  
HPLC-MS/MS 
HPSEC  
ICH  
ICH 
Ida 
IFSD 
IIV 
IMP 
IPRED 
ITS 
                        IWRES 
Ka 
Kd 
kD 
Kdeg 
koff 
kon 
ksyn 
LC  
LC-MSMS  
LLOQ 
LMWs  
LoQ 
LTBS 
MAT 
MCB  
MVM  
N 
NaCl 
NONMEM 
OFV 
OMEGA (ω2) 
PD 
PE 
Ph. Eur.  
PK 
popPK 
PPCB 
PPQ  
PRED 
PRV  
PV  
Q 
QbD  
QD 
QQ 
QTPP  
REC  
RE-LY 
Reo  
RH 
Rho 
High molecular weight compounds  
high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry 
high performance size exclusion chromatography  
International Committee on Harmonization 
Intracranial haemorrhage 
Idarucizumab 
idarucizumab-free sum dabigatran 
interindividual variability 
importance sampling (estimation method in NONMEM) 
individual prediction 
iterative two-stage (estimation method in NONMEM) 
individual  weighted  residual  obtained  as  the  difference  between  observed 
concentration and IPRED scaled by the within-individual standard deviation 
of the measurement 
absorption rate constant 
dissociation constant 
kilodalton 
degradation rate constant 
degradation rate constant 
association rate constant 
synthesis rate constant 
light chain  
liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry  
Lower limit of quantitation 
Low molecular weight species  
List of Questions 
log transform both sides 
Median absorption time 
master cell bank  
Minute Virus of Mice  
Number 
sodium chloride 
non-linear mixed effects modeling program 
objective function value 
intersubject variance 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pulmonary embolism 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetics 
population pharmacokinetics 
end of production cells 
process performance qualification  
population predicted value 
Pseudorabies Virus  
process validation 
inter-compartmental clearance (central-peripheral) 
quality by design 
once daily 
quantile quantile 
quality target product profile ()  
Recommendation 
randomized evaluation of long-term anticoagulant therapy 
Reo Virus Type 3 
relative humidity 
correlation coefficient 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 5/101 
 
 
 
 
RSE 
 SAEM 
SCE 
SD 
SE 
SIGMA (σ2) 
SOP 
SPR  
SS 
Syn 
THETA (θ) 
TIA 
Tmax 
TSE 
TT 
ULN 
Vcentral 
Vd 
Vd,ss 
VPC 
VTE 
WCB 
WRES 
WT 
XMRV  
Yo 
relative standard error 
stochastic  approximation  expectation  maximization  estimation  method  in  
NONMEM 
Summary of clinical efficacy 
Standard deviation 
standard error 
residual variance 
standard operating procedure 
surface plasmon resonance  
steady-state flag 
synthesis rate 
estimate of fixed effect 
Transient ischaemic attack 
time of maximal concentration 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
Thrombin time 
Upper limit of normal 
central volume of distribution 
Volume of distribution 
Volume of distribution in steady state 
visual predictive check 
Venous thromboembolic events 
working cell bank  
weighted residuals 
body weight 
Xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus  
years old 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 6/101 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH submitted on 2 March 2015 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Praxbind, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Praxbind is specific reversal agent for dabigatran and is indicated in patients treated with Pradaxa when 
rapid reversal of the anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is required: 
• 
• 
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures  
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that 
Idarucizumab was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical 
and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0069/2014 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0069/2014 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance idarucizumab contained in the above medicinal product to 
be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a 
product previously authorised within the Union. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 7/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP in 15 March 2012, 18 October 2012 and 21 
November 2013. The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Co-Rapporteur: Jens Heisterberg 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 2 March 2015. 
•  Accelerated Assessment procedure was agreed-upon by CHMP on 26 February 2015. 
•  The procedure started on 26 March 2015.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 June 2015. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 June 2015. In 
accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur 
declared that they had completed their assessment report in less than 80 days.  
• 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 9 July 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 20-23 July 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 July 
2015. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 August 
2015. 
• 
The following GCP inspection was requested by the CHMP and its outcome taken into consideration 
as part of the Safety/Efficacy assessment of the product: 
−  A GCP inspection at two investigator sites in Belgium between 27 -28 May 2015 and 15- 17 June 
2015.The summary report of the inspection carried out was issued on 07 July 2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 9 September 2015. 
• 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 10 September 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 21-24 September 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Praxbind.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 8/101 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Anticoagulation therapy is a mainstay of treatment and prevention of thrombosis in different clinical 
settings. Dabigatran etexilate (DE) is an oral prodrug of dabigatran, a direct-acting thrombin inhibitor 
that received marketing authorization for: 
• 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
with one or more risk factors. 
• 
• 
• 
Treatment of acute DVT and/or PE and prevention of related death 
Prevention of recurrent DVT and/or PE and related death 
Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have 
undergone elective total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
For the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), treatment with 
DE demonstrated superior efficacy over warfarin with the 150 mg bid dose with similar bleeding rates and 
non-inferiority with the 110 mg bid dose, with an improved bleeding profile (RE-LY, U09-3249-02). 
However, as with all anticoagulants, bleeding was a side effect in the RE-LY trial, with major bleeding 
events reported in 3.3% and life-threatening bleeding events in 1.5% of patients treated with 150 mg DE 
bid (yearly event rates). With the increasing use of novel oral anticoagulants such as DE, patients with 
life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding can benefit from additional options that could be used in 
emergency situations in order to reverse the anticoagulant effects of these new drugs. 
Idarucizumab is being developed as a specific reversal agent for dabigatran. Idarucizumab neutralizes 
dabigatran’s anticoagulant effect due to its very high affinity for dabigatran (Kd = 2.1 pM). This affinity is 
approximately 300- fold higher than the affinity of dabigatran for thrombin (Kd = 0.7 nM). This high 
affinity for dabigatran means any unbound dabigatran will preferentially bind to idarucizumab. In dynamic 
equilibrium, any thrombin-bound dabigatran (or other plasma protein-bound dabigatran) will equilibrate 
with unbound dabigatran and rapidly thereafter be bound by any free idarucizumab.  
Idarucizumab is manufactured from Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, using standard mammalian cell culture 
and protein purification techniques. The final drug product is a solution for injection filled aseptically into 
sterile glass vials. Each vial contains 50 mL solution at the concentration of 50 mg/mL. Because 
idarucizumab is a Fab without the Fc receptor binding fragment of an antibody, no complement-initiated 
cytotoxic effects or interactions with Fcγ-receptors or neonatal Fc receptors are expected. Idarucizumab 
is primarily intended for single use. Repeated use with more than 1 day offset of time between the 
administrations may occur in rare cases. 
The proposed indication was for adult patients treated with DE when rapid reversal of the anticoagulant 
effects of dabigatran is required: 
• 
• 
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures 
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding 
The CHMP approved the following indication: 
Praxbind is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients treated with Pradaxa 
(dabigatran etexilate) when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects is required: 
• 
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 9/101 
 
 
 
 
• 
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Idarucizumab is directed against the direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran. Idarucizumab binds to 
dabigatran with a higher affinity than dabigatran binds thrombin. The biological activity of idarucizumab 
is determined by a thrombin clotting assay. 
The drug product is presented as a solution for injection/infusion containing 2.5 g/50 mL idarucizumab as 
active substance. Other ingredients are sodium acetate trihydrate, acetic acid, sorbitol, polysorbate 20 
and water for injection. The product is available in a 50 mL glass vial (type I glass), with a butyl rubber 
stopper and an aluminium cap. Although this dossier is not considered a Quality by Design application, 
certain elements of an enhanced approached were applied. The active substance and finished product are 
referred to as drug substance and drug product in this report as per CTD. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance  
General information 
Idarucizumab is a humanised Fab molecule derived from a murine IgG1 isotype antibody molecule and 
consists of one κ light chain (LC) and one γ heavy chain fragment (HC). The heavy chain fragment and the 
light chain are linked together by one disulfide bond between cysteine 225 of the heavy chain fragment 
and cysteine 219 of the light chain. There are four additional cysteine residues present on each LC and HC 
fragment  that  form  intramolecular  disulfide  bridges.  The  molecule  is  not  glycosylated.  Based  on  the 
predicted amino acid sequence, the molecular formula of the disulfide bonded idarucizumab Fab molecule 
is C2131H3299N555O671S11.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacture 
Idarucizumab drug substance (DS) is produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells in two multi-product 
buildings at the same site at Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, GmbH & Co KG, Biberach, Germany. Each 
building contains multiple bioreactors. Multiple drug substance batches manufactured in both buildings 
may be pooled or single batches may be split, depending on manufacturing needs. The manufacturing 
process in both buildings is considered comparable. 
During multiple inoculum cultivation steps, the cells are repeatedly sub-cultivated to provide sufficient 
cells to initiate the cell expansion bioreactors. Critical and non-critical process parameters have been 
defined for the different cultivation of upstream-manufacturing. Harvest is performed by centrifugation. 
The purification process starts with a capture step. Further steps include a virus inactivating step and 
purification steps via filtration/ chromatography. Viral filtration, final sterile filtration and formulation 
finalises the purification process. DS storage conditions have been acceptably justified. The 
manufacturing process is considered properly described and includes satisfactory in-process controls 
(including appropriate bioburden and endotoxin control). Appropriate containers are used to store DS to 
provide protection from light and from microbial ingress. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 10/101 
 
 
 
 
Control of Materials 
Information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been submitted. 
Compendial raw materials are tested in accordance with the corresponding monograph, while 
specifications (including test methods) for non-compendial raw materials are presented.  
The generation of the cell substrate and establishment of the two-tiered cell banking system has been 
properly described. The master cell bank (MCB), working cell banks (WCB) and end-of-production cells 
(PPCB) have been tested for ID, purity, viral contamination and presence of the heavy- and light chain 
cDNA sequences as required in ICH Q5D. Genetic stability has been satisfactorily demonstrated including 
up to the proposed limit of in vitro cell age. The viral testing of the cell banks are in accordance with 
ICHQ5A. No animal derived components were used in the manufacture of the current MCB and WCB.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The idarucizumab drug substance manufacturing process is properly described and relevant in-process 
controls are established. In-Process Control specifications are established for the drug substance 
manufacturing process for control of sterility, mycoplasma and adventitious virus. 
Process parameters (critical, non-critical parameters and key process indicators) and the operating 
ranges proposed for the drug substance manufacturing process are acceptable. The manufacturing 
process has been developed in accordance with the principles of ICHQ8, Q9, Q10 and Q11, no design 
space is however claimed. Key process indicators are, although not ICH terminology, acceptable as they 
support consistent production. The drug substance process development is described in detail. The 
process development includes identification of the quality target product profile (QTPP) and critical quality 
attributes (CQA), followed by risk assessments and performance of several characterisation studies in 
order to identify critical process parameters and establish the acceptable ranges for the process 
parameters. Viral safety aspects and microbial contamination control have been established and are 
acceptable. Process controls for critical steps satisfactorily ensure process performance and achievement 
of the desired product quality. 
Process Validation 
The manufacturing process was evaluated and validated by demonstrating that the process, when 
executed within defined operating parameter ranges and with defined process controls, met 
pre-established acceptance criteria for specified critical process parameters and key performance 
indicators and consistently produced product that met release criteria. The definition of process controls 
and the consequences of not meeting specifications and corresponding limits are acceptable. Regarding 
the process validation (PV) strategy, acceptance criteria (AC) define the currently known acceptable 
criterion of a critical parameter.  
An appropriate number/ scale of batches were studied in process validation. Media preparation was also 
validated. 
The idarucizumab fermentation process is considered well validated supporting that a consistent and 
robust fermentation process is in place.  All pre-defined ranges for process parameters (critical, key- and 
non-critical) were met for all validation batches. All release specifications for the drug substance were met 
as well (after purification).  
During the subsequent commercial scale production campaign), although overall, pre-specified target 
and acceptance criteria were met, some deviations were observed in two runs. Corrective actions are 
underway but the final outcomes will be reported as recommendations, as committed to by the applicant 
(see discussion). This is acceptable.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 11/101 
 
 
 
 
The validation of the purification process also included data on buffer preparation, process step yields, 
sanitary processing, stability of intermediate pools, microbial control, clearance of the process related 
impurities, column and membrane regeneration, column carry-over and membrane cleaning, re-filtration 
of the virus filtered pool and drug substance pool, splitting and pooling of the drug substance, 
extractables/ leachables and freeze/ thaw of the drug substance. In conclusion, the data show that the 
process is capable of producing drug substance of reproducible quality that complies with the 
predetermined specification and in-process acceptance criteria. 
Manufacturing process development 
Drug substance batches throughout development and for the to-be-marketed product have been 
identically formulated at a concentration of 50 mg/mL.  
The manufacturing process development for idarucizumab drug substance and drug product has been 
satisfactorily described. Main changes introduced during process development cover the site and scale of 
manufacture and introduction of a new MCB and WCB. Remaining changes are considered adjustments to 
scale-up and process optimisation. Non-clinical batches were produced by an early process but lots 
representing this material were included in comparability studies. Lots manufactured using further 
optimised manufacturing processes have been used in clinical and stability studies. The final, optimised 
process will be used for commercial manufacturing and drug substance produced by this process is 
intended to be used for marketed product. The comparability studies cover the full process development 
from the initial process to the final commercial process.  This is acceptable. 
A comprehensive set of data is presented from the comparability studies. In general, the comparability 
studies consist of comparison of release data, additional characterisation, process-related impurity 
removal and forced degradation stability studies. The data presented fully support comparability of 
material throughout the idarucizumab manufacturing process development.  
Characterisation 
For the elucidation of structure and physicochemical characteristics of idarucizumab, relevant parameters 
such as secondary structure and higher order structure, identity (primary structure), heterogeneity and 
purity aspects have been addressed, and the molecule was appropriately characterised.  
Regarding impurities, data are shown for several validation runs at commercial scale. All data are well 
within the specification, supporting that the process is capable of removing impurities. Product-related 
impurities are molecular variants of the active molecule that can arise during manufacture of the drug 
substance or during storage. These have been appropriately identified and qualified. 
Potential process-related impurities include DNA and host cell protein (from the CHO cells) and other 
impurities from the cell-culture/ purification processes. Residual DNA levels are below the WHO limit of < 
10 ng DNA per maximal dose and host cell proteins (HCP) comply with the defined limits. Adequate 
methods have been used for the analysis of all impurities. Consistent removal of process-related 
impurities has been sufficiently demonstrated and validated.  Finally, stated impurities have been studied 
in clinical studies and are acceptably qualified. 
Specification 
The specification controls appearance/description (colour/opalescence), pH, osmolality and quantity as 
well as safety/contaminants (endotoxin, bioburden), identity, purity tests (charge and size variants), 
impurity and potency (thrombin clotting assay and Fab binding activity assay). Drug substance 
specifications are considered acceptable. Analytical methods have been adequately described and 
validated. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 12/101 
 
 
 
 
Batch analysis 
Release results from lots including several full scale, final-process, commercial batches are presented in 
the dossier. The release data across processes and within batches are consistent and comparable and in 
compliance with the specification. Results therefore confirm consistency of the manufacturing process. 
Reference materials 
As defined by ICHQ6B, an in-house reference material has been established for idarucizumab. 
Qualification of the current reference standard involved appropriate quality control tests as well as 
specified characterisation tests. The protocol for the establishment of working reference standards is 
acceptable. 
Stability 
Stability data at long-term storage conditions at -20°C have been recorded for several commercial 
primary stability batches. The analytical methods used for assessing stability are a subset of the drug 
substance release methods and are considered stability indicating and acceptable. 
No significant changes were observed for any of the test parameters under the long-term storage 
conditions studied. All results met the proposed shelf life specifications.  
Based on the data provided, an 18 month shelf-life can be accepted for storage of drug substance at 
-20°C or three months for storage at 2-8°C. A time of 30 days at 25°C is acceptable for drug substance 
during processing. For future extension of shelf-life, an acceptable post approval change protocol has 
been provided.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Idarucizumab bulk drug substance is formulated in a buffer consisting of acetic acid, sodium acetate, 
sorbitol and polysorbate 20 in water for injection at a pH of 5.5. All excipients are well known 
pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur standards. There are no novel 
excipients used in the finished product formulation, neither are there any excipients of human or animal 
origin present in the drug product (DP). 
The intended commercial formulation is not identical to that used in clinical studies but has been 
adequately justified since the changes from the clinical formulation have been supported by sufficient 
data to show comparability at the quality level. The primary packaging is a 50 mL glass vial (type I glass), 
with a butyl rubber stopper and sealed with an aluminium flip-off cap. The material complies with Ph.Eur. 
and EC requirements. 
The monosaccharide sorbitol was selected to adjust the tonicity of the formulation. The results of the 
screening showed that the materials which are used for production of idarucizumab drug product have no 
leachables of toxicological concern.  
Boehringer Ingelheim has followed a development approach as described in ICH Q8 (R2). A quality target 
product profile (QTPP) was compiled for idarucizumab solution for injection/infusion. Based upon this, 
critical quality attributes CQAs have been identified for DS and DP to assure that the QTPP specified will 
be met. Standard risk assessment tools were employed to identify possible significant inputs and outputs 
of the process. Risks were assessed with respect to identified critical quality attributes. Data generated 
throughout development, at all scales, were used to support classification of process parameters and 
performance indicators and to identify acceptable ranges. The control strategy, based on the product and 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 13/101 
 
 
 
 
process characterisation have been detailed. The QbD approach does not seem, in all respects, to comply 
with the ICH approach and it noted that a design space is not claimed. However, the overall number and 
nature of CQAs and critical process parameters (CPPs) identified are reasonably expected for a product 
and process such as this. In addition, the process ranges proposed are relatively narrow and do not allow 
for high production flexibility. The pharmaceutical development has been described from laboratory to 
commercial scale with the identification of critical process parameters and their normal and acceptable 
operating range.  
The pharmaceutical development has been described in sufficient detail and in compliance with the ICH 
guideline Q8(R2) on pharmaceutical development.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls  
Idarucizumab drug product manufacturing includes thawing of formulated drug substance, optional 
splitting and pooling to yield an adequate amount for aseptic filling, followed by sterile filtration and filling, 
capping, visual inspection, labelling, and secondary packaging. All formulation is completed as part of 
drug substance manufacture. Idarucizumab drug product sterile filtration and filling is performed under 
aseptic conditions. All production areas and personnel performing aseptic operations are monitored on a 
routine basis. Adequate in-process controls are defined which include critical tests for bioburden/ 
endotoxin control. Hold times for drug substance in the stainless steel container and hold times for drug 
product are defined. Finished product storage and shipment conditions have been defined. The 
manufacturing process has been validated.  
The DP validation data demonstrate that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished 
product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. There are no new impurities introduced during 
manufacture of DP. 
Product specification 
The DP specification controls appearance/description (colour/opalescence/clarity/particles), pH, 
osmolality, polysorbate 20 content, and extractable volume as well as safety/contaminants (endotoxin, 
bioburden), identity, purity tests (charge and size variants), impurity (endotoxins, sterility),  potency 
(thrombin clotting assay and Fab binding activity assay) and container closure integrity. Drug product 
specifications are considered acceptable. Analytical methods have been adequately described and 
validated. 
Batch analysis 
Concurrent with the drug substance process changes, the drug product also underwent manufacturing 
changes. All data obtained at the time of release comply with the testing specification in effect at the time 
of release and confirm consistency of the manufacturing process. All data obtained comply with the 
proposed commercial testing specification and the drug substance and product assessments concluded 
that the Praxbind drug product produced from all processes through  development is comparable. 
Reference materials 
The same reference standard is used for drug product and drug substance testing 
Stability of the product 
The stability program includes batches manufactured for clinical use and for primary stability, including 
process validation lots. Stability data have been submitted at the long-term storage condition at 2 - 8°C 
for multiple lots throughout development. Data have not been submitted using the ultimate commercial 
process for DS however the differences between this and the other processes used during development 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 14/101 
 
 
 
 
are considered minor and well-justified by the applicant by submission of comparability data. These data 
are therefore considered representative of the final, full-scale commercial scale process. 
Idarucizumab drug product has demonstrated high stability at the intended long-term storage 
temperature. The currently claimed shelf-life of 24 months is acceptable although according to ICH Q5C, 
stability information should be provided on at least 3 batches of final container product representative of 
that which will be used at manufacturing scale. However, the provided data are considered acceptable 
because of the medical need for this product, as assessed by CHMP, and given the other supporting data 
provided. Data have been provided to support three months for processing and handling of drug product 
at 25°C, by the Company, prior to marketing.  
Studies have been conducted to support the storage period claimed just prior to use. The data presented 
support storage at maximum 25°C for 48 hours prior to use. Finally, data have been provided to support 
storage of the solution once it has been removed from the vial. Chemical and physical in-use stability has 
been demonstrated for 1 hour at room temperature. 
Stability data submitted show no significant change in product during storage and support the proposed 
shelf life. In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and EMA. 
Adventitious agents 
TSE compliance: idarucizumab is produced from recombinant CHO cells which are cultivated in 
serum-free medium. Satisfactory information has been provided on animal-derived materials used in the 
cell culture media. The MCB and WCB used for the idarucizumab manufacturing process are prepared 
without any materials of animal origin. All excipients are of non-animal origin. During cell cloning, 
materials of animal and human origin have been used which were shown to have negligible TSE risk. 
In summary, Compliance with the TSE guideline EMEA/410/01 rev 03 has been sufficiently demonstrated. 
The current MCB/WCB and the drug product are therefore free from TSE-risk substances. 
Virus safety: idarucizumab is produced from recombinant CHO cells. The manufacturing processes of two 
specified animal-derived reagents used during fermentation include steps which are able to inactivate 
viruses. All other reagents used at the manufacturing process and during cell banking are of non-animal 
and non-human origin. Several reagents of human and animal origin have been used at cell line 
development. They have been shown to be sufficiently safe regarding adventitious virus by appropriate 
donor selection, animal veterinary control and/or by reduction of viruses in their manufacturing process. 
The idarucizumab cell banks were extensively tested for adventitious viruses including specific tests for 
bovine, porcine and ovine viruses and for endogenous viruses in accordance with ICH Q5A (R1). No 
adventitious viruses have been detected. The only viruses found were A-type retrovirus-like particles in 
the MCB and post production cell bank (PPCB) by transmission electron microscopy analysis. Yet, CHO 
cells are well known to produce those particles, which have been shown to be non-infectious. A 
satisfactory report for cell bank testing has been provided.  
Additionally, several batches for commercial use have been produced, which are routinely tested for 
adventitious viruses and retrovirus particles. No viruses have been found to date. The presence of 
retrovirus-like particles in the MCB is acceptable because there is sufficient capacity in the downstream 
purification process of idarucizumab to reduce such virus particles. Appropriate model viruses have been 
used in the virus validation studies. The choice of model viruses has been satisfactorily justified, since 
they represent a variation in resistance to physical and chemical agents or treatments. All tested model 
viruses have been satisfactorily reduced, and the calculated safety factor per dose show that the 
purification process of idaruzicumab is able to reduce the level of virus to a negligible level. Virus 
reduction steps include chromatography, low pH treatment and virus retentive filtration. The comparison 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 15/101 
 
 
 
 
of the scale-down model and the process scale showed no significant differences between small scale and 
process scale for all unit operations. In summary, the virus safety for idarucizumab has been sufficiently 
demonstrated. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the manufacturing process has been satisfactory described and has been validated by 
demonstrating that the process, when executed within defined operating parameter ranges and with 
defined process controls, meets pre-established acceptance criteria for specified critical process 
parameters and key performance indicators and consistently produces product that meets release 
criteria. The specification test panel is considered sufficient. The applicant has applied QbD principles in 
the development of the drug substance and finished product and their manufacturing process. However, 
no design spaces were claimed for the manufacturing process of the active substance or for the finished 
product. Two recommendations have been raised regarding issues raised from data submitted from DS 
manufacturing runs. The reasons for the observed results from two failed fermentation runs have been 
satisfactorily explained. The recommendations relate to reporting back to confirm that all agreed 
corrective actions are now in place. The company accepted both recommendations.   
The most critical point raised in the D120 LoQ was the amount of sorbitol used as excipient in the 
formulation of the DS/DP. This is extremely high (40 mg/mL, 2000 mg per dose) and might have an 
impact on patient safety. The applicant recognises the risk of the rather high amount of sorbitol excipient 
in one single dose of idarucizumab (4g) and has provided clinical justification for its use. In summary, 
there is a calculated risk that 1 in 10 patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) who are treated 
with idarucizumab will suffer a possible severe outcome. This has to be weighed against the risk of 
prolonged severe bleeding.  
Since idarucizumab is intended to be administered undiluted as an emergency treatment, the formulation 
must contain a tonicity agent at physiological concentrations. In general, the concentration of sorbitol 
used is common for saccharides as the tonicity agent in formulations of biologicals that are administered 
parenterally and undiluted. Other tonicity agents stabilised idarucizumab to a lesser degree than sorbitol, 
as stated by the applicant. Also the applicant concludes that the decision to use sorbitol as the tonicity 
agent in the current idarucizumab formulation is supported by the fact that sorbitol is chemically inert at 
the target pH. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data have been presented 
to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP has recommended points for investigation. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 16/101 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The nonclinical pharmacology program was designed to characterize: (1) the specificity and affinity of 
idarucizumab for dabigatran and its active glucuronide metabolites; (2) the inhibition of dabigatran 
anticoagulant effects in vitro and in vivo; and (3) the potential binding of idarucizumab to other thrombin 
substrates to induce potential prothrombotic effects. In addition, (4) effects of idarucizumab on 
dabigatran-associated blood loss in a large animal trauma model were investigated. Potential (5) effects 
of idarucizumab on anticoagulants other than dabigatran, on antiplatelet agents or on binding to 
dabigatran during hemodilution or in the presence of coagulation factor concentrates were also tested.  
The nonclinical pharmacokinetic program was designed to investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK), 
pharmacodynamics (PD), and urinary excretion of idarucizumab in rats and monkeys in the absence and 
the presence of dabigatran, as well as the effects of various dosage regimens of idarucizumab on the 
PK/PD and urinary excretion of dabigatran or sum dabigatran (the sum of dabigatran and its 
glucuronides). In addition, the impact of renal insufficiency on the PK/PD and urinary excretion of 
idarucizumab and dabigatran was investigated using the 5/6 nephrectomized rat model.  
The nonclinical toxicology studies were designed to evaluate the potential toxicity of idarucizumab in rats 
and monkeys in GLP studies of up to 4- and 2-weeks of daily treatment, respectively. As the proposed use 
of idarucizumab in humans is to neutralize the anticoagulant effects of DE, studies in monkeys 
additionally explored potential toxicity of idarucizumab on a background of DE. Safety pharmacology 
studies to investigate cardiovascular, respiratory, and central nervous system (CNS) effects were 
conducted. All GLP toxicity studies used idarucizumab proposed commercial formulation. 
Binding of idarucizumab with human tissues was tested in a tissue cross-reactivity (TCR) study, as was 
binding to rat and monkey tissues. Local tolerance of the idarucizumab proposed commercial formulation 
was evaluated following intravenous and perivascular administration, and hemolytic potential in human 
blood was assessed. In addition to evaluations routinely conducted as part of toxicity studies, the general 
toxicity studies included additional measurements of anti-idarucizumab and anti-dabigatran antibodies, 
thrombotic activity, effects on coagulation indices, circulating immune complexes, and immune complex 
deposition. No genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, or reproductive toxicity studies have been conducted. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Primary pharmacology in vitro 
Idarucizumab was shown to bind to dabigatran with a high affinity of 2.1 pM, which is > 300-times more 
potent than the binding affinity of dabigatran for thrombin. Due to the long half-life of the resulting 
idarucizumab:dabigatran complex, this binding is practically irreversible. Binding at pH 6.7 is still in the 
low pM range, indicating that idarucizumab should capture dabigatran even under conditions of acidosis.  
Idarucizumab inhibited the anticoagulant activity of dabigatran in vitro as demonstrated in a modified 
thrombin time assay. In human plasma, the IC50 was 3.1 nM in the presence of 7 nM dabigatran, the IC50 
was 10.9 nM in the presence of 30 nM dabigatran. Idarucizumab reversed the anticoagulant activity of the 
active dabigatran metabolites. The inhibition of the anticoagulant effect was comparable in plasma and 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 17/101 
 
 
 
 
 
whole blood, indicating a low non-specific binding to other cellular components in blood. In an in vitro 
model of haemostasis, addition of idarucizumab to blood previously treated with dabigatran restored the 
level of fibrin and platelet coverage to normal levels.  
By X-ray crystallography, the dabigatran binding site of idarucizumab was found to be structurally similar 
to the thrombin active site. Nevertheless, idarucizumab did not bind to other thrombin substrates, (such 
as FV, FXIII, protein C, vWF, S-2238) or human plasma or serum albumin. Furthermore, idarucizumab did 
not have thrombin-like enzyme activity as demonstrated in several thrombin-dependent coagulation 
assays. In line with these findings, in vivo PD and toxicity studies did not provide evidence for a 
pro-thrombotic activity of idarucizumab.  
Primary pharmacology in vivo 
Reversal of the anticoagulant activity in vivo was shown in rats which had been pre-treated with 
dabigatran to achieve therapeutically relevant dabigatran plasma levels (approx. 300 nM). In this model, 
a single bolus of idarucizumab at a dose equimolar to the total dabigatran dose immediately reversed the 
anticoagulant activity of dabigatran and maintained the activity over a period of 30 minutes. Of note, 
plasma levels of total dabigatran increased by 10-fold upon idarucizumab administration. However, as 
there was no anticoagulant activity present, this represented dabigatran bound to idarucizumab. Since 
dabigatran is present in the extravascular compartment as well as in blood, and idarucizumab is 
predominantly restricted to plasma, the observed elevation of plasma total dabigatran probably 
represents the redistribution of dabigatran from extracellular space in tissues into the blood 
compartment.  
The antidote activity of idarucizumab was further demonstrated in several bleeding models: In a tail 
bleeding model in rats, the dabigatran-induced prolongation of bleeding time was rapidly reversed by a 
single bolus injection of idarucizumab. This was associated with an immediate reduction of plasma active 
dabigatran and an approx. 7-fold increase in plasma total dabigatran. To model dabigatran overdose 
situations, rats had been pre-treated to achieve supra-therapeutic plasma concentration of dabigatran. 
Also in this situation, anti-coagulation and bleeding time was reversed by idarucizumab. When an initial 
idarucizumab dose was not sufficient to completely block active dabigatran, administration of a second 
idarucizumab dose shortly later completely inhibited the dabigatran effect and normalized bleeding.  
The effect of idarucizumab on dabigatran-associated bleeding in emergency situations was evaluated in 
pig model of liver trauma. In this study, idarucizumab stopped bleeding and prevented mortality 
associated with blood loss. The changes in hemodynamic and hypo-perfusion parameters associated with 
haemorrhagic shock, were reversed and anti-coagulation was normalized. Overall, the effect of 
idarucizumab was immediate and dose-dependent. Complete reversal of anticoagulant activity was 
observed at an idarucizumab dose that was equimolar to the total body load of dabigatran. Under these 
conditions, inhibition of anti-oagulation was maintained for several hours and prevented also bleeding 
from a second site of injury afflicted 1 hour after the administration of idarucizumab. A single 
idarucizumab dose lower than equimolar to the total dabigatran body load was not able to maintain 
inhibition of anticoagulant activity over time. In consequence a low dose of idarucizumab was able to 
achieve haemostasis at the initial wound site, but not at a later occurring second wound site. 
Nevertheless, in this situation a second dose low of idarucizumab can reverse the remaining 
anticoagulation and stop bleeding from the new wound site. In addition, idarucizumab was shown to 
reverse the dabigatran effect in a model of intracranial bleeding in mice.  
Specificity of idarucizumab for dabigatran 
As volume expanders are used in patients with severe blood loss, a potential effect of routinely used 
volume replacement agents (HES, gelatin or red blood cells) on the idarucizumab activity was studied in 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 18/101 
 
 
 
 
anticoagulated pigs under severe blood loss. In this model, administration of idarucizumab immediately 
blocked the dabigatran activity and there were no differences between the various volume expander 
groups. Thus, routine volume expanders do not interfere with the idarucizumab activity.  
Potential interference of coagulation factor concentrates with the idarucizumab activity was evaluated in 
vitro in human plasma. The presence of prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC), activated PCC, or 
recombinant FVIIa had no effect on idarucizumab-mediated reversal of the dabigatran-mediated 
anti-coagulation. The applicant has sufficiently explained that tThe concentrations of PCC, aPCC and 
rFVIIa used in the in vitro experiments correspond to the circulating in vivo concentrations of these 
factors when given to patients at the recommended doses. It was agreed that these concentrations were 
clinically relevant. 
In a tail bleeding study, it was evaluated to what extent idarucizumab affects bleeding in rats 
anti-coagulated with dabigatran plus anti-platelet agents (i.e. aspirin, clopidogrel or ticagrelor). In this 
study, idarucizumab normalized dabigatran-induced bleeding time, even in animals concomitantly 
treated with an anti-platelet agent. However, it was unclear, if any of the anti-platelet agents (at the dose 
used) had an effect on rat tail bleeding time at all, since there was no difference in bleeding time between 
the rats treated with dabigatran and those treated with dabigatran plus anti-platelet reagent. The 
applicant has justified the doses of the antiplatelet agents used as active were based on reduction of 
platelet function by aggregometry. In the absence of data on bleeding time in animals treated with 
anti-platelet reagent alone this was considered acceptable.  
It was further evaluated if idarucizumab inhibits the anticoagulant effect of other oral or parenteral 
anti-coagulants. Idarucizumab did not affect the activity of anti-coagulants with mode of action different 
to that of dabigatran (i.e factor Xa inhibitors, heparin or vitamin K antagonist) and the activity of the 
direct thrombin inhibitors hirudin and argatrobon. However, idarucizumab did inhibit the anticoagulant 
activity of melagatran, a DTI which is structurally similar to dabigatran. However, this effect was not 
clinically relevant since melagatran was not commercially available. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No specific pharmacology studies were performed to investigate secondary pharmacodynamic effects. 
Idarucizumab was designed to bind specifically to dabigatran and in itself is not enzymatically active. The 
lack of thrombin-like effects of idarucizumab was tested as part of the primary non-clinical pharmacology 
focusing on the mechanism of action. The absence of pro-thrombotic effects in vivo was tested at part of 
toxicology and clinical studies. Further secondary PD studies were not considered necessary. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
The core battery safety pharmacology evaluations conducted on idarucizumab are listed below.  
Table 1. Overview of safety pharmacology studies with idarucizumab. 
Species 
Dose (mg/kg) 
Parameters 
Results 
Rhesus 
monkey 
0, 12/150, 
12/500, 0/500, 
12/0 a 
HR, ECG 
No effects 
Rat 
Crl:WI(HAN) 
0, 150, 500 
intravenous 
modified FOB, 
motor activity 
No effects 
Organ system: Test 
(GLP status) 
Cardiovascular: 
Cardiovascular 
function  
(GLP) 
CNS: 
Modified Irwin 
(GLP) 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 19/101 
 
 
 
 
Organ system: Test 
(GLP status) 
Respiratory: 
plesthymography 
(GLP) 
Species 
Dose (mg/kg) 
Parameters 
Results 
Rat 
(Wistar-Han) 
(males) 
0, 150, 500 
intravenous 
respiration rate, 
tidal volume, 
minute volume 
No effects 
ECG = electrocardiogram; FOB = functional observational battery; HR = heart rate. 
a 
Dabigatran etexilate/idarucizumab, administered orally/intravenously.  Intravenous administration occurred 
1.5 hours after oral dosing. 
In  line  with  ICH  S6(R1)  inclusion  of  cardiovascular  and  CNS  safety  pharmacology  assessment  was 
included  into  GLP  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies.  There  were  no  test-article-related  effects  on 
cardiovascular functions, as evaluated in rhesus monkeys, and respiratory or CNS functions as evaluated 
in rats. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Potential interactions with other anti-coagulants or anti-platelet agents or coagulation factor concentrates 
was  tested  and  reported  in  the  primary  pharmacology  section  since  this  is  related  to  idarucizumab 
specificity  and  part  of  its  mechanism  of  action.  Potential  interactions  with  other  anti-coagulants  are 
sufficiently evaluated.  
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The PKs of idarucizumab after IV administration were evaluated in single-dose PK studies and in the 
repeated-dose toxicity studies in rats and rhesus monkeys in the absence and presence of dabigatran. In 
addition, PK of dabigatran and PD endpoints were evaluated.  
Bioanalytical methods:   
For quantification of idarucizumab in plasma and urine from rats, rhesus and pigs the same sandwich 
ELISA format was developed and validated. Presence of dabigatran did not interfere with quantification of 
idarucizumab.  
A validated LC-MS/MS method was used for measurement of dabigatran and sum dabigatran in plasma 
and urine samples from rats, rhesus and pigs. Presence of idarucizumab did not interfere with 
quantification of dabigatran.  
For detection of anti-idarucizumab antibodies in rat and rhesus plasma a bridging ECL assay was 
developed. However, false positive results were detected with this assay due to reactivity of dabigatran 
acyl glucuronides with the detection reagents. An additional ECL-assay with new bridging reagents was 
then developed and validated which did not result in false positive results in monkeys treated with 
dabigatran alone.  
A radio-immuno-precipitation assay (RIPA) was developed for detection of anti-dabigatran antibodies in 
rhesus plasma. The screening assay was adequately validated, but found to be sensitive to the presence 
of dabigatran and to idarucizumab. Together with the confirmatory assay and the characterization of 
positive samples with an anti-idarucizumab idiotype mAb the RIPA is considered suitable for use. 
For detection of anti-coagulant activity in rat and rhesus plasma, three different assays were validated: 
the diluted thrombin time (dTT), the activated partial thromboplastin clotting time (aPTT), and the ecarin 
clotting time (ECT). These assays had been previously validated for human plasma. The re-validation to 
support the change in matrix is considered adequate.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 20/101 
 
 
 
 
 
For detection of pro-thrombotic activity, two commercially available ELISA assays were validated for use 
in rhesus plasma, one for detection of D-dimers and the other for detection of pro-thrombin fragment 1+2 
(F1+2). Both assays can be considered suitable for use in rhesus plasma; however there precision at the 
lower concentration range is limited.  
Absorption: 
In both rats and rhesus monkeys, the PK and TK characteristics of idarucizumab after IV administration 
were typical for a Fab. Exposure (Cmax and AUC0-24) increased in a dose-proportional manner, and 
remained unchanged following repeated daily dosing. The plasma concentration-time profile was biphasic 
with a rapid initial decline phase and a slow terminal phase, with a half-life of approx. 6 hrs in rats and 4-5 
hrs in rhesus monkeys. The clearance of idarucizumab was low and the volume of distribution was small. 
In both species, there were no differences in the idarucizumab PK parameters in the absence or presence 
of dabigatran treatment.  
The plasma profile of dabigatran in rats, when administered alone, was biphasic. However, upon 
administration of idarucizumab there was a rapid increase in dabigatran plasma concentration, due to 
re-distribution from tissue to plasma. Thus, the volume of distribution was smaller, dabigatran clearance 
was lower, and MRT was slightly reduced in rats treated with idarucizumab compared to rats treated with 
dabigatran alone.  
In rhesus monkeys receiving oral DE, dabigatran glucuronides contributed substantially to the overall 
sum dabigatran exposure. In general, dabigatran and sum dabigatran exposure in monkeys after PO 
dosing was rather variable, likely due to the low oral bioavailability. Nevertheless, following 
administration of idarucizumab, exposure to dabigatran and sum dabigatran increased substantially, 
indicating re-distribution of dabigatran and its glucuronides from tissues to plasma.  
Reversal of anti-coagulant activity was detectable immediately after administration of idarucizumab. 
Complete reversal of the anti-coagulant activity was maintained over a period of 24 hrs when the 
idarucizumab concentration was equal to or larger than the concentration of sum dabigatran.  
A PK/PD model was developed and validated based on data from the rhesus monkey PK/PD study. When 
using this model to simulate exposure of sum dabigatran and active dabigatran in the presence of 
idarucizumab in healthy humans and in pigs with trauma, the simulated and measured data (e.g. for 
active dabigatran) were mostly in line. In study conditions where there appeared to be slight differences 
between the simulated data and the means of the measure data, the model under-estimated the 
idarucizumab effect, which is considered a conservative approach. 
Excretion 
A small fraction of idarucizumab (15-20% in rats, approx. 10% in rhesus) is eliminated by renal excretion. 
This is in line with literature data for other proteins with a molecular weight < 60kDa. Of note, renal 
excretion of idarucizumab is not affected by the presence of dabigatran.  
In rats, a major fraction of dabigatran (approx. 60%) is excreted into urine. In contrast, in rhesus only a 
minor fraction of dabigatran (< 2%) is recovered from urine which is likely due to the low oral 
bioavailability of dabigatran etexilate. In both species, the extent of dabigatran renal excretion is not 
impacted by the presence of idarucizumab.  
The effect of renal impairment on the PK and urinary elimination of idarucizumab and dabigatran was 
evaluated in 5/6 nephrectomised rats. Renal impairment results in reduced clearance (approx. 50%) and 
increased exposure of both, dabigatran and idarucizumab. For dabigatran, urinary excretion is a major 
pathway of elimination, which was reduced from 45% to 32% in renally impaired rats. In contrast, for 
idarucizumab, urinary excretion was only slightly reduced (15.8% to 12.6%) in renally impaired rats. 
These data indicate that the overall reduction in idarucizumab clearance is mainly due to reduction of 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 21/101 
 
 
 
 
 
catabolism and not a reduction of excretion of idarucizumab by the kidney. Importantly, idarucizumab 
reverses the anti-coagulant activity of dabigatran even under conditions of renal impairment.  
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Toxicity studies with idarucizumab were performed in rats and rhesus monkeys. All studies in monkeys 
were conducted in the absence and presence of DE. Rhesus monkeys were considered the most relevant 
species based on non-clinical studies with dabigatran, the target for idarucizumab. Dabigatran half-life of 
dabigatran is similar in rhesus and humans, while it is much shorter in rats. Furthermore, rhesus monkeys 
generate the active glucuronide metabolites of dabigatran, whereas in rats this is negligible. An overview 
of the toxicity studies is provided in the table below. The selection of rhesus monkeys as relevant species 
for toxicity studies is justified.  
All studies were conducted under GLP except for the single-dose study in rats and the escalating-dose 
study in rhesus monkeys.  
Table 16. Overview of toxicity studies with idarucizumab 
Study 
(GLP status) 
Single dose  
(non-GLP) 
4-week with 4-week 
recovery 
(GLP) 
Escalating dose 
(non-GLP) 
2-dose with 14-day 
recovery 
(GLP) 
2-dose with 14-day 
recovery, renal 
focus 
(GLP) 
2-week with 28-day 
recovery and 3-day 
DE re-admin 
(GLP) 
Local tolerance – 
perivascular 
(GLP) 
Tissue 
cross-reactivity 
(GLP) 
Hemolysis of blood 
(non-GLP) 
Species 
Rat 
Rat 
DE/Idarucizumab 
Dose (mg/kg)a 
0/0, 0/50, 0/175 
0/0, 0/150 & 0/500 
Rhesus monkey 
0/0, 0/30, 0/90, 0/175 and 12/30, 
12/90, 12/175 
Rhesus monkey  0/0, 12/150, 12/500, 0/500, 12/0 
Rhesus monkey 
0/0, 12/500, 0/500 
Rhesus monkey 
0/0, 12/150, 12/500, 0/500 
Rabbit 
5 mg (0.1 mL of  
50 mg/mL) 
Main Resultb 
No adverse effects 
NOAEL = 0/500 mg/kg/day 
Cmax MoE = 7 
AUC MoE =  3   
No adverse effects 
NOAEL = 0/500 mg/kg 
Cmax MoE = 9 
AUC MoE =  6   
NOAEL = 12/150 mg/kg 
Cmax MoE = 2 
AUC MoE =  1   
NOAEL = 0/500 mg/kg 
Cmax MoE = 6 
AUC MoE =  5   
NOAEL = 12/500 mg/kg 
Cmax MoE = 7 
AUC MoE =  5   
NOAEL = 0/500 mg/kg/day 
Cmax MoE = 7 
AUC MoE =  5   
NOAEL = 12/500 mg/kg/day 
Cmax MoE = 7 
AUC MoE =  5   
No local effects observed. 
Human, rat, 
Rhesus monkey 
2 and 10 µL/mL 
No binding observed. 
Human 
125 µL of 50 mg/mL in 0.5 mL 
No hemolysis observed. 
a 
b 
Expressed as dabigatran etexilate (DE)/ idarucizumab; DE administered orally and Ida administered intravenously 1.5 hours 
later. 
NOAEL = no observed adverse effect level.  MoE = multiple of exposure.  Multiples were calculated based on exposure in 45 
– 64 year healthy volunteers in clinical trial 1321.2. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 22/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity study in rats [U12-3325, non-GLP] 
This study was performed to assess the systemic toxic potential and toxicokinetics of idarucizumab, when 
administered by a single intravenous bolus injection. Three groups of rats (n=10/sex/group) received 
idarucizumab at 0, 50 or 175 mg/kg; satellite groups (3/sex for control; 9/sex/group for treatment 
groups) were used for TK analysis. Animals were necropsied 48 hrs after treatment.There were no 
changes in clinical signs, body weight, food consumption, hematology, coagulation, organ weights, 
macroscopic and microscopic evaluations. Mean triglyceride values were elevated 1.5- and 1.8-fold in 
males treated with 50 or 175 mg/kg, respectively. There was no effect of treatment on any other clinical 
chemistry parameter.  Idarucizumab exposure (Cmax and AUC0-24) increased approximately 
dose-proportionally and was similar between male and female rats.  
Combined male and female maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) were 18,150 nM (867 μg/mL) and 
60,050 nM (2,870 μg/mL) and exposures (AUC0-24) were 7,105 nM*h (340 μg*h/mL) and 24,050 nM*h 
(1150 μg*h/mL) at 50 and 175 mg/kg, respectively. In conclusion, idarucizumab was well tolerated. 
However, after a single dose of idarucizumab, a dose-related increase in triglyceride compared to controls 
was observed. The increased mean triglyceride levels were observed in male rats 24 hours after they 
were administered a single dose of 50 or 175 mg/kg idarucizumab, whereas a similar change was not 
observed in female rats. The cause of the triglyceride increase was not investigated. In contrast, no 
change in triglyceride levels were observed in male and female rats administered idarucizumab at 150 
and 500 mg/kg/day for 28 days. Consequently, the increase in triglyceride observed in the single-dose rat 
study was considered transient and likely spurious. No changes in triglyceride levels have been observed 
in the three studies conducted in monkeys. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Rat toxicity studies 
In the 4-week rat study, the main finding was a dose-dependent decrease in plasma urea and creatinine 
levels. This was judged to be non-adverse even though levels were still decreased in males as compared 
to controls at the end of the recovery phase. Higher than control thymus weights (absolute, relative to 
brain and relative to body weight) were recorded for female rats receiving 150 or 500 mg/kg/day. The 
Applicant provided additional discussion regarding the treatment-related changes in urea, creatinine and 
thymus weight and further substantiated setting the NOAEL at 500 mg/kg in this study. This was 
considered acceptable.  
Rhesus toxicity studies   
Toxicity studies in rhesus monkeys consisted of a non-GLP escalating dose study with idarucizumab doses 
up to 175 mg/kg and two GLP studies with idarucizumab given 2 times at doses up to 500 mg/kg IV on a 
background of oral vehicle or dabigatran etexilate followed by a 14-day recovery period. In the first 2-day 
study, the systemic exposure to idarucizumab in animals receiving 500 mg/kg idarucizumab was 
considered to be higher than in the subsequent monkey studies for animals dosed with the same dose 
level. It was determined to be due to the rate of intravenous administration of idarucizumab. Importantly, 
the concentrations of idarucizumab solution used in all three studies were comparable. In addition, a GLP 
2-week study was performed, with repeated daily IV administration of idarucizumab (up to 500 mg/kg) 
on a background of daily oral vehicle or dabigatran etexilate, followed by a 28-day recovery period and a 
3-day re-administration of oral vehicle or dabigatran etexilate.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 23/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, idarucizumab was well tolerated in rhesus monkeys at doses up to 500 mg/kg IV in the 
absence and presence of dabigatran. In 2 of the studies, there were renal findings with unclear 
relationship to treatment in individual monkeys: In the initial dose-escalation study, there were 
histopathological findings in the kidneys of 2 monkeys treated with idarucizumab alone but not in 
monkeys treated with the combination of idarucizumab and dabigatran etexilate. In a 2-dose study, there 
were blood chemistry and histopathological findings in one recovery male treated with dabigatran 
etexilate and idarucizumab high-dose. The findings in this animal were consistent with an impairment of 
renal function; however, low body weight of the animal and elevated protein in urine already prior to 
treatment suggest that the animal may have had other health problems already pre-study. Importantly 
these renal findings were not repeated in the other 2-dose study and the 2-week study. Thus, kidneys are 
not considered a target organ of toxicity for idarucizumab.  
In theory, development of anti-drug antibodies can result in the generation of immune complexes which 
may be deposited in the kidneys and cause renal problems. This possibility was evaluated in depth in the 
2-week study. In this study anti-idarucizumab antibodies were detected in some of the animals at the end 
of treatment and also at the end of the recovery period. However, there was no evidence for the 
development of anti-dabigatran antibodies. Circulating immune complexes were within normal limits in all 
animals and there was no evidence for immune complex deposition in the kidneys as evaluated by 
immunohistochemistry.  
Apart from general toxicity, the 2-week study in rhesus monkeys also investigated the potential for 
pro-thrombotic activity of idarucizumab. Based on D-dimer and F1+2 evaluation, there was no evidence 
for a pro-thrombotic effect of idarucizumab.  
During infusion of idarucizumab to one male monkey in the three-phase PK/PD study (U12-3849, 
U13-3539), the animal collapsed, possibly due to a hypersensitivity reaction, and was subsequently 
euthanized. Microscopic examination of the lungs revealed severe haemorrhage in the alveolar spaces 
and bronchioles with hyperplasia and fibrosis of the alveolar walls and pleura, the latter indicating a 
pre-existing condition. The Applicant states that hypersensitivity reactions are frequent in non-human 
primates repeatedly dosed with human antibodies and that the lung and GI tract findings occur 
spontaneously in non-human primates due to chronic inflammation, infections, or parasite infestations.  
In summary, the NOAEL in rhesus monkeys treated with idarucizumab in the absence or presence of 
dabigatran for 2 days or 2 weeks was 500 mg/kg/day. The resulting exposure multiples, taking into 
account different human populations (healthy, elderly, with renal impairment) were approx. 5-7x based 
on Cmax and 3-6x based on AUC0-24. This was considered sufficient.  
Based on the nature of the product and its mechanism of action, omission of genotoxicity studies and 
carcinogenicity studies was accepted. It was also agreed that reproductive and developmental toxicity 
studies are not warranted taking into consideration the proposed used of idarucizumab on single days in 
emergency situations. 
Idarucizumab, in the proposed commercial formulation was well tolerated locally when given via the 
intravenous route to rats and rhesus monkeys or via the paravenous route to rabbits. However, the 
presence of sorbitol (at 220 mM) in the formulation was considered a risk for patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI) hence a warning was included in the SmPC.  
Toxicokinetic data 
Idarucizumab exposure was similar between both sexes in rats and monkeys and was comparable 
following single and repeated doses. A similar Cmax was achieved between rats and monkeys at 
idarucizumab doses levels of 150 and 500 mg/kg but the AUC0-24 in the rat was approximately half of the 
AUC0-24 in monkeys. This is consistent with a faster clearance in rats than in monkeys. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 24/101 
 
 
 
 
For calculation of exposure multiples, mean Cmax and AUC values (combined males and females) from 
the indicated animal studies are used. Exposure multiples were calculated for different human 
populations (healthy, elderly, with renal impairment) as they differ in exposure to idarucizumab. Across 
the different animal studies and human populations there is an approx. 5-7x exposure margin based on 
Cmax and 3-6x exposure margin based on AUC. This is considered sufficient. 
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance to the idarucizumab after IV injection was assessed by microscopic examination of the 
injection sites as part of the GLP toxicity studies (28 day treatment in rats, up to 14 days in rhesus). There 
was no evidence of an idarucizumab-related effect. 
Perivascular tolerance was evaluated in a dedicated study New Zealand White rabbits. Three animals 
were administered slow bolus, perivascular injections of 0 and 5 mg idarucizumab (dose volume of 0.1 
ml) in the right and left ears, respectively, in proximity to the marginal ear vein. Paravenous injection was 
well tolerated; there were no systemic or local effects based on dermal and microscopic evaluations. 
Toxicity studies indicate that idarucizumab is locally well tolerated when given intravenously or 
paravenously. 
Other toxicity studies 
Tissue cross-reactivity  
The target for idarucizumab is the small molecule pharmaceutical dabigatran which is not present in 
human or animal tissues. Thus, the absence of tissue binding by idarucizumab is not surprising. 
Haemocompatibility 
The proposed specification for the impurity “kappa select” in idarucizumab drug substance (<13 ng/mg) 
is based on the available toxicity data for kappa select protein and was considered acceptable. 
Excipients 
The applicant justified a content of 40 mg/ml sorbitol as acceptable even for patients with Hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI) based on a publication from Mock et al. (1993). However, this limit has been 
derived for oral intake of fructose, in contrast while parental administration of sorbitol has been 
recognized to be potentially lethal [Cox et al., 1993].  
The applicant acknowledged a risk for patients with HFI, and proposed a warning statement in section 4.4 
of the idarucizumab SmPC. The proposal of contraindicating idarucizumab in patients with HFI was 
discussed since idarucizumab administration could be fatal for patients with HFI. At the end it was agreed 
to include a warning rather than a contraindication that in patients with HFI the risk of treatment with 
idarucizumab must be weighed against the potential benefit of such an emergency treatment. If 
idarucizumab is administered in these patients, intensified medical care during idarucizumab exposure 
and within 24 hours of exposure is required. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Fab idarucizumab is a protein which is unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment. This 
was agreed by the CHMP.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 25/101 
 
 
 
 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Idarucizumab is a humanized Fab which is developed as an antidote to the direct thrombin inhibitor 
dabigatran. Idarucizumab is intended to be administered to patients in emergency situations to reverse 
the anti-coagulant effect of dabigatran. The pharmacology of idarucizumab was adequately demonstrated 
in vitro. Idarucizumab binds with high affinity to dabigatran and thereby blocks the anti-coagulant activity 
of dabigatran in human plasma. Absence of idarucizumab binding to other thrombin substrates and lack 
of pro-thrombotic activity was sufficiently demonstrated as considered by the CHMP.  
Blockade of the dabigatran anti-coagulant activity and its effect on bleeding was demonstrated in several 
in vivo models. The rat tail bleeding model represents a situation with limited blood loss. Also the 
intracranial haemorrhage in mice is associated with limited bleeding. In contrast, the pig liver trauma 
model is associated with severe blood loss, haemorrhagic shock and ultimately mortality. This large 
animal model allows studying the PK/PD of idarucizumab under “controlled” blood loss and under 
concurrent emergency treatments administered in case of bleeding (e.g. volume expanders). As it is 
difficult to obtain controlled information from humans treated in emergency situations, these non-clinical 
PD studies were considered justified and the results were adequately reflected in section 5.1 of the SmPC.  
Specificity of idarucizumab for dabigatran was demonstrated, since idarucizumab did not inhibit the 
anti-coagulant activity of other oral or parenteral anti-coagulants. Potential interference of coagulation 
factor concentrates or anti-platelet reagents with the idarucizumab activity was evaluated. 
PK and toxicity of idarucizumab was evaluated in rats and rhesus monkeys, in the absence and presence 
of dabigatran. Given that the metabolism of dabigatran was similar in rhesus monkeys and humans, 
rhesus were considered the more relevant species for assessing human risk. PK of idarucizumab in rats 
and monkeys was typical for a Fab, with a dose-dependent increase in exposure, small volume of 
distribution and a short half-life. Consistent with a molecular weight below 60 kDa, idarucizumab was 
eliminated via the kidneys, the majority via renal metabolism and only a small portion (approx. 10% in 
rhesus) via renal excretion. PK of idarucizumab was not affected by the presence of dabigatran. In 
contrast, the PK of dabigatran was substantially impacted by the presence of idarucizumab. Immediately 
upon idarucizumab injection, there was an increase in dabigatran plasma concentration due to 
re-distribution of dabigatran from tissues into blood. However, when the idarucizumab concentration was 
high enough (at least equimolar to the total dabigatran body load), anti-coagulation remained reversed. 
The exposure to dabigatran is increased in patients with renal impairment. Thus, the activity of 
idarucizumab was studied in a rat model of renal impairment. In this model, there was a reduced 
clearance of both dabigatran and idarucizumab and consequently an increased exposure of both 
substances. Importantly, idarucizumab reversed the anti-coagulant activity of dabigatran under 
conditions of renal impairment. 
A PK/PD model was developed and validated based on data from the rhesus PK/PD study. This model 
simulated well the exposure to dabigatran in the presence of idarucizumab in healthy humans and in pigs 
with liver trauma.  
Toxicity of idarucizumab was evaluated in rats (in the absence of dabigatran) and in rhesus monkeys (in 
the absence and presence of dabigatran). Overall, idarucizumab was well tolerated in these studies. In 
rats, the NOAEL was 500 mg/kg/day, given daily for 4 weeks; in rhesus monkeys, the NOAEL was 500 
mg/kg/day on a background of 12 mg/kg/day dabigatran, when given once daily for 14 days. Based on 
these NOAELs sufficiently high exposure multiples compared to different human populations (healthy, 
elderly, with renal impairment) are achieved, ranging from 5-7x based on Cmax and from 3-6x based on 
AUC0-24. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 26/101 
 
 
 
 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Preclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on repeated dose toxicity studies of up to four 
weeks in rats and two weeks in monkeys. Safety pharmacology studies have demonstrated no effects on 
the respiratory, central nervous or cardiovascular system. Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and 
carcinogenic potential of idarucizumab have not been performed as based on its mechanism of action and 
the characteristics of proteins no carcinogenic or genotoxic effects were anticipated. Studies to assess the 
potential reproductive effects of idarucizumab have not been performed. No treatment-related effects 
have been identified in reproductive tissues of either sex during repeat dose intravenous toxicity studies 
of up to four weeks in the rat and two weeks in monkeys. Additionally, no idarucizumab binding to human 
reproductive tissues was observed in a tissue cross-reactivity study. Therefore, preclinical results did not 
suggest a risk to fertility or embryo-fetal development. No local irritation of the blood vessel was observed 
after i.v. or paravenous administration of idarucizumab. The idarucizumab formulation did not produce 
haemolysis of human whole blood in vitro. From the non-clinical point of view the marketing authorisation 
application for idarucizumab was considered approvable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. A routine GCP 
inspection of 2 clinical investigator´s sites in Belgium was requested. Compliance with GCP and applicable 
regulations was asked to be verified, in particular where it had impact on the validity of the data or the 
ethical conduct of the phase III study RE-VERSE AD. No specific concerns were identified at the time of 
adoption of the inspection request. No significant or serious findings or concerns were found during the 
inspections of both sites and no specific follow up actions for these two sites were recommended. The 
quality of data was reliable.  
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 27/101 
 
 
 
 
Number of 
Subjects 
157 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
Diagnosis of 
Patients 
Healthy male 
subjects 
Duration of 
Treatment 
Study Status; 
Type of 
Report 
Single dose of 
idarucizumab or 
placebo 
Complete; 
Full 
DE: Day 1 to 3 bid, 
Day 4 single dose 
Type of 
Study
a
Study No. 
[Report No.] 
PK, PD 
1321.1 
[c02093109] 
Location 
of Study 
Report 
5.3.4.1 
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-control
led within dose 
groups 
To investigate 
safety, 
tolerability, and 
PK of iv doses of 
idarucizumab 
(SRD) 
To explore the 
effect of different 
doses of 
idarucizumab 
administered 
at or close to the 
steady state of 
dabigatran (EDF) 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; Route 
of 
administration 
Part 1: 
20 mg, 60 mg, 200 mg, 
600 mg, 1.2 g, 2 g, 3g, 
4 g, 6 g and 8 g Ida or 
placebo as 1 h infusion; 
1g, 2 g and 4 g Ida or 
placebo as 5 min 
infusion 
Part 2: 1, 2, 4 g Ida or 
placebo as 5 min 
infusion with 
pretreatment of 220 
mg DE bid for 3.5 days 
Part 3: 5 g + 2.5 g Ida 
or placebo (1 h apart) 
each as 5 min infusion 
with pretreatment of 
220 mg DE bid for 
3.5 days 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 28/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study
a
Study No. 
[Report No.] 
PK, PD 
1321.2 
[c02742738] 
Location 
of Study 
Report 
5.3.4.1 
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlle
d, 
2-way crossover, 
single dose 
Safety, 
tolerability, PK 
and PD of 
idarucizumab  
and to establish 
the idarucizumab 
dose(s) effective 
to reverse the 
dabigatran-induc
ed prolongation of 
the blood 
coagulation time 
Study Status; 
Type of 
Report 
Complete; 
Full 
Number of 
Subjects 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
Diagnosis of 
Patients 
Duration of 
Treatment 
46 
Healthy male and 
female subjects 
aged 45-64 
years or elderly 
(65-80 years); 
male and female 
subjects with mild 
or moderate RI 
According to the 
2-way crossover 
design, single dose 
of idarucizumab  
or placebo per  
period 
DE: Day 1 to 3 bid, 
Day 4 single dose 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; Route 
of 
administration 
Ida or placebo: 1 g 
(elderly subjects, 
subjects with 
mild RI), 2.5 g (healthy 
subjects aged 
45-64 years), 5 g 
(healthy subjects aged 
45-64 years, 
elderly subjects, 
subjects with mild RI), 
2x2.5 g (subjects with 
moderate RI) 
Redosing with 2.5 g 
Ida in healthy subjects 
aged 45-64 years at 2 
months after first 
infusion pretreatment 
with 220 mg DE bid for 
3.5 days in subjects 
without RI 
Redosing with 220 mg 
DE bid for 2.5 days at 
24 h after the infusion 
(medium and high 
dose/healthy [45-64 
years]) 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 29/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study
a
Study No. 
[Report No.] 
PK, PD 
1321.5 
[c03026940] 
Location 
of Study 
Report 
5.3.4.1 
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Randomised, 
double-blind 
within dose 
groups, 
placebo-controlle
d, 
sequential rising 
order 
To investigate 
safety, 
tolerability, and 
PK of iv doses of 
idarucizumab 
To explore the 
effect of different 
doses of 
idarucizumab 
administered 
at or close to the 
steady state of 
dabigatran  
Test Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; Route 
of 
administration 
Part 1: 1, 2, 4 g Ida or 
placebo as 5 min 
infusion; 8 g Ida or 
placebo as 1 h infusion 
Part 2: 1, 2, 4 g Ida or 
placebo as 5 min 
infusion; 2x2.5 g Ida or 
placebo (15 min 
apart). 
Pretreatment 
with 220 mg DE bid for 
2x3.5 days 
Number of 
Subjects 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
Diagnosis of 
Patients 
Duration of 
Treatment 
Study Status; 
Type of 
Report 
80 
Healthy Japanese 
male subjects 
Single dose of 
idarucizumab or 
placebo  
Complete; 
Full 
DE: per period Day 
1 to 3 bid, Day 4 
single dose 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 30/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study
a
Study No. 
[Report No.] 
PK, PD 
1321.3 
[c03124096] 
[c03603109] 
Location 
of Study 
Report 
5.3.4.2 
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Demonstrate 
reversal of the 
anticoagulant 
effect of 
dabigatran 
Open label, 
uncontrolled, 
case series 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; Route 
of 
administration 
Idarucizumab total 
dose of 5 g, given as 
2x2.5 g within 15 min, 
injection/infusion 
Number of 
Subjects 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
Diagnosis of 
Patients 
Duration of 
Treatment 
Study Status; 
Type of 
Report 
Single dose 
Ongoing; 
Interim 
123 
(interim) 
[200-300 
patients 
targeted per 
protocol] 
Patients treated 
with dabigatran 
etexilate who 
have  
uncontrolled or 
life-threatening 
bleeding 
requiring urgent 
intervention, and 
in patients  
treated with 
dabigatran 
etexilate who 
require 
emergency 
surgery or other 
invasive 
procedure 
Abbreviations: 
id: twice daily dosing 
DE: Dabigatran etexilate 
EDF: Exploratory dose finding 
iv: intravenous 
g: gram 
h: hour 
mg: milligram 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 31/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
min: minute 
PD: pharmacodynamics 
PK: pharmacokinetics 
RI: renal impairment 
SRD: single rising dose 
a 
Studies which used human biomaterials are not listed. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 32/101 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  clinical  pharmacology  of  idarucizumab  has  been  investigated  in  3  Phase  I  trials:  one  study  in 
healthy male volunteers (1321.1), one study in healthy male Japanese volunteers (1321.5) and one study 
in healthy, male and female, mid-aged or elderly subjects as well as subjects with mild or moderate renal 
impairment  (1321.2),  a  total  of  283  healthy  volunteers.  Of  these,  6  subjects  had  moderate  renal 
impairment (CrCl ≥30 to <60 mL/min), 12 had mild renal impairment (CrCl ≥60 to <90 mL/min) and 16 
were elderly (65-80 years).  
In addition, a Phase III study in patients is currently ongoing (study 1321.3, RE-VERSE AD; cut-off date 
for second interim analysis submitted within current application: 1 April 2015). In the initial submission, 
pharmacokinetic  (PK)  information  for  N=13  patients  from  study  1321.3  was  included  (first  interim 
analysis), corresponding to less than 5 percent of the planned up to 300 patients. These patients were 
sub-divided into group A (bleeding patients) and B (patients requiring urgent surgery), respectively. The 
majority of patients were older than 65 years (n= 23, 88.5%), and 7 (27%) were older than 85 years. 
According to a results of the second interim analysis of RE-VERSE AD, a PK data set of N=90 patients was 
available. Data from n=68 patients were valid with respect to data on creatinine clearance at baseline and 
complete plasma concentration profiles. Thereof, N=12 had normal renal function (CrCL >80 ml/min), 
N=26  mild  (50-80  ml/min),  N=20  moderate  (30-50  ml/min),  and  N=10  severe  (0-30  ml/min)  renal 
impairment, respectively. 
Idarucizumab is administered intravenously. Doses of 20 mg to 8 g of idarucizumab were administered 
throughout the clinical program for idarucizumab, administered either as single infusion of 1 h or 5 min, 
or as two 5 min infusions 15 or 60 minutes apart.  
PK in healthy volunteers: 
Idarucizumab  concentration  profiles  after  1  hour  infusion  of  doses  between  20  mg  to  8  g  in  healthy 
volunteers in the presence and absence of dabigatran were evaluated by non-compartmental analysis. 
After  infusion  of  idarucizumab  doses  ≥1  g  to  healthy  volunteers  in  the  absence  of  dabigatran,  the 
calculated distribution volume in the steady state after idarucizumab infusion (Vss) was small ranging 
from 5.27 to 8.86 L. Idarucizumab was rapidly eliminated from plasma after infusion. In healthy subjects, 
total clearance ranged between 35.7 and 53.9 mL/min. Plasma concentrations declined to less than 5% 
of maximal concentrations within 4 hours after end of the 5 min infusions. The terminal half-life ranged 
from 4.5 to 10.8 hours.  
Relevant  amounts  of  unchanged  idarucizumab  were  detected  in  urine  after  administration  of 
idarucizumab doses ≥1 g. The fraction of idarucizumab dose eliminated unchanged into urine increased 
with dose (range in non-asian healthy subjects 10.7 % to 40.2 % for total idarucizumab doses from 1 to 
8 g), suggesting saturation of re-uptake processes in the kidney with higher idarucizumab doses. Renal 
impairment had no relevant effect on the fraction of idarucizumab dose excreted unchanged into urine. 
No deviation from dose-linearity was observed for peak and total idarucizumab exposure for doses from 
20 mg to 8 g in healthy volunteers. No time dependent effects were observed. 
Presence of dabigatran did not appear to majorly influence elimination at higher doses of idarucizumab. 
There is however a trend of dabigatran to decrease Cmax and increase plasma clearance of idarucizumab 
in the 1g dose cohort, possibly due to a more apparent influence of target-mediated elimination. 
Population PK analysis 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 33/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Data  from  n=244  subjects  in  the  three  Phase  I  studies  were  used  to  develop  a  population  model 
describing the kinetics of bound and unbound idarucizumab and dabigatran. “Total idarucizumab”, “sum 
dabigatran” and “unbound sum dabigatran” were used as dependent variables. A 3-compartment fixed 
effects model was found to adequately describe idarucizumab kinetics across a wide range of doses, from 
20 mg to 8 g, administered as 5- or 60-min long intravenous infusion. As expected with a macromolecule 
of this size, idarucizumab appears to be confined to extracellular fluid, with the steady state Vd of 9.2 L, 
exceeding the typical plasma volume (3-5 L). The model estimate for idarucizumab clearance was 2.3 
L/h. A terminal half-life of approximately 12 hours was deduced from the model parameters. 
CrCL (on CL) and body weight (on Vc) were found to be the only covariates with influence on idarucizumab 
PK. Sex, age and body weight were not significantly correlated with idarucizumab clearance once CrCL 
was added to the model. Body weight was found to influence central volume of idarucizumab distribution. 
There  was  no  relevant  effect  of  age  on  key  idarucizumab  PK  parameters  when  compared  between 
subjects aged 45-64 years and elderly subjects aged 65-80 years (n=30). 
Plasma exposure of idarucizumab was slightly increased in Japanese compared to Caucasian healthy male 
subjects. The difference was negligible after normalization for body weight.  
Limited information was available on the impact of ADA development on PK of subsequent dosing. Most 
healthy  volunteers  enrolled  in  the  PK  studies  1321.1,  1321.2  and  1321.5  received  a  single  dose. 
Information  on  re-exposure  was  available  from  six  healthy  subjects,  who  all  did  not  develop  ADAs. 
However, in 25 of 222 healthy volunteers, pre-existing ADA with cross-reactivity to idarucizumab were 
detected (11%). These data did not indicate a relevant effect of ADA presence on idarucizumab exposure. 
Dabigatran  disposition  after  oral  administration  was  best  described  with  a  linear,  two  compartment 
model. Age was a predictor of dabigatran clearance even after adjusting for the effects of renal function. 
Sex and body weight were not significantly correlated with dabigatran clearance once CrCL was added to 
the  model.  Dabigatran  clearance  was  approximately  16%  higher  in  Japanese  subjects  relative  to 
Caucasian subjects with  normal renal function; for those with mild to moderate renal impairment the 
difference was just 8%. No other significant covariate effects were observed. Although determined over 
a limited distribution range, the covariate effects are consistent with previous findings. 
The  precision  of  the  parameter  estimates  was  generally  good,  and  the  values  are  in  the  range  of 
previously  observed  data  for  dabigatran.  However,  relatively  high  inter-individual  variability  of  the 
absorption  parameters  (fraction  and  mean  absorption  time)  and  distribution  volumes  of  dabigatran 
exists.  Moderate  inter-individual  variability  (IIV)  was  estimated  for  CL  (11.9%)  and  Vc  (14.8%)  of 
idarucizumab. High IIV of 322% for a peripheral volume (Vp) of idarucizumab was  estimated.  
PK in the target population:  
In the initial submission, pharmacokinetic (PK) information for N=13 patients from the ongoing study 
1321.3  was  included,  corresponding  to  less  than  5  percent  of  the  planned  up  to  300  patients.  These 
patients  were  further  sub-divided  in  N=6  and  N=7  for  group  A  (bleeding  patients)  and  B  (patients 
requiring urgent surgery), respectively. In these patients, the sum dabigatran concentration at baseline 
(before  idarucizumab  treatment)  was  low  but  highly  variable  between  patients,  with  a  median 
concentration  of  71.7  ng/mL  (range,  6.9-  795  ng/mL).  The  corresponding  unbound  sum  dabigatran 
concentration was 50.0 ng/mL (range, 4.4-643 ng/mL). After the infusion of the first vial of idarucizumab, 
unbound sum dabigatran concentrations had already decreased to ≤1.2 ng/mL (LLOQ: 1 ng/mL) in all 
patients.  Unbound  sum  dabigatran  concentration  remained  at  or  below  the  LLOQ  over  the  entire 
observation  period  of  24  hours  in  most  patients.  The  resulting  very  limited  data  set  indicated  some 
potential differences in the PK of idarucizumab between the two treatment groups. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 34/101 
 
 
 
 
 
The available after second interim analysis of RE-VERSE AD more mature dataset of N=90 was used to 
re-assess the PK of idarucizumab in the two treatment groups. The geometric mean curves were almost 
superimposable, suggesting no difference between the PK of idarucizumab in the two treatment groups.  
Overall, the profiles from phase I treatment groups were similar to the gMean profile from the patients 
with normal renal function (CrCL ≥ 80 mL/min), indicating similar PK in patients and healthy volunteers 
with normal renal function. 
Special populations 
PK in renal impairment 
A comparison of the PKs in healthy male and female volunteers with subjects with mild (CrCl ≥60 to <90 
mL/min) and moderate (CrCl ≥30 to <60 mL/min) renal impairment in study 1321.2 showed a decrease 
in  total  plasma  clearance  with  decreased  renal  function  to  69.6%  and  54.6%,  respectively  and  a 
corresponding increase in idarucizumab exposure (AUC0-∞) by 43.5% and 83.5%. Population PK results 
suggest  this  relationship  to  be  approximately  linear  over  the  range  of  renal  function  evaluated  in  the 
Phase  1  trials.  There  was  no  relevant  impact  of  renal  impairment  on  urinary  excretion  of  unchanged 
idarucizumab. 
The gMean plasma concentration-time profiles from the currently available 90 patients from study 1231.3 
separated  by  creatinine  clearance  confirmed  the  dependency  of  idarucizumab  PK  in  patients  on  renal 
function. 
AUC0-24 was calculated for above mentioned patient groups with PK data available up to 24 hours, as 
well as for volunteers in study 1321.2, including volunteer with mild and moderate renal impairment : 
The  data  based  on  n=68  patients/volunteers  grouped  in  four  renal  function  categories  (Table  39:2) 
indicated that geometric mean idarucizumab exposure (AUC0-24h) increases by 26 % in subjects with 
mild (CLCr 60-90 ml/min), by 78 % in moderate (30-60 ml/min) and by 199% % in severe (0-30 ml/min) 
renal impairment. Thus, in moderately impaired patients there is an almost 2fold increase of exposure, in 
severely impaired patients there is even a 3fold increase in exposure. 
PK in hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment on idarucizumab PK has not been investigated. Due to the predominantly 
renal elimination of idarucizumab, a clinically relevant impact of hepatic impairment on idarucizumab PK 
is not expected.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 35/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-idarucizumab antibodies and Anti-dabigatran antibodies 
In all 3 Phase 1 studies, antibody  formation  against  idarucizumab following single administration 
was analysed throughout the study, including a 3-month follow-up period. Overall, a low immunogenic 
potential, i.e. low incidence of treatment-emergent anti-idarucizumab antibodies and generally low titers, 
was observed.  
Two doses of idarucizumab were administered to 6 volunteers approximately 2 months apart in study 
1321.2. However, no anti-idarucizumab antibodies were detected before either administration and at the 
time of PK and PD assessments. Because all other subjects in the clinical Phase 1 studies received only 
one dose of idarucizumab (in some cases the dose was administered as two 5 min infusions 15 min or 60 
min apart), the effect of treatment-emergent anti-idarucizumab antibodies on the PK of idarucizumab 
could  not  be  studied.  For  the  subject  who  had  pre-existing  antibodies  with  cross-reactivity  to 
idarucizumab, there was no obvious effect on idarucizumab PK. 
The formation of anti-dabigatran antibodies was explored in all 3 Phase 1 studies. In total, 43 of 574 
samples  (7.5%)  across  trials  1321.1,  1321.2,  and  1321.5  were  screened  putative  positive  with  the 
modified  TT  assay.  In  each  trial,  some  subjects  had  putative  positive  responses  at  the  predose  visit 
(overall 10 of 141 subjects, 7.1%), and these are considered to be false positive.  
22  of  the  141  subjects  who  were  pre-treated  with  DE  before  infusion  of  idarucizumab  had  developed 
possible anti-dabigatran antibodies. 10% had a possibly persistent responses and 5.7% had transient 
responses.  However,  none  of  the  samples  had  a  strong  enough  response  to  completely  block  the 
anticoagulant  effect  of  7  nM  (i.e.  3.3  ng/mL)  dabigatran.  The  median  steady  state  concentration  of 
dabigatran (150 mg bid dose) was 390 nM (i.e. 184 ng/mL) in the RE LY study. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
PK interaction with dabigatran 
The  interaction  between  idarucizumab  and  dabigatran  is  the  intended  effect  of  idarucizumab.  Median 
exposure to sum dabigatran (total amount [bound & unbound] of dabigatran in plasma plus total amount 
[bound  &  unbound]  of  dabigatran  metabolites  [glucuronides]  in  plasma)  at  peak  was  comparable  or 
higher in all studied populations, compared to both treatments in the RE-LY study (pivotal study for DE in 
the AF indication). Dabigatran had no effect on the PK of idarucizumab but idarucizumab had an effect on 
dabigatran  PK.  Idarucizumab  neutralizes  sum  dabigatran  by  binding  to  it  and  thus  diminishing  the 
unbound sum dabigatran concentration, triggering a new equilibrium whereby dabigatran from tissues 
re-distributes into plasma. This results in apparently high sum dabigatran concentrations, whereby sum 
dabigatran  is  bound  in  the  idarucizumab:dabigatran  complex  and  neutralised.  Importantly,  this 
observation coincides with a reduction of unbound sum dabigatran concentrations to levels around the 
lower  level  of  quantitation  as  well  as  abolished  or  nearly  abolished  anticoagulation.  The 
idarucizumab-dabigatran  complex  follows  the  same  elimination  route  as  idarucizumab  alone. 
Idarucizumab binds unbound dabigatran immediately. A dose of 2 g idarucizumab was calculated to be 
approximately  equimolar  to  median  dabigatran  body  load.  In  the  plasma,  dabigatran  is  bound  and 
neutralized by idarucizumab as long as free idarucizumab is available. For how long free idarucizumab is 
available (durability of the effect) is dependent on dabigatran body load and the idarucizumab dose. As 
long as the molar concentration of idarucizumab exceeds the molar concentration of sum dabigatran, all 
dabigatran in plasma is bound to idarucizumab. Age, sex and renal function had no relevant influence on 
the effect of idarucizumab on sum dabigatran exposure.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 36/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Idarucizumab exhibited multiphasic disposition kinetics and limited extravascular distribution. Following 
the intravenous infusion of a 5 g dose, the geometric mean volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) 
was 8.9 L (geometric coefficient of variation (gCV) 24.8 %). 
Elimination 
Idarucizumab was rapidly eliminated with a total clearance of 47.0 mL/min (gCV 18.4 %), an initial 
half-life of 47 minutes (gCV 11.4 %) and a terminal half-life of 10.3 h (gCV 18.9 %). After intravenous 
administration of 5 g idarucizumab, 32.1 % (gCV 60.0 %) of the dose was recovered in urine within a 
collection period of 6 hours and less than 1 % in the following 18 hours. The remaining part of the dose 
is assumed to be eliminated via protein catabolism, mainly in the kidney. After treatment with 
idarucizumab proteinuria has been observed. The transient proteinuria is a physiologic reaction to renal 
protein overflow after bolus/short term application of 5g idarucizumab intravenously. The transient 
proteinuria usually peaked about 4 h after idarucizumab administration and normalised within 12-24 
hours. In single cases the transient proteinuria persisted for more than 24 hours. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No deviation from dose-linearity was observed for peak and total idarucizumab exposure for doses from 
20 mg to 8 g in healthy volunteers. No time dependent effects were observed.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Idarucizumab is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran. It is a humanized monoclonal antibody fragment 
(Fab) that binds to dabigatran with an affinity 300-fold more potent than the binding affinity of dabigatran 
for thrombin. The idarucizumab-dabigatran-complex showed a very rapid on-rate and slow off-rate of 
dabigatran to idarucizumab which results in a half-life of the idarucizumab-dabigatran complex of 
approximately 260 h. Approximately 20% of the absorbed dose of dabigatran is further metabolised in 
humans into glucuronides, which have equivalent anticoagulant activity to the parent drug. Idarucizumab 
also binds and reverses the effects of these acylglucuronides of dabigatran with a similar potency range 
as for dabigatran.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The primary PD readout for idarucizumab was reversal of dabigatran-induced anticoagulation. To support 
this readout, central laboratory analysis of several clotting assays was employed, minimizing analytical 
variability between studies. Primary focus was on dTT and ECT, whereas aPTT and TT served as 
supportive measures. In addition, ACT was determined as a bedside test. These tests are available in the 
clinic and have proven suitable tools in the assessment of anticoagulant activity.  
To determine whether infusion of idarucizumab in the absence of dabigatran had any pro-thrombotic 
effects and to provide further support of reversal of dabigatran mediated effects, ETP was determined 
both in the absence of dabigatran and after combined treatment. D-Dimer and Prothrombin Fragment 
1+2 (F1.2) were explored in 1321.1 and 1321.5 after administration of idarucizumab in the absence of 
dabigatran. 
Further, in study 1321.1, an exploratory marker of bleeding was tested to determine whether it correlated 
with reversal of anticoagulation. Therefore, the ability of dabigatran to inhibit fibrin formation at a wound 
site induced by standardized cuts by measuring fibrinopeptide A (FPA) in blood as it exits the wound site 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 37/101 
 
 
 
 
was explored and it was further tested whether idarucizumab could restore fibrin formation at the wound 
site. As a further readout for bleeding, the washed blood assay was explored. 
In Studies 1321.1 and 1321.5 in the absence of dabigatran, dTT, ECT, aPTT, TT and ACT remain 
consistently comparable before and after infusion of idarucizumab. These findings suggest that 
idarucizumab has no direct effect on the coagulation cascade. Likewise, in study 1321.1 in the absence of 
dabigatran, ETP parameters derived before and after idarucizumab and placebo infusion were 
comparable. This suggested that idarucizumab has no prothrombotic activity. Analyses of D-dimer and 
Prothrombin Fragment F1.2 after infusion of idarucizumab in the absence of dabigatran did not reveal a 
prothrombotic signal.  
In studies 1321.1, 1321.2 and 1321.5, a total of 141 subjects received dabigatran etexilate 
co-administered with idarucizumab or placebo. Based on the results of previous studies, reversal of 
dabigatran anticoagulation was determined either by reaching a back-calculated value from the PK/PD 
relationship corresponding to 20 ng/mL or by reaching “mean + 2*SD” of available pre-dose 
measurements. This was considered the ULN.  
In study 1321.3, which included patients rather than healthy volunteers and where increased variability 
of data was thus expected, a higher ULN was defined (110% of the ULN from 1321.2 based on mean + 
2*SD). This is considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Primary, secondary and exploratory biomarkers 
The primary PD biomarkers were dTT and ECT as these parameters had adequate sensitivity, were the 
least variable and displayed a linear relationship with dabigatran concentrations. Simultaneously, TT, 
aPTT and bedside ACT were analysed as supportive measures.  
dTT: Across studies, a prolongation of dTT by approximately 2-fold around Cmax was observed following 
dabigatran administration. All tested doses of idarucizumab resulted in a return to ULN and a 
dose-dependent durability of effect was seen.  
ECT: Across studies, a prolongation of ECT by approximately 3-fold of mean ECT was observed following 
dabigatran administration. All tested doses of idarucizumab resulted in a return to ULN and a 
dose-dependent durability of effect was seen. Thus, the results of analyses of the primary PD biomarkers 
dTT and ECT demonstrate the ability of idarucizumab to reverse the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. 
This effect was consistently sustained by administration of a dose of 5 g idarucizumab. Administration of 
dabigatran increased the mean thrombin lag time ratio and the time to peak ratio while the effect on 
thrombin peak ratio and thrombin AUC ratio was less pronounced. Across studies, administration of 
idarucizumab resulted in a dose-dependent reversal of effect of dabigatran on all ETP parameters, i.e. the 
respective ratios returned to approximately 1. Thus, reversal of dabigatran-induced effects on thrombin 
generation as measured ty ETP was achieved following idarucizumab administration.  
TT: Administration of dabigatran resulted in approximately 10-fold or higher prolongation of mean TT 
coagulation times at Cmax. Across studies, administration of idarucizumab resulted in a dose-dependent 
return of TT-values to ULN. In contrast to the other coagulation measurements, durability of effect of 
idarucizumab was highly dependent on the definition of ULN. Using a tight ULN boundary, re-occurrence 
of dabigatran-mediated anticoagulation was detected with all doses of idarucizumab except for the 
supra-therapeutic total dose of 7,5 g. Using a wider ULN boundary, re-occurrence of dabigatran-induced 
anticoagulation was essentially not observed for idarucizumab doses of 2.5 g or higher.  
aPTT: Administration of dabigatran resulted in approximately 2-fold prolongation of mean aPTT 
coagulation times. Across studies, administration of idarucizumab resulted in a dose-dependent return of 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 38/101 
 
 
 
 
aPTT values to ULN. Thus, reversal of dabigatran-induced effects on aPTT was achieved following 
idarucizumab administration.  
ACT: Administration of dabigatran resulted in approximately 1.5-2 fold prolongation of mean ACT 
coagulation times. Across studies, administration of idarucizumab resulted in a dose-dependent return of 
ACT values to ULN. However, the ACT assay appeared to be more variable and the least sensitive of the 
assays used in the clinical program. Thus, the results of the analyses of the secondary PD biomarkers ETP, 
TT, aPTT and ACT demonstrate the ability of idarucizumab to reverse the anticoagulant effect of 
dabigatran. This effect was consistently sustained by administration of a dose of 5 g idarucizumab. 
Exploratory bleeding parameters: Three exploratory bleeding parameters were included in the analyses. 
Fibrinopeptide A (FPA) is a shed blood parameter and data showed that idarucizumab tended to reverse 
dabigatran-induced reduction of FPA levels, albeit that the CV values were high (>60%). Shed blood 
volume measurements at baseline were highly variable (0.200 µL – 206 µL, N=34) and therefore no clear 
effect of dabigatran on shed blood volume could be demonstrated. This parameter was not further 
explored. In study 1321.1 a washed blood procedure was performed to assess the amount of blood and 
the bleeding time after incision of the forearm skin with the Surgicut® device. The washed blood 
parameters optical density AUC, maximum optical density and bleeding time were determined. The 
inter-subject variability was high with CV values >60% and a clear effect of dabigatran on the washed 
blood parameters could not be detected. 
Concentration-effect relationship: The dTT and the ECT assays were chosen as primary PD biomarkers. 
Both the dTT and the ECT assays display a linear relationship between plasma dabigatran concentrations 
and effect over a wide range of concentrations. The ECT assay was not standardized across clinical 
laboratories and was judged thus to be of limited value in the clinical setting. The dTT correlated most 
closely with unbound sum dabigatran.  
The TT, aPTT and ACT assays were chosen as secondary PD parameters. The TT assay is very sensitive for 
dabigatran in plasma even at very low dabigatran concentrations and can thus be considered a 
conservative approach to determine the reversal of dabigatran-induced anticoagulation. However, the TT 
assay was not standardized across clinical laboratories. The aPTT displays a curvilinear relationship with 
dabigatran concentrations. Thus, at higher concentrations of dabigatran the aPTT assay levels off and a 
clear dose-response relationship is lost. Thus, higher aPTT values only indicate significant anticoagulation 
when induced by dabigatran. However, a reversal of aPTT values to below ULN does indicate reversal of 
significant anticoagulation. The aPTT assay is readily available in clinical laboratories. The ACT measures 
the time required for whole blood clotting after activation of the intrinsic coagulation pathway and can be 
used as a point-of-care test. Although the ACT is widely available and may be performed bedside, it is 
unclear whether it displays a dose-response relationship with plasma dabigatran. 
Interactions: Idarucizumab is a Fab molecule and is thus devoid of the Fc-part and therefore lacks the 
Fc-mediated effects of monoclonal antibodies. It has no cytokine activity but binds dabigatran potently 
and specifically. A potential endogenous target for idarucizumab has not been identified and direct 
interactions with other drugs were considered unlikely. In vitro studies have demonstrated no 
interactions between pro-coagulant drugs such as PCCs, aPCC or rFVIIa and idarucizumab. Moreover, 
idarucizumab did not inhibit the anticoagulant activity of other anticoagulant drugs such as VKA, FXa 
inhibitors, heparins or other DTIs of different structure than dabigatran, such as hirudin and argatroban. 
In an in vivo bleeding model where both dabigatran and platelet inhibitors were present in combination, 
idarucizumab only partially reversed bleeding time. This was likely due to the prolonged bleeding time 
being a consequence of both thrombin inhibition and platelet inhibition. Thus, a possible target on other 
drugs to which idarucizumab might bind has not been identified. As such, in the view of the CHMP PK 
interactions are unlikely to occur. Likewise, PD interactions with other pro-coagulant drugs have not been 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 39/101 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated but the effect of idarucizumab was attenuated when coagulation was inhibited by 
dabigatran and other anticoagulant drugs in combination. However, due to the specificity of idarucizumab 
this was expected. It was concluded that there is low likelihood for a drug-drug interaction between 
idarucizumab and other drugs, except for dabigatran, and for this reason no formal clinical drug-drug 
interaction (DDI) studies were conducted. This was considered to be consistent with current Guideline on 
the investigation of drug interactions (CPMP/EWP/560/95/Rev. 1 Corr.*). 
Genetic differences in PD response: Gender, age and bodyweight were not significantly correlated with 
idarucizumab clearance with CrCL. Clearance was approximately 11% lower in Japanese subjects than for 
non-Japanese. No other significant covariate effects were observed. Pre-specified pharmacogenomics 
analyses were not performed as genetic variations that may explain or predict individual response to 
idarucizumab have not been identified. However, DNA banking samples are collected in the ongoing study 
1321.3. These will be stored by the applicant for up to 15 years and may be analysed at a later time to 
identify potential genetic factors that could influence therapeutic outcome or adverse reactions. This was 
endorsed. 
PK-PD results: Linear and nonlinear (Emax) mixed effects models were used to examine the PK/PD 
relationship of dabigatran analyte concentration and ECT, dTT, TT, and aPTT and to identify key 
covariates influencing these relationships. The PK/PD model was conditioned on unbound sum dabigatran 
(observed and PK-model predicted) and on the PK-model derived idarucizumab-free sum dabigatran. The 
relationships between dabigatran species and ECT and dTT could be described by slope-intercept (linear) 
models. The structural models are consistent with previous experience on the relationship between 
dabigatran species and ECT (linear), aPTT (Emax) and TT (Emax). Inter-individual and residual variability 
were moderate throughout the models, the estimates were generally sufficiently precise. Covariates 
tested for the dabigatran concentration-biomarker response relationships included 
pre/post-idarucizumab measurement of biomarkers (PREFAB2), sex, age, body weight, and race. 
Because one of the three studies (1321.5) included only Japanese subjects potential confounding of race 
and study was also explored. Since the subgroup of females was small, covariate analysis may be biased 
in this point. Age, body weight, and measurement prior to idarucizumab administration were found to be 
significant predictors for selected coagulation markers, with relative differences of ≤7.1% for a 10 year 
deviation from median age, 10 kg deviation from median weight, or for measurement pre- versus 
post-idarucizumab administration. As a result of the alternative analysis where the effect of race is 
replaced with study as a covariate, significant study effects were found for the relationships between 
concentration and ECT (Study 1321.1), aPTT (Study 1321.2), and TT (Study 1321.1). For the aPTT 
models, the inclusion of the study effect rendered the previously included covariate effect of age 
insignificant. Sex was not a significant factor on coagulation time.  
The best fit between observed and model predicted values was seen for the models of observed unbound 
sum dabigatran – ECT and the observed unbound sum dabigatran- dTT relationship. VPC plots indicated 
a less good fit of the predicted dabigatran analytes (e.g. predicted unbound sum dabigatran, predicted 
idarucizumab free dabigatran IFSD) - coagulation parameter relationship than the one for the observed 
unbound sum dabigatran – coagulation analyt models. This holds also true for the QQ plots for ECT and 
dTT, which suggest severe deviation from normal distribution. In addition, simulation of IFSD after one 5g 
idarucizumab dose for an average Caucasian with impaired renal function on the basis of the PopPK model 
indicated an extremely high variability. Cmax values ranged between 0.5 and 60 ng/mL.  
Simulations: The population PK and PK/PD models were used to simulate coagulation profiles and reversal 
rates under a number of dose and regimen scenarios. The simulations suggest that at idarucizumab doses 
≥ 2g all patients experience a reversal of the dabigatran anti-coagulating effect below values of ULN, as 
measured by ECT and dTT. With increasing idarucizumab dose this reversal lasts longer. At the 5g and 2x 
2.5g dose regimen, only a small percentage of subjects (around 5%) were expected to achieve 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 40/101 
 
 
 
 
coagulation values above ULN within 28 hours post dosing at all. In contrast, at 2 g idarucizumab in 50% 
of typical Caucasian subjects with normal renal function ECT values around the 110% ULN would already 
be expected within 8 hours post dosing. These data supported the proposed clinical dose. However, the 
uncertainty for an individual prediction was in the low dose range very high.  
The simulation further suggested that renal impairment did not have a major impact on the dose-effect 
relationship, despite its influence on idarucizumab as well as on dabigatran PK. The Applicant provided an 
explanation: clearance of both idarucizumab and dabigatran is reduced with renal impairment. While 
renal impairment increases dabigatran body load it also slows elimination of idarucizumab, increasing the 
opportunity for binding and decreasing the amount of idarucizumab eliminated unbound.  
Simulations based on the model derived from the RE-LY dabigatran study showed somewhat different 
values. This was due to a difference in the estimates of the clearance function. IFSD was predicted to be 
higher and subsequently higher maximum values above ULN of the coagulation assays were reached. 
Nevertheless, with both models ≥ 2g idarucizumab is predicted to result in 100% reversal, and time of 
reversal is nearly unchanged. Furthermore, albeit the discrepancy in clearance was more prominent in 
more severe renal impairment (CrCL of 40 ml/min), the differences in simulated coagulation effects were 
minimal (at 2.5g + 2.5 g; Median dTT of 32.9 vs 32.1s; Median ECT of 39.5 vs 37.4s). 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Idarucizumab is a humanised antibody fragment (Fab) molecule designed to reverse the anticoagulant 
effect of dabigatran. It is administered intravenously. Dabigatran is a direct thrombin inhibitor, an 
anticoagulant that is the active principle of the prodrug, DE. Idarucizumab binds to dabigatran with an 
affinity (KD) of 2.1 pM, which is ~300-fold more potent than the binding affinity of dabigatran for 
thrombin. The process by which the complex is formed with dabigatran is essentially irreversible. 
A validated ELISA method was used to measure total idarucizumab in plasma and urine. At the time of the 
assessment of current application there was no quantitative assay to measure free idarucizumab 
available. An immunoassay method was considered not feasible in the presence of dabigatran.  
A three-tiered approach was used for anti-drug antibody (ADA) detection. For screening and confirmation 
a drug-bridging electrochemiluminescence (ECL) method was applied. It was noted that only ADA 
concentrations ≥ 250 ng/mL would be detected. Selectivity was not confirmed in samples spiked with 
plasma from renally impaired patients. Therefore, cut point will be further investigated in renal 
impairment human plasma samples. Furthermore, a hook effect was detected at positive control 
concentrations > 8000 ng/mL. Nevertheless, those samples were still positive above cut point. In general, 
the assay was considered sufficiently validated. Epitope specificity assessments were performed on 
study samples that were confirmed positive for ADA in the method described above. Epitope specificity 
was assessed using a competitive format of the ECL method described above (analogous to the 
confirmatory assay) in which molecules related to idarucizumab were evaluated for their potential to 
block the ADA signal in the ECL method. The neutralising anti-idarucizumab antibody assay (Nab assay) 
was not considered sufficiently validated. The applicant pointed out a high false positive rate and the 
unknown reason for it. The applicant further argued that assuming worst case of the highest ADA titer 
measured so far in a neutralising ADA (nADA) positive control sample, the ratio of idarucizumab to nADA 
would still be 500:1. The CHMP agreed that it is unlikely, that nADA could affect efficacy severely.  
The clinical pharmacology of idarucizumab has been well described in 283 healthy volunteers 
investigated in three Phase I trials. A Phase III study (study 1321.3) in patients was ongoing at the time 
of the assessment of the current application (the second interim analysis of the RE-VERSE AD trial 
assessed within current application included clinical data from 123 patients recruited into RE-VERSE AD 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 41/101 
 
 
 
 
up to Apr 01, 2015 and central laboratory data for assessment of efficacy were available for 90 patients). 
The PK data set from 90 patients which was available indicated no relevant differences between the 
plasma PK profiles of patients and phase I volunteers when renal function was considered. Population PK 
analysis was performed so far with the PK data of the Phase I healthy volunteers. Estimation of the PK 
parameters and covariate analysis in patients was missing for the target patient population. Therefore, 
the MAA agreed to perform such an analysis after completion of study 1321.3 in order to fully analyse and 
describe the PK of idarucizumab in patients. Since robustness and fit of the current PK model was 
considered only moderate the applicant intended to perform future analysis to explore alternative binding 
models (between idarucizumab and dabigatran) while incorporating data from ongoing study in patients. 
The current population PK-PD idarucizumab-dabigatran binding model also has limitations with regard to 
severe renal impairment. The ongoing Phase III study is likely to recruit additional patients with severe 
renal impairment. Hence, more data should be available in the future. The model assessed within current 
application predicted that in patients with renal impairment, increasing exposures of dabigatran will be 
accompanied by increasing exposures of idarucizumab. Further, for a patient with a CrCL of 40 mL/min, 
it was predicted that the relative idarucizumab exposure increase will be higher than the dabigatran 
exposure increase when compared to a subject with a CrCL of 90 mL/min. From the perspective of 
ensuring sufficient idarucizumab exposure to bind dabigatran, this was considered reassuring by the 
CHMP. Still it is known that in patients with severe renal impairment, the plasma concentration of 
dabigatran could be 6 times higher and the half-life approximately 2 times longer than that observed in a 
population without renal impairment. On the other hand, estimations based on the actual data of n=68 
patients/volunteers reveal that exposure in severely impaired patients was increased about 3-fold. 
Therefore, some uncertainty remained whether idarucizumab exposure with the originally proposed 
posology would be sufficient in patients with severe renal impairment. In the ongoing Phase III study, a 
slightly lower proportion of patients with severe renal impairment achieved complete reversal based on 
ECT and dTT compared to patients with no or mild-moderate renal impairment. This was a noteworthy 
finding, although it could be due to chance or other factors. 
The information available so far did not allow defining a differentiated posology based on renal function. 
The recommendations regarding retreatment with idarucizumab if bleeding reappears were included in 
the SmPC. This was considered to mitigate to a certain degree the risk in case of underexposure of 
idarucizumab in patients with severe renal impairment.  
Based on these considerations, the posology of 5 g (2 vials of 2.5 g) with the possibility of retreatment 
was considered acceptable. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Simulations using the population PK and PK/PD models suggested that the proposed total dose of 5 grams 
given as two 2.5 gram infusions separated by 15 minutes resulted in complete reversal in Caucasian or 
Japanese patients across a wide range of renal function and dabigatran exposure. However, estimation of 
the PK parameters and covariate analysis was missing for the target patient population. Therefore, the 
applicant agreed to perform such an analysis after completion of study 1321.3 in order to fully analyse 
and  describe  the  PK  of  idarucizumab  in  patients.  Since  robustness  and  fit  of  the  current  model  was 
considered only moderate, the applicant agreed to perform future analysis to explore alternative binding 
models  (between  idarucizumab  and  dabigatran)  while  incorporating  data  from  ongoing  studies  in 
patients.  
Furthermore, some uncertainty remained whether idarucizumab exposure with the proposed posology 
will be sufficient in severe renal impairment. In the ongoing Phase III study, a slightly lower proportion of 
patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  achieved  complete  reversal  based  on  results  of  ECT  and  dTT 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 42/101 
 
 
 
 
compared to patients without or with mild to moderate renal impairment. It was agreed to re-assess it 
after completion of the study 1321.3. The recommendations included in the SmPC regarding retreatment 
with idarucizumab if bleeding reappears should to some extent mitigate the risk in case of underexposure 
of idarucizumab in severe renal impairment. Based on these considerations, the posology of 5 g (2 x 2.5 
g) with the possibility of retreatment was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
The selection of the clinical dose for patients and the demonstration of dose-response are based on 
biomarker response to different doses of idarucizumab and the concomitant reduction of the unbound 
sum dabigatran. PK/PD modelling was used to further substantiate dosing considerations. Clinical 
outcome data were not used in the estimation of the dosing. The recommended dose for patients is 5 g 
idarucizumab. As clinical outcome data were not used for the dose estimation, further discussion 
regarding dose response can be found in the pharmacology part of the AR. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
This clinical development program is focused on demonstrating pharmacologic reversal of the 
anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. In case of emergency surgery in dabigatran patients or in the rare 
cases of life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding associated with dabigatran, there is a potential clinical 
need for such an agent.  
The clinical development program consists of three completed studies in volunteers (studies 1321.1, 
1321.2 and 1321.5) and one ongoing study in patients (1321.3; RE-VERSE AD). The second interim 
analysis of RE-VERSE AD was included with the responses to the Day 120 LoQ in the current application. 
It contained available efficacy data for the ongoing RE-VERSE AD trial. It included clinical data from 123 
patients recruited into RE-VERSE AD up to April 01, 2015 and central laboratory data for assessment of 
efficacy that were available for 90 patients. The report included the 26 patients reported in the interim 
Clinical Trial Report submitted at the initial submission of the current application and the 90 patients as 
reported in NEJM on Jun 22, 2015. 
Phase I studies (1321.1, 1321.2 and 1321.5) 
The  clinical  development  program  consists  of  three  completed  studies  in  volunteers  (studies  1321.1, 
1321.2 and 1321.5) and one ongoing study in patients (REVERSE AD; 1321.3). 
All 3 Phase I studies in the idarucizumab program comprised only healthy volunteers. Studies 1321.1 and 
1321.5 comprised only male subjects while study 1321.2 included also female volunteers. Subjects with 
renal impairment participated only in 1321.2. Both studies 1321.1 and 1321.2 were conducted in Belgium 
(majority: white subjects) whereas study 1321.5 included Japanese subjects. A short summary of the 
inclusion criteria is provided in Table 1.7.1: 1. 
There  were  a  total  of  283  volunteers  in  these  studies,  with  224  receiving  at  least  one  dose  of 
idarucizumab. Thus, by combining safety with dose-response and “proof of concept”, Phases I and II were 
accomplished in a single step. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 43/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
The vast majority of subjects received idarucizumab as single dose infusion (79.5%), see Table 3.1.1: 2. 
Overall, 9 subjects (7.7%) were treated with 2 single infusions of idarucizumab given 15 min apart and 9 
subjects  (7.7%)  received  2  single  infusions  of  idarucizumab  given  60  min  apart.  Re-exposure  to 
idarucizumab (2 months after the first dose) occurred in 6 subjects (5.1%) in trial 1321.2. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy variables assessed in the combined analysis of Phase I trials 
The efficacy of idarucizumab was evaluated using measurements from the biomarkers, dTT, ECT, TT and 
aPTT, with the primary evaluation focusing on either ECT or dTT. Evaluations using TT and aPTT were 
considered as secondary analyses. Additionally, measurements of the unbound sum dabigatran were 
summarized to provide additional evidence supporting the efficacy of idarucizumab.  
Reversal (%): for each individual subject pre-treated with dabigatran the reversal was defined as below: 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 44/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The ULN value was calculated as “mean+2*SD” using data from studies 1321.1 and 1321.2. The 
pre-dose values were measurements taken prior to the administration of idarucizumab/placebo, 
post-dose values were measurements taken post the administration of idarucizumab/placebo. The 
reversal defined as above using the 100% ULN was analysed as sensitivity analyses. The computed 
reversal was truncated at 100% if it was >100%, to 0% if it was <0%. A negative reversal would be 
obtained if the pre-dose value was smaller than the post-dose value, such as for a subject given 
placebo, instead of idarucizumab, after the pre-treatment with dabigatran. 
•  Achievement of complete reversal within 4 hours since the start of the administration of idarucizumab 
or placebo (calculated reversal ≥100%) (Yes/No) 
•  Achievement of 80% of reversal within 4 hours since the start of the administration of idarucizumab 
or placebo (Yes/No) 
•  Duration of complete reversal for subjects that achieved complete reversal within the first four hours 
• 
since the start of the administration of idarucizumab or placebo. 
Time to complete reversal for subjects that achieved complete reversal within the first four hours 
since the start of the administration of idarucizumab or placebo 
•  Change from pre-dose bio-marker measurements at each time point 
The chosen efficacy endpoints are regarded as appropriate and will allow assessing the potential of 
idarucizumab to reverse the pharmacological effect of dabigatran etexilate.  
Sample size 
Study 1321.1: Initially it was planned to include a total of 140 subjects (8-12 per dose group). Later on 
additional dose groups were included into the study and the sample size was increased to 157 subjects.  
Study 1321.2: Forty six subjects (high dose: 26, medium dose: 6, low dose: 14) were planned to be 
included into the study.  
Study 1321.5: It was planned to include a total of 80 subjects (8-12 per dose group). The sample size in 
none of the phase I trials was based on statistical considerations. 
Randomisation 
Studies 1321.1 & 1321.5: Within each dose, subjects were randomized in a 3:1 ratio (idarucizumab: 
placebo). 
Study 1321.2: Block randomisation was used to randomise subjects in a 1:1 ratio to one of the 2 
treatment sequences: idarucizumab followed by placebo and vice versa. Block size was 8 subjects for the 
low and high dose/elderly group (65-80 y) respectively while for all other treatment groups a block size 
of 6 was used. 
Blinding (masking) 
Studies 1321.1 & 1321.5: Both studies were (double) blinded regarding treatment but unblinded 
regarding dose level. 1321.2: The study was blind except the re-exposure to idarucizumab in subjects 
aged 45 to 64 years that was open label. 
Statistical methods 
All  subjects  that  were  pre-treated  with  dabigatran  etexilate  and  had  post  idarucizumab/placebo 
biomarker measurements were included in the evaluation of the efficacy endpoints. In each of study all 
parameters  were  described  by  statistical  characteristics  (continuous  data:  number  of  observations, 
mean, median, percentiles; categorical data: relative and absolute frequencies). Wilson’s score method 
was used to calculate the 95% confidence limits for the proportion of subjects achieving complete, 80% 
or  50%  of  reversal  (reversal  defined  as  a  reduction  of  elevated  coagulation  times  just  before 
idarucizumab infusion to the normal range after idarucizumab treatment). No statistical hypotheses were 
tested. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 45/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of results of individual phase I studies 
The following subsections describe the key pharmacodynamics results of the Phase I studies. The terms 
used to describe mean coagulation data for reversal of dabigatran-induced anticoagulation per dose 
group across individual Phase I trials is provided in Table 2.1: 1 
Trial 1321.1  
(Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase I study in  healthy male volunteers to 
investigate  safety,  tolerability  and  pharmacokinetics  of  single  rising  doses  of  idarucizumab 
(Part  1)  and  to  explore  the  dose  of  idarucizumab  effective  to  reverse  dabigatran 
anticoagulant activity (Part 2) 
Objectives 
Parts  1  to  3:  To  investigate  the  safety,  tolerability,  and  pharmacokinetics  of  single  rising  intravenous 
doses of idarucizumab (20 mg to 8 g) 
Parts 2 and 3: To explore the effect of different doses of idarucizumab to reverse dabigatran anticoagulant 
activity in subjects pre-treated with dabigatran etexilate 
Methods 
An overview of the study design and dosing in Study 1321.1 is provided in Table 2.1.1: 1. 
Disposition of subjects 
A total of 157 healthy male subjects (110 subjects in Part 1, 35 subjects in Part 2 and 12 subjects in Part 
3) were entered into this trial at a single centre. The first subject in this trial was enrolled on 20 Sep 2012 
and the last subject left the trial on 29 Nov 2013.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 46/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serial blood samples for determination of coagulation time measurements dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT were 
taken pre-dose and 15 min post dose (Part 1: 8 g 1 h infusion and 4 g 5 min infusion, only) and over up 
to 72 hours (Part 2 and 3) following administration of DE or DE+idarucizumab. An upper limit of normal 
(ULN)  was  determined  for  each  coagulation  time  assay  based  on  the  mean  +  2*SD  of  all  available 
pre-dose measurements. 
Results 
Effect of idarucizumab on dabigatran pharmacokinetics 
In Part 2 and 3, median peak (at 2 h post-dose) sum dabigatran concentrations at steady state were 
comparable with the median exposure previously observed in patients with atrial fibrillation after 150 mg 
DE twice daily dosing. Immediately after the end of infusion of all idarucizumab doses, unbound sum 
dabigatran  plasma  concentrations  dropped  to  or  below  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (1  ng/mL), 
concomitantly  with  abolished  or  nearly  abolished  dabigatran  anticoagulation  activity.  The  effect  of 
idarucizumab  on  unbound  sum  dabigatran  concentrations  was  dose-dependent,  whereby  gMean 
concentrations of unbound sum dabigatran remained below 20 ng/mL after infusion of 1 g idarucizumab, 
below  10  ng/mL  after  infusion  of  2  g  idarucizumab  and  below  5  ng/mL  after  infusion  of  higher 
idarucizumab  doses  over  the  entire  observation  period  of  72  hours  (Part  2  results  are  exemplified  in 
Figure 2.1.1: 1). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 47/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Idarucizumab infusion of 8 g over 1 h (dose group 10) and 4 g over 5 min (dose group 13) in the absence 
of dabigatran had no apparent effect on the coagulation parameters dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT when 
determined 15 min after end of the infusion. Infusions of idarucizumab at these doses had no apparent 
effect on the endogenous thrombin generation potential (ETP). DE administration consistently prolonged 
coagulation times of all coagulation parameters in the absence of idarucizumab. Administration of: 
•  1 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate and complete reversal with subsequent partial return of the 
dabigatran  anticoagulant  effect  starting  between  30  min  to  2  h  after  the  end  of  the  infusion  as 
determined by dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT. 
•  2 g idarucizumab (i.e. the dose calculated to be approximately equimolar to total dabigatran body 
load) resulted in immediate, complete, and sustained reversal with the clotting assays dTT and aPTT, 
while the mean ECT and TT values were slightly above the ULN from 6 to 16 h and 2 to 24 h after end 
of the idarucizumab infusion, respectively 
•  4 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate, complete and sustained reversal with dTT, ECT and aPTT; TT 
values were slightly above the ULN from 12 to 24 h after end of the idarucizumab infusion 
•  5 g + 2.5 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate, complete, and sustained reversal with dTT, ECT, 
aPTT, and TT 
The reversal of dabigatran anticoagulation was also evidenced by a dose-dependent reduction of the ratio 
between the mean area under the effect curve (AUECabove,2-12) after idarucizumab infusion on Day 4 
and before idarucizumab infusion on Day 3 (Table 2.1.1: 2).  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 48/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The data presented show that administration of idarucizumab alone has no effect on the measured 
clotting parameters. The anticoagulative effect of dabigatran was reversed in a time and dose dependent 
manner. 
Doses >2g reversed the dabigatran effect completely and for a time period of at least 72h. 
Trial 1321.2  
Title:  Randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  two-way  crossover  Phase  Ib  study  to 
investigate  the  safety,  tolerability,  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  BI  655075 
and to establish the efficacy of BI 655075 in reversal of dabigatran anticoagulant activity in 
volunteers 
Objectives 
To investigate safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) of idarucizumab 
and to establish the idarucizumab dose(s) effective to reverse the dabigatran induced prolongation of the 
blood coagulation time in populations resembling the target patient population with respect to age and 
renal function. Objectives of the study are appropriate to compare the effect of idarucizumab 
administration after dabigatran intake versus placebo/dabigatran. All participants received in a cross over 
design both placebo and idarucizumab. 
Methods 
Trial 1321.2 assessed the neutralizing effect of idarucizumab on dabigatran-induced anticoagulation in 
male and female healthy volunteers (age 45-64 years and 65-80 years) and subjects with mild or 
moderate renal impairment. Idarucizumab doses tested included a subtherapeutic dose (1 g) as well as a 
medium (2.5 g; approximately equimolar dose) and the target therapeutic dose (5 g), either given as 
single infusion or split into 2 intravenous infusions of 2.5 g 60 min apart (see Table 2.1.2: 1). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 49/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 46 volunteers participate in the trial: 
•  12 healthy subjects (6 female and 6 male) aged 45 to 64 years (receiving either 2.5 or 5 g 
idarucizumab) 
•  16 healthy elderly subjects (at least 12 subjects, 6 female and 6 male) aged 65 to 80 years (receiving 
either 1 g or 5 g idarucizumab) 
•  12 subjects (at least 4 of each sex) aged 45 to 80 years with mild renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance ≥60 to <90 mL/min) receiving either 1 g or 5 g idarucizumab. Of these, at least 50% had 
to have a creatinine clearance <75 mL/min  
•  6 subjects (at least 2 of each sex) aged 45 to 80 years with moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance ≥30 to <60 mL/min) receiving 2 x 2.5 g idarucizumab  
•  Healthy subjects aged 45 to 64 years underwent re-exposure with idarucizumab in Period 3 (4 days 
of treatment with DE, idarucizumab on Day 4), 2 months after completing Period 2. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 50/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The chosen population for this trial tried to better reflect the proposed population for idarucizumab. 
Included were elderly subjects otherwise healthy and subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment. 
The assessment of idarucizumab effect in this population was regarded as very important in addition to 
the phase III patient study still ongoing and provided supportive data. 
•  Endpoints 
The primary PD endpoint was reversal of dabigatran-induced prolongation of blood coagulation times. For 
this purpose, anticoagulation tests with primary focus on ECT and dTT were used; aPTT and TT were 
supportive secondary readouts. ULN values were determined for each coagulation time assay as a 
back-calculated value corresponding to 20 ng/mL unbound sum dabigatran based on a PK/PD correlation 
between unbound sum dabigatran and the respective clotting assay (primary) and the mean + 2*SD 
(secondary) of all available pre-dose measurements from 1321.1 and 1321.2 
Pharmacokinetic results 
Effect of idarucizumab on dabigatran exposure 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 51/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Median sum dabigatran 2 h concentrations as determined in the absence of idarucizumab were 
comparable or slightly higher compared with the median 2 h exposure achieved in the RE-LY trial 
(U09-3249-02) after 150 mg DE twice daily dosing in patients with atrial fibrillation. After the end of 
infusion of all idarucizumab doses and in all populations unbound sum dabigatran plasma concentrations 
dropped to or below the lower limit of quantification of 1 ng/mL (Figure 2.1.2: 1 depicts results from 
subjects with renal impairment), concomitantly with abolished or nearly abolished dabigatran 
anticoagulation activity. The duration of the effect of idarucizumab on unbound sum dabigatran 
concentrations increased with dose. When higher idarucizumab doses (2.5 g or 5 g) were infused, gMean 
concentrations of unbound sum dabigatran remained below 11 ng/mL for the entire observation periods. 
Pharmacodynamic results 
Effect of idarucizumab infusion on the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran, effect of age and renal 
impairment 
Complete reversal of individual dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation within 10 min after end of 
idarucizumab infusion was observed for all subjects of all dose groups for the clotting parameters dTT and 
ECT (primary analysis), as well as for aPTT and TT. Placebo infusion had no effect on the clotting 
parameters. Duration of reversal after idarucizumab infusion was dependent on the idarucizumab dose. 
Infusion of a total dose of 5 g idarucizumab resulted in sustained reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting 
time prolongation over the entire observation period in healthy subjects (45-64 years) and healthy elderly 
(65-80 years) as well as subjects with mild renal impairment. When administered to subjects with 
moderate renal impairment, the total dose of 5 g was split into 2 times 2.5 g idarucizumab administered 
1 h apart. Immediate, complete and sustained (in between infusions) reversal was observed after the first 
infusion of 2.5 g. These results were further supported by the dose-dependent reduction of coagulation 
marker AUEC2-12 by up to 99% compared to placebo treatment. The reversal effect of idarucizumab was 
similar in male and female subjects. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 52/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All subjects treated with idarucizumab showed reversal of the dabigatran-induced prolongation of clotting 
time and none of the subjects (0%) receiving placebo showed reversal. Sustained reversal over the 
complete observation period depended on the dose: infusion of 2.5g and 5g idarucizumab resulted in 
sustained reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation over the observation period of at 
least 24 h. No influence of sex, age, or renal impairment was shown. 
Additional testing: 
Re-exposure to idarucizumab 
When a second dose of 2.5 g idarucizumab was administered approximately 2 months after the first 2.5 
g dose to healthy volunteers aged 45 to 64 years, similar plasma concentration time profiles for unbound 
sum dabigatran concentrations and comparable reversal of dabigatran induced anticoagulation were 
observed, suggesting similar effectiveness of idarucizumab after first and second administration. 
Re-dosing of dabigatran etexilate (DE) 
Healthy subjects aged 45 to 64 years dosed with either 2.5 or 5 g idarucizumab (or placebo) received 5 
doses of 220 mg DE bid starting 24 h after the end of idarucizumab infusion. DE pre-treatment, and 
re-start of DE treatment 24 h after placebo or idarucizumab administration resulted in similar trough and 
2 h post-dose unbound sum dabigatran concentrations as well as dTT, ECT, aPTT, and TT ratios to 
baseline. This suggests that normal DE treatment can be reinstituted 24 hours after idarucizumab 
administration. 
The applicant provided data in a limited number of 6 healthy subjects to investigate the possibility of 
re-treatment with idarucizumab in a possible emergency situation. These data were regarded as very 
important. Although the number of cases was rather limited, data showed that re-exposure to 
idarucizumab resulted in comparable reversal of DE effect compared to the first exposure. Pre-treatment 
with DE and restart of DE treatment 24 h after infusion of placebo or idarucizumab to 12 healthy subjects 
aged 45 to 64 years resulted in similar trough and 2 h post-dose values of dTT, ECT, aPTT, and TT ratio 
to baseline. The conclusion that DE treatment can be reinstituted 24 h after the last dose of idarucizumab 
was agreed. Administration of another antithrombotic agent could be done at any time as idarucizumab is 
specific for dabigatran.  
Trial 1321.5 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 53/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  Randomised,  double-blind  within  dose  groups,  placebo-controlled  Phase  I  trial  in 
healthy Japanese male volunteers to investigate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of 
different doses of idarucizumab (part 1) and to explore the effective dose of idarucizumab to 
reverse dabigatran anticoagulant activity (part 2). 
Objectives 
To investigate safety and tolerability of different intravenous doses of idarucizumab administered alone 
and at the steady state of dabigatran; to investigate pharmacokinetics of idarucizumab and to explore the 
effect of different doses of idarucizumab administered at steady state of dabigatran 
Methods 
In this randomised, double-blind within dose-groups, placebo-controlled, single center study, single 
doses of idarucizumab and multiple doses of dabigatran etexilate (Part 2, only) were administered to 80 
Japanese young healthy male volunteers. Part 1 (N=32) and Part 2 (N=48) had a single rising dose 
design. The following doses of idarucizumab were administered: Part 1: 1, 2 and 4 g administered as 5 
min infusion and 8 g administered as 1 h infusion; Part 2: 1, 2 and 4 g; as well as 2.5 g followed by 2.5 
g 15 min later; all administered as 5 min infusion at steady state of a 220 mg dabigatran etexilate bid 
dosing regimen. Within each dose-group, the assignment of active treatment: placebo was 6:2 (Part 1) or 
9:3 (Part 2). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 54/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serial blood samples for determination of the coagulation markers dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT were taken up 
to 72 hours after DE or idarucizumab administration. The ULN was determined for each coagulation assay 
based on the mean+2*SD of all available pre-dose measurements. 
Results 
Effect of idarucizumab on dabigatran pharmacokinetics 
Median 2 h post-dose sum dabigatran concentrations at steady state were slightly higher compared with 
the median exposure previously observed in patients with atrial fibrillation after 150 mg DE twice daily 
dosing. During idarucizumab infusion, a rapid and substantial decline of unbound sum dabigatran 
concentrations to at least the LLOQ (1 ng/mL) was observed, concomitantly with abolished or nearly 
abolished dabigatran anticoagulation activity. The duration of the effect of idarucizumab on unbound sum 
dabigatran concentrations increased with dose (Figure 2.1.3: 1), whereby gMean concentrations of 
unbound sum dabigatran remained below 15 ng/mL after infusion of 2 g idarucizumab and below 4 ng/mL 
after infusion of higher idarucizumab doses.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 55/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Part 1: Idarucizumab infusion of 8 g over 1 h and 4 g over 5 min in the absence of dabigatran had no 
apparent effect on the coagulation parameter dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT when determined 15 min after end 
of the infusion. 
Part 2: DE administration consistently prolonged clotting times of all clotting parameters in the absence 
of idarucizumab. Administration of: 
•  1 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate and complete reversal as determined by dTT, ECT, aPTT 
and  TT.  By  1  h  after  end  of  infusion,  all  clotting  parameters  showed  a  partial  return  of  the 
dabigatran anticoagulant effect. 
•  2 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate and complete reversal as determined by dTT, ECT, aPTT 
and  TT.  By  2  h  after  end  of  infusion,  all  clotting  parameters  showed  a  partial  return  of  the 
dabigatran anticoagulant effect. 
•  4 g and 2.5 + 2.5 g idarucizumab resulted in immediate, complete, and sustained reversal with 
dTT, ECT and aPTT. For TT, a partial return of dabigatran anticoagulation was observed between 
24 to 48 h (4 g idarucizumab) and at 48 h (2.5 + 2.5 g idarucizumab) after infusion. 
The reversal of dabigatran anticoagulation was also evidenced by a dose-dependent reduction of the ratio 
between the mean area under the effect curve (AUECabove,2-12) after idarucizumab infusion on Day 11 
and before idarucizumab infusion on Day 4 (Table 2.1.3: 2). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 56/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration of idarucizumab in the absence of DE did not lead to any effect on coagulation parameters 
and furthermore did not show any pro-thrombotic effect. The reversal effect of idarucizumab on 
dabigatran induced clotting was shown in this Japanese study in all dose groups. In the lower doses of 1g 
and 2g, a partial return of anticoagulant effect occurred. In the higher dose groups of 4g and 2.5g + 2.5g 
an immediate, complete and sustained reversal was observed. The data in the Japanese healthy 
volunteers support the efficacy of idarucizumab. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 57/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of phase I studies combined  
In this section the effect of idarucizumab after i.v. administration in the presence of dabigatran in the 
Phase I studies was summarized and discussed. All doses (1 g-7.5 g) were considered. To support an 
integrated efficacy assessment, Phase I studies were pooled and results for subjects treated with 
idarucizumab and/or placebo following dabigatran etexilate pre-treatment (pretreatment not 
randomized) were discussed. 
• 
Participant flow  
Phase I program 
n=283 
l
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
Study 1321.1 
n= 157 
Study 1321.2 
n= 46 
Study 1321.5 
n= 80 
Enrolled: 81 subjects 
Entered: 80 subjects 
Treated: 80 subjects 
Withdrawn: 1 subject due to AE 
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
Withdrawn: 0 subjects 
Withdrawn: 0 subjects 
Placebo 
n= 35 
DE + Placebo 
n= 70 
Ida 
N = 107 
DE + Ida 
N = 117 
The Phase I clinical development program for idarucizumab comprised 283 treated subjects in 3 studies. 
Approximately half of the 283 treated subjects participated in trial 1321.1 (157 subjects), about one sixth 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 58/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(46 subjects) participated in the crossover trial 1321.2, and about one third of the subjects (80 subjects) 
were included in the Japanese and trial 1321.5. Similar proportions of subjects from each Phase I study 
contributed to the treatment group DE+Ida. 70 subjects were treated with DE+Placebo. Individual 
subjects were grouped by the total idarucizumab doses administered following dabigatran etexilate 
pre-treatment: <2.5 g, ≥2.5 g to <5 g, 5 g, >5g to 8 g, and placebo treatment. Subjects pretreated with 
DE received a maximum dose of 7.5 g idarucizumab; however, the highest dose category has an upper 
boundary of 8 g. The highest dose of 8 g was administered only to subjects without DE pre-treatment. Of 
note, in the cross-over design study 1321.2 subjects received both idarucizumab and placebo treatments, 
thus these individual subjects were counted twice in the combined analysis. 50 subjects received 
idarucizumab in the range of 1 g to <2.5 g, 23 subjects received ≥2.5 g to 5 g. 35 subjects were treated 
with the target clinical dose of 5 g idarucizumab and 9 subjects >5 g to ≤8 g. (Table 3.1.1: 1). 
• 
Conduct of the studies 
Treatment compliance in the Phase I studies 
The study medication was always taken by the subjects under direct supervision of the investigator or one 
of his authorised designees. Determination of idarucizumab concentrations in plasma and urine provided 
additional information on treatment compliance. 
Treatment compliance in Trial 1321.1 
Of the 157 treated subjects, 8 subjects received the lower idarucizumab dose of the previous dose group. 
These 8 subjects were analysed according to the actual received dose of 2 g as 1 h infusion. Further, 2 
subjects received erroneously some idarucizumab paravenously. 
Treatment compliance in Trial 1321.2 
Of the 46 randomised subjects in trial 1321.2, 3 subjects with mild renal impairment who were treated 
with 1 g idarucizumab actually received in Period 1 on Day 1 a dose of 220 mg DE instead of 150 mg DE. 
Of these 3 subjects, 1 subject received both in the morning and the evening a dose of 220 mg DE whereas 
2 subjects received the incorrect DE dose of 220 mg only in the morning and were correctly dosed with 
150 mg DE in the evening. 
Treatment compliance in Trial 1321.5  
Of the 80 treated subjects, all subjects were compliant with the study medication intake. 
• 
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics for the combined Phase I analysis are provided in Table 3.1.3: 1. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 59/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within each Phase I trial, the demographic characteristics were balanced across the subject Groups. 
However, the inclusion criteria differed between the 3 Phase I trials regarding age, sex, and renal 
impairment, resulting in differences between the treatment groups when pooling all 3 Phase I studies  
The pooled Phase I trials included more men than women; female subjects were only included in trial 
1321.2 but not in the other Phase I trials. In the pooled phase I data only 19 women are included in 
contrast to 264 male participants. The majority of the subjects had an age of ≥19 to <45 years which 
reflects the main inclusion criterion for studies 1321.1 and 1321.5. 56/70 (80.0%) of the subjects treated 
with DE+placebo and 79/117 (67.5%) treated with DE+idarucizumab were White (Trials 1321.1 and 
1321.2). 13/70 (18.6%) in the DE+placebo group and 37/117 (31.6%) in the DE+idarucizumab group 
were Japanese Asians (Trial 1321.5). Demographic characteristics regarding weight and BMI were 
balanced across the treatment groups, reflecting the similar inclusion criteria in all 3 studies. 
Most female subjects (10 of 19) received a total dose of 5 g, whereas none were in the highest dose 
group. The mean age among dose groups varied between 29.9 and 54.4 years. The highest mean age was 
observed in subjects receiving 5 g idarucizumab. Overall, 30 subjects aged 65- 80 years were treated with 
idarucizumab, whereas no subject was above 80 years.  
In the pooled analysis, the majority of subjects (DE+placebo 51/70, 72.9%; DE+idarucizumab 97/117, 
82.9%) had normal renal clearance. Median creatinine clearance (calculated using Cockcroft-Gault 
formula) was lowest in subjects treated with 5 g idarucizumab (median 84.011 mL/min; min-max: 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 60/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44.342-156.76). Subjects with renal impairment were only included in trial 1321.2. The categorisation for 
renal impairment differed between study and project levels: In trial 1321.2, the categorisation of mild 
renal impairment referred to a CrCl of ≥60 to <90 mL/min (12 subjects) and for moderate renal 
impairment (6 subjects) to a CrCl of ≥30 to <60 mL/min at the screening visit whereas the pooled 
analysis used a threshold of 50 mL/min to separate mild from moderate renal impairment and a threshold 
of 80 mL/min to separate normal renal function from mild renal impairment. As a consequence, the 
pooled analysis of the DE+idarucizumab group included 19/117 subjects (16.2%) with mild renal 
impairment and 1 subject (0.9%) with moderate renal impairment, and in the DE+placebo group 18 
subjects (25.7%) and 1 subject (1.4%), respectively. 7 and 12 subjects with mild renal impairment 
received a dose of 1 and 5 g, respectively, the subject with moderate renal impairment received 5 g 
idarucizumab. In conclusion, numbers of patients with mild or moderate renal impairment were rather 
small (n=20) and limited the possible conclusions to be drawn. 
Dabigatran exposure at start of idarucizumab treatment 
Sum dabigatran concentrations at start of idarucizumab administration are presented in Table 3.1.6: 1. 
Combining all groups, median sum dabigatran concentration was 235 ng/mL (min-max: 66.3-481 ng/mL. 
Median sum dabigatran concentrations were highest prior to administration of the 5 g dose (253.0 
ng/mL). 
The median sum dabigatran concentrations at start of idarucizumab treatment present a very large 
baseline range min-max: 66.3-481ng/ml. Median levels were however comparable in all idarucizumab 
dose groups. The applicant is asked to present in which way the differences in dabigatran baseline levels 
might have influence on the efficacy of the proposed idarucizumab dose. 
• 
Numbers analysed 
The vast majority of subjects received idarucizumab as single dose infusion (79.5%,), 9 subjects (7.7%) 
were treated with 2 single infusions of idarucizumab given 15 min apart and 9 subjects (7.7%) received 
2 single infusions of idarucizumab given 60 min apart. Re-exposure to idarucizumab (2 months after the 
first dose) occurred in 6 subjects (5.1%) in trial 1321.2. Given that in the pooled phase I studies, only 9 
subjects (7.7%) were treated with 2 single infusions of 2.5g+2.5g idarucizumab given 15 min apart. 
Therefore, the experience with the proposed dosing regimen in healthy volunteers is very limited. 
• 
Outcomes and estimation 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 61/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coagulation times at baseline and at start of idarucizumab infusion 
Mean baseline coagulation times in the absence of dabigatran as well as at steady state just before 
administration of idarucizumab are provided in Table 3.2.1: 1. Across dose groups, mean baseline 
coagulation times as well as dabigatran-induced anticoagulation were similar for the individual assays. 
However, coagulation times of all assays appeared slightly lower prior to administration of the highest 
idarucizumab dose (>5 g to ≤8 g). 
All parameters regarding coagulation time at baseline after DE administration are in the same range with 
similar mean standard deviations in the different dose levels. This is also true for coagulation parameters 
at start of idarucizumab infusion. This allows a comparison of the idarucizumab effect in the different dose 
levels. 
Proportion of subjects achieving complete reversal 
Data on the proportion of subjects with complete reversal based on 100% ULN within 4 hours since start 
of idarucizumab infusion is presented in Table 3.2.2: 1. Consistently over analyses across all dose groups 
and using both thresholds, 100% of subjects were detected with complete reversal by the dTT assay and 
all but one subject (97.1%) were detected with complete reversal based on the ECT assay (for a graphical 
presentation refer to Figures 3.2.2: 1 and 3.2.2: 2). Similar results were obtained for the further 
parameters TT and aPTT. Of note, subjects detected without complete reversal for one coagulation assay 
were usually not confirmed by the other assays. “Non-reversal” was generally due to the pre-dose 
measurement below the ULN. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 62/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 63/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The complete reversal of the effect of DE treatment measured with the coagulation assays dTT, ECT, TT 
and aPTT is shown for nearly all of the participating subjects. This data show that idarucizumab is able to 
reverse the effect of dabigatran etexilate. However, the applicant was asked if there are any possibly 
known reasons why some subjects did not gain a complete reversal. The applicant presented a conclusive 
reworking of the patient cases with incomplete reversal. The conclusions drawn were that incomplete 
reversal resulted from an individual patient’s baseline above the pre-specified ULN for a specific assay. In 
exceptional cases incomplete reversal may result from a dabigatran body load that exceeds the binding 
capacity of 5 g idarucizumab. The rare case that dabigatran body load might exceed the binding capacity 
of idarucizumab could be managed with a second dose in case of clinical need. 
Time to complete reversal 
Time to complete reversal was summarized for subjects who have achieved complete reversal within 4 
hours since start of idarucizumab infusion. The results are summarized in Table 3.2.3: 1 (100% ULN). 
Across all parameters and independent of the used ULN, complete reversal was essentially observed at 
the end of the 5 min idarucizumab infusion, i.e. median time to reversal was about 5-6 min depending on 
the actual time the first post-dose sample was drawn. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 64/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reversal effect of idarucizumab was seen very soon with a median onset 5 minutes after the start of 
the infusion. This was considered very important for the clinical effect of the product. 
Duration of reversal 
For subjects who achieved complete reversal, summary statistics of duration of complete reversal are 
presented in Table 3.2.4: 1 (100% ULN). Consistently over the primary parameters dTT and ECT, and 
supported by aPTT, median duration of reversal was 72 hours (i.e. length of the observation period) for 
idarucizumab doses of 2.5 g or more at the dabigatran concentrations achieved in the Phase I trials. This 
was independent from the used ULN. Mean duration was somewhat shorter for 100% ULN compared to 
110% ULN, however mean duration of complete reversal following idarucizumab doses >2.5 g was still 
>50 hours for these three coagulation assays. Duration of complete reversal based on TT was shorter 
compared to the other coagulation assays in all dose groups. This is considered to result from the used 
very narrow ULN. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 65/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean duration on complete reversal for doses >2.5g was >50 hours and the median duration of complete 
reversal for dTT and ECT was 72h. This duration of complete reversal is long enough to fulfil the 
requirements of a reversal agent in an emergency situation like bleedings or emergency operations. 
Unbound sum dabigatran 
Although unbound sum dabigatran concentrations represent a pharmacokinetic rather than a 
pharmacodynamic measurement, these are considered supportive information. Before idarucizumab 
infusion, dabigatran concentrations were similar across groups (Table 3.1.6: 1). The effect of 
idarucizumab on gMean unbound sum dabigatran is depicted in Figure 3.2.5: 1. Following placebo 
infusion, gMean unbound sum dabigatran concentrations were at levels around 150 ng/mL and returned 
over a time frame of about 24 h to levels of approximately 25 ng/mL. In contrast, following i.v. infusion 
of idarucizumab doses of 2.5 g or higher, gMean unbound sum dabigatran concentrations were reduced to 
levels close to the LLOQ (1 ng/mL) and remained at these concentrations over the entire observation 
period. In the dose group 1 to <2.5 g idarucizumab, a small reoccurrence of unbound sum dabigatran 
concentrations was observed. This was expected as the doses in that combined group were around or 
below the calculated dose equimolar to total dabigatran body load. Geometric mean unbound sum 
dabigatran concentrations in that group did not exceed 15 ng/mL. 
After administration of idarucizumab in doses >2.5g, the sum of unbound dabigatran was at the LLOQ/ 
near 1ng/ml. These findings support the efficacy of idarucizumab. 
• 
Ancillary analyses 
Comparison of phase I results in subpopulations 
Effect of sex 
Male and female subjects were included in study 1321.2. There was no obvious difference in the reversal 
of dabigatran anticoagulation between males and female subjects. Administration of a total dose of 5 g 
idarucizumab resulted in sustained reversal of coagulation times. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 66/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of age 
Reversal of dabigatran mediated anticoagulation was comparable between young and elderly subjects. 
Administration of a total dose of 5 g idarucizumab resulted in sustained reversal of coagulation. 
Effect of renal impairment 
Subjects with mild or moderate renal impairment were included in study 1321.2. Decreased renal 
function had no obvious effect on the reversal of dabigatran mediated anticoagulation. Administration of 
a total dose of 5 g idarucizumab resulted in sustained reversal of coagulation times. 
Effect of race 
Administration of a total dose of 5 g idarucizumab resulted in sustained reversal of coagulation times in 
both Japanese and Caucasian subjects. 
For all the presented subpopulations regarding sex, age, underlying diseases and race, the numbers of 
assessed subjects was considered too small to draw a final conclusion. 
Anti-drug antibodies 
The presence of anti-idarucizumab antibodies before and after treatment was evaluated in all Phase I 
studies at baseline, end-of-study visit (2-11 days), 4 weeks, and 3 months post-treatment. In study 
1321.2, 6 subjects underwent re-exposure to idarucizumab 2 months after a first exposure, so an 
additional sampling point was added. In studies 1321.1, 1321.2, and 1321.5, pre-existing antibodies with 
cross-reactivity to idarucizumab were seen in 6.5% to 17.5% of subjects (overall 36/283, 13%). These 
were generally shown to be non-specific antibodies, with low titers, binding to the C-terminus of the 
molecule. The presence of pre-existing anti-idarucizumab antibodies did not impact reversal of 
dabigatran-induced prolongation of clotting time for the parameters dTT and ECT.  
18 of 224 subjects (8.0%) treated with idarucizumab in the Phase I studies had treatment emergent 
anti-idarucizumab antibody responses. Responses were characterized as weak (i.e. low titer, maximum 
titer=40) and mostly non-blocking, with an even distribution between transient and possibly persistent 
responses. Based on these observations, it was concluded that idarucizumab has a low immunogenic 
potential. 
To assess the potential impact of the anti-idarucizumab antibody responses on the efficacy of 
idarucizumab in a subject who might require another course of idarucizumab treatment, the amount of 
anti-idarucizumab antibody in circulation could be estimated and compared to the dose of idarucizumab 
that would be administered. For a titer of 40 (corresponding to roughly 3.3 μg/ml ADA) and 3000 mL 
plasma volume of a 70 kg person, the amount of anti-idarucizumab antibody in circulation calculates to be 
roughly 10 mg. For the proposed 5 g therapeutic dose of idarucizumab (resulting in peaks of ~20,000 
nmol/L), it was considered that the dose is overwhelming in comparison to the estimated maximum 
concentration of treatment-emergent anti-idarucizumab antibodies observed to date. Therefore, it was 
concluded that the impact of anti-idarucizumab antibody responses on the efficacy of idarucizumab 
should be minimal in subjects who may require additional courses of treatment. 
The CHMP agreed that the applicant presented a “worst case scenario” showing that even subject with a 
titer of 40 will receive with a 5g dose of idarucizumab enough drug to overwhelm a possible ADA effect on 
efficacy. This was comprehensible and therefore the amount of ADA measured, was not regarded as a 
concern in the current setting. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 67/101 
 
 
 
 
Study 1321.3; REVERSE AD [ongoing]) – results of the interim analysis with the cut-off for 
recruitment: 1 April, 2015 
A Phase III, case series clinical study of the reversal of the anticoagulant effects of 
dabigatran by intravenous administration of 5.0 g idarucizumab (BI 655075) in patients 
treated with dabigatran etexilate who have uncontrolled bleeding or require emergency 
surgery or procedures. RE-VERSE AD trial (A study of the RE-VERSal Effects of Idarucizumab 
on Active Dabigatran) 
Methods 
1321.3 is an open label, uncontrolled, case series, multi-centre study. It is planned to treat approximately 
200 to 300 patients with a total dose of 5 g (two 2.5g vials) of idarucizumab. Patients receive a 2.5 g vial 
of study medication and a second 2.5 g vial within the next 15 minutes. Serial plasma samples were taken 
before and up to 24 hours after idarucizumab administration for the determination of dabigatran and 
idarucizumab PK, as well as for coagulation time measurements, including dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT.  
The study is still ongoing. Overall cut-off date for the first interim report (N=26): 2 Dec 2014, cut-off for 
central lab PK/PD data (N=13): 12 Sep 2014. The second interim analysis of RE-VERSE AD was included 
in the responses to the Day 120 LoQ. It included clinical data from 123 patients recruited into RE-VERSE 
AD up to April 01, 2015 and central laboratory data for assessment of efficacy that were available for 90 
patients.  
Efficacy assessment in this study was based primarily on changes in clotting tests after administration of 
idarucizumab. Each patient served as his own control so an extent of reversibility could be calculated. 
Verification that changes in clotting tests reflected the binding and inactivation of dabigatran was 
accomplished by simultaneous HPLC/MS measurement of unbound sum dabigatran in the same samples. 
Clinical outcomes such as time to cessation of bleeding, level of hemostasis during surgery, thrombotic 
events and deaths were also recorded.  
The primary endpoint in this study was the central laboratory determination of the maximum reversal of 
the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran in the first 4 hours, as determined by ECT or dTT. These analyses 
were based on the 90 patient subset with central lab data. The protocol specified a calculation of 
maximum reversal based upon 110% of the laboratory upper limit of normal (ULN) in anticipation of a 
higher variability in patients compared to volunteers (lab normals had been calculated based on volunteer 
data). However, similar data were obtained using 100% compared to 110% ULN so the more rigorous 
100% was used as the basis of reversal calculations. 
Study participants  
Inclusion criteria 
Patients taking DE were eligible for this study if they were ≥18 years at entry, signed the informed 
consent, and either had an overt bleeding which was judged by the physician to require a reversal agent 
(Group A) or were in a condition requiring emergency surgery or invasive procedure where adequate 
haemostasis was required (Group B). Emergency was defined as within the following 8 h. 
Exclusion criteria 
Patients were excluded if they fulfilled the following criteria: 
Group A 
• 
Patients with minor bleeding (e.g. epistaxis, haematuria) who could be managed with standard 
supportive care 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 68/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with no clinical signs of bleeding 
• 
•  Contraindications to study medication including known hypersensitivity to the drug or its excipients 
(patients with hereditary fructose intolerance may react to sorbitol) 
Group B 
•  A surgery or procedure which was elective or where the risk of uncontrolled or unmanageable 
bleeding was low 
•  Contraindications to study medication including known hypersensitivity to the drug or its excipients 
(patients with hereditary fructose intolerance may react to sorbitol) 
The CHMP agreed that the inclusion and exclusion criteria are adequate to define the planned target 
population. The amount of sorbitol was very high with 2g in one 50mL vial. So each patient should receive 
4g of sorbitol with the planned target dose. This was considered as a very high risk and was reflected in 
the SmPC. 
Treatments 
Patients receive a 2.5 g vial of study medication and a second 2.5 g vial within the next 15 minutes. Serial 
plasma samples were taken before and up to 24 hours after idarucizumab administration for the 
determination of dabigatran and idarucizumab PK, as well as for coagulation time measurements, 
including dTT, ECT, aPTT and TT. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to demonstrate reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. The 
secondary objectives were the assessment of bleeding, clinical outcomes, safety and the 
pharmacokinetics of dabigatran in the presence of idarucizumab. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The efficacy evaluation of the interim data of study 1321.3 focused on the primary endpoint of maximum 
reversal of centrally assessed dTT and ECT, supported by aPTT and TT. The primary study endpoint was 
the maximum reversal of anticoagulant effect of dabigatran based on central laboratory determination of 
dTT or ECT, at any time point from the end of the first infusion up to 4 hours after the completion of the 
last infusion. 
In addition, the following summaries were provided: 
•  Mean and individual values of dTT and ECT by time for Treated Patients with PD from the Central 
Laboratory 
•  Maximum reversal, mean and individual values of TT and aPTT by time for Treated Patients with PD 
from the Central Laboratory 
The proportion of patients that achieved at least 100%, 80%, and 50% reversal (dTT, ECT, TT, aPTT) 
• 
•  Unbound sum dabigatran concentration by time for patients with available PK measurements 
The reversal effect of idarucizumab using dTT, ECT, TT and aPTT from central lab was evaluated similarly 
as for the Phase I studies, however only for patients whose baseline PD values were above 110% ULN or 
ULN. These patients were referred to as “evaluable patients”. Values of PD markers with ≥100% reversal 
were interpreted as complete reversal of the anticoagulant effect.  
Clinical outcomes, as assessed by the treating clinicians, were secondary end points. The clinical 
assessment for bleeds (cessation of bleeding for patients in Group A and occurrence of major bleeding in 
patients in Group B) and other outcome events such as death were obtained from patients’ narratives, 
AEs and SAEs listing and were presented as a brief summary per individual patient. For the interim 
analyses, no central adjudication of clinical outcomes was performed. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 69/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
This was a second pre-planned interim analysis from an ongoing single arm study planned to include 200 
– 300 patients. The analysis of the second interim analysis submitted with the responses to the D120 
LoQs was based on clinical data from 123 patients (central laboratory data for 90 patients).  
Statistical Analysis 
The maximum percentage reversal was calculated for patients with pretreatment dTTs or ECTs above the 
upper limit of the normal range, with the use of descriptive statistics with confidence intervals or 
percentiles as appropriate. Clotting-time measurements that exceeded the maximum measurable range 
were imputed with the use of the maximum measurable clotting time of 500 seconds only if the 
imputation was consistent with the concomitant results of other coagulation tests and 
unbound-dabigatran concentrations. Analyses were stratified by group and (where appropriate) by time. 
Results 
Participant flow 
From June 2014 until April 1, 2015, 123 patients were enrolled from 219 activated sites in 35 countries, 
including 5 patients from 26 US sites. All of the 123 patients in this analysis received the pre-specified 5 
g dose of idarucizumab. There were 66 patients in Group A (bleeding) and 57 patients in Group B 
(surgery). The intravenous administration of idarucizumab was accomplished either as a spiked vial 
followed by gravity drip (41.5%) or infusion pump (5.7%), or via a syringe (52.8%). The spiking 
technique was more frequent in Group A while the syringe was more frequent in Group B (Table 15.1.4: 
1). The median time for administration was 5 minutes per vial (range 1-16 minutes), with a median total 
elapsed time between start of the first vial of idarucizumab until the end of the second vial of 19 minutes 
(range 5-52 minutes). In addition to the 123 patients in this analysis, there were 2 patients after the 
cut-off date who received a second 5 g dose within 24 hours. 
Demographic and baseline data 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 70/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this study, the bleeding patients (Group A) had slightly worse renal function (median CrCl= 52.7 
mL/min) compared to the surgical patients (Group B, 57.3 mL/min). The primary indication for treatment 
with DE was stroke prevention in patients with AF. Ninety-five percent of patients entered to date were 
being treated for this indication. The most common dose of DE was 110 mg bid (65% of patients). 
The median time between the last dose of DE and the start of the first vial of idarucizumab was 15.6 
hours, with a wide range from 1.5 to almost 94 hours. Approximately 1/3 of patients took their last dose 
less than 12 hours prior to treatment with idarucizumab, with 37% having the last dose between 12 and 
24 hours and 26% between 24 and 48 hours. This estimate of time since the last dose of DE was based 
on the patient-reported time of the last dose. The wide variability in clinical presentation and time of onset 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 71/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the clinical events leading to treatment also contributed to the wide range of timing before treatment 
with idarucizumab. 
The patients treated with idarucizumab had a high frequency of co-morbidities. The frequency of risk 
factors associated with bleeding and stroke risk in a population with AF included 77% with hypertension, 
39% with heart failure, 27% with diabetes, 31% with coronary artery disease, 28% with a previous 
history of stroke, 11.4% with a previous history of TIA, and 8.9% with a previous history of systemic 
embolism. In addition, 4% had a prior major bleed and 11% had active cancer. Against a background 
diagnosis of AF, a median age of 77 years and poor renal function in many patients, this was clearly a 
population with a high underlying risk for stroke, bleeding, and death.  
For the 90 patients where analysis of efficacy was based on central laboratory data, not all patients had 
baseline clotting tests with values that were above the upper limit of normal. For the primary efficacy 
endpoint calculated using ECT or dTT, between 71.8 and 92.2% of patients could be included in the 
efficacy analysis, depending on the clotting test used and the subgroup (Group A or Group B). Normal 
clotting times or missed baseline samples were not included in the efficacy analysis. However, all patients 
in the study had detectable levels of dabigatran at baseline, with values as low as 5.5 ng/mL. This finding 
confirms that all patients had taken DE. 
The details of the bleeding events leading to treatment Group A (bleeding) 
The  index  events  in  the  66  patients  in  the  bleeding  subgroup  were  primarily  gastrointestinal  (N=27, 
40.9%) or intracranial (ICH, N=24, 36.4%). Intramuscular (N=3, 4.5%), retroperitoneal (N=2, 3.0%), 
intra-pericardial  (N=2,  3.0%),  and  intra-articular  (N=2,  3.0%)  bleeds  also  occurred.  Bleeding  was 
associated with trauma in 12 patients. The trauma was to the head in 10 of the 12 patients. Bleeding may 
have occurred in more than one location. The 24 ICHs were classified as intracerebral (N=14), subdural 
(N=9) or subarachnoid (N=6). In several cases the ICH occurred in more than one location. The median 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 72/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Glasgow Coma Scale was 14.0 (range 3 to 15). For the 27 gastrointestinal bleeds, 10 were identified as 
upper GI, 8 as lower GI, and 9 could not be localized. 
The indications for surgery Group B (surgery) 
There were 57 patients allocated to the surgery/invasive procedure group (Group B). The indications for 
surgery are listed in Table 1.3.2: 1. There were 3 patients who did not undergo the planned surgery. 
Idarucizumab  obviated  the  need  for  emergency  dialysis  in  1  patient  in  group  B  who  had  ingested  a 
massive overdose of dabigatran; the condition of 2 other patients in group B remained too unstable for 
surgery  despite  the  reversal  of  anticoagulation.  For  52  evaluable  patients,  the  median  time  between 
administration of the first vial and the start of surgery was 1.7 hours (range: -0.2 hours to 26.4 hours). 
Normalization of clotting tests 
At entry, the dTT was normal in 22 patients, of whom 9 also had normal ECTs. Therefore, percentage 
reversal of either test with idarucizumab could be determined in 68 (40 in Group A and 28 in Group B) and 
81 (47 in Group A and 34 in Group B) of the 90 patients, respectively.  
The maximum reversal of ECT or dTT in the first 4 hours was the primary endpoint. The median maximum 
reversal in Group A and B patients was 100% (95% Confidence Interval, 100-100) for both the dTT and 
ECT.  This  narrow  confidence  interval  was  due  to  the  fact  that  most  of  the  patients  (>89%)  achieved 
complete reversal. The reversal was evident immediately after administration of the first vial. 
Normalization of clotting tests was defined as those tests with values equal to or below the upper limit of 
normal.  The  dTT  was  normalized  in  97.5%  and  92.9%  of  evaluable  patients  in  Groups  A  and  B, 
respectively, whereas the ECT was normalized in 89.4% and 88.2% of evaluable patients in Groups A and 
B, respectively. Differences in assay sensitivity (ECT is more sensitive to dabigatran than dTT) may have 
contributed to the observed differences.  
At 12 and 24 hours, dTT were below the upper limit of normal in 90.2% and 80.7% of available patients, 
respectively,  while  the  ECT  were  below  the  upper  limit  of  normal  in  71.6%  and  54.3%  of  available 
patients, respectively.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 73/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar  results  for  the  determination  of  maximum  reversal  were  obtained  with  the  activated  partial 
thromboplastin time (aPTT) measured in the central laboratory or at the local hospitals based on local 
ULN.  For  both  the  central  laboratory  and  local  laboratory  determination  of  aPTT,  median  maximum 
reversal was 100% (95% CI, 100-100). Using central assessment of aPTT, normalization was achieved in 
94.9% and 84.6% of patients in Groups A and B within 4 hours, respectively, compared to 75.0% and 
75.6% when determined by the local laboratory within 30 minutes. Local aPTT was measured only at 
baseline, after the first vial, 10-30 minutes after the second vial, and after 12 hours. Agreement between 
local and central lab results would only be expected if the samples were collected at the same time points 
and analysed with the same methods. 
Clinical outcomes 
Hospitalization 
For the 123 treated patients, data on hospitalization were available for 112. ICU stay was recorded for 
116. The median duration in the ICU was 0 days (range: 0 to 44). There did not appear to be relevant 
differences between Groups A and B. 
Bleeding Status 
In Group A, bleeding cessation was determined by the investigator/treating physician in 48 of 66 patients 
(73%). For 18 patients (27%), no assessment of the bleed cessation could be made at any time during 
the study due to inability to visualize or identify the bleeding site. Cessation was subjective and based 
upon whatever the investigator could visualize or measure. Sometimes tests, e.g. CT scans or MRIs, were 
not repeated for several days. In addition to this assessment, severity of bleeding including hemodynamic 
status, was determined and bleeds were rated using international bleeding scales (ISTH, GUSTO, TIMI). 
For 44 of 48 assessable patients, bleeding stopped within 72 h. The median time to stop bleeding was 9.8 
hours (range: 0.2 h to 62 days). 
In Group B, intra-operative status of bleeding was determined in 52 patients. For 48 patients (92.3%), 
the  surgeon  judged  there  to  be  normal  hemostasis.  For  3  patients  (5.8%),  mildly  abnormal 
intraprocedural  hemostasis  (e.g.  slight  oozing)  occurred  and  1  patient  (1.9%)  was  judged  to  have 
moderately abnormal hemostasis (e.g. controllable bleeding). This resulted in 1 bleed reported within 24 
hours post-surgery, classified as ISTH minor, TIMI minimal, and GUSTO mild. 
Use of Blood Products 
Usage  of  blood  products  was  more  frequent  in  the  Group  A  patients  (68.2%)  compared  to  Group  B 
(40.4%) and occurred more frequently after idarucizumab treatment than before treatment. The most 
frequently used product was packed RBCs, used in 41.5% of all patients (59.1% of Group A patients), 
with  FFP  (fresh  frozen  plasma)  the  second  most  frequently  used  blood  product,  used  in  24.4%  of  all 
patients. Platelets and volume expanders were each used in 13.6% of Group A patients. Use of other 
products,  including  PCCs  (5  of  123  patients,  4.1%)  was  relatively  infrequent.  No  Factor  VIIa  was 
administered. 
Re-starting anticoagulant therapy 
Anticoagulant or antithrombotic therapy was re-started in 96 patients (47 in Group A and 49 in Group B). 
Dabigatran was re-started in 17 (25.8%) of the Group A patients and 34 (59.6%) of the Group B patients. 
Dabigatran re-start was preceded by bridging therapy in 8 of the 17 patients in group A and 25 of 34 
patients in group B. The type and frequency of antithrombotic treatment is shown in Table 2.3: 2. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 74/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 1. Summary of efficacy for trial 1321.1 
Title: Study 1321.1 
Study identifier 
1321.1 
Design 
Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled within dose groups, Phase 1 
Duration of main phase: 
72 hours 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Exploratory: safety, tolerability and PK of single rising IV doses of idarucizumab 
(20 mg to 8 g) was investigated 
Treatments groups 
Part 1 
Part 2 
Healthy male volunteers: IV idarucizumab: 20 
mg to 8 g (1 h inf., 10 steps), 1, 2, 4 g (5 min 
inf.),  no  prior  DE 
treatment,  N=110, 
Ida:placebo 6:2 
Healthy male volunteers: IV idarucizumab: 1, 
2, 4 g (5 min inf.), prior DE 220 mg bid, N=35, 
Ida:placebo 9:3 
Part 3 
Healthy male volunteers: IV idarucizumab: 5 g 
+ 2.5 g (60 min later, 5 min inf.), prior DE 220 
mg bid, N=12, Ida:placebo 9:3 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 75/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
dTT 
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
PD 
biomarkers 
PD 
biomarkers 
Database lock 
30 Jan 2014 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Diluted Thrombin Time 
Ecarin Clotting Time 
Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 
Thrombin Time 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Descriptive statistics, N=157 
Treatment group 
Part 1  
Part 2 
Part 3 
Number 
subject 
of 
110 
35 
12 
Unbound 
sum 
NA  
dabigatran 
concentrations 
Dropped 
below LLOQ  
to  or 
Dropped 
below LLOQ  
to  or 
dTT  
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
Unchanged 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Unchanged  
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Unchanged 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Unchanged 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN  
Notes 
Only descriptive statistics were performed 
Analysis description  NA 
Table 2. Summary of efficacy for trial 1321.2 
Title: 1321.2 
Study identifier 
1321.2 
Design 
Randomised,  dougle-blind,  placebo-controlled,  2-way  crossover,  single  dose, 
Phase 1b 
Duration of main phase: 
1 week 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
not applicable 
not applicable 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 76/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Exploratory: Safety, tolerability PK and PD of idarucizumab and to establish the 
efficacy  of  idarucizumab  in  reversal  of  dabigatran  anticoagulant  activity  in 
Treatments groups 
Healthy, 45-64 years 
volunteers (male:female ~ 1:1) 
Healthy, 45-64 years  
Healthy elderly, 65-80 years 
Healthy elderly, 65-80 years  
Mild renally impaired, 45-80 years 
Mild renally impaired, 45-80 years 
Moderate renally impaired, 45-80 years 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
dTT 
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
PD biomarkers 
PD biomarkers 
Database lock 
04 Sep 2014 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
DE 
IV  idarucizumab  2.5  g, 
prior  DE  220  mg  bid, 
re-dosing 
and 
idarucizumab, N=6 
IV idarucizumab 5 g, prior 
DE 220 mg bid, re-dosing 
DE, N=6 
IV idarucizumab 1 g, prior 
DE 220 mg bid, N=8 
IV idarucizumab 5 g, prior 
DE 220 mg bid, N=8 
IV idarucizumab 1 g, prior 
DE 150 mg bid, N=6 
IV idarucizumab 5 g, prior 
DE 150 mg bid, N=6 
IV idarucizumab 2.5 + 2.5 
g  (one  hour  apart),  prior 
DE 150 mg bid, N=6 
Diluted Thrombin Time 
Ecarin Clotting Time 
Activated 
Thromboplastin Time 
Thrombin Time 
Partial 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Descriptive statistics, N=46 
Treatment 
group 
Health
y, 
45-64 
years 
Health
y, 
45-64 
years 
Health
y 
elderly
, 
65-80 
years 
Health
y 
elderly
, 
65-80 
years 
Mild 
renally 
impair
ed, 
45-80 
years 
Mild 
renally 
impair
ed, 
45-80 
years 
Moder
ate 
renally 
impair
ed, 
45-80 
years 
6 
Number  of 
subject 
Unbound 
sum 
dabigatran 
concentrati
ons 
dTT  
6 
6 
8 
8 
6 
6 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ 
to 
Dropp
ed 
or 
below 
LLOQ  
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ECT 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 77/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aPTT 
TT 
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
Revers
al 
to 
ULN 
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
Revers
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
al 
to 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
ULN 
Notes 
Only descriptive statistics were performed 
Analysis description  NA 
Table 3. Summary of efficacy for trial 1321.5 
Title: 1321.5 
Study identifier 
1321.5 
Design 
Randomised, double-blind within dose groups, placebo-controlled, sequential 
rising order, Phase 1 
Duration of main phase: 
72 hours 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Exploratory:  safety  and  tolerability  of  different  IV  doses  of  idarucizumab 
administered alone and at the steady state of dabigatran, investigation of PK of 
idarucizumab 
Treatments groups 
. 
Part 1 
Part 2 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Database lock 
dTT 
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
26 Sep 2014 
PD 
biomarkers 
PD 
biomarkers 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Healthy  male 
Japanese  volunteers, 
IV 
idarucizumab, SRD with 5 min infusion of 1, 2 
and 4 g and 1 h infusion of 8 g, N=32 
Japanese  volunteers, 
IV 
Healthy  male 
idarucizumab, 5 min infusion of 1, 2 and 4 g, as 
well as 2 infusions of 2.5 g idarucizumab, each, 
15 min apart, prior steady state of 220 mg bid 
DE dosing regimen, N=48 
Diluted Thrombin Time 
Ecarin Clotting Time 
Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 
Thrombin Time 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Descriptive statistics, N=80 
Treatment group  Part 1 
Number 
subject 
of 
32 
Part 2 
48 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 78/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sum 
Unbound 
dabigatran 
concentrations 
dTT  
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
Dropped to or below LLOQ 
Dropped to or below LLOQ 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Notes 
Only descriptive statistics were performed 
Analysis description  NA 
Table 4. Summary of efficacy for trial 1321.3 
Title: RE-VERSE AD (RE-VERSal Effects of Idarucizumab on Active Dabigatran) 
Study identifier 
1321.3 
Design 
Open label, uncontrolled, case series, Phase 3 (ongoing) 
Duration of main phase: 
3 months 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Exploratory:  demonstration  of  reversal  of  the  anticoagulant  effect  of 
dabigatran.  Assessment  of  bleeding,  clinical  outcomes,  safety  and  the  PK  of 
dabigatran in the presence of idarucizumab 
Treatments groups 
Group A 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Group B 
dTT 
ECT 
aPTT 
TT 
ETP 
ACT 
Clinical 
outcomes 
Patients 
treated  with  DE  who  have 
uncontrolled bleeding, IV idarucizumab, 2.5 + 
2.5 g (15 min apart), N=11 
Patients treated with DE who have immediate 
need  for  emergency  surgery  or  medical 
procedures, IV idarucizumab, 2.5 + 2.5 g (15 
min apart), N=15 
Diluted Thrombin Time 
Ecarin Clotting Time 
Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 
Thrombin Time 
Endogenous Thrombin Potential 
Activated Clotting Time 
Cessation of bleeding (Group A) 
Major bleeding (Group B) 
PD 
biomarkers 
PD 
biomarkers 
Clinical 
observation 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 79/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database 
(second 
analysis) 
lock 
interim 
04 Dec 2014 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Descriptive statistics, N=26 
Treatment group  Group A  
Group B  
Number of subject  11 
15 
dTT (N=6)  
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
ECT (N=10) 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
aPTT (N=7) 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
TT (N=10) 
ETP  
ACT  
Unbound 
dabidatran 
sum 
Cessation 
bleeding 
of 
Reversal to ULN 
Reversal to ULN 
Dropped to or below 1.2 
Dropped  to  or  below  1.2 
ng/mL (LLOQ 1 ng/mL) 
ng/mL (LLOQ 1 ng/mL) 
NA 
ICH  (N=5,  difficult  to 
evaluate) 
GI bleeds (improvement 
(N=3),  no  improvement 
delayed 
(N=1), 
improvement 
(N=1), 
unassessable (N=1) 
Major Bleeding 
NA 
Normal haemostasis (N=11) 
Mildly  abnormal  haemostasis 
(N=1) 
Moderately 
abnormal 
haemostasis (N=1) 
Intervention cancelled (N=1) 
Unassesable (N=1) 
Notes 
Only descriptive statistics were performed 
Analysis description  NA 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 80/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of subjects achieving complete reversal 
Data on the proportion of subjects with complete reversal based on 100% ULN within 4 hours since 
showed that consistently over analyses across all dose groups and using both thresholds, 100% of 
subjects were detected with complete reversal by the dTT assay and all but one subject (97.1%) were 
detected with complete reversal based on the ECT assay. Similar results were obtained for the further 
parameters TT and aPTT. 
Time to complete reversal 
Time to complete reversal was summarized for subjects who have achieved complete reversal within 4 
hours since start of idarucizumab infusion. The results are that across all parameters and independent of 
the used ULN, complete reversal was essentially observed at the end of the 5 min idarucizumab infusion, 
i.e. median time to reversal was about 5-6 min depending on the actual time the first post-dose sample 
was drawn. 
Duration of reversal 
For subjects who achieved complete reversal it was observed that consistently over the primary 
parameters dTT and ECT, and supported by aPTT, the median duration of reversal was 72 hours (i.e. 
length of the observation period) for idarucizumab doses of 2.5 g or more at the dabigatran 
concentrations achieved in the Phase I trials as judged by the primary parameters dTT and ECT. This was 
independent from the used ULN. Mean duration was somewhat shorter for 100% ULN compared to 110% 
ULN, however mean duration of complete reversal following idarucizumab doses >2.5 g was still >50 
hours for these three coagulation assays. 
Unbound sum dabigatran 
Before idarucizumab infusion, dabigatran concentrations were similar across groups. Following placebo 
infusion, gMean unbound sum dabigatran concentrations were at levels around 150 ng/mL and returned 
over a time frame of about 24 h to levels of approximately 25 ng/mL. In contrast, following i.v. infusion 
of idarucizumab doses of 2.5 g or higher, gMean unbound sum dabigatran concentrations were reduced to 
levels close to the LLOQ (1 ng/mL) and remained at these concentrations over the entire observation 
period. In the dose group 1 to <2.5 g idarucizumab, a small reoccurrence of unbound sum dabigatran 
concentrations was observed. This was expected as the doses in that combined group were around or 
below the calculated dose equimolar to total dabigatran body load. Geometric mean unbound sum 
dabigatran concentrations in that group did not exceed 15 ng/mL. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No special studies in e.g. children, elderly or in patients with renal or hepatic impairment were performed. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The design of the studies in healthy subjects and patients was adequate to allow an appropriate 
assessment of the PK and PD properties of idarucizumab alone as well as idarucizumab after DE treatment 
in comparison to placebo. The inclusion and exclusion criteria were adequately chosen to select the 
proposed population of healthy volunteers as well as elderly participants and participants with mild to 
moderate renal impairment. They reflect to some extent the proposed patient population, although the 
patients being candidates for idarucizumab treatment are likely to be older and have more co-morbidities.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 81/101 
 
 
 
 
The case series study in patients with a bleeding event or in need of an emergency surgery resembles the 
situation of dabigatran treated patients and provides a so far limited dataset. The chosen placebo 
comparator was regarded as appropriate in the healthy volunteers’ studies. In the case series study, 
where patients in emergency situations were treated with idarucizumab, a comparator arm was not 
included. It was agreed that this would have been unethical, and all standard of care treatments were 
allowed to be performed. The chosen endpoints to investigate the PK and PD of idarucizumab were 
considered appropriate. Further, the chosen endpoints and PD parameters to demonstrate the ability of 
idarucizumab to reverse the effect of dabigatran were also suitable. The conduct of the clinical 
development program was in line with the scientific advices obtained from the CHMP. The treatment 
compliance was very good. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Data in healthy volunteers 
The phase I programme included 283 healthy volunteers in three studies 1321.1, 1321.2, and 1321.5. 
The subjects reflect partially the planned patient population (elderly, renal impairment). Of these 117 
received idarucizumab after pre-treatment with DE. 35 subjects were treated with the target clinical dose 
of 5 g idarucizumab. However, only 9 subjects (7.7%) were treated with the planned dose of 2 single 
infusions of 2.5g+2.5g idarucizumab given 15 min apart after DE intake. Of these, 6 subjects with 
moderate renal impairment were treated. Therefore, the experience with the proposed dosing regimen in 
healthy volunteers and in volunteers with renal impairment was considered to be very limited. In the 
pooled phase I data only 19 women were included in contrast to 264 male participants. Numbers of 
patients with mild or moderate renal impairment were also rather small (n=20) and limited the strength 
of the conclusions. 
Results from the healthy volunteers studies revealed that administration of idarucizumab alone has no 
effect on the measured clotting parameters and did not show any hypercoagulative effect. The 
anticoagulant effect of dabigatran was reversed in a time and dose dependent manner. Doses >2g 
reversed the dabigatran effect completely and for a time period of at least 72h. All subjects in study 
1321.2 treated with idarucizumab showed reversal of the dabigatran-induced prolongation of clotting 
time and none of the subjects (0%) receiving placebo showed reversal. Sustained reversal over the 
complete observation period depended on the dose: infusion of 2.5g and 5g idarucizumab resulted in 
sustained reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation over the observation period of at 
least 24 h. No influence of sex, age, or renal impairment was shown.  
Furthermore, the applicant provided data from study 1321.2 in a limited number of 6 healthy subjects to 
investigate the possibility of re-treatment with idarucizumab in a possible emergency situation. 
These data were regarded as very important. Although the number of cases was rather limited, it was 
demonstrated that re-exposure to idarucizumab resulted in comparable reversal of DE effect compared to 
the first exposure. Pre-treatment with DE and restart of DE treatment 24 h after infusion of placebo or 
idarucizumab to 12 healthy subjects aged 45 to 64 years resulted in similar trough and 2 h post-dose 
values of dTT, ECT, aPTT, and TT ratio to baseline. The conclusion that DE treatment can be 
reinstituted 24 h after the last dose of idarucizumab can be drawn. Administration of another 
antithrombotic agent can be done at any time as idarucizumab is specific for dabigatran.  
In the phase I studies 13% of the assessed subjects presented with pre-existing unspecific 
antibodies to the C-terminus of idarucizumab. These antibodies did not have any influence on the 
reversal effect of idarucizumab on clotting time prolongation after dabigatran use. 8% of subjects treated 
with idarucizumab developed anti-drug antibodies (ADA) with a maximum titer of 40. The applicant 
presented a “worst case scenario” showing that even subject with a titer of 40 will receive enough 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 82/101 
 
 
 
 
idarucizumab with a 5g dose to overwhelm a possible ADA effect on efficacy. The CHMP agreed with this 
conclusion.  
To conclude, the results from the pooled dataset in healthy volunteers from studies 1321.1, 1321.2, 
and 1321.5 demonstrated the complete reversal of the effect of DE treatment measured with the 
coagulation assays dTT, ECT, TT and aPTT for nearly all of the participating subjects. This data indicate 
that idarucizumab is able to reverse the effect of DE. However, some subjects did not gain a complete 
reversal. The applicant presented a conclusive reworking of the patient cases with incomplete reversal. 
The conclusions drawn were that incomplete reversal resulted from an individual patient’s baseline above 
the pre-specified ULN for a specific assay. In exceptional cases incomplete reversal may result from a 
dabigatran body load that exceeds the binding capacity of 5 g idarucizumab. It was agreed that the rare 
case that dabigatran body load might exceed the binding capacity of idarucizumab could be managed with 
a second dose in case of clinical need. 
The reversal effect of idarucizumab was seen very quickly with a median onset 5 minutes after the start 
of the infusion. This was considered by the CHMP very important for the clinical effect of the medicinal 
product. Mean duration of complete reversal for doses >2.5g was >50 hours and the median duration of 
complete reversal for dTT and ECT was 72h. This duration of complete reversal is long enough to fulfil 
the requirements of a reversal agent in an emergency situation like bleedings or emergency operations. 
For all the presented subpopulations regarding sex, age, underlying diseases and race, the numbers of 
assessed subjects was too small to draw a definite conclusion. 
Data in patients 
Phase 3 study 1321.3 (RE-VERSE AD) in patients taking DE was still ongoing (overall cut-off date for the 
second interim report (N=123): 1 April 2015, cut-off for central lab PK/PD data (N=90): 7 May 2015) at 
the time of the CHMP Opinion for idarucizumab. It was planned to treat in this study approximately 200 
to 300 patients with a total dose of 5 g (two 2.5g vials) of idarucizumab. Patients taking DE were eligible 
for this study if they were ≥18 years at entry, signed the informed consent, and either had an overt 
bleeding which was judged by the physician to require a reversal agent (Group A) or were in a condition 
requiring emergency surgery or invasive procedure where adequate haemostasis was required (Group B). 
The so far enrolled elderly patients (median age 77 years) represent the planned target population with 
expected concomitant diseases and medications, such as renal impairment, slight obesity, and 
cardiovascular problems. 117 patients were being treated with DE for atrial fibrillation, 2 for venous 
thromboembolism, and 4 for other indications.  
All but one evaluable (baseline value above upper limit of normal for the respective marker (110% ULN) 
for the primary endpoint) patients showed full reversal of anticoagulant effect in the primary 
endpoint marker dTT and ECT. Results for the secondary markers aPTT and TT supported the results 
of the primary markers. The results of the measurement of unbound sum dabigatran clearly showed the 
reversal effect of idarucizumab on the dabigatran anticoagulant effect. It was noted that the known high 
variability of unbound sum dabigatran concentration at baseline, seem to have no effect on the efficacy of 
idarucizumab. The reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran by idarucizumab was demonstrated 
in this so far still limited patient population. The PK/PD data obtained are consistent with observations 
made in healthy volunteers in Phase I.  
Reversal of elevated anticoagulation tests in dabigatran-treated patients was a surrogate for clinical 
efficacy. However, the clinical benefit of this reversal was depending very much on the individual patient 
clinical situation, disease or bleeding severity or location of the bleeding. It was noted that bleeding 
stopped in 44 of 48 evaluable patients within 72 hours and the median time to cessation of bleeding 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 83/101 
 
 
 
 
 
was 9.8 hours. In the case of emergency surgery, 33 out of 36 evaluable patients had normal 
hemostasis during surgery.  
Two patients that are not included in the analysis of 123 patients received a second dose of 5 g 
idarucizumab due to re-bleeding. Results of these patients were presented and formed the, although 
very small, basis for the proposed statement on the possibility of re-treatment. There might be 
circumstances were patients with very high baseline dabigatran levels, recurrent bleeding or the need for 
a second surgical procedure have to be dosed with idarucizumab 5g a second time. Data of the presented 
two patients were regarded as supportive and a recommendation regarding additional dose of 
idarucizumab was added to the SmPC. The Applicant committed to further investigate administration of a 
second 5 g dose of idarucizumab as defined in the proposed SmPC in the ongoing RE-VERSE AD trial. The 
study protocol will be amended accordingly. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The data in healthy volunteers were considered pivotal for the current application. The results of studies 
in healthy volunteers and in patients support that administration of idarucizumab in subjects exposed to 
DE leads to the reversal of the dabigatran anticoagulant effect. This effect starts very quickly already 5 
minutes after administration and remains for at least 72 h in healthy volunteers and in patients with mild 
to moderate renal impairment (dose >2g). Reversal of elevated anticoagulation tests in 
dabigatran-treated patients was considered a surrogate for clinical efficacy. The clinical benefits of this 
reversal were depending very much on the individual patient situation, disease, bleeding severity or 
location of the bleeding. However, as there was no negative effect on patient’s safety and administration 
of idarucizumab did not interfere with normal routine treatment of emergency patients presenting with 
bleeding or the need for surgery, the administration of idarucizumab was regarded as supportive for 
treatment of patients on DE when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects is required in emergency 
situations. Administration of idarucizumab alone did not show any effect on coagulation system of healthy 
volunteers. The efficacy of administration of idarucizumab with the proposed dose regimen of 2 times 
2.5g was supported by the totality of the presented data in healthy volunteers as well as in treated 
patients.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety data base includes 283 healthy subjects in the three Phase I studies and 123 patients (66 
patients with bleeding events (Group A) and 57 patients requiring surgery (Group B)). 
Adverse events 
Healthy volunteers (Phase I studies) 
Table: Adverse event overall summary for the pooled Phase I studies during the treatment period 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 84/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency of subjects with AEs reported for at least 2 subjects in any treatment group on PT level during 
the treatment period, sorted by overall frequency in the Ida/DE+Ida group for the pooled Phase 1 studies 
- TS 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 85/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo  
    Idarucizumab 
    Total       
DE1 
Placebo alone DE+placebo Ida alone DE+Ida 
Number of subjects 
Subjects with any AEs 
35 (100) 
12 (34.3) 
N (%)  N (%) 
141 
(100) 
43 
(30.5) 
11 (7.8) 2 (5.7) 
2 (1.4)  2 (5.7) 
2 (1.4)  1 (2.9) 
1 (0.7)  1 (2.9) 
1 (2.9) 
0 
4 (2.8)  0 
0 
0 
1 (0.7)  0 
1 (0.7)  1 (2.9) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.7)  0 
1 (0.7)  0 
3 (2.1)  1 (2.9) 
4 (2.8)  0 
2 (1.4)  0 
3 (2.1)  0 
0 
2 (1.4)  0 
5 (3.5)  0 
4 (2.8)  0 
3 (2.1)  0 
1 (2.9) 
Headache 
Skin irritation 
Dizziness 
Back pain 
Nasopharyngitis 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Fatigue 
Pain in extremity 
Injection site haematoma 0 
0 
Migraine 
Musculoskeletal stiffness  0 
Myalgia 
Asthenia 
Epistaxis 
Nausea 
Paraesthesia 
Abdominal pain 
Chest pain 
Anxiety 
Presyncope 
Abdominal discomfort 
Haematuria 
N (%) 
70 (100)  107 
N (%)  N (%) 
N (%) 
117 (100)  105 
(100) 
(100) 
Placebo/ 
DE+placebo 
Ida/ 
DE+Ida 
N (%) 
224 
(100) 
14 (20.0)  29 (27.1) 26 (22.2)  26 (24.8)  55 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.4) 
1 (1.4) 
1 (1.4) 
0 
1 (1.4) 
0 
1 (1.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.4) 
1 (1.4) 
0 
0 
1 (1.4) 
1 (1.4) 
0 
0 
0 
9 (8.4)  3 (2.6) 
3 (2.8)  3 (2.6) 
1 (0.9)  4 (3.4) 
4 (3.7)  0 
2 (1.9)  1 (0.9) 
2 (1.9)  1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9)  2 (1.7) 
1 (0.9)  1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9)  1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9)  1 (0.9) 
2 (1.9)  0 
2 (1.9)  0 
1 (0.9)  1 (0.9) 
2 (1.7) 
0 
0 
1 (0.9) 
1 (0.9)  0 
0 
1 (0.9)  0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.9) 
2 (1.9) 
2 (1.9) 
1 (1.0) 
2 (1.9) 
2 (1.9) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
1 (1.0) 
1 (1.0) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (1.9) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
2 (1.9) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
(24.6) 
12 (5.4) 
6 (2.7) 
5 (2.2) 
4 (1.8) 
3 (1.3) 
3 (1.3) 
3 (1.3) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
2 (0.9) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Subjects from the crossover trial 1321.2 are counted in more than 1 treatment group. 
1 All subjects in trial 1321.2 and some subjects in trials 1321.1 and 1321.5 were pretreated with DE before infusion of 
idarucizumab/placebo. These subjects are counted in both DE and their respectively randomised treatment groups. 
The intensity of AEs was mostly assessed as mild, with similar frequencies across treatment groups (DE 
pretreatment: 29.8%, placebo/DE+placebo: 23.8%, Ida/DE+Ida: 23.7%). Very few subjects had AEs of 
moderate intensity; they were documented with very similar frequencies across treatment groups (DE 
pretreatment:  0.7%,  placebo/DE+placebo:  1.0%,  Ida/DE+Ida:  0.9%).  None  of  the  AEs  during  the 
treatment  period  was  classified  as  severe.  In  healthy  subjects  there  was  no  adverse  event  that  was 
associated with idarucizumab more than with placebo or other comparison groups such as treatment with 
DE alone. However the numbers of subjects with events are too small to reach firm conclusions. 
Headache was the most frequently reported AE, which was reported in the Ida alone group in 8.4% of the 
subjects.  The  only  AEs  to  be  reported  more  frequently  in  the  Ida/DE+Ida  groups  compared  to  the  
placebo/DE+placebo  groups  were  headache,  migraine,  skin  irritation,  dizziness,  constipation, 
musculoskeletal stiffness, myalgia, asthenia, paraesthesia and abdominal pain. Of these, headache was 
also more frequent when only comparing the placebo alone group with the Ida alone group, 5.7% vs. 
8.4%. There were two cases of migraine in the Ida alone vs none in the placebo alone group. One case of 
headache and one case of migraine were assessed by the investigator to be possibly drug-related. 
The post-treatment period started 6 days after last intake of study medication. Frequencies of AEs during 
the  post-treatment  period  were  slightly  lower  for  idarucizumab-treated  subjects  (13.4%)  than  for 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 86/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo-treated subjects (16.2%). When comparing only subjects pretreated with DE, the proportions of 
subjects  with  AEs  were  nearly  identical  in  the  DE+Ida  (11.1%)  and  DE+placebo  (11.4%)  groups. 
Subjects receiving only placebo had higher frequencies of AEs in the post-treatment period than subjects 
receiving only idarucizumab without DE pretreatment. 
Adverse events related to bleeding were of special interest. Epistaxis occurred with higher frequencies in 
the DE pre-treatment (2.1%) and placebo/DE+placebo (1.9%) groups than in the idarucizumab 
/dabigatran+ idarucizumab group (0.4%). Other AEs related to bleeding like gingival bleeding, 
ecchymosis, and infusion site haematoma were documented only for 1 subject each in the 
dabigatran+placebo group (1.4%) and for none of the idarucizumab-treated subjects. Injection site 
haematoma was reported with nearly identical frequencies in the placebo/dabigatran+placebo (1.0%) 
and idarucizumab /dabigatran+ idarucizumab (0.9%) groups. 
Patients (Study 1321.3) 
The patients investigated in the Phase III trial overall were: having condition requiring thrombosis 
prophylaxis, were elderly and frequently had numerous comorbidities. They either had serious bleeding 
that needed intervention or another condition that required emergency surgery or other invasive 
procedure. This hampered the unbiased conclusion on the safety of idarucizumab.  
Thrombotic events were reported in 5 patients, none of which were on antithrombotic therapy at the time 
of the event, and in each of these cases, the thrombotic event could be attributed to the underlying 
medical condition of the patient. Mild symptoms of potential hypersensitivity (pyrexia, bronchospasm, 
hyperventilation, rash or pruritus) were reported. A causal relationship to idarucizumab could not be 
established. Further adverse events, reported in greater than or equal to 5% of patients, were 
hypokalaemia (9/123; 7%), delirium (9/123; 7%), constipation (8/123; 7%), pyrexia (7/123; 6%), 
pneumonia (7/123; 6%). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 87/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Healthy volunteers  
There were no deaths, other SAEs, severe AEs, or other significant AEs as required to be reported 
according to the ICH E3 (ICH Guideline on the structure and content of the clinical study report) during the 
course of the study. 
Patients (Study 1321.3) 
There were 26 deaths in the 123 patients included in this analysis, 13 in Group A and 13 in Group B. 
Thirteen of the deaths occurred in the first 5 days of the study, 6 in Group A and 7 in Group B, while the 
remaining 13 deaths occurred 6 or more days after treatment, with 7 in Group A and 6 in group B.  
The early deaths appeared to be progressions of the index events or underlying pre-treatment conditions. 
Eleven of the deaths occurred within 1 day of treatment, with 2 more deaths occurring before day 5. 
These early fatal events include shock with or without sepsis, peritonitis, cardiogenic shock, circulatory 
collapse, progression of intracranial bleeds, multiorgan failure, cardiac arrest, ruptured aortic aneurysm 
and respiratory failure. 
The deaths after day 5 also included some patients with progression of the index event, such as bleeding, 
but also included deaths that were associated with co-morbidities (e.g. malignancies, Parkinson’s 
disease, congestive heart failure). Eight of the 26 deaths included bleeding (circulatory collapse, shock, 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage (N=2), ICH progression (N=3), haemorrhagic anaemia). The only death 
associated with a thrombotic event was an ischemic stroke ( cerebral infarction) but this event occurred 
26 days after treatment with idarucizumab. The patient was not receiving antithrombotic therapy at the 
time of the event. 
Mortality rate of intracranial haemorrhage patients is expected to be high. 24 patients in Group A 
presented with ICH as the qualifying event. Six of these cases were fatal, a rate of 25% mortality. In 
comparison there were 27 GI bleeds in Group A. Three of these patients died, a rate of 11.1%. 
Thrombotic adverse events: There were 5 patients with thrombotic events during the study, 3 in Group A 
and 2 in group B. 
Immunogenicity: Sampling for anti-drug antibodies (ADA) against idarucizumab in RE-VERSE AD was 
planned for pre-dose (Visit 1) and one or more post-dose samples (30± 7 days and 90±7 days, Visits 5 
and 6, respectively). Data were available for 47 patients with a pre-dose sample and at least one 
post-dose sample. There are 2 patients with baseline, non-specific ADAs, both of whom had persisting 
ADAs at 30 days but the binding is not at the variable site. One more patient had a treatment – emergent 
ADA at 30 d, possibly of mixed specificity. These data were very limited but indicated a low level of 
immunogenicity for idarucizumab, consistent with the levels of immunogenicity identified in the healthy 
volunteer population from Phase I. Measurement of ADA with two assays was planned. However, one 
assay was not performing as expected and the other anti-dabigatran assay (based on thrombin time) was 
sensitive to the presence of dabigatran. Previous exploration of the possible existence of anti-dabigatran 
antibodies was done in volunteers; at that time there was no convincing evidence of the immunogenicity 
of dabigatran bound to idarucizumab. 
Laboratory findings 
Healthy volunteers  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 88/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
None of the subjects was reported with elevations of ALT and/or AST or total bilirubin >2x ULN at any time 
during the clinical studies. Similar frequencies of subjects on idarucizumab and placebo had elevations in 
ALT and/or AST >1x ULN. No clinically relevant difference in liver parameter elevations was observed 
when comparing subjects with and without DE pre-treatment. For the parameters urine protein, urine 
albumin, urine IgG, and alpha-1-microglobulin in the urine, a dose-dependent increase was observed for 
all subjects at the time point 4 h after (first) infusion of idarucizumab which returned to normal reference 
range at the subsequent sampling time point, i.e. 4 to 12 h (studies 1321.1 and 1321.5) or 24 h (study 
1321.2) after the (first) infusion of idarucizumab. 
Patients (Study 1321.3) 
Laboratory data were consistent with the patient population entered into the study. The most consistently 
abnormal values were for activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and serum creatinine. The latter is 
to be expected, given the high rate of renal dysfunction in these patients, and the former is elevated in 
patients anticoagulated with dabigatran. There was no detectable effect of idarucizumab on serum 
creatinine. There were 3 patients with elevated transaminases and bilirubin who potentially met the 
laboratory criteria for Hy’s Law cases, both before and after treatment with idarucizumab. One patient 
had cholelithiasis and was to undergo urgent cholecystectomy. One patient was in renal and hepatic 
failure and required placement of a renal dialysis catheter. One patient had sepsis, renal failure and 
required placement of a deep vein catheter, an arterial line and a dialysis catheter. In all of these patients 
the elevations of the liver function tests could be attributed to the underlying conditions. 
Safety in special populations 
In patient study 1321.3 elderly patients with a high percentage of renal impairment were included. 
Decreased renal function was associated with a higher plasma concentration of dabigatran at baseline. 
Patients with poor renal function were also more likely to have some re-appearance of dabigatran at 12 
or 24 hours after the dose of idarucizumab. However, no safety signals were observed. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Idarucizumab was designed to specifically and tightly bind dabigatran and its active metabolites; thereby 
preventing dabigatran from binding thrombin and thus inhibiting its anticoagulant effect. Currently there 
are no known endogenous ligands, receptors, or other targets bound by idarucizumab. Classical 
drug-drug interaction via CYP 450 enzymes or drug transporter (such as P-glycoprotein) pathways are 
not expected and respective drug-drug interaction studies were not performed. Furthermore, because of 
its intravenous administration route, food is not expected to influence idarucizumab exposure. 
Blood products such as packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma were used both before and after 
administration of idarucizumab. Approximately 68% of Group A patients and 40% of Group B patients 
received blood products before or after treatment with idarucizumab. However, since almost all patients 
showed complete reversibility and there were no safety issues, it was concluded that there were no 
relevant drug interactions with blood products. 
There were many other baseline and concomitant medications in this patient population. Apart from the 
effect of antithrombotics on the clotting times, there was no apparent interaction that impacted safety. 
However, the numbers were small and there was no comparison group. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
None of the healthy subjects had AEs leading to discontinuation. There were no reported AEs in the 123 
patients included in study 1321.3 that led to treatment discontinuation. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 89/101 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety data base included 283 healthy subjects in three Phase I studies. The volunteer subjects 
in these trials included 30 elderly subjects (65-80 years) and 20 subjects with mild (N=19) or moderate 
(N=1) renal impairment. Mean age of all subjects in these studies was 36 years. Only 6.7% (N=19) were 
female. Sixty-two subjects received doses of 5 g or more, with 35 subjects receiving the target clinical 
dose of 5 g exactly. The subgroups of elderly and renally impaired patients reflected the target population 
to some extent, although DE-treated patients typically would be frailer and have several co-morbidities. 
All of these subjects who received 5 g were pre-treated with DE. A comparable safety profile between the 
placebo/placebo + dabigatran groups and idarucizumab / idarucizumab + dabigatran groups were 
observed. There was no adverse event that was associated with idarucizumab more than with placebo or 
other comparison groups such as treatment with DE alone. However, the numbers of subjects with events 
were too small to reach firm conclusions. This is further evaluated in the ongoing study in patients.  
In addition, the safety data of 123 patients treated in the clinical study RE-VERSE AD (1321.3) 
were provided in the interim report of this study. These patients were elderly (median age 77 years, range 
48 to 93 years), often with renal impairment (median CrCl 55.1 mL/min). Of the 123 patients treated with 
idarucizumab, 103 patients (83.7%) were reported with AEs during the treatment period. Of these 103 
patients, 59 patients (89.4%) were in Group A (uncontrolled bleeding) and 44 patients (77.2%) in Group 
B (requiring surgery). There were 5 patients with thrombotic events during the study, 3 in Group A 
and 2 in group B. Short narratives of these thromboembolic events were presented. The occurrence of 
thrombosis after intended reversal of the antithrombotic effect was not unexpected and not linked to the 
mode of action of idarucizumab. It was agreed to monitor further the occurrence of thromboembolic 
events in the post-marketing setting and thrombotic events were included as important potential risk in 
the agreed version of the RMP. Patients investigated in the Phase III trial overall required prophylaxis of 
thrombosis, were elderly and had numerous comorbidities. They either had serious bleeding that needed 
intervention or another condition that required emergency surgery or other invasive procedure. A 
statement regarding the possibility of the re-initiation of the antithrombotic treatment after 
idarucizumab administration was included in the SmPC. 
Regarding the amount of sorbitol of 2g in one 50mg vial (4g of sorbitol with the planned target dose), 
it was agreed to add a warning regarding the use in hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) patients in the 
SmPC. The addition of a warning rather than a contraindication for HFI patients was justified by 
referencing the emergency in which idarucizumab is used, which could outweigh the risks associated with 
administration. The applicant proposed not to contraindicate the use of idarucizumab in HFI patients for 
the following two reasons: (1) diagnosis of HFI in emergency situations is difficult (patients to be treated 
with idarucizumab are mostly critically ill, often in an emergency situation which may also include 
unconscious conditions. At the time of admission to hospital, relatives may be not available for further 
information on the patient’s medical history, (2) a careful benefit-risk assessment of the treating 
physician on an individual patient level may result in a benefit for a treatment with idarucizumab. In such 
a situation, a contraindication may prevent a treating physician from the administration of idarucizumab 
which may put this patient on an increased risk for an unfavourable outcome. The CHMP agreed with this 
justification. 
In the initial version of the RMP patients with HFI were included as an important identified risk however 
the PRAC agreed that the proposed routine risk minimization strategy was considered sufficient to 
manage the risk by informing the physicians about the additional care the patients need. With an 
appropriate warning in the product information, this risk was considered to be adequately managed and 
therefore inclusion in the RMP as an important identified risk was not warranted.  
. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 90/101 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety data for idarucizumab showed an acceptable safety profile in 283 healthy volunteers and 123 
emergency patients. There were 26 deaths at the cut-off in the ongoing Phase III study, 13 each in 
bleeding and surgical patients. The CHMP agreed that the deaths were most likely related either to the 
index event or to co-morbidities. During the study, 5 patients developed thrombotic events, all of 
them not on antithrombotic therapy. A statement regarding a possibility of the re-initiation of the 
antithrombotic treatment after idarucizumab administration was included in the SmPC. In the safety 
database, there were very few AEs or SAEs. All occurring adverse events were judged to be related to 
the index events or underlying diseases. The safety profile of the second interim analysis including 123 
patients reflected the findings of the first interim analysis with 26 patients. In conclusion, the CHMP 
considered that safety profile of idarucizumab was favourable.  
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment 
report.  
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 2.0 with the following content: 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 91/101 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Immunogenicity 
Hypersensitivity 
Thrombotic events 
Missing information 
Paediatric patients 
Pregnancy/breast-feeding 
Re-exposure to idarucizumab 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 92/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Important potential 
risks  
Immunogenicity 
Hypersensitivity 
Thrombotic events 
None 
None 
None 
Labelling in SmPC section 5.1, 
prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required (for emergency surgery/urgent 
procedures, in life-threatening or 
uncontrolled bleeding). 
Labelling in SmPC section 4.4, 
prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required (for emergency surgery/urgent 
procedures, in life-threatening or 
uncontrolled bleeding). 
Labelling in SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4, 
prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required (for emergency surgery/urgent 
procedures, in life-threatening or 
uncontrolled bleeding). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 93/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information 
Paediatric patients 
Pregnancy/breast-feeding 
Re-exposure to 
idarucizumab 
None 
None 
None 
Labelling in SmPC section 4.2, 
prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required (for emergency 
surgery/urgent procedures, in 
life-threatening or uncontrolled 
bleeding). 
Labelling in SmPC section 4.6, 
prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required : (for emergency 
surgery/urgent procedures, in 
life-threatening or uncontrolled 
bleeding). 
Prescription only medicine, 
administration in hospital setting only 
by trained medical personnel, use by 
experienced emergency physicians in 
case a rapid reversal of the 
anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is 
required (for emergency 
surgery/urgent procedures, in 
life-threatening or uncontrolled 
bleeding). 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 94/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.2.  Labelling exemptions  
A request to omit certain particulars from the labelling as per Art.63.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC has been 
submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable by the QRD Group with the following 
comments: 
The QRD Group accepted the applicant’s request to omit the following particulars on the vial label: 
statement of active substance and warning to keep away from children. The vials are to be stored inside 
the carton, which will be fully labelled. 
The QRD Group requested that the excipients and the ‘single-use’ statement needed to be part of the vial 
label. The MAH details can be removed to gain space and the overall design of the label will need to be 
addressed. The abbreviation for the route of administration can also be used in case of space constraints. 
In the frame of reviewing the readability of the mock-ups it was agreed that the list of excipients could 
also be omitted from the vial label. 
The particulars to be omitted as per the QRD Group decision described above will however be included in 
the Annexes published with the EPAR on EMA website, and translated in all languages but will appear in 
grey-shaded to show that they will not be included on the printed materials.  
2.9.3.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Praxbind (idarucizumab) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as: 
• 
• 
it contains a new active substance which, on 1 January 2011, was not contained in any medicinal 
product authorised in the EU;  
it is a biological product that is not covered by the previous category and authorised after 1 
January 2011; 
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The effect of idarucizumab in reversing the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran has been shown in three 
pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) studies in 283 healthy subjects. The subjects were 
pre-treated with dabigatran etexilate (DE) in supratherapeutic doses for 3.5 days. Subsequent 
administration of idarucizumab reversed markers of dabigatran anticoagulant activity (dTT, ECT, aPTT 
and TT; 100% of subjects had complete reversal as assessed by the dTT assay and all but one subject 
[97.1%] had complete reversal based on the ECT assay) to levels similar to those seen before treatment 
with DE. This was in contrast to subjects who received placebo instead of idarucizumab.  
Full reversal was observed in subjects receiving idarucizumab doses of 1 g or more and was evident in 
young and elderly subjects, in subjects with normal renal function as well as subjects with mild or 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 95/101 
 
 
 
 
moderate renal impairment. There is very little experience with idarucizumab in patients with severe 
renal impairment and no experience from the Phase I studies.  
The reversal of the anticoagulant effect was rapid and sustained. It was substantiated by low levels of 
unbound dabigatran in subjects receiving idarucizumab. 
The results of the second interim analysis of the ongoing open label, uncontrolled, case series clinical 
study in patients (study RE-VERSE AD; 1321.3) treated with DE who were in actual need of rapid reversal 
of the anticoagulant activity largely confirmed the results of the PK/PD studies in healthy subjects with 
regards to reversed markers of dabigatran anticoagulant activity. However, the variability of this reversal 
was larger than in the PK/PD studies (>89% of patients achieved complete reversal as measured by dTT 
or ECT in the first 4 hours after administration of 5 g idarucizumab). 
Restart of the anticoagulant treatment with DE after a bleeding event and idarucizumab administration 
could be initiated already 24 hours after last idarucizumab dose, if the patient is clinically stable and 
adequate hemostasis has been achieved. Furthermore, idarucizumab administration in the clinical study 
did not interfere with routine emergency patient management in case of bleeding or urgent surgery. 
Idarucizumab administration alone had no effect on coagulation parameters. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
For all the presented subpopulations regarding sex, age, underlying diseases and race, the numbers of 
assessed subjects was still too small to draw final conclusions regarding possible differences in the 
beneficial effects. 
The effect of idarucizumab therapy on reduction in morbidity or mortality (most notable bleeding 
complications) remained uncertain. The ongoing Phase III study (1321.3) was not powered nor designed 
to detect a difference between standard of care plus idarucizumab versus standard of care alone. 
However, this uncertainty was considered to be acceptable in view of the results of the non-clinical studies 
and since the PD biomarkers used in the PK/PD studies were considered to be good surrogates for 
efficacy. The results of the second interim analysis of the study 1321.3 supported the view that reversal 
of elevated anticoagulation tests in dabigatran-treated patients was a surrogate for clinical efficacy. 
However, the clinical benefit of this reversal was depending very much on the individual patient clinical 
situation, disease or bleeding severity or location of the bleeding.  
Some patients may present with very high dabigatran exposure, for example patients taking an overdose 
with suicidal intention. Even though the proposed recommended idarucizumab dose of 5 g will be 
sufficient in most cases, a repeated dose may be appropriate in some situations. This is now reflected in 
the SmPC. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The amount of sorbitol was very high with one target dose including 4 g of sorbitol. In patients with 
hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), parenteral administration of sorbitol has been associated with 
reports of hypoglycemia, hypophosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, increase in uric acid, acute liver failure 
with breakdown of excretory and synthetic function, and death. Therefore, in patients with HFI the risk of 
treatment with idarucizumab must be weighed against the potential benefit of such an emergency 
treatment. If idarucizumab is administered in these patients, intensified medical care during 
idarucizumab exposure and within 24 hours of exposure is required. 
In the placebo-controlled PK/PD trials, there were few adverse events. Idarucizumab was not associated 
with any serious or severe adverse events. For some events, a causal relationship with idarucizumab was 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 96/101 
 
 
 
 
considered by the CHMP, but it was not confirmed. These included headache, migraine, liver enzyme 
increases and redness at the infusion site. A dose-dependent, transient proteinuria was observed in 
subjects treated with idarucizumab. The reason was most likely related to the mechanism by which 
idarucizumab was excreted in the kidneys.  
In the ongoing Phase III study in patients mild symptoms of potential hypersensitivity (pyrexia, 
bronchospasm, hyperventilation, rash or pruritus) were reported. A causal relationship to idarucizumab 
could not be established. Further adverse events, reported in greater than or equal to 5% of patients, 
were hypokalemia (9/123; 7%), delirium (9/123; 7%), constipation (8/123; 7%), pyrexia (7/123; 6%), 
pneumonia (7/123; 6%). 
Anti-idarucizumab antibodies were detected in subjects treated with placebo and idarucizumab, and some 
had pre-existing antibodies. However, titers were generally low, and there were no suggestions that 
anti-idarucizumab antibodies diminished the efficacy to a clinically relevant degree.  
In the ongoing Phase III study (RE-VERSE AD), 5 patient experienced thrombotic events following 
idarucizumab treatment. This was most likely not a direct effect of idarucizumab, but was caused by the 
lack of anticoagulant treatment. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The main uncertainty in the knowledge about unfavourable effects was the limited safety database rather 
than the results themselves. Safety data from placebo-controlled studies were solely derived from 
healthy subjects except for relatively few subjects with renal impairment, and not from a population 
typical of that treated with DE, i.e. old, frail patients with many co-morbidities. Safety data from 
placebo-controlled studies were complemented by interim data from the ongoing phase III study (open 
label, uncontrolled) in patients. 
There was uncertainty about the safety and tolerability in patients with renal impairment as stated in the 
beneficial effects section. This uncertainly was related to the fact that: (i). the PK/PD studies included only 
subjects with normal or relatively modestly reduced renal function; (ii). a large proportion of the target 
population for DE has some degree of renal impairment; (iii). patients with major bleedings are likely to 
suffer from acute renal impairment; (iv). idarucizumab elimination is dependent on renal function. 
Effects table 
Effects Table for idarucizumab as an antidote for dabigatran (data cut-off: April 01, 2015). 
Effect 
Short 
Description 
 Unit 
Favourable Effects 
Idarucizumab 
Strength of evidence 
Placebo  Uncertainties/ 
References 
Reversal of 
dabigatran 
effect  
Proportion of 
patients with a 
100% reversal 
in coagulation 
marker values, 
dTT ECT (and 
TT aPTT) for 
those with 
baseline 
values above 
the 100% ULN 
threshold 
% 
Dose >2.5g: 
Small number of subjects 
studied 
> 97% 
0% 
Supported by the interim 
data of phase III study in 
patients but variability of 
this reversal was larger 
than in the PK/PD studies 
Results of 
PK/PD 
studies in 
healthy 
volunteers  
Very limited data in 
patients with severe renal 
impairment  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 97/101 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 
Short 
Description 
 Unit 
Idarucizumab 
Strength of evidence 
Placebo  Uncertainties/ 
References 
Time to 
complete 
reversal 
Median time 
5 
Minu
tes 
N/A 
Supported by the interim 
data of phase III study in 
patients  
Duration of 
reversal 
Median 
duration 
Hour
s 
Dose >2,5g: 
N/A 
72 
Unfavourable Effects 
Thrombotic events 
Number 
of 
patients 
5 
N/A 
Severe untoward 
reactions in patients with 
hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI) due to 
sorbitol content 
[number 
of 
patients] 
0 
N/A 
Supported by the interim 
data of phase III study in 
patients 
Possible re-elevation of 
clotting tests up to 2-24 h 
after administration of 
idarucizumab  
Interim data of 
phase III 
study in 
patients 
Sorbitol 
amount of 4g 
per dose 
Uncontrolled studies, 
therefore causality 
difficult to ascertain. 
Not considered to be 
direct effect of 
idarucizumab . 
Small safety data-set, but 
as class effect there is 
theoretical risk of infusion 
and hypersensitivity 
reactions even though not 
observed in available 
studies   
Abbreviations: dTT, Diluted thrombin time; ECT, Ecarin clotting time; TT, Thrombin time; aPTT, Activated 
partial thrombin time 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
In 3 PK/PD Phase I studies in healthy volunteers (including elderly and renally impaired subjects) and 
results of the interim analysis of the ongoing Phase III study in patients, 5 g of idarucizumab reversed the 
anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. This was shown with the coagulation test dTT, ECT, TT, and aPTT as 
well as the measurement of unbound sum dabigatran. The reversal started quickly only 5 minutes after 
administration of idarucizumab and lasted long enough to allow clinical emergency management of these 
patients. 
The reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran by idarucizumab was demonstrated in a still limited 
population of 123 patients. The PK/PD data obtained in patients are consistent with observations made in 
healthy volunteers in Phase I studies.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 98/101 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical events observed among the patients studied were often life-threatening and a high mortality 
rate was expected. The early findings regarding the clinical endpoints of bleeding reduction and minimal 
blood in operative field allowed the conclusion that patients may benefit from idarucizumab reversal of 
dabigatran-induced anticoagulation. The findings were however confounded by routine emergency care. 
There was no indication of a pro-thrombotic effect of idarucizumab consistent with evaluations in healthy 
volunteers and with the preclinical data.  
There is no evidence of worsening of the renal function when this drug was given to patients with renal 
impairment although numbers of patients were too small (particularly with severe renal impairment) to 
draw final conclusions. There is a high unmet medical need regarding the reversal agent for patients on 
direct oral anticoagulants and having life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding or before emergency 
surgery/urgent procedures.  
Idarucizumab was considered to have an acceptable safety profile. However, conclusions regarding this 
issue were hampered by the small population of patient treated so far and the underlying morbidity and 
co-morbidity of these patients. For patients with hereditary fructose intolerance administration of 
idarucizumab can lead to very severe side effects or even death. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The data assessed within the current application supported that administration of idarucizumab in 
subjects exposed to DE lead to rapid reversal of the anticoagulant effect. This effect started already 5 
minutes after administration of idarucizumab and was maintained for at least 72 h in healthy volunteers 
and in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (dose >2g of idarucizumab).  
The results of the second interim analysis of the Phase III study REVERSE-AD that included 123 patients 
support the results of the PK/PD studies in healthy volunteers and confirm that the reversal of prolonged 
clotting times in dabigatran-treated patients could be a surrogate for clinical efficacy. However, the 
clinical benefit of this reversal depends very much on the clinical status of the individual patient, the 
severity of the disease/bleeding or location of the bleeding. The results of this ongoing Phase III study will 
be submitted for the assessment as per pharmacovigilance plan agreed in the RMP and should permit for 
further confirmation of the efficacy of idarucizumab in reversing the anticoagulant effect of DE and the 
safety of this medicinal product by addressing important potential risks (immunogenicity, 
hypersensitivity and thrombotic events).  
Following the administration of idarucizumab, there were no reported adverse events observed in studies 
so far where a causal relationship to idarucizumab was evident. Its administration did not interfere with 
routine treatment applied in case of emergent bleeding or urgent surgery. The administration of 
idarucizumab was regarded as supportive in these situations. 
The efficacy of idarucizumab with the proposed dose regimen of 2 times 2.5 g intravenously was 
supported by the totality of the presented data in healthy volunteers as well as in treated patients.  
The favourable effects of complete reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran in combination with 
a supportive safety profile of the medicinal product lead to the CHMP conclusion on a positive benefit-risk 
balance.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 99/101 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the risk-benefit balance of idarucizumab, a specific reversal agent for dabigatran and indicated in adult 
patients treated with Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects is 
required: 
• 
• 
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures  
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to 
be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 100/101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP considers 
that idarucizumab is qualified as a new active substance. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/713107/2015  
Page 101/101 
 
 
 
 
