EMA/776490/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003986 
EPAR summary for the public 
Praxbind 
idarucizumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Praxbind. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Praxbind. 
For practical information about using Praxbind, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Praxbind and what is it used for? 
Praxbind is a medicine used to neutralise the effects of dabigatran (the active substance of Pradaxa), a 
medicine that treats and prevents blood clots. Praxbind is used to rapidly stop the anticlotting effect of 
dabigatran, before emergency surgery or in case of life-threatening bleeding. 
Praxbind contains the active substance idarucizumab. 
How is Praxbind used? 
Praxbind is available as a solution for injection or infusion (drip) into a vein. The recommended dose of 
Praxbind is 5 g given into a vein as two injections or infusions, one after the other. A second 5-g dose 
may be given as two further injections or infusions, if needed. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and it is for use in hospital only. 
How does Praxbind work? 
The active substance in Praxbind, idarucizumab, is a monoclonal antibody fragment. A monoclonal 
antibody is a type of protein that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure 
(called an antigen). Praxbind works by attaching firmly to dabigatran, and forming a complex in the 
blood. This rapidly stops dabigatran’s anticlotting effect. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Praxbind have been shown in studies? 
Praxbind has been investigated in three main studies involving 141 healthy adults who previously 
received dabigatran. In the studies, volunteers received either Praxbind or placebo (a dummy 
treatment) after treatment with Pradaxa for 3.5 days. Results showed that Praxbind was able to 
completely neutralise Pradaxa's anticlotting effect within 5 minutes of use. In a still ongoing trial, an 
interim analysis showed similar results in 123 patients who had uncontrolled bleeding or required 
emergency surgery while using Pradaxa. Most patients in the study were taking Pradaxa to prevent 
stroke due to an ‘abnormal heart beat’ (atrial fibrillation). 
What are the risks associated with Praxbind? 
At the time of authorisation Praxbind has not been associated with any specific side effects.  
For the information on the restrictions with Praxbind, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Praxbind approved? 
The main studies showed that Praxbind is effective at neutralising the effects of Pradaxa, and its action 
is rapid, complete and sustained. The extent of Praxbind’s benefit depends on the patient’s overall 
health, the severity of bleeding and the location of bleeding. No side effects have been identified. The 
Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore decided that Praxbind’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Praxbind? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Praxbind is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Praxbind, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Praxbind 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Praxbind on 20 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Praxbind can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Praxbind, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Praxbind  
EMA/776490/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
