EMA/778414/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Praxbind (idarucizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Praxbind, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Praxbind is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Praxbind, which can be found on Praxbind’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Praxbind (idarucizumab) is a medicine used to neutralise the effects of dabigatran (the active 
substance of Pradaxa) which is a medicine that prevents blood clots. Praxbind is used in emergency 
situations when the anticlotting effect of dabigatran needs to be stopped rapidly, before emergency 
surgery or in life-threatening bleeding. 
In observational studies, it was found that Pradaxa when used for prevention of stroke in patients with 
atrial fibrillation (abnormal heart beat), major bleeding events were reported in 2.1 to 4.3 cases per 
100 patient-years. 
In the main study (RE-LY) on the effects of Pradaxa in patients with atrial fibrillation, life-threatening 
bleeding events occurred in 1.3 cases per 100 patient-years for Pradaxa 110 mg given twice daily and 
in 1.5 cases per 100 patient-years for Pradaxa 150 mg twice daily. In this study, Pradaxa had to be 
interrupted for emergency surgery or procedures in 1.5 cases per 100 patient-years in those taking 
Pradaxa 110 mg twice daily and in 1.8 cases per 100 patient-years in those taking Pradaxa 150 mg 
twice daily. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
The active substance in Praxbind, idarucizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) fragment 
that attaches firmly to dabigatran in Pradaxa and stops Pradaxa’s anticlotting effect.  
Praxbind has been investigated in three main studies involving 141 healthy adults who previously 
received dabigatran. In the studies, volunteers received either Praxbind or placebo (a dummy 
treatment) after receiving Pradaxa for 3.5 days. Results showed that Praxbind was able to completely 
neutralise Pradaxa's anticlotting effect within 5 minutes of use. The interim analysis of another trial 
showed similar results in 123 patients who had uncontrolled bleeding or required emergency surgery 
while using Pradaxa. Most patients in the study were taking Pradaxa to prevent stroke due to an 
abnormal heart beat (atrial fibrillation). 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Praxbind was not investigated in children (aged younger than 18 years), and in pregnant or 
breastfeeding women. Experience with re-treatment with Praxbind is limited. 
Page 1/3 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
None identified. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Production by the 
Like related medicines, the active substance in Praxbind, idarucizumab, may 
body’s natural 
cause the immune system (the body’s natural defence system) to produce 
defences of 
antibodies (a protein that recognises Praxbind as ‘foreign’). These antibodies 
antibodies against the 
could decrease the efficacy of Praxbind and they may increase the chance of 
active substance of 
side effects.   
Praxbind, 
Data on such antibodies were available for 47 patients from the clinical 
idarucizumab 
phase III trial. No adverse events that could have been caused by antibodies 
(immunogenicity) 
were observed in any of the patients.  
Allergic reactions 
Idarucizumab is a monoclonal antibody fragment. Allergic reactions may occur 
(hypersensitivity) 
with this type of medicine. So far, no allergic reactions have occurred in 
association with the use of Praxbind. No such adverse events were reported in 
the main clinical study. 
Blood clotting events 
Praxbind will be used emergency situations, in adults who are being treated 
(thrombotic events) 
with dabigatran to prevent blood clots.  As Praxbind reverses dabigatran’s 
anticlotting effect, use of Praxbind may once again make the patient prone to 
blood clotting.  
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Children (paediatric 
Praxbind has not been studied in patients younger than 18 years.  
patients) 
Pregnancy and 
Praxbind has not been studied in pregnant or breastfeeding women. 
breastfeeding 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been performed, 
given the nature and the intended clinical use of the medicine. Praxbind may 
be used during pregnancy, if the clinical benefit outweighs the potential risks. 
It is unknown if Praxbind passes into the breast milk. 
Re-exposure to 
Only limited information is available for patients who were given Praxbind 
Praxbind  
again after they had developed anti-idarucizumab antibodies (re-exposure). 
The available data suggested that patients tolerated re-exposure to Praxbind 
well. Data on re-exposure in patients is available for 2 patients, both having 
received Praxbind twice. In both patients, the clotting times normalised and 
the bleeding stopped after the second 5-g dose, indicating the Praxbind was 
effective when used again.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Praxbind can be found on Praxbind’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Trial 1321.3 - A 
To evaluate the 
Immunogenicity, 
Started 
Phase III case 
reversal of the 
hypersensitivity, 
series clinical 
anticoagulant 
thrombotic events 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Final report 
Q1 2017 
study of the 
effects of 
reversal of the 
dabigatran by 
anticoagulant 
intravenous 
effects of 
administration of 
dabigatran by 
5.0 g Praxbind in 
intravenous 
patients treated 
administration of 
with dabigatran 
5.0 g 
who have 
idarucizumab in 
uncontrolled 
patients treated 
bleeding or 
with dabigatran 
require emergency 
etexilate who 
surgery or 
have uncontrolled 
procedures 
bleeding or 
require emergency 
surgery or 
procedures 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
The above study is not a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
