ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.       NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Praxbind 2.5 g/50 mL solution for injection/infusion
2.       QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each mL of solution for injection/infusion contains 50 mg idarucizumab.
Each vial contains 2.5 g idarucizumab in 50 mL.
Idarucizumab is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Chinese hamster ovary cells.
Excipients with known effect
Each vial contains 2 g sorbitol and 25 mg sodium in 50 mL (see section 4.4).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.       PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection/infusion
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution.
4.       CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1     Therapeutic indications
Praxbind is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients treated with 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects is required:


For emergency surgery/urgent procedures;
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
4.2     Posology and method of administration
Restricted to hospital use only.
Posology
The recommended dose is 5 g idarucizumab (2 vials of 2.5 g/50 mL).
In a subset of patients, recurrence of plasma concentrations of unbound dabigatran and concomitant 
prolongation of clotting tests have occurred up to 24 hours after administration of idarucizumab (see 
section 5.1).
Administration of a second 5 g dose of idarucizumab may be considered in the following situations:



recurrence of clinically relevant bleeding together with prolonged clotting times, or
if potential re-bleeding would be life-threatening and prolonged clotting times are observed, or
patients require a second emergency surgery/urgent procedure and have prolonged clotting 
times.
Relevant coagulation parameters are activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), diluted thrombin 
time (dTT) or ecarin clotting time (ECT) (see section 5.1).
2
A maximum daily dose has not been investigated.
Restarting antithrombotic therapy
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) treatment can be re-initiated 24 hours after administration of 
idarucizumab, if the patient is clinically stable and adequate haemostasis has been achieved.
After administration of idarucizumab, other antithrombotic therapy (e.g. low-molecular weight 
heparin) can be started at any time, if the patient is clinically stable and adequate haemostasis has been 
achieved.
Absence of antithrombotic therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk of their underlying disease 
or condition.
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients aged 65 years and above (see section 5.2).
Patients with renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required in renally impaired patients. Renal impairment did not impact the 
reversal effect of idarucizumab (see section 5.2).
Patients with hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic injury (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Praxbind in children below the age of 18 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in section 5.1.
Method of administration
Intravenous use.
Praxbind (2 vials of 2.5 g/50 mL) is administered intravenously as two consecutive infusions over 
5 to 10 minutes each or as a bolus injection.
For additional instructions for use and handling see section 6.6.
4.3     Contraindications
None.
4.4     Special warnings and precautions for use
Idarucizumab binds specifically to dabigatran and reverses its anticoagulant effect. It will not reverse 
the effects of other anticoagulants (see section 5.1).
Praxbind treatment can be used in conjunction with standard supportive measures, which should be 
considered as medically appropriate.
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
3
Hypersensitivity
The risk of using Praxbind in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylactoid reaction) to 
idarucizumab or to any of the excipients needs to be weighed cautiously against the potential benefit 
of such an emergency treatment. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, 
administration of Praxbind should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated.
Hereditary fructose intolerance
The recommended dose of Praxbind contains 4 g sorbitol as an excipient. In patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance, parenteral administration of sorbitol has been associated with reports of 
hypoglycemia, hypophosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, increase in uric acid, acute liver failure with 
breakdown of excretory and synthetic function, and death. Therefore, in patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance the risk of treatment with Praxbind must be weighed against the potential benefit 
of such an emergency treatment. If Praxbind is administered in these patients, intensified medical care 
during Praxbind exposure and within 24 hours of exposure is required.
Thromboembolic events
Patients being treated with dabigatran have underlying disease states that predispose them to 
thromboembolic events. Reversing dabigatran therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk of their 
underlying disease. To reduce this risk, resumption of anticoagulant therapy should be considered as 
soon as medically appropriate (see section 4.2).
Urinary protein testing
Praxbind causes transient proteinuria as a physiologic reaction to renal protein overflow after 
bolus/short term application of 5 g idarucizumab intravenously (see section 5.2). The transient 
proteinuria is not indicative of renal damage, which should be taken into account for urine testing.
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains 50 mg sodium per dose, equivalent to 2.5% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
4.5     Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No formal interaction studies with Praxbind and other medicinal products have been performed. Based 
on the pharmacokinetic properties and the high specificity in binding to dabigatran, clinically relevant 
interactions with other medicinal products are considered unlikely.
Preclinical investigations with idarucizumab have shown no interactions with


volume expanders.
coagulation factor concentrates, such as prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs, e.g. 3 factor 
and 4 factor), activated PCCs (aPCCs) and recombinant factor VIIa.
other anticoagulants (e.g. thrombin inhibitors other than dabigatran, factor Xa inhibitors 
including low-molecular weight heparin, vitamin K-antagonists, heparin). Thus idarucizumab 
will not reverse the effects of other anticoagulants.

4.6     Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no data for the use of idarucizumab in pregnant women. Reproductive and developmental 
toxicity studies have not been performed, given the nature and the intended clinical use of the 
medicinal product. Praxbind may be used during pregnancy, if the expected clinical benefit outweighs 
the potential risks.
4
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether idarucizumab/metabolites are excreted in human milk.
Fertility
There are no data on the effect of idarucizumab on fertility (see section 5.3).
4.7     Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Not relevant.
4.8     Undesirable effects
In a phase III study the safety of Praxbind has been evaluated in 503 patients, who had uncontrolled 
bleeding or required emergency surgery or procedures and were under treatment with Pradaxa 
(dabigatran etexilate), as well as in 224 volunteers in phase I studies. Furthermore, 359 patients were 
enrolled in a global idarucizumab administration surveillance program to collect data on usage patterns 
in a real-world-setting. One paediatric patient was treated in the context of a paediatric safety trial.
No adverse reactions have been identified.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9     Overdose
There is no clinical experience with overdoses of idarucizumab.
The highest single dose of idarucizumab studied in healthy subjects was 8 g. No safety signals have 
been identified in this group.
5.       PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1     Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: all other therapeutic products, antidotes, ATC code: V03AB37
Mechanism of action
Idarucizumab is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran. It is a humanised monoclonal antibody 
fragment (Fab) that binds to dabigatran with very high affinity, approximately 300-fold more potent 
than the binding affinity of dabigatran for thrombin. The idarucizumab-dabigatran complex is 
characterised by a rapid on-rate and extremely slow off-rate resulting in a very stable complex. 
Idarucizumab potently and specifically binds to dabigatran and its metabolites and neutralises their 
anticoagulant effect.
Pharmacodynamic effects
The pharmacodynamics of idarucizumab after administration of dabigatran etexilate were investigated 
in 141 subjects in phase I studies, of which data for a representative subgroup of 6 healthy subjects 
aged 45 to 64 years receiving a dose of 5 g as intravenous infusion are presented. The median peak 
5
dabigatran exposure in the investigated healthy subjects was in the range of a twice daily 
administration of 150 mg dabigatran etexilate in patients.
Effect of idarucizumab on the exposure and anticoagulant activity of dabigatran
Immediately after the administration of idarucizumab, the plasma concentrations of unbound 
dabigatran were reduced by more than 99%, resulting in levels with no anticoagulant activity.
The majority of the patients showed sustained reversal of dabigatran plasma concentrations up to 
12 hours (≥90%). In a subset of patients, recurrence of plasma levels of unbound dabigatran and 
concomitant elevation of clotting times was observed, possibly due to re-distribution of dabigatran 
from the periphery. This occurred 1-24 hours after administration of idarucizumab mainly at 
timepoints ≥12 hours.
Figure 1. Plasma-levels of unbound dabigatran in the representative group of healthy subjects 
(administration of idarucizumab or placebo at 0 h)
Dabigatran prolongs the clotting time of coagulation markers such as dTT, TT, aPTT and ECT, which 
provide an approximate indication of the anticoagulation intensity. A value in the normal range after 
administration of idarucizumab indicates that a patient is no longer anticoagulated. A value above the 
normal range may reflect residual active dabigatran or other clinical conditions e.g., presence of other 
active substances or transfusion coagulopathy. These tests were used to assess the anticoagulant effect 
of dabigatran. A complete and sustained reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation was 
observed immediately after the idarucizumab infusion, lasting over the entire observation period of at 
least 24 h.
6
Figure 2. Reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation determined by dTT in the 
representative group of healthy subjects (administration of idarucizumab or placebo at 0 h)
7
Figure 3. Reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation determined by ECT in the 
representative group of healthy subjects (administration of idarucizumab or placebo at 0 h)
Thrombin generation parameters
Dabigatran exerts pronounced effects on parameters of the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP). 
Idarucizumab treatment normalised both thrombin lag time ratio and time to peak ratio to baseline 
levels as determined 0.5 to 12 hours after the end of the idarucizumab infusion. Idarucizumab alone 
has shown no procoagulant effect measured as ETP. This suggests that idarucizumab has no 
prothrombotic effect.
Re-administration of dabigatran etexilate
24 hours after the idarucizumab infusion, re-administration of dabigatran etexilate resulted in expected 
anticoagulant activity.
Preclinical pharmacodynamics
A trauma model in pigs was performed using a blunt liver injury after dosing with dabigatran to 
achieve supratherapeutic concentrations of about 10-fold of human plasma levels. Idarucizumab 
effectively and rapidly reversed the life-threatening bleeding within 15 min after the injection. All pigs 
survived at idarucizumab doses of approximately 2.5 and 5 g. Without idarucizumab, the mortality in 
the anticoagulated group was 100%.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Three randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase I studies in 283 subjects (224 treated with 
idarucizumab) were conducted to assess the safety, efficacy, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics of idarucizumab, given alone or after administration of dabigatran etexilate. The 
investigated population consisted of healthy subjects and subjects exhibiting specific population 
8
characteristics covering age, body weight, race, sex and renal impairment. In these studies the doses of 
idarucizumab ranged from 20 mg to 8 g and the infusion times ranged from 5 minutes to 1 hour.
Representative values for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters were established on the 
basis of healthy subjects aged 45-64 years receiving 5 g idarucizumab (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
One prospective, open-label, non-randomised, uncontrolled study (RE-VERSE AD) was conducted to 
investigate the treatment of adult patients who presented with dabigatran-related life-threatening or 
uncontrolled bleeding (group A) or who required emergency surgery or urgent procedures (group B). 
The primary endpoint was the maximum percentage reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran 
within 4 hours after the administration of idarucizumab, based on central laboratory determination of 
dTT or ECT. A key secondary endpoint was the restoration of haemostasis.
RE-VERSE AD included data for 503 patients: 301 patients with serious bleeding (group A) and 
202 patients requiring an urgent procedure/surgery (group B). Approximately half of the patients in 
each group were male. The median age was 78 years and the median creatinine clearance (CrCl) was 
52.6 mL/min. 61.5% of patients in group A and 62.4% of patients in group B had been treated with 
dabigatran 110 mg twice daily.
Reversal was only evaluable for those patients showing prolonged coagulation times prior to 
idarucizumab treatment. Most patients in both groups A and B, achieved complete reversal of the 
anticoagulant effect of dabigatran (dTT: 98.7%; ECT: 82.2%; aPTT: 92.5% of evaluable patients, 
respectively) in the first 4 hours after administration of 5 g idarucizumab. Reversal effects were 
evident immediately after administration.
9
Figure 4. Reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation determined by dTT in patients 
from the RE-VERSE AD study (N=487)
10
Figure 5. Reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation determined by ECT in patients 
from the RE-VERSE AD study (N=487)
11
Figure 6. Reversal of dabigatran-induced clotting time prolongation determined by aPTT in patients 
from the RE-VERSE AD study (N=486)
Restoration of haemostasis was achieved in 80.3% of evaluable patients who had serious bleeding and 
normal haemostasis was observed in 93.4% of patients who required an urgent procedure.
Of the total 503 patients, 101 patients died; each of these deaths could be attributed either as a 
complication of the index event or associated with co-morbidities. Thrombotic events were reported in 
34 patients (23 out of the 34 patients were not on antithrombotic therapy at the time of the event) and 
in each of these cases, the thrombotic event could be attributed to the underlying medical condition of 
the patient. Mild symptoms of potential hypersensitivity (pyrexia, bronchospasm, hyperventilation, 
rash or pruritus) were reported. A causal relationship to idarucizumab could not be established.
Paediatric population
One paediatric patient was included in a single dose, open label, safety trial of intravenous 
administration of idarucizumab. The trial enrolled paediatric patients from clinical trials with 
dabigatran etexilate for the treatment and secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE). 
For inclusion, patients required rapid reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. The patient 
(between 16-<18 years old) was treated with dabigatran etexilate for secondary prevention of VTE due 
to the presence of a clinical risk factor. A bleeding event required a surgical intervention and adequate 
12
haemostasis. Treatment with 5 g idarucizumab resulted in a rapid and complete reversal of the 
anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. The pharmacokinetics of idarucizumab and its effects on 
pharmacodynamics were consistent with data obtained in adults.
Immunogenicity
Serum samples from 283 subjects in phase I studies (224 volunteers treated with idarucizumab) and 
501 patients were tested for antibodies to idarucizumab before and after treatment. Pre-existing 
antibodies with cross-reactivity to idarucizumab were detected in approximately 12% (33/283) of the 
phase I subjects and 3.8% (19/501) of the patients. No impact on the pharmacokinetics or the reversal 
effect of idarucizumab or hypersensitivity reactions were observed.
Treatment-emergent possibly persistent anti-idarucizumab antibodies with low titers were observed in 
4% (10/224) of the phase I subjects and 1.6% (8/501) of the patients suggesting a low immunogenic 
potential of idarucizumab. In a subgroup of 6 phase I subjects, idarucizumab was administered a 
second time, two months after the first administration. No anti-idarucizumab antibodies were detected 
in these subjects prior to the second administration. In one subject, treatment-emergent anti-
idarucizumab antibodies were detected after the second administration. Nine patients were re-dosed 
with idarucizumab. All 9 patients were re-dosed within 6 days after the first idarucizumab dose. None 
of the patients re-dosed with idarucizumab tested positive for anti-idarucizumab antibodies.
5.2     Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics of idarucizumab were investigated in 224 subjects in phase I studies, of which 
data for a representative subgroup of 6 healthy subjects aged 45 to 64 years receiving a dose of 5 g as 
intravenous infusion are presented.
Distribution
Idarucizumab exhibited multiphasic disposition kinetics and limited extravascular distribution. 
Following the intravenous infusion of a 5 g dose, the geometric mean volume of distribution at steady 
state (Vdss) was 8.9 L (geometric coefficient of variation (gCV) 24.8%).
Biotransformation
Several pathways have been described that may contribute to the metabolism of antibodies. All of 
these pathways involve biodegradation of the antibody to smaller molecules, i.e. small peptides or 
amino acids, which are then reabsorbed and incorporated in the general protein synthesis.
Elimination
Idarucizumab was rapidly eliminated with a total clearance of 47.0 mL/min (gCV 18.4%), an initial 
half-life (t1/2) of 47 minutes (gCV 11.4%) and a terminal t1/2 of 10.3 h (gCV 18.9%). After intravenous 
administration of 5 g idarucizumab, 32.1% (gCV 60.0%) of the dose was recovered in urine within a 
collection period of 6 hours and less than 1% in the following 18 hours. The remaining part of the dose 
is assumed to be eliminated via protein catabolism, mainly in the kidney.
After treatment with idarucizumab proteinuria has been observed. The transient proteinuria is a 
physiologic reaction to renal protein overflow after bolus/short term application of 5 g idarucizumab 
intravenously. The transient proteinuria usually peaked about 4 h after idarucizumab administration 
and normalised within 12-24 hours. In single cases the transient proteinuria persisted for more than 
24 hours.
Patients with renal impairment
In phase I studies Praxbind has been investigated in subjects with a creatinine clearance ranging from 
44 to 213 mL/min. Subjects with a creatinine clearance below 44 mL/min have not been studied in 
13
phase I. Depending on the degree of renal impairment the total clearance was reduced compared to 
healthy subjects, leading to an increased exposure of idarucizumab.
Based on pharmacokinetic data from 347 patients with different degrees of renal function (median 
CrCl 21 - 99 mL/min) it is estimated that mean idarucizumab exposure (area under the concentration-
time curve (AUC0–24h)) increases by 38% in patients with mild (CrCl 50-<80 mL/min), by 90% in 
moderate (30-<50 mL/min) and by 146% in severe (0-<30 mL/min) renal impairment. Since 
dabigatran is also excreted primarily via the kidneys, increases in the exposure to dabigatran are also 
seen with worsening renal function.
Based on these data and the extent of reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran in patients, 
renal impairment does not impact the reversal effect of idarucizumab.
Patients with hepatic impairment
An impact of hepatic impairment, assessed by hepatic injury as determined by elevated liver function 
tests, on the pharmacokinetics of idarucizumab has not been observed.
Idarucizumab has been studied in 58 patients with varying degrees of hepatic impairment. Compared 
to 272 patients without hepatic impairment, the median AUC of idarucizumab was changed by -6%, 
37% and 10% in patients with AST/ALT elevations of 1 to <2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) 
(N=34), 2 to <3 times the ULN (N=3) and >3 times the ULN (N=21), respectively. Based on 
pharmacokinetic data from 12 patients with liver disease, the AUC of idarucizumab was increased by
10% as compared to patients without liver disease.
Elderly / Gender / Race
Based on population pharmacokinetic analyses, age, gender and race do not have a clinically 
meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of idarucizumab.
5.3     Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on repeated dose toxicity studies of up to 
4 weeks in rats and 2 weeks in monkeys. Safety pharmacology studies have demonstrated no effects 
on the respiratory, central nervous or cardiovascular system.
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of idarucizumab have not been 
performed. Based on its mechanism of action and the characteristics of proteins no carcinogenic or 
genotoxic effects are anticipated.
Studies to assess the potential reproductive effects of idarucizumab have not been performed. No 
treatment-related effects have been identified in reproductive tissues of either sex during repeat dose 
intravenous toxicity studies of up to 4 weeks in the rat and 2 weeks in monkeys. Additionally, no 
idarucizumab binding to human reproductive tissues was observed in a tissue cross-reactivity study. 
Therefore, preclinical results do not suggest a risk to fertility or embryo-fetal development.
No local irritation of the blood vessel was observed after i.v. or paravenous administration of 
idarucizumab. The idarucizumab formulation did not produce haemolysis of human whole blood in 
vitro.
6.       PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1     List of excipients
sodium acetate trihydrate (E262)
acetic acid (E260, for pH adjustment)
14
sorbitol (E420)
polysorbate 20 (E432)
water for injections
6.2     Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products.
6.3     Shelf life
4 years.
After opening the vial, chemical and physical in-use stability of idarucizumab has been demonstrated 
for 6 hours at room temperature (up to 30°C).
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening precludes the risk of microbial 
contamination, the medicinal product shall be used immediately after opening. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user.
6.4     Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).
Do not freeze.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
Prior to use, the unopened vial may be kept at room temperature (up to 30°C) for up to 48 hours, if 
stored in the original package in order to protect from light. The solution should not be exposed to 
light for more than 6 hours (in unopened vial and/or in-use).
For storage conditions after opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5     Nature and contents of container
50 mL solution in a glass vial (type I glass), with a butyl rubber stopper, an aluminium cap and a label 
with integrated hanger.
Pack size of 2 vials.
6.6     Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Parenteral medicinal products such as Praxbind should be inspected visually for particulate matter and 
discoloration prior to administration.
Praxbind must not be mixed with other medicinal products. A pre-existing intravenous line may be 
used for administration of Praxbind. The line must be flushed with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection prior to and at the end of infusion. No other infusion should be administered in 
parallel via the same intravenous access.
Praxbind is for single-use only and does not contain preservatives (see section 6.3).
No incompatibilities between Praxbind and polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene or polyurethane infusion 
sets or polypropylene syringes have been observed.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
15
7.       MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH
Binger Str. 173
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
8.       MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1056/001
9.       DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 20 November 2015
Date of latest renewal: 27 July 2020
10.     DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
16
ANNEX II
A.         MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.         CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
C.         OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.         CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
17
A.       MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG
Birkendorfer Straße 65
88397 Biberach an der Riss
GERMANY
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG
Birkendorfer Straße 65
88397 Biberach an der Riss
GERMANY
Boehringer Ingelheim France
100-104 Avenue de France
75013 Paris
FRANCE
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.       CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.       OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
•         Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.       CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
•         Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
18
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
19
                         A. LABELLING
20
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
FOLDING BOX
1.       NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Praxbind 2.5 g/50 mL solution for injection/infusion
idarucizumab
2.       STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial of 50 mL contains 2.5 g idarucizumab.
3.       LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: sodium acetate trihydrate (E262), acetic acid (E260), sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20 
(E432), water for injections.
4.       PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection/infusion
2 vials of 50 mL each
5.       METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use.
For single use only.
6.       SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.       OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.       EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.       SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
21
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
10.     SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11.     NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH
Binger Str. 173
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
12.     MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1056/001
13.     BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.     GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.     INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.     INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
19.     OTHER – Printing on inside of lid



The enclosed package leaflet contains additional information for healthcare professionals.
The recommended dose of Praxbind is 5 g (2x2.5 g/50 mL).
Intravenous administration as two consecutive infusions over 5 to 10 min each or as bolus 
injections.
22
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
Vial label
1.       NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Praxbind 2.5 g/50 mL solution for injection/infusion
idarucizumab
2.       STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial of 50 mL contains 2.5 g idarucizumab.
3.       LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: sodium acetate trihydrate (E262), acetic acid (E260), sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20 
(E432), water for injections.
4.       PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
solution for injection/infusion
1 vial of 50 mL
5.       METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use.
For single use only.
6.       SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.       OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.       EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.       SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
23
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
10.     SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11.     NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH
Binger Str. 173
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
12.     MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1056/001
13.     BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.     GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.     INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.     INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
24
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
                      B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
25
Package leaflet: Information for the patient and user
Praxbind 2.5 g/50 mL solution for injection/infusion
idarucizumab
Read all of this leaflet carefully, because it contains important information for you. Please note 
this medicine is mainly used in emergency situations and the doctor will have decided that you 
needed it.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What Praxbind is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know when you receive Praxbind
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to use Praxbind
Possible side effects
How to store Praxbind
Contents of the pack and other information
1.       What Praxbind is and what it is used for
What Praxbind is
Praxbind contains the active substance idarucizumab. Idarucizumab is a reversal agent specific for 
dabigatran (Pradaxa), a blood thinner medicine that blocks a substance in the body, which is involved 
in blood clot formation.
Praxbind is used to rapidly trap dabigatran in order to inactivate its effect.
What Praxbind is used for
Praxbind is used in adults in emergency situations where your doctor decides that rapid inactivation of 
the effect of Pradaxa is required:
-
-
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures;
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
2.       What you need to know when you receive Praxbind
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before receiving Praxbind:
-
-
if you are allergic to idarucizumab or to any other of the substances listed in section 6.
if you have a genetic disease called hereditary fructose intolerance. In this case, the substance 
sorbitol contained in this medicine may cause serious adverse reactions.
They will take this into account before treating you with Praxbind.
This medicine will only remove dabigatran from your body. It will not remove other medicines used to 
prevent the formation of blood clots.
After dabigatran has been removed from your body, you are not protected from the formation of blood 
clots. Your doctor will continue treating you with medicines used to prevent the formation of blood 
clots as soon as your medical condition allows.
26
Children and adolescents
There is no information on the use of Praxbind in children.
Other medicines and Praxbind
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
This medicine has been designed to only bind to dabigatran. It is unlikely that Praxbind will influence 
the effect of other medicines or that other medicines will influence Praxbind.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before receiving this medicine.
There is no information on the effects of this medicine in pregnant or breast-feeding women. Praxbind 
does not affect any functions in  the body as such, so your doctor may decide to give you this 
medicine, if the expected benefits outweigh any potential risks.
Praxbind contains sodium
This medicine contains 50 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose. This is 
equivalent to 2.5% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.
3.       How to use Praxbind
This medicine is for hospital use only.
The recommended dose is 5 g (2 vials of 2.5 g/50 mL).
In rare cases you may still have too much dabigatran in your blood after a first dose of this medicine 
and your doctor may decide to give you a second 5 g dose in specific situations.
Your doctor or nurse will give you this medicine by injection or infusion into a vein.
After you have received this medicine, your doctor will decide on the continuation of your treatment 
to prevent blood clot formation. Dabigatran can be given again 24 hours after administration of this 
medicine.
Detailed instructions for your doctor or nurse on how to administer this medicine can be found at the 
end of this package leaflet (see 'Handling instructions').
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor.
4.       Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine may cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Until now, no side effects have been identified.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
27
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
5.       How to store Praxbind
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial and the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C).
Do not freeze.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
Once opened, this medicine is intended for immediate use.
6.       Contents of the pack and other information
What Praxbind contains
-
-
The active substance is idarucizumab.
The other ingredients are: sodium acetate trihydrate (E262), acetic acid (E260, for pH 
adjustment), sorbitol (E420), polysorbate 20 (E432) and water for injections.
What Praxbind looks like and contents of the pack
Praxbind is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution supplied in a glass vial 
closed with a butyl rubber stopper and an aluminium cap.
Each pack contains two vials.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH
Binger Str. 173
55216 Ingelheim am Rhein
Germany
Manufacturer
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG
Birkendorfer Strasse 65
88397 Biberach an der Riss
Germany
Boehringer Ingelheim France
100-104 Avenue de France
75013 Paris
France
28
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Boehringer Ingelheim SComm
Tél/Tel: +32 2 773 33 11
Lietuva
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG
Lietuvos filialas
Tel: +370 5 2595942
България
Бьорингер Ингелхайм РЦВ ГмбХ и Ко. КГ 
– клон България
Тел: +359 2 958 79 98
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Boehringer Ingelheim SComm
Tél/Tel: +32 2 773 33 11
Česká republika
Boehringer Ingelheim spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 234 655 111
Magyarország
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG 
Magyarországi Fióktelepe
Tel: +36 1 299 89 00
Danmark
Boehringer Ingelheim Danmark A/S
Tlf: +45 39 15 88 88
Malta
Boehringer Ingelheim Ireland Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 295 9620
Deutschland
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. 
KG
Tel: +49 (0) 800 77 90 900
Nederland
Boehringer Ingelheim B.V.
Tel: +31 (0) 800 22 55 889
Eesti
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG
Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 612 8000
Norge
Boehringer Ingelheim Norway KS
Tlf: +47 66 76 13 00
Ελλάδα
Boehringer Ingelheim Ελλάς 
Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.
Tηλ: +30 2 10 89 06 300
Österreich
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG
Tel: +43 1 80 105-7870
España
Boehringer Ingelheim España, S.A.
Tel: +34 93 404 51 00
Polska
Boehringer Ingelheim Sp. z o.o.
Tel: +48 22 699 0 699
France
Boehringer Ingelheim France S.A.S.
Tél: +33 3 26 50 45 33
Portugal
Boehringer Ingelheim Portugal, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 313 53 00
Hrvatska
Boehringer Ingelheim Zagreb d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 2444 600
România
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG 
Viena–Sucursala Bucureşti
Tel: +40 21 302 28 00
Ireland
Boehringer Ingelheim Ireland Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 295 9620
Slovenija
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG 
Podružnica Ljubljana
29
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Tel: +386 1 586 40 00
Slovenská republika
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG 
organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 5810 1211
Italia
Boehringer Ingelheim Italia S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 5355 1
Suomi/Finland
Boehringer Ingelheim Finland Ky
Puh/Tel: +358 10 3102 800
Κύπρος
Boehringer Ingelheim Ελλάς 
Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.
Tηλ: +30 2 10 89 06 300
Sverige
Boehringer Ingelheim AB
Tel: +46 8 721 21 00
Latvija
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG
Latvijas filiāle
Tel: +371 67 240 011
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Boehringer Ingelheim Ireland Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 295 9620
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
30
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Praxbind binds specifically to dabigatran and reverses its anticoagulant effect. It will not reverse the 
effects of other anticoagulants.
Praxbind treatment can be used in conjunction with standard supportive measures, which should be 
considered as medically appropriate.
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
The recommended dose of Praxbind contains 4 g sorbitol as an excipient. In patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance there is a risk for serious adverse reactions, which must be weighed against the 
benefit of an emergency treatment with Praxbind. If Praxbind is administered in these patients, 
intensified medical care during Praxbind exposure and within 24 hours of exposure is required.
Dosage and administration:
The recommended dose is 5 g idarucizumab (2 vials of 2.5 g/50 mL).
Administration of a second 5 g dose of idarucizumab may be considered in the following situations:



recurrence of clinically relevant bleeding together with prolonged clotting times, or
if potential re-bleeding would be life-threatening and prolonged clotting times are observed, or
patients require a second emergency surgery/urgent procedure and have prolonged clotting 
times.
Relevant coagulation parameters are activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), diluted thrombin 
time (dTT) or ecarin clotting time (ECT).
A maximum daily dose has not been investigated.
Praxbind (2 vials of 2.5 g/50 mL) is administered intravenously, as two consecutive infusions over 
5 to 10 minutes each or as a bolus injection.
Patients being treated with dabigatran have underlying disease states that predispose them to 
thromboembolic events. Reversing dabigatran therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk of their 
underlying disease. To reduce this risk, resumption of anticoagulant therapy should be considered as 
soon as medically appropriate.
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) treatment can be re-initiated 24 hours after administration of 
idarucizumab, if the patient is clinically stable and adequate haemostasis has been achieved.
After administration of idarucizumab, other antithrombotic therapy (e.g. low-molecular weight 
heparin) can be started at any time, if the patient is clinically stable and adequate haemostasis has been 
achieved.
Handling instructions:
Praxbind must not be mixed with other medicinal products. A pre-existing intravenous line may be 
used for administration of Praxbind. The line must be flushed with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection prior to and at the end of infusion. No other infusion should be administered in 
parallel via the same intravenous access.
Praxbind is for single-use only and does not contain preservatives.
Prior to use, the unopened vial may be kept at room temperature (up to 30°C) for up to 48 hours, if 
stored in the original package in order to protect from light. After opening the vial, chemical and 
31
physical in-use stability of idarucizumab has been demonstrated for 6 hours at room temperature (up 
to 30°C). The solution should not be exposed to light for more than 6 hours (in unopened vial and/or 
inuse).
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening precludes the risk of microbial 
contamination, the product shall be used immediately after opening. If not used immediately, in-use 
storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user.
No incompatibilities between Praxbind and polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene or polyurethane infusion 
sets or polypropylene syringes have been observed.
32
