Summary of risk management plan for Pregabalin Sandoz 
(Pregabalin) 
This is a summary of the RMP for pregabalin, 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, 225 
mg and 300 mg, hard capsules. The RMP details important risks of pregabalin hard capsules, how 
these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about pregabalin hard 
capsules risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pregabalin hard capsules’ summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how pregabalin hard capsules 
should be used. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the pregabalin 
hard capsules’ RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
For EMEA/H/C/4010, DE/H/4164/001-008, DE/H/4167/001-008, EMEA/H/C/4070 
Epilepsy 
Pregabalin is indicated as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial seizures with or without secondary 
generalization. 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) 
Pregabalin is indicated for the treatment of GAD in adults. 
For EMEA/H/C/4010, DE/H/4164/001-008, DE/H/4167/001-008 
Neuropathic pain 
Pregabalin is indicated for the treatment of peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults. 
It contains pregabalin as active substance and is given orally as hard capsules (25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 
100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, 225 mg and 300 mg). 
Further information about the evaluation of Pregabalin’s benefits can be found in Pregabalin’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks 
Important risks of pregabalin hard capsules together with measures to minimize such risks are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
• 
• 
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment (if applicable) so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of pregabalin hard capsules is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of pregabalin hard capsules are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of pregabalin hard capsules. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Dizziness, somnolence, loss of consciousness, syncope, and 
potential for accidental injury 
Discontinuation events 
Drug interactions [lorazepam, ethanol, and central nervous system 
(CNS) depressants] 
Euphoria 
Congestive heart failure 
Vision-related events 
Abuse and drug dependencea 
Important potential risks 
Suicidality 
Missing information 
Pregnancy and lactating women 
Off-label use in pediatric patients 
a. Abuse and drug dependence is an identified risk in the European union (EU) only. 
II.B: Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C: Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation for 
pregabalin hard capsules. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for pregabalin hard capsules. 
