EMA/277953/2015 
EMEA/H/C/004010 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pregabalin Sandoz 
pregabalin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pregabalin Sandoz. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Pregabalin Sandoz. 
For practical information about using Pregabalin Sandoz, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Pregabalin Sandoz and what is it used for? 
Pregabalin Sandoz is a medicine used to treat adults with the following conditions: 
•  neuropathic pain (pain due to nerve damage), including peripheral neuropathic pain, such as the 
pain experienced by patients with diabetes or herpes zoster (shingles), and central neuropathic 
pain, such as the pain experienced by patients who have had a spinal cord injury; 
• 
• 
epilepsy, where it is used as an ‘add-on’ to existing treatment in patients who have partial seizures 
(epileptic fits starting in one specific part of the brain) that cannot be controlled with their current 
treatment; 
generalised anxiety disorder (long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters). 
Pregabalin Sandoz is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Pregabalin Sandoz is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Lyrica. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here.  
Pregabalin Sandoz contains the active substance pregabalin.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Pregabalin Sandoz used? 
Pregabalin Sandoz is available as capsules (25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 225 and 300 mg) and can only 
be obtained with a prescription. The recommended starting dose is 150 mg per day, divided into two or 
three doses. After three to seven days, the dose can be increased to 300 mg per day. Doses can be 
increased up to twice more until the most effective dose is reached. The maximum dose is 600 mg per 
day. Stopping treatment with Pregabalin Sandoz should also be done gradually, over at least a week. 
Doctors may need to lower the dose in patients who have kidney problems. 
How does Pregabalin Sandoz work? 
The active substance in Pregabalin Sandoz, pregabalin, is similar in structure to the body’s own 
‘neurotransmitter’ gamma‑amino butyric acid (GABA), but has very different biological effects. 
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. The exact way 
that pregabalin works is not fully understood, but it is thought to affect the way that calcium enters 
nerve cells. This reduces the activity of some of the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord, reducing 
the release of other neurotransmitters that are involved in pain, epilepsy and anxiety. 
How has Pregabalin Sandoz been studied? 
Because Pregabalin Sandoz is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Lyrica. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Pregabalin Sandoz? 
Because Pregabalin Sandoz is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Pregabalin Sandoz approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Pregabalin Sandoz has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Lyrica. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Lyrica, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Pregabalin Sandoz be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pregabalin Sandoz? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Pregabalin Sandoz is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Pregabalin Sandoz, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Pregabalin Sandoz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pregabalin Sandoz on 19 June 2015. 
Pregabalin Sandoz  
EMA/277953/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Pregabalin Sandoz can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Pregabalin Sandoz, read the package leaflet (also part of the 
EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Pregabalin Sandoz  
EMA/277953/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
