EMA/370539/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Pregabalin Zentiva (pregabalin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pregabalin Zentiva, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Pregabalin Zentiva is used as safely as possible. For more 
information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Pregabalin Zentiva, which can be found on Pregabalin Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Pregabalin Zentiva is a medicine used to treat adults with epilepsy or generalised anxiety disorder. 
Epilepsy 
Epilepsy is a long-term condition affecting the brain and is characterised by recurring seizures (fits). It 
is one of the most serious disorders of the brain, affecting around 50 million people globally and every 
year about 50 new cases are diagnosed per 100,000 people in the population. For most patients there 
is no identifiable cause, though the condition can be caused by injury or damage to the brain following 
strokes or in patients with brain tumours. 
Generalised anxiety disorder 
Generalised anxiety disorder is long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters. The cause 
of generalised anxiety disorder is not clear although it is believed to be related to both genetic factors 
and life experiences. Generalised anxiety disorder is one of the most prevalent mental disorders seen 
in primary care, accounting for up to 10% of such disorders. The number of people affected by this 
condition varies between different counties and cultures, with around 2% of the adult population 
affected in Europe. Regardless of geography, however, women are more likely to be affected than 
men. There also appear to be more cases of generalised anxiety disorder among older people up until 
the age of 60, when the number of cases begins to decline. A study conducted in Norway found the 
combined estimate of the number of new cases of panic and generalised anxiety disorder to be 1.10 
per 100,000 people per year. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Pregabalin Zentiva contains the active substance pregabalin and is available as capsules (containing 
25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 225 and 300 mg of pregabalin). Pregabalin Zentiva is a ‘generic medicine’. 
This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) 
called Lyrica.  
Because Pregabalin Zentiva is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. Studies in people have been limited to tests to determine that it is 
bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Lyrica. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce 
the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
Page 1/5 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There are no data available concerning the safety and efficacy of pregabalin in children and 
adolescents below the age of 18 years. There are also no adequate data from the use of pregabalin 
during pregnancy. Pregabalin Zentiva should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if 
the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk to the fetus). 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Hypersensitivity and allergic 
Patients may experience 
Patients must not take 
reactions 
hypersensitivity reactions, 
Pregabalin Zentiva if they are 
including allergic reactions with 
allergic to pregabalin or any of 
symptoms such as difficulty 
the other ingredients. Patients 
breathing, swelling of the face, 
are advised to stop taking 
lips, tongue, and throat, as well 
Pregabalin Zentiva and 
as diffuse skin rash whilst taking 
immediately seek medical advice 
pregabalin. 
if they experience swollen face 
or tongue, or if their skin turns 
red and starts to blister or peel.  
Swelling (oedema), including in 
Swelling of the tissues is a 
Patients should inform their 
the extremities 
common side effect with 
doctor if they develop swelling. 
pregabalin. Swelling of the body 
including in the extremities may 
affect more than 1 person in 
100, and joint swelling may 
affect more than 1 person in 
1,000. 
Dizziness, sleepiness 
(somnolence), loss of 
Treatment with pregabalin has 
Patients should be advised to 
been associated with dizziness 
exercise caution until they are 
consciousness, fainting 
and somnolence, which could 
familiar with the potential 
(syncope), and potential for 
increase the occurrence of 
effects of the medicine. Patients 
accidental injury.  
accidental injury (e.g. falls) in 
are advised not to drive, operate 
older patients. There have also 
complex machinery or engage in 
been post-marketing reports of 
other potentially hazardous 
loss of consciousness, confusion 
activities until it is known 
and mental impairment. 
whether this medicinal product 
Dizziness, sleepiness and 
affects their ability to perform 
decreased concentration may be 
these activities. 
increased if pregabalin is taken 
with certain other medicines. 
Dizziness and sleepiness may 
influence the ability to drive or 
use machines. Overdose may 
cause sleepiness. 
Vision-related events 
Patients may experience blurred 
Patients should immediately tell 
vision, double vision, changes in 
their doctor if they experience 
Page 2/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
vision including tunnel vision, 
any changes in vision. 
flashes of light, swinging vision, 
Discontinuation of Pregabalin 
altered perception of depth, 
Zentiva may result in resolution 
visual brightness and vision loss 
or improvement of these visual 
whilst taking pregabalin. Many 
symptoms. 
of these changes are temporary. 
Events after pregabalin 
After stopping treatment with 
Patients should not stop taking 
discontinuation (withdrawal 
pregabalin, side effects such as 
pregabalin unless their doctor 
symptoms) 
trouble sleeping, headache, 
tells them to. If treatment with 
nausea, feeling anxious, 
pregabalin has to be stopped, 
diarrhoea, flulike symptoms, 
this should be done gradually 
convulsions, nervousness, 
over a minimum of 1 week. 
depression, pain, sweating, and 
dizziness may be experienced. 
These symptoms may occur 
more commonly or severely 
following long-term use. 
Congestive heart failure 
Patients may experience 
Patients are advised to tell their 
Weight gain 
congestive heart failure whilst 
doctor if they have a history of 
taking pregabalin and this is 
heart disease before taking the 
more common in elderly 
product. Discontinuation of 
patients with pre-existing 
pregabalin may resolve this side 
problems of their heart and 
effect. Pregabalin Zentiva should 
blood vessels (cardiovascular 
be used with caution in patients 
conditions). 
with heart problems. 
Weight gain is a common side 
Some patients with diabetes 
effect of pregabalin. 
who gain weight while taking 
pregabalin may need an 
alteration in their diabetes 
medicines. 
Interactions with other 
Pregabalin appears to increase 
Pregabalin should be used with 
medicines 
the effect of medicines which 
caution in patients treated with 
cause a reduction of central 
these medicines. 
nervous system activity. The 
degree of dizziness, sleepiness 
and decreased concentration 
may be increased if Pregabalin 
Zentiva is taken together with 
medicinal products containing 
oxycodone (used as a pain-
killer), lorazepam (used for 
treating anxiety) or alcohol. 
Elevated mood (euphoria) 
Patients may experience 
Patients should be advised 
elevated mood whilst taking 
regarding this side effect. When 
pregabalin which may affect 
this reaction occurs, the 
more than 1 person in 100. 
prescribing doctor should be 
informed. 
Caution should be exercised in 
Page 3/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Abuse, misuse and dependence 
Pregabalin has a potential for 
Caution should be exercised in 
patients with a history of 
substance abuse. 
abuse; cases of misuse, abuse 
patients with a history of 
and dependence have been 
substance abuse. Patients 
reported. 
should be monitored for 
symptoms of pregabalin misuse, 
abuse or dependence. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Thoughts of self-harming or 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients 
suicide 
treated with anti-epileptic agents, such as Pregabalin Zentiva. The 
available data do not exclude the possibility of an increased risk for 
Pregabalin Zentiva. Patients should be monitored for signs of 
suicidal behaviour and appropriate treatment should be considered. 
Patients should immediately contact their doctor if at any time they 
have such thoughts. 
Cancer of the blood vessels 
Cancer of the blood vessels has been observed in mice at higher 
(haemangiosarcoma)  
exposures, but there is no evidence of an associated risk to 
humans. 
Off-label (unauthorised) use in 
There are no data available concerning the safety and efficacy of 
children 
Pregabalin Zentiva in children and adolescents below the age of 18 
years. Therefore, Pregabalin Zentiva should not be used in this age 
group. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use during pregnancy and 
Pregabalin Zentiva should not be taken by patients during 
breastfeeding 
pregnancy, unless they are told otherwise by their doctor. Effective 
contraception must be used by women of child-bearing potential. 
As pregabalin passes into breast milk, a decision must be made 
whether to discontinue treatment with pregabalin or to discontinue 
breastfeeding, taking into account the importance of the treatment 
to the mother. Patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding, think 
they may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, should ask 
their doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Pregabalin Zentiva can be found on Pregabalin Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
No studies are planned. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
