Summary of risk management plan for Pretomanid FGK (pretomanid) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Pretomanid FGK. The RMP details 
important risks of Pretomanid FGK, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Pretomanid FGK's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Pretomanid FGK's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Pretomanid FGK should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Pretomanid FGK should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Pretomanid 
FGK's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Pretomanid FGK is authorised in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid, in adults, for the 
treatment of pulmonary extensively drug resistant (XDR), or treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive 
multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains pretomanid 
as the active substance and it is given by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of Pretomanid FGK’s benefits can be found in Pretomanid 
FGK’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/pretomanid-fgk 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Pretomanid FGK, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Pretomanid FGK's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Pretomanid FGK is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Pretomanid FGK are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Pretomanid FGK. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
QT prolongation 
Important potential risks 
Hepatotoxicity 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy 
Testicular toxicity 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: QT prolongation 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Preclinical studies (hERG signal and QT prolongation in 
monkeys) indicated a potential for QT prolongation for 
pretomanid.  
QT prolongation is a known adverse reaction of bedaquiline. 
Bedaquiline in combination with pretomanid appears to result 
in a higher QT prolongation than expected with bedaquiline 
alone. However, the impact of pretomanid has not been fully 
characterized. In the Nix-TB study, no subjects were observed 
to have a treatment emergent QTcF exceeding 480 ms, and only 
one subject was observed to have a change from baseline of 
QTcF exceeding 60 ms. Six (6.4%) patients reported an event of 
QT prolongation, three of which were considered drug-related; 
all were clinically asymptomatic.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The following may increase the risk for QT prolongation:  
•  a history of Torsade de Pointes,  
•  a personal or family history of congenital long QT 
syndrome,  
•  a history of or ongoing hypothyroidism,  
•  ongoing bradyarrhythmia,  
•  heart failure or known structural heart disease,  
 
 
 
•  QT-interval as corrected by the Fridericia method 
(QTcF) > 450 ms (confirmed by repeat 
electrocardiogram) or 
• 
serum calcium, magnesium, or potassium levels below 
the lower limits of normal. 
The QT prolongation risk for the combination regimen has not 
been established at exposures higher than therapeutic levels. 
The risk may be increased if the systemic exposure of 
pretomanid is elevated.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.3 
PL sections 2, 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
An ECG should be obtained before initiation of treatment, 
and at least monthly during treatment with the 
combination regimen of pretomanid, bedaquiline, and 
linezolid (SmPC section 4.4).  
Serum potassium, calcium, and magnesium should be 
obtained at baseline and corrected if abnormal. Follow-up 
monitoring of electrolytes should be performed if QT 
prolongation is detected (SmPC section 4.4).  
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None 
Important potential risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Hepatic enzyme increases have been seen in subjects treated 
with pretomanid, and were more frequent with pretomanid in 
combinations with various other medications during the clinical 
development program. Note, although hepatic events are of 
interest for pretomanid, they are also known to occur with 
bedaquiline (Sirturo® SmPC, 2019).  
Risk factors and risk groups 
• 
the presence of coexisting disease, 
•  use of concomitant medications (including anti-
retrovirals), 
•  harmful alcohol use. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
recommendation to avoid alcohol and other hepatotoxic 
medicinal products, other than those specified in the 
indication statement, is included in the SmPC section 4.4 
recommendation for monitoring liver function, including 
for symptoms and signs of liver injury and laboratory tests, 
are included in SmPC section 4.4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: prescription only  
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study short name: NC-007-(B-Pa-L) (ZeNix): A Phase 3 partially-
blinded, randomized trial assessing the safety and efficacy of 
various doses and treatment durations of linezolid plus 
bedaquiline and pretomanid in participants with pulmonary 
infection of either extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis 
(XDRTB), pre-XDR-TB or treatment intolerant or non-responsive 
multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB). 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important potential risk: Testicular toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Testicular toxicity was observed in rats and mice without 
exposure margin to the maximum recommended human dose 
(MRHD). Decreased fertility to complete infertility was 
observed in male rats treated with oral pretomanid. There were 
no direct effects of pretomanid on reproductive organs in 
monkeys given oral pretomanid for 3-months and 9-months. 
Decreased sperm motility, total sperm count and increased 
abnormal sperm ratio were observed in monkeys, which were 
considered as effects of substantial decreases in food 
consumption and body weight at high dose levels. Based upon 
the preclinical data, rodents are susceptible to pretomanid-
induced testicular injury. Serum levels of the male reproductive 
hormones are biomarkers that are altered in association with 
this injury. In the preclinical study of primates, no pretomanid-
 
 
related alterations in testis or male reproductive hormones 
were observed.  
Studies of male reproductive hormones showed no evidence of 
treatment-associated testicular toxicity and no events of 
fertility disorders were reported in male patients in the Nix-TB 
study.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not known.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.6, 5.3 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: prescription only 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Pretomanid FGK. 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study short name: NC-007-(B-Pa-L) (ZeNix): A Phase 3 partially-blinded, randomized trial assessing 
the safety and efficacy of various doses and treatment durations of linezolid plus bedaquiline and 
pretomanid in participants with pulmonary infection of either extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis 
(XDRTB), pre-XDR-TB or treatment intolerant or non-responsive multidrug resistant tuberculosis 
(MDR-TB). 
Purpose of the study: To evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of various doses and durations 
of linezolid plus bedaquiline and pretomanid after 26 weeks of treatment in participants with either 
pulmonary XDR-TB, pre-XDR-TB, or treatment intolerant or non-responsive MDR-TB. 
 
 
