EMA/169333/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005167 
Pretomanid FGK (pretomanid) 
An overview of Pretomanid FGK and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Pretomanid FGK and what is it used for? 
Pretomanid FGK is a medicine for treating adults with drug-resistant tuberculosis. It is used to treat 
tuberculosis that is: 
• 
extensively drug-resistant (resistant to at least 4 antibiotics used for treating tuberculosis, 
including the standard antibiotics isoniazid and rifampicin);  
•  multi-drug resistant (resistant to isoniazid and rifampicin) and when antibiotics used for this form 
of tuberculosis do not work or cause unacceptable side effects.  
Pretomanid FGK is used together with bedaquiline and linezolid.  
Pretomanid FGK contains the active substance pretomanid. 
Tuberculosis is rare in the EU, and Pretomanid FGK was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine 
used in rare diseases) on 29 November 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be 
found here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu 307513. 
How is Pretomanid FGK used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started and monitored by 
a doctor experienced in managing multi-drug resistant (MDR) tuberculosis. 
Pretomanid FGK is available as tablets (200 mg). The recommended dose is 1 tablet with food once 
daily for 6 months or longer if necessary. It must be taken in combination with bedaquiline and 
linezolid. 
For more information about using Pretomanid FGK, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Pretomanid FGK work? 
The way the active substance in Pretomanid FGK works is not fully understood. It is thought to block 
the building of the cell walls of the bacteria that cause tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) by 
interfering with the production of one of the cell wall components. Pretomanid is also thought to trigger 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the production of substances that are toxic for the bacteria (reactive nitrogen species). These actions 
are expected to kill the bacteria. 
What benefits of Pretomanid FGK have been shown in studies? 
A main study showed that Pretomanid FGK taken with bedaquiline and linezolid for 6 months is 
effective at clearing the bacteria causing tuberculosis in patients with either extensively drug-resistant 
tuberculosis or MDR tuberculosis when other treatments did not work or cause too many side effects. 
In this study, 90% of patients with extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (63 out of 70) and 95% of 
patients with MDR tuberculosis (35 out of 37) were cleared of the infection and did not get re-infected 
in the 6 months after the end of the treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Pretomanid FGK? 
The most common side effects with Pretomanid FGK (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting and blood tests showing raised levels of liver enzymes (a sign of liver 
stress). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Pretomanid FGK, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Pretomanid FGK authorised in the EU? 
Pretomanid FGK used with bedaquiline and linezolid has been shown to be effective at treating difficult-
to-treat tuberculosis. Although the number of patients included in the main study was small and the 
effects of the combination were not compared with those of other treatments, the European Medicines 
Agency considered that the high cure rate in the study, the shorter treatment duration and 
simplification of treatment compared to existing therapies are significant benefits. Treatment options 
are limited for these patients with difficult-to-treat, life-threatening infections.  
The safety profile of the combination regimen is considered acceptable and the side effects 
manageable, provided that close monitoring and surveillance of the patients during and after treatment 
are in place.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Pretomanid FGK’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Pretomanid FGK has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to 
come about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will 
review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Pretomanid FGK? 
Since Pretomanid FGK has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Pretomanid 
FGK will provide the final results of ongoing studies looking at the safety and effectiveness of various 
doses and treatment durations. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Pretomanid FGK? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Pretomanid FGK have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Pretomanid FGK (pretomanid)  
EMA/169333/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Pretomanid FGK are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Pretomanid FGK are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Pretomanid FGK 
Pretomanid FGK received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31.07. 
2020 
Further information on Pretomanid FGK can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Pretomanid-FGK.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2020. 
Pretomanid FGK (pretomanid)  
EMA/169333/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
