31 July 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-446338 Correction1 
EMA/OD/0000021750 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Pretomanid FGK (pretomanid) 
Treatment of tuberculosis 
EU/3/07/513 
Sponsor: FGK Representative Service GmbH     
Note 
COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
1 Significant benefit subheading: typographical corrections on pages 6 and 7 and addition of contextualisation sentence on 
page 6, adopted on 8 October 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................ 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation .............................................................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 7 
5. COMP position adopted on 27 March 2020 .............................................. 8 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances(s) at the time of orphan 
(S)-2-nitro-6-(4-trifluoromethoxy)benzyloxy)-6,7-
designation 
dihydro-5H-imidazo[2,1-b] [1,3] oxazine 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Pretomanid 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Pretomanid FGK 
Treatment of tuberculosis 
FGK Representative Service GmbH   
Heimeranstrasse 35 
Schwanthalerhoehe-Laim 
80339 Munich 
Germany  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Dr Ulrich Granzer 
10 October 2007 
5 December 2007 
EU/3/07/513 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Dr Ulrich Granzer to FGK 
Representative Service GmbH – EC decision of 24 
June 2015 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Filip Josephson / Ingrid Wang 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
FGK Representative Service GmbH   
11 March 2019 
28 March 2019 
EMA/H/C/005167 
Pretomanid FGK 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Pretomanid FGK is indicated in combination with 
bedaquiline and linezolid, in adults, for the treatment 
of pulmonary extensively drug resistant (XDR), or 
treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-
resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB). 
Further information on Pretomanid FGK can be found 
in the European public assessment report (EPAR) on 
the Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/pr
CHMP opinion date 
etomanid-fgk  
26 March 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Eva Malikova / Nikolaos Sypsas 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
22 November 2019 
COMP discussion  
COMP opinion date 
17-19 March 2020 
27 March 2020 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2007 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 2 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening due to pulmonary and extrapulmonary 
disease; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that (S)-2-nitro-6-(4-trifluoromethoxy)benzyloxy)-
6,7-dihydro-5H-imidazo[2,1-b] [1,3] oxazine may be of significant benefit to those affected by the 
condition; 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The sponsor has not indicated any scientific changes to the understanding of tuberculosis as a 
condition. Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease usually caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis 
(MTB) bacteria. Tuberculosis generally affects the lungs but can also affect other parts of the body. 
Most infections do not have symptoms, in which case it is known as latent tuberculosis. 
Drug resistant tuberculosis (including multi drug resistant (MDR)TB and extensively drug resistant 
(XDR)TB) are subsets of tuberculosis and are seen as particularly debilitating and have been previously 
identified as areas of unmet medical need. 
There is an array of ICD-10 codes for tuberculosis depending on organ of involvement and type of 
diagnostic test (A15-A19).  
The proposed therapeutic indication “Pretomanid FGK is indicated as part of a combination regimen 
with bedaquiline and linezolid, in adults, for the treatment of pulmonary extensively drug resistant 
(XDR), or treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB).” falls 
within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of tuberculosis”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the CHMP through the assessment of the positive 
benefit/risk balance. Please refer to the EPAR for details. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Tuberculosis in general and specifically drug-resistant TB is still a life-threatening disease, in particular 
for people with an impaired immune system (such as HIV patients). In the EU in 2017 the total 
number of fatal TB cases was 4,125 (WHO 2018). Even though the number is small in comparison to 
the total EU population it represents as much as 8% of all TB patients in the EU (4,125 / 49,494), with 
individual rates in the member states in the range 4% - 15% (WHO 2018). 
Since initial designation three new medicinal products have been authorized for the treatment of 
(multidrug) resistant tuberculosis: bedaquiline (Sirturo), delamanid (Deltyba), and para-aminosalicylic 
acid (Granupas). None of these products are explicitly authorized for the management of XDR-TB. The 
mortality data presented above have been collected during a period when these agents were already 
authorized in the EU indicating that despite their availability TB has still to be considered being a life-
threatening disease. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor based the prevalence calculation on the WHO registry of TB patients in Europe. The 
sponsor calculated the prevalence with and without the UK inclusion. At the time of this review, Brexit 
negotiations were not yet finalised and it was considered more appropriate to include the UK in the 
overall calculation. However, the incidence of TB in the UK is lower than some other EU states and so 
the exclusion of the UK does not impact on the overall prevalence in the EU. The sponsor commented 
also on the reduced annual incidence of TB in the recent years.  
The estimated prevalence of tuberculosis in the EU is 1.1 per 10,000 with or without the UK, which is 
substantially less than the estimated prevalence of 2 at the time of the initial designation. In 
consequence, the prevalence of TB in the EU is still below the orphan threshold of 5 per 10,000 in the 
EU.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
WHO has published several treatment guidelines for the management of TB (WHO 2019; WHO 2017, 
WHO 2014). In general, the pharmacotherapy of TB depends on (a) its resistance pattern and (b) the 
clinical form of tuberculosis. Due to the pronounced threat of development of drug resistance 
combination treatments of several substances are always administered. 
Authorised treatments include: Isoniazid, Rifampicin, Rifabutin, Delamanid, Bedaquiline, Ethambutol, 
Capreomycin, Streptomycin, Cycloserine, Pyrazinamide, Para-aminosalicylic acid, a combination of 
Isoniazid and rifampicin; a combination of Isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide; and a combination 
of Isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol hydrochloride. 
Significant benefit 
In the Nix-TB study the efficacy was demonstrated in patients with pulmonary XDR- and treatment 
intolerant/non-responsive (TI/NR) MDR-TB. As described the overall outcome was favourable for 90% 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of patients compared to 65% in a matched control cohort receiving bedaquiline and linezolid in 
combination with a median of 6 other medicines. In addition, tuberculosis symptoms generally 
improved over the treatment period. This included at end of treatment no coughing reported for 70% 
of subjects (compared to 22% at baseline), no chest pain for 89% (versus 59% at baseline), no 
shortness of breath for 90% (versus 53% at baseline) and no tiredness/weakness for 92% (compared 
to 49% at baseline). 
Notably, in the Nix-TB trial patients were treated for 6 months with three oral medicines, whereas the 
patients in the control cohort received treatment over a median time of 16.5 months with a median of 
8 medications (bedaquiline, linezolid (in 82% of patients) plus six other medicines). This is considered 
of relevance since the long treatment time is known to be a burden for patients.  
The study population on enrolment consisted of patients with XDR-TB (65% = 71/109) or MDR-TB that 
were not responsive or intolerant to treatment (35% = 38/109). In consequence, all patients had TB 
that was resistant to isoniazid and rifampicin. Significant benefit over these two agents (including fixed 
combinations that are based on these two agents: Rimstar, Rimfater/Rimcure, Rifinah/Rimactazid) is 
based on improved efficacy since 90% of the enrolled patients responded to treatment with the 
pretomanid based BPaL regimen (89% XDR-TB and 92% TI/NR-MDR-TB). This also includes rifabutin 
since a high degree of cross-resistance between rifabutin and rifapentine is well known (WHO 2014). 
In addition, the vast majority of patients (96% = 105/109) was treated with other anti-tuberculosis 
agents at the time of enrolment. Frequently used prior TB medication comprise in particular: 
• 
• 
• 
Pyrizinamide: 94% (103/109) 
Terizidone: 92% (100/109) 
Para-aminosalicylic acid/para-aminosalicylate sodium: 74% (81/109) 
•  Ethambutol: 65% (71/109) 
Of note, terizidone is not authorized in the EU. Terizidone is a prodrug of cycloserine. 
Pretomanid will be administered in combination with bedaquiline (and linezolid that is formally not 
authorized for the management of TB in the EU). Hence, the Nix-TB study demonstrates improved 
efficacy of Pretomanid by using it on top of a bedaquiline regimen. 
The sponsor also discussed significant benefit over delamanid (“Deltyba”), which is authorised for 
MDR-TB and therefore also formally encompasses the XDR-TB population. The proposed indication 
overlaps with the indication of delamanid, however the evidence of efficacy of delamanid in XDR-TB is 
minimal. The evidence that exists indicates that the efficacy of delamanid is less pronounced in XDR-
TB than in MDR-TB. For example, in the Phase 3 study 242-09-213 no significant reduction in time to 
sputum culture conversion (SCC) over 6 months in the primary analysis was observed (delamanid 
group: 51 days versus placebo group: 57 days; hazard ratio 1.17 (95% CI: 0.91-1.51; p=0.2157). In 
comparison, pretomanid in the Nix-TB trial showed SCC of 42 days in the overall and XDR-TB 
population (see EPAR). In addition, in Phase 3 study 242-09-213, no clinically meaningful or 
statistically significant differences were observed in terms of cure or mortality. Specifically, the study 
included not more than 12 patients (3.7%) with XDR-TB. The only efficacy information published on 
this subgroup is considerably slower median time to SCC of 113 days (von Groote-Bidlingmaier et al. 
2019). Since the XDR-TB populations treated in both studies, Nix-TB and 242-09-213, were 
comparable in terms of resistance pattern, the COMP also concluded on significant benefit of 
pretomanid over this product based on improved efficacy. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, in line with the CHMP assessment, the COMP considered that the assumption of significant 
benefit of Pretomanid over the standard of care has been confirmed for the proposed target population 
based on the observed improved efficacy. The considerations of the shorter treatment period and less 
complex treatment combination contribute to the overall perception of benefit. However, the 
translation of these improvements to the clinical benefit of the patient would have to be measured on 
validated patient reported outcome scales to be considered as major contribution to patient care.  
4.  COMP list of issues 
Not applicable. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  COMP position adopted on 27 March 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of tuberculosis (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to remain 
below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 1.1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the 
time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and associated with 8% mortality rate. The condition is also 
chronically debilitating due to pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Pretomanid FGK may be of potential significant benefit to 
those affected by the orphan condition still holds. The sponsor presented data from the pivotal 
study demonstrating improved efficacy of Pretomanid FGK used in combination with bedaquiline 
and linezolid over standard of care regimens. The indirect comparison to the standard of care in 
patients with extensively drug resistant or multi-drug resistant tuberculosis showed increased 
proportion of favourable outcomes with the use of the combination treatment containing 
Pretomanid FGK. The Committee considered this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Pretomanid FGK, (S)-2-nitro-6-
(4-trifluoromethoxy)benzyloxy)-6,7-dihydro-5H-imidazo[2,1-b] [1,3] oxazine, pretomanid for 
treatment of tuberculosis (EU/3/07/513) is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
