European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
EMA/798877/2009  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Prevenar 13 
Common Name: Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (13-valent, adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001104 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 8 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 16 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 21 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 54 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 59 
Page 2 of 61 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Wyeth  Lederle  Vaccines  S.A.  submitted  on  02  December  2008  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Prevenar  13,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  1  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
726/2004. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) 
or study(ies). 
The applicant applied for the following indication, Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive 
disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and 
children from 6 weeks to 5 years of age. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 27 April 2006 and 19 July 2007. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Bengt Ljungberg  Co-Rapporteur: Pieter Neels 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 02 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 24 December 2008.  
The Rapporteur's  first  Assessment Report was circulated to all  CHMP  members on 13 March 
2009.  The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
13 March 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 May 
2009. 
The summary report of the inspection carried out at the following site: Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, 
Division of Wyeth Holdings Corporatio 401 N. Middletown Road Pearl River, NY 10965 USA 
on  27-31  October  2008  was  issued  in  February  2009.  The  summary  report  of  the  inspection 
carried out at the following site: Wyeth BioParma One Burtt Road Andover, MA 01810 USA 
on 20-24 April 2009 was issued in May 2009  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 4 July 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20-23  July  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
Page 3 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding issues on 
24 August 2009 and on 8 September 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 18 September 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Prevenar  13  on  24  September  2009.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 23 September 2009. 
Page 4 of 61 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a gram-positive encapsulated diplococcus and a major cause of mortality 
and morbidity worldwide with the highest incidence in infants under 2 years of age and in the elderly 
over  60  years  of  age.  S.  pneumoniae  has  been  estimated  to  cause  ~16  million  deaths  every  year, 
including up to one million in children below 5 years of age. The highest morbidity and mortality rates 
have  been  reported  from  developing  countries.  The  spectrum  of  disease  encompasses  invasive 
pneumococcal  disease  (IPD),  such  as  sepsis  and  meningitis,  lower  respiratory  infections,  such  as 
bacterial pneumonia and upper respiratory infections, such as acute otitis media (AOM). The relative 
incidences of the various disease entities are estimated to be that for 1 case of IPD there are 100 cases 
of  pneumonia  and  1000  cases  of  otitis  media.  Extrapolation  of  data  on  hospitalizations  due  to  IPD 
from  England  and  Wales  (Melegaro,  2006)  (prior  to  introduction  of  7-valent  Prevenar  to  the  EU 
paediatric population <5 years of age indicate that there would be 6500 IPD (meningitis and sepsis) 
cases and 61,000 pneumonia cases (50% hospitalized) annually.  
Acute otitis media is most prevalent in early childhood, with the peak attack-rate occurring from 6 to 
18 months of age and with ~60% of children having had at least one episode of AOM by 1 year of age. 
A study from England and Wales (Melegaro 2004) estimated that 270,000 AOM cases would occur 
annually in children <5 years of age, which would correspond to 2.1 million AOM cases in the EU. 
Bacteria  are  isolated  in  ~70%  of  middle  ear  fluid  samples  from  children  with  otitis  media;  with  S. 
pneumoniae and H. influenzae being the most commonly identified pathogens. 
Despite  the  availability  of  antibiotic  therapies  the  mortality  of  pneumococcal  disease  remains  high. 
The  continuing  emergence  of  penicillin-resistant  and  multidrug-resistant  pneumococcal  strains  is  an 
increasing  global  threat  posing  serious  therapeutic  challenges.  Although  the  resistance  patterns  vary 
between countries, the predominance of certain serotypes (i.e. 6A/B, 9V, 14, 19A/F, and 23F) among 
the  resistant  organisms  is  shared.  Another  important  aspect  of  S.  pneumoniae  epidemiology  is  the 
nasopharyngeal  (NP)  carriage  of  the  pathogen  occurring  in  virtually  all  children  at  some  time.  The 
relationship between the acquisition of carriage of individual serotypes and their likelihood of causing 
IPD is not known. However, NP carriage plays an important role in the transmission of pneumococcal 
strains and in particular, of antibiotic-resistant strains. 
There  are  91  distinct  pneumococcal  serotypes,  which  can  be  grouped  by  immunological  relatedness 
into  46  serogroups.  However,  only  10  to  15  serotypes  cause  the  vast  majority  of  invasive  disease 
worldwide.  Serotypes  differ  in  invasiveness  with  types  1  and  5  frequently  mentioned  among  those 
with the highest invasive potential. The global epidemiology of pneumococcal serotypes and their role 
in disease differ between continents. The prevalence of individual serotypes may also vary regionally, 
between  different  age  groups  and  over  time.  Serotype  14  and  serogroup  6  predominate  worldwide, 
serotypes  1  and  5  being  more  common  in  the  developing  world,  whereas  serogroup  18  is  more 
common  in  the  industrialised  countries.  The  epidemiology  in  Europe  differs  from  that  in  the  US; 
before  the  introduction  of  Prevenar  (7-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine),  the  7  serotypes  (4, 
6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) targeted by the vaccine were responsible for almost 90% of cases of 
IPD in young children in the US and for more than 60% of cases in Europe. 
Vaccine impact on invasive pneumococcal disease 
Since 2000, when universal mass vaccination with Prevenar was implemented in the US, the number 
of IPD cases among children aged below 5 years has fallen substantially, in 2001 the incidence of IPD 
in children less than 5 years of age had declined by 56% and in 2004 by 76%, with a 96% decline in 
IPD  caused  by  vaccine  serotypes.  A  significant  decline  in  IPD  caused  by  penicillin-resistant  strains 
has also been seen. In addition, substantial decreases in IPD in other, non-immunized age groups have 
been  documented,  and  the  number  of  cases  prevented  through  this  indirect  (herd)  protection  is 
approximately  double  that  attributed  to  direct  protection  alone.  However,  over  subsequent  years  an 
increase has been observed for IPD caused by the vaccine-related serotype 19A, and to a lesser extent 
for IPD caused by some other non-vaccine serotypes (serotypes 3, 15, 22F, 33F and 35). It is so far a 
Page 5 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
relatively small number of cases compared to the overall decline in IPD. Such serotype replacement 
with  19A  has  also  been  observed  in  the  EU  (Spain,  France),  but  not  in  some  other  countries  with 
universal childhood vaccination, i.e. Australia and Canada. The reason for the rises in serotype 19A is 
not fully clear and may, in addition to the introduction of Prevenar, be related to antibiotic pressure or 
emergence  of  new  clones.  The  experience  gained  indicates  that  close  long-term  monitoring  of 
pneumococcal  disease  is  essential  during  widespread  use  of  pneumococcal  vaccines.  Generalised 
immunisation programmes with Prevenar have been implemented in EU countries in recent years and 
effectiveness data against IPD are becoming available. 
In view of the considerable public health impact of successful vaccines against pneumococcal disease, 
the WHO has stated that the development of safe, effective vaccines that offer broad protection against 
pneumococcal disease should be a high priority. There is an unmet medical need for extended valency 
vaccines  beyond  the  7  serotypes  in  Prevenar  designed  to  better  cover  the  global  pneumococcal 
serotype distribution. Of note is that the presence of serotypes 1 and 5 is considered critical by WHO 
and  GAVI,  given  their  important  contribution  to  the  burden  of  disease  in  developing  countries. 
Therefore,  a  10-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  has  been  developed  that  recently  gained  a 
positive CHMP opinion in the EU. The 13 serotypes in the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine  
(7 Prevenar types + 6 additional serotypes  (1, 3, 5, 7F. 6A, 7F, 19A)) would further expand coverage 
and  would  in  Europe  cover  80%  or  more  of  IPD  cases  in  children  less  than  5  years  of  age,  as 
documented by surveillance studies performed before the introduction of 7-valent Prevenar.  
Licensure criteria for pneumococcal conjugate vaccines 
Over  the  past years,  regulatory  agencies  and  experts  in  the  field  have  reflected  upon  the  serological 
criteria  for  the  evaluation  and  licensure  of  new  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccines.  It  was  agreed  to 
follow  the  same  pathway  as  used  for  licensure  of  Hib  and  MenC  conjugate  vaccines,  and  after  the 
demonstration of a high level of invasive pneumococcal disease efficacy in Northern California with 
Prevenar,  to  licence  future  new  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccines  for  IPD  purely  on  the  basis  of 
immunological data in comparison with the licensed vaccine. A consensus recommendation on criteria 
for licensure of new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines against IPD was reached at the WHO Expert 
Committee  meeting  in  2003  (WHO  2005,  Jodar  2004,  Lee  2003).  The  WHO  has  issued  a  technical 
report  series  (TRS  927,  annex  2)  with  recommendations  for  the  evaluation  of  new  pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccines that reflect these principles. 
The following criteria are recommended for use as the primary end-point for demonstration of non-
inferiority against a registered vaccine: 
• 
IgG antibody concentration, as measured by ELISA, in sera collected 4 weeks after a three-
dose  primary  series  is  considered  to  be  the  optimal  primary  end-point  and  main  licensing 
parameter. 
•  A  single  threshold  or  reference  antibody  concentration  is  recommended  for  use  for  all 
pneumococcal  serotypes.  A  reference  antibody  concentration  of  0.35μg/ml,  that  has  been 
determined  through  a  pooled  analysis  of  data  from  the  efficacy  trials  with  invasive  disease 
end-points  that  have  been  completed  to  date,  is  recommended.  This  threshold  does  not 
necessarily predict protection in an individual subject. 
•  The  reference  value  is  defined  on  the  basis  of  data  obtained  using  ELISA  without  pre-
adsorption  with  serotype  22F.  Antibody  concentrations  determined  using  an  alternative 
method will need to be bridged to this method to derive an equivalent threshold concentration. 
It is recommended that the assay used be calibrated against a reference assay.  
•  Direct  clinical  comparison  of  the  registered  (established)  vaccine  with  the  new  one  is  the 
preferred method for evaluating new vaccine formulations. 
•  The  percentage  of  responders  (those  in  whom  post-immunization  antibody  concentration  is 
above the threshold) should be used as the criterion to determine non-inferiority. 
•  For  the  serotypes  present  in  a  registered  vaccine,  the  percentage  of  responders  to  each 
serotype  in  the  new  formulation  or  combination  should  be  compared  with  the  percentage  of 
responders to the same serotype in the registered vaccine in the same population.  
Page 6 of 61 
 
 
  
 
•  Non-inferiority  to  antibody  response  for  each  of  the  serotypes  in  the  registered  vaccine  is 
desirable,  but  not  an  absolute  requirement.  Registration  of  products  in  which  one  or  more 
serotypes do not meet non-inferiority criteria would have to be decided on an individual basis.  
•  Serotypes not contained in a registered formulation may be evaluated for non-inferiority to the 
aggregate  response  to  the  serotypes  in  the  registered  vaccine.  Failure  of  one  or  more  new 
serotypes to meet this criterion may be considered on an individual basis. 
Additional criteria that must be met to support registration:  
• 
In addition to showing non-inferiority with respect to the primary end-point, additional data to 
demonstrate the functional capacity of the antibody and induction of immunological memory 
in a subset of the sera are required for registration. 
Functional antibodies 
-  Opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) as measured by opsonophagocytic assay after a three-dose 
priming series is required to demonstrate the functionality of antibodies. 
-  The method used to demonstrate OPA should be comparable to the reference assay. 
Immunological memory 
-  Evidence of memory should be demonstrated. One possible method is to administer a booster 
dose  of  pneumococcal  polysaccharide  vaccine  and  to  compare  concentrations  between  age- 
matched  unprimed  and  primed  individuals;  data  from  non-concurrent  controls  may  be 
sufficient for the purposes of comparison. 
-  A full dose of polysaccharide vaccine should be used at this stage because the use of a reduced 
dose of the polysaccharide vaccine as a booster has not been sufficiently tested. 
-  Avidity of antibodies is also a useful marker for immunological memory. 
In follow-up of WHO 2003 meeting, a WHO workshop took place in January 2007 with the objective 
to formulate a plan for the standardisation of the pneumococcal OPA assay (WHO 2007). 
Product development rationale 
The  Applicant  has  developed  the  13-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  (Prevenar  13),  as  a 
successor  to  the  currently  registered  vaccine,  Prevenar,  for  use  in  infants  and  young  children  to 
prevent  pneumococcal  disease  (invasive  pneumococcal  disease  (IPD),  pneumonia,  and  acute  otitis 
media  (AOM),  caused  by the  13  pneumococcal  serotypes  contained  in  the  vaccine.  Prevenar  is  a  7-
valent vaccine that contains serotypes 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F. In addition to these serotypes, 
Prevenar 13 contains serotypes 1, 3, 5, 6A, 7F, and 19A. As in Prevenar, each of the polysaccharides 
is covalently conjugated to the diphtheria toxoid cross-reactive material 197 (CRM197) protein, which 
acts as an immunologic carrier. 
Rationale for the 6 additional serotypes in the 13-valent vaccine 
Serotypes  1  and  5  are  encountered  more  frequently  in  the  developing  world.  In  Europe,  serotype  1 
causes around 6% of childhood IPD, but the majority of infections occur in children after the 2nd year 
of  life.  Recent  data  from  the  UK,  after  the  introduction  of  Prevenar,  have  shown  that  serotype  1  is 
responsible  for  14.6%  of  IPD  cases  in  children  <5 years.  Serotype  1  has  been  associated  with 
complicated pneumonia, such as parapneumonic empyema (PPE). IPD cases by serotype 5 are unusual 
in  Europe,  but  recent  reports  from  Spain  underscore  the  increasing  importance  with  5%  of  IPD  in 
children <5 years caused by this serotype in 2007. An increase in the proportion of serotype 5 isolates 
from  0.2%  to  4.2%  of  IPD  cases  has  also  been  recently  reported  from  England  and  Wales  (2007  to 
2008), predominately due to an outbreak. 
Serotype 3 IPD in young EU children is less common; the mean proportion of all cases is 2.5%. The 
frequency of type 3 IPD from recent years, as documented in countries that have introduced Prevenar, 
is 6.5% in Germany and 5.9% in the UK in the age group <5 years. Invasive infections by serotype 3 
are more commonly seen in older children and have shown an association with severe pneumonia. 
Serotype  6A  is  an  important  serotype  in  Europe  responsible  for  a  mean  proportion  of  4.9%  of  IPD 
cases and has also been shown to be associated with diminished antibiotic susceptibility. The highest 
proportion of cases is reported from Germany (mean 9.8% of cases, peaking to 14% in 2006 to 2007). 
Due to cross-reactivity with 6B, Prevenar have been shown to significantly reduce the incidence of 6A 
Page 7 of 61 
 
 
 
IPD  in  vaccinated  children  in  the  US,  but  less  so  with  regard  to  6A  NP  carriage.  Despite  high 
vaccination rates in the US no reduction of 6A-specific IPD cases in adults through herd immunity as 
was seen with each of the 7 serotypes in the vaccine. 
Serotype  7F  is  responsible  for  a  substantial  IPD  burden  in  Europe  and  the  mean  proportion  of 
paediatric IPD is 5.5%. In the UK, an increase in the numbers of cases since 2006 has been observed, 
with  7F  accounting  for  12.5  %  of  all  IPD  cases  in  2007-08.  In  a  recent  publication  from  Germany 
(Rückinger,  2009)  7F  was  found  to  account  for  a  higher  risk  of  severe  IPD  and  fatal  outcome  than 
other serotypes. 
Serotype  19A  is  responsible  for  a  significant  proportion  of  IPD  in  Europe,  with  the  highest  rates 
reported in Belgium (9.6%), France (16%) and Spain (21%) in children below 5 years. Prevenar does 
not provide protection against 19A, instead an increase in IPD due to this serotype has been reported 
in the US after the introduction of Prevenar, which has also been reported from some EU countries. Of 
concern, the prevalence of IPD due to penicillin-resistant and often multiply antibiotic resistant 19A 
isolates increased from 6.7% to 35% in the US. In addition to ineffectiveness of Prevenar against 19A, 
antibiotic  resistance,  clonal  expansion  and  emergence,  and  capsular  switching  may  have  each 
contributed  to  the  genetic  diversity  of  19A  and  to  its  emergence  as  the  predominant  invasive 
pneumococcal serotype in the United States. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  Applicant  has  developed  the  13-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  (Prevenar  13),  as  a 
successor  to  the  currently  registered  vaccine,  Prevenar,  for  use  in  infants  and  young  children  to 
prevent  pneumococcal  disease  (invasive  pneumococcal  disease  (IPD),  pneumonia,  and  acute  otitis 
media  (AOM),  caused  by the  13  pneumococcal  serotypes  contained  in  the  vaccine.  Prevenar  is  a  7-
valent vaccine that contains serotypes 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F.  
Prevenar 13 is a sterile liquid formulation of pneumococcal capsular polysaccharides of serotypes 1, 3, 
4,  5,  6A,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  18C,  19A,  19F,  and  23F,  individually  conjugated  to  diphtheria  toxoid 
CRM197  protein,  as  in  Prevenar.  Succinate  buffer  is  also  included  in  the  Prevenar  13  formulation  to 
improve  process  control  and  to  provide  further  pH  control  following  the  addition  of  aluminum 
phosphate.  In  addition,  0.02%  Polysorbate  80  (P80)  is  included  in  the  final  vaccine  formulation  to 
improve the robustness of the manufacturing process.  
Page 8 of 61 
 
 
 
 
Composition of  Prevenar 13 
Drug Substance (to be changed in the EPAR to “Active Substance”) 
Intermediates: 
•  Manufacture 
Production and control of starting materials/intermediates 
The manufacture of Pneumococcal Polysaccharide consists of a three-stage process: (1) fermentation 
and harvest, (2) purification, and (3) dispensing, storage and shipping. 
Fermentation and Harvesting of Pneumococcal Polysaccharide  
The production scheme at both manufacturing sites is a four-stage fermentation process followed by 
inactivation plus a harvest step.   
Purified polysaccharide is filtered and dispensed into 50 L stainless steel drums using a closed system 
and stored frozen at -20 ± 5°C. 
The polysaccharides of the 13 serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23 F are 
produced  separately  by  similar  processes.  A  working  seed  is  thawed  and  expanded  in  Soy  media 
complemented  with  Dextrose/Magnesium  Sulfate.  The  culture  is  terminated  by  lysing  the  cells  with 
the  addition  of  Sodium  Deoxycholate  solution  (DOC).  The  polysaccharides  are  then  purified  using 
Page 9 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
precipitation,  diafiltration  and  a  chromatography  step.  The  purified  polysaccharides  are  filtered  and 
stored in stainless steel drums.  
Activation/ conjugation  
The  activation  of  the  polysaccharides  is  accomplished  by  partial  oxidation  of  adjacent  (vicinal) 
hydroxyl  groups  in  the  carbohydrate  repeat  units  using  sodium  periodate  or  periodic  acid.    The 
conjugation  reaction  is  performed  in  non-aqueous  DMSO  and  in  an  aqueous  medium.  Prior  to 
dispensing into flexible containers, the bulk conjugate is diluted to a target saccharide concentration.  
The conjugation reaction is initiated by adding sodium cyanoborohydride solution to the mixture. 
The manufacturing of the different serotypes is well described and follows what is already accepted 
for Prevenar 7. 
The description of the establishment and testing of the MCB is acceptable.  
The working cell banks (WCB) are manufactured and stored at a Wyeth Facility.  WCB are derived 
from the MCB and are used to manufacture fermentation batches. 
The Streptococcus pneumoniae strains used for the production of pneumococcal polysaccharide have 
not been genetically modified.  
All  polysaccharide  master  cell  banks  (MCB)  and  working  cell  banks  (WCB)  are  stored  in  two 
locations.  Future WCB batches will be prepared according to the procedure documented. 
Establishment and testing of the cell banks follow standard requirements for this type of product.  
The raw materials are in line with what is currently accepted for Prevenar.  
In-process tests are performed to monitor processing. 
The  Pneumococcal  Polysaccharides  and  Activated  Saccharides  are  in  compliance  with  the  Ph.Eur. 
monograph  for  Pneumococcal  Polysaccharide  Conjugate  Vaccine  (Adsorbed)  (2150). 
  The 
justification  of  specifications  is  based  upon  compendial  requirements,  clinical  trial  experience,  and 
data obtained from manufacturing runs. 
The  manufacturing  of  the  different  serotypes  and  their  conjugation  are  well  described  and  follows 
what is already accepted for Prevenar.  
Specifications: 
Polysaccharide 
The  release  and  stability  specifications  and  justification  for  the  specifications  are  provided  for 
Pneumococcal  Polysaccharide.    The  specifications  were  selected  to  ensure  the  identity,  purity, 
potency, safety, and quality of the intermediate.   
A summary of the procedures and validations used for pneumococcal polysaccharide is provided. 
Compared  to  Prevenar  7  method  revisions  and  improvements  have  been  implemented  for 
polysaccharides. The methods and validation has been acceptably described. 
Activated saccharide: 
The  release  and  stability  specifications  and  a  summary  of  the  rationale  for  the  specifications  are 
provided.  A summary of the procedures and validations used for activated saccharide is provided. 
The specifications resemble those of Prevenar 7.  
Activated  saccharides  are  filled  into  glass  bottles,  lyophilized  and  closed  with  a  gray  butyl  stopper. 
The stopper is secured with a non-product contact cap.  These container closure systems are used for 
purified  polysaccharides  and  activated  saccharides  resp.  for  all  thirteen  serotypes.    The  materials  of 
construction  for  all  contact  components  have  been  demonstrated  to  be  compatible  with  the 
Page 10 of 61 
 
 
pneumococcal  polysaccharides  and  activated  saccharides  through  stability  studies.  This  material  is 
identical to what is used for Prevenar 7. 
Stability  
Polysaccharides 
Formal  stability  studies  have  been  conducted  on  the  different  Pneumococcal  Polysaccharides  to 
demonstrate that they will remain within specifications through the defined expiry period when stored 
under the recommended storage condition. 
Demonstration of potency, identity, purity, quality, and safety of the intermediate supports long-term 
storage at -20 ± 5°C and for some serotypes 2-8°C.   
Following review of the submitted data the proposed storage periods can be accepted. 
Activated polysaccharides 
Activated  Saccharide  Serotypes  4,  6B,  9V,  14,  18C,  19F,  and  23F  used  in  Prevenar  has  a 
recommended storage condition of -25 ± 5 °C. Activated Saccharide Serotype 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, and 
23F used in Prevenar 13 has recommended storage conditions of both -25 ± 5°C and -20 ± 5°C. New 
commercial stability studies (for all 13 serotypes) are being conducted at -20 ± 5°C.  
Process validation and evaluation 
Polysaccharide 
The scope of the process validation strategy applies to the polysaccharide fermentation, clarification 
and  purification  processes.    These  processes  perform  reliably  and  produce  Purified  Pneumococcal 
Polysaccharide  that  meets  pre-determined  specifications  and  quality  characteristics.    Process 
validation was performed on a minimum of three, successful, consecutive production batches for each 
site supporting the manufacture of Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Serotypes. 
Activation and Conjugation 
Process validation was performed on a minimum of three successful, consecutive production batches 
for both the activation process and conjugation process.   
Manufacturing Process Development 
Changes  to  the  polysaccharide,  activated  saccharide  and  conjugate  production  processes  improved 
manufacturing robustness and optimized the yield.   
Prevenar  polysaccharide  manufacturing  processes  have  undergone  re-validation  to  ensure  robust 
manufacturing capability.   
The  Applicant  has  presented  a  comprehensive  validation  programme  and  has  well  documented  the 
basis for the choices when setting up the process and the development of the manufacturing process.  
Page 11 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Characterisation 
The  chemical  structure  as  well  as  the  chemical  designation  of  the  repeating  units  is  given.  The 
predicted  monoisotopic  molecular  weight    has  been  given  for  all  serotypes  as  well  as  the  measured 
molecular weight as determined by SEC-MALLS. NMR analyses verifies the predicted structure. 
Results  from  analysis  of  molecular  weights,  concentration  of  O-acetyl  remaining  after  de-O-
acetylation  and  activation  results  in  an  approximate  degree  of  oxidation  are  tested  batch  wise  and 
fulfils the specifications. 
Chemical analyses using the polysaccharide specific and protein assays indicate the presence of both 
specific polysaccharide structures (uronic acid, hexoses etc) and protein in the conjugate as expected.  
By amino acid analyses of the conjugate, approximate number of lysine residues in CRM197 found to 
be modified during the conjugation process presumably by attachment to the Polysaccharide is given.  
The apparent size of the conjugate based on SEC is tested.   
Biological and Immunological Characterization 
The  conjugate  elicits  a  positive  response  to  a  polysaccharide  type-specific  antibody  and  to  an  anti-
CRM197 antibody in the slot blot assay.  Results from Nephelometry analysis of the MBC using type-
specific polyclonal antisera are reported.  
The characterization of the serotypes is acceptably described.  
Characterisation  of  the  polysaccharides  and  conjugates  is  in  line  with  what  is  expected  and  follows 
what is tested in the batch analyses and what is required by the Ph Eur. Potential impurities has been 
sufficiently described and are in line with what was accepted for Prevenar 7.  
The  tests  applied  in  the  batch  testing  of  the  conjugates  follows  those  of  Ph  Eur.  The  batch  data 
indicates that the process is reproducible and gives rise to batches testing inside the proposed limits. 
• 
Impurities 
Pneumococcal Polysaccharide  
The main impurities arising from the fermentation and purification of Pneumococcal Polysaccharide 
are 
and  
cellular 
C-polysaccharide as well as other process related impurities.  
Streptococcus 
pneumoniae 
proteins, 
nucleic 
acids 
Activated Saccharide and Conjugate 
The  main  impurity  arising  from  the  activation  of  pneumococcal  polysaccharides  are  residues  of  the 
oxidizing reagent which is removed with ultrafiltration. 
The main impurities arising from the conjugation of purified activated pneumococcal polysaccharide 
and  Diphtheria  CRM197  carrier  protein  are  residues  of  the  conjugation  reagents  and  incompletely 
reacted free protein and free saccharide.     
The impurities are common to all serotypes and do not differ from what has been used in Prevenar 7. 
•  Specifications 
The  release  and  stability  specifications  and  a  summary  of  the  rationale  of  for  the  specification  are 
provided  for  Pneumococcal  Saccharide-CRM197  Conjugate.    Pneumococcal  Saccharide-CRM197 
Conjugate is in compliance with the Ph.Eur. monograph for Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate 
Vaccine (Adsorbed) (2150).   
A summary of the analytical procedures used for Pneumococcal polysaccharide, activated saccharide 
and MBC is provided.  The methods listed are used for all serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 
18C, 19A, 19F, and 23F), unless stated otherwise. 
Endotoxin, pH, moisture and sterility methods were verified based on compendial requirements. 
Page 12 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-compendial  methods  were  validated  in  accordance  with  the  International  Conference  on 
Harmonization  guidelines  (ICH  Q2  (R1))  through  execution  of  a  validation  protocol  with  pre-
determined acceptance criteria.   
Batch Analyses 
Batch  analyses  are  provided.    The  data  from  all  batches,  including  process  validation  batches,  were 
within  the  release  specifications  and  demonstrate  consistency  across  the  drug  substance  batches 
produced.   
Justification of Specifications 
Justifications of the specifications for Pneumococcal Saccharide-CRM197 Conjugates are based upon 
compendial requirements, clinical trial experience, and data obtained from manufacturing runs.  The 
specifications  were  selected  to  ensure  the  identity,  purity,  potency,  safety,  and  quality  of  the  drug 
substance. 
Batches  of  Pneumococcal  Saccharide-CRM197  Conjugate  were  evaluated  to  establish  commercial 
specifications, and data are provided. 
•  Stability 
Conjugate Stability and Storage 
The  stabilities  of  Monovalent  Bulk  Conjugates  (MBC)  were  determined  based  on  formal  stability 
studies  using  material  from  manufacturing  scale  batches  and  process  validation  batches.    Primary 
stability data includes stability data from studies at 2°C-8°C (long term storage condition) and 25°C ± 
2 °C/60% ± 5% RH (accelerated storage condition).    The stability data available to date demonstrate 
that all MBC's test parameters remain with specification during storage at the recommended long-term 
storage conditions of 2°C-8°C . 
Stability data from thermal cycling and stress testing are presented.  A photostability study confirmed 
that  the  MBCs  are  not  photolabile.    Thermal  cycling  studies  (three  freeze-thaw  cycles)  and  stability 
data on samples stored at the stress conditions support short-term temperature excursions.  
CRM197 
Manufacture 
CRM 197 is produced in the same manner as now is the case for Prevenar 7. The CRM197 protein is 
produced  from  the  same  clone  and  with  the  same  process  as  is  already  currently  approved  for 
Prevenar.    It  is  this  strain  that  will  be  licensed  for  use  in  Prevenar  13.    This  is  currently  used  in 
commercial production of Prevenar 7.   
The  manufacture  of  CRM197  consists  of  a  three-stage  process:  (1)  fermentation  and  harvest,  (2) 
purification by ultrafiltrations and DEAE chromatography, and (3) dispensing, storage and shipping.  
The production scheme is a four stage fermentation process plus a harvest step.    CRM can be stored 
either lyophilized or in a liquid frozen form. Testing of the cell banks and intermediates follows that of 
the current process and is acceptable. 
Batch  results  indicate  a  reproducible  production.  Data  support  the  proposed  storage  period  for  the 
liquid and lyophilized forms have been provided. 
The production of the CRM197 protein has been described in sufficient detail. 
Molecular  characterization  was  performed  on  the  master  cell  bank.    The  original  DNA  sequence 
analysis of the CRM197 gene on the plasmid from the master seed was demonstrated to be in alignment 
with the published sequence of the diphtheria toxin (dtox)(1) and the predicted amino acid sequence 
for CRM197 protein. 
The  source  and  generation  of  the  master  seed  is  the  same  as  for  Prevenar  and  has  been  acceptably 
described. 
Page 13 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The production of the seed lot system has been acceptably described. Stability data has been submitted 
for the primary WCB.  
Acceptable  specifications  have  been  submitted  for  raw  materials.  Appropriate  specifications  for 
CRM197 are provided and on file. 
The IPC methods and their validation has been satisfactorily described. 
The manufacturing process including the changes has been validated. 
Characterisation 
The release specifications ensure adequate removal of these impurities by the manufacturing process.  
Process validation and evaluation has demonstrated the ability to control the levels of these impurities. 
The combination of diafiltration, precipitation and ion exchange chromatography produces a CRM197 
preparation that is substantially free of contaminating substances.   
The characterization of the product and its potential impurities is sufficiently described. 
Stability 
Data  from  process  validation  and  commercial  batches  demonstrate  there  have  been  no  significant 
changes  in  liquid  (frozen)  Diphtheria  CRM197  carrier  protein  batches  when  stored  at  the 
recommended storage condition of -75 ± 5 °C. 
A thermal stress study at 25 ± 2 °C / 60 ± 5% Relative Humidity is being conducted to demonstrate 
the effect of temperature excursions during storage and shipping.  All the available results demonstrate 
that  liquid  (frozen)  Diphtheria  CRM197  carrier  protein  remains  stable  throughout  the  course  of 
evaluation. 
The data support the proposed expiry period for liquid (frozen) CRM197 when stored at -75 ± 5°C and 
expiry period for lyophilized CRM197 carrier protein when stored at -25 ± 5°C or -20 ± 5°C. 
Drug Product (To be changed in the EPAR to “Medicinal Product”) 
13-Valent  Pneumococcal  Conjugate  (Prevenar  13)  vaccine  is  a  sterile  liquid  suspension  of  capsular 
polysaccharide antigens of Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 
19A,  19F,  and  23F,  with  each  saccharide  individually  conjugated  to  plasmid-derived  Diphtheria 
CRM197 protein.  The vaccine contains 2.2 μg/dose of each of the serotypes, except for serotype 6B at 
4.4 μg/dose.  The vaccine is formulated in 5 mM succinate buffer containing 0.85% NaCl and 0.02% 
polysorbate  80,  at  pH  5.8,  and  contains  aluminum  phosphate  at  0.125  mg/dose  aluminum,  as  an 
adjuvant.  Each 1 mL syringe contains a single 0.5 mL dose of vaccine for parenteral administration, 
with no preservative. 
Compared  to  Prevenar  7  succinate  and  polysorbate  80  is  added  to  the  formulation.  The 
succinate/saline  buffer  was  added  to  the  formulation  to  provide  pH  control  and  suitable  osmolality.  
Succinate was chosen based on its ability to provide adequate buffering capacity with minimal impact 
to the binding of the conjugates to the aluminium phosphate.  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
in  
Prevenar  13  consists  of 
5 mM succinate, 0.85% NaCl buffer, pH 5.8, with 0.02% polysorbate 80 and aluminum phosphate at 
0.25 mg/mL aluminum. 
thirteen  pneumococcal  conjugates 
(Drug  Substances) 
the 
Page 14 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  succinate/saline  buffer  was  added  to  the  formulation  to  provide  pH  control  and  suitable 
osmolality.    Succinate  was  chosen  based  on  its  ability  to  provide  adequate  buffering  capacity  with 
minimal impact to the binding of the conjugates to the aluminum phosphate.  
Aluminum phosphate was added as an adjuvant to enhance immunogenicity.   
The constituents of the product and their concentration has been satisfactorily justified.  
The  Prevenar  13  formulation  was  developed  based  on  the  licensed  7-valent  Prevenar  vaccine.  
Compared  to  the  Prevenar  vaccine,  Prevenar  13  was  formulated  with  5  mM  succinate,  0.85%  NaCl 
buffer,  pH  5.8,  to  provide  enhanced  pH  control,  and  with  0.02%  polysorbate  80,  to  enhance  the 
solubility of the conjugates.  
There are no overages in the Prevenar 13 vaccine. 
Sterility  establishes  the  safety  of  the  product,  and  antigenicity  is  a  measure  of  the  potency  of  the 
vaccine. 
The antigenicity of the vaccine is tightly controlled to a target value for each conjugate of 4.4 μg/mL 
for all serotypes except 6B for which the target value is 8.8 μg/mL.  
The  manufacturing  process  development  work  has  been  extensively  described  and  supports  the 
proposed process. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
13-Valent Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (Prevenar 13) is composed of components derived from 
bacterial fermentation, and is not a viral product. 
Although ingredients of animal origin are used in the preparation of the vaccine component the main 
theoretical risk associated  with these ingredients is a contamination of the product by Transmissible 
Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) agents. 
The  animal  derived  ingredients  used  in  Prevenar  13  production  are  excluded  from  the  scope  of  the 
October 2003 revision to the TSE guideline.  Nevertheless, Wyeth has been vigilant in assuring proper 
use and control of animal derived materials. 
The Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation presented is considered acceptable. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The 13 conjugates are added to a mixture of Succinate/Sodium chloride buffer and polysorbate 80 and 
then sterile filtered. The solution is then mixed with Aluminium phosphate suspension and stirred. The 
adsorbed  vaccine  is  then  filled  in  prefilled  syringes.  The  manufacture  of  5.5  mM  succinate,  0.85% 
NaCl  buffer,  pH  5.8  (succinate/saline  buffer)  and  1%  polysorbate  80  in  succinate/saline  buffer 
includes routine monitoring of established operating parameters, and in-process control testing.   
The  formulation  of  Prevenar  13  bulk  vaccine  includes  routine  monitoring  of  established  operating 
parameters,  and  in-process  control  testing.  The  controls  performed  during  formulation  and  filling  is 
acceptably described. 
Three process validation runs were performed at the commercial scale to validate the formulation and 
filling process for Prevenar 13 bulk vaccine into the syringes.  These results validate the formulation 
process,  demonstrating  that  the  process  produced  Prevenar  13  that  meets  its  pre-determined  quality 
attributes.  
All three batches met the pre-determined acceptance criteria and release specifications for aluminum, 
antigenicity,  appearance,  endotoxin,  pH,  polysorbate  80,  protein  (total  and  bound),  sterility  and 
extractable volume.  All tests met acceptance criteria. 
Page 15 of 61 
 
 
 
 
A thorough validation program has been performed and shows that the process is well under control.  
•  Product Specification 
The  release  and  stability  tests  and  specifications  for  Prevenar  13  drug  product  are  presented.    The 
specifications  were  selected  to  ensure  the  identity,  purity,  potency,  safety,  and  the  quality  of  the 
Prevenar  13  drug  product.  Prevenar  13  drug  product  complies  with  the  Ph.Eur.  monograph  for 
Pneumococcal  Polysaccharide  Conjugate  Vaccine  (adsorbed)  (2150).  Endotoxin,  pH,  sterility  and 
extractable volume methods were verified based on compendial requirements. 
The aluminum, antigenicity, identity, polysorbate 80 and protein assays were validated in accordance 
with the International Conference on Harmonization guidelines (ICH Q2 (R1)) through execution of a 
validation protocol with pre-determined acceptance criteria.   
Batch analyses are provided in Module 3.     
Prevenar 13 process-related impurities are predominantly derived from the manufacture of the thirteen 
pneumococcal conjugates.  There are no known process-related impurities associated with Prevenar 13 
formulation and filling.   
Prevenar  13  Drug  Product-related  impurities  would  result  from  degradation  of  the  conjugates  to 
release protein and saccharide breakdown products.   
Justification of the specifications for Prevenar 13 is based upon compendia requirements, clinical trial 
experiences,  and  data  obtained  from  manufacturing  runs.    A  summary  of  the  specifications  is 
provided.   
Prevenar  13  drug  product  complies  with  the  Ph.Eur.  monograph  for  Pneumococcal  Polysaccharide 
Conjugate Vaccine (adsorbed) (2150). 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  formal  stability  studies  completed  to  date  demonstrate  that  Prevenar  13  quality  attributes  met 
acceptance  criteria  during  storage  of  Prevenar  13  syringes  at  the  recommended  long-term  storage 
conditions of 2 - 8 °C.   
Similarly,  the  data  demonstrate  that  Prevenar  13  quality  attributes  met  acceptance  criteria  during 
storage of Prevenar 13 syringes at the accelerated conditions of 25 ± 2 °C for up to 6 months. 
The constituents of the product and their concentration have been satisfactorily justified. Batch results 
indicate a reproducible production. The applicant claim 24 months shelf life when stored at 2-8°C.   
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  non-clinical  study  program  of  Prevenar  13  consists  of  a  series  of  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies, 
including assessment of immunogenicity, a series of safety pharmacology studies and a local tolerance 
study in rabbits. There are no non-clinical studies addressing protection against disease. 
The  immunogenicity,  safety  pharmacology,  and  nonclinical  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  under 
GLP regulations. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Page 16 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no separate nonclinical pharmacodynamic studies conducted with Prevenar 13; however, 
immunogenicity of Prevenar 13 was  evaluated as part of the nonclinical repeat-dose toxicity studies 
with 13vPnC in rats, rabbits, and cynomolgus monkeys. 
Adult Rats, First 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-59899) 
In  the  first  13-week  toxicity  study,  adjuvanted  13vPnC  was  administered  SC  two  weeks  apart 
Sprague-Dawley rats at a dose volume of 0.5 mL/injection followed by a 4-week dose-free recovery 
period.    The  control  group  received  0.5 mL  sterile  0.9%  sodium  chloride  for  injection.    Analysis  of 
IgG  antibody  titers  specific  for  Pneumococcal  polysaccharide  (PnPs)  serotype  18C  in  13vPnC  was 
performed.  
None  of  the  animals  in  the  saline  control  group  had  a  detectable  increase  in  anti  PnPs-18C  IgG 
antibodies, while all animals administered 13vPnC mounted a positive serum IgG antibody response 
against the PnPs-18C. 
Adult Rats, Second 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-66951) 
In the second 13-week toxicity study, adjuvanted 13vPnC and adjuvanted 7vPnC were administered 
SC to S-D rats  at a dose volume of 0.5 mL/injection followed by a 4-week dose-free recovery period.   
Analysis  of  IgG  antibody  titers  specific  for  each  serotype  in  13vPnC  and  7vPnC  determined  by 
qualified ELISAs using serotype specific capsular PnPs as coating antigens were performed. 
An  increase  in  anti-13vPnC  and  anti-7vPnC  IgG  antibodies  against  each  of  the  serotypes  in  the 
respective vaccines was detected after administration of 13vPnC or 7vPnC, respectively.  No response 
was observed in the saline or AlPO4 vehicle control groups. 
Day  87  serotype-specific  IgG  titers  (geometric  means)  for  the  serotypes  common  for  13vPnC  and 
7vPnC: 
13vPnC 
7vPnC 
4 
49052
253976
6B 
39487 
89015 
9V 
36472
146457
14 
5294
9850
18C 
93608
315808
19F 
11003 
63324 
23F 
77758
300750
Juvenile Rats, 8-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-59901) 
In  an  8-week  toxicity  study  with  adjuvanted  13vPnC  in  S-D  juvenile  rats  was  administered  SC  2 
weeks apart to male and female S-D juvenile at a dose volume of approximately 0.15 mL/injection on 
post natal day 7 and 0.5 mL/injection on subsequent occasions.  The control group received injections 
of 0.15 mL sterile 0.9% sodium chloride and 0.5 mL at all subsequent doses. 
IgG  responses  determined  from  the  ELISA  indicated  that  none  of  the  saline  control  animals 
seroconverted  and  the  animals  given  13vPnC  had  a  positive  serum  IgG  antibody  response  to  all 
serotypes in 13vPnC after 5 doses. 
Rabbits, 5-Cycle (1 Dose/3 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-72055) 
In  the  5-cycle  toxicity  study,  New  Zealand  White  (NZW)  rabbits  were  given  adjuvanted  13vPnC 
intramuscularly  at  a  dose  volume  of  0.5 mL/injection,  3  weeks  apart.  A  saline  control  group  and  an 
AlPO4  vehicle  control  group  were  also  included  in  the  study.  Selected  animals  underwent  a  4-week 
dose free recovery period after the last injection. 
IgG responses measured in the multiplex serological assay indicated that the saline control group and 
AlPO4 vehicle control group animals did not mount an immune response to any serotype in 13vPnC 
after 4 doses and that the animals administered 13vPnC made a positive serum IgG antibody response 
to each serotype in 13vPnC after 4 doses. 
Cynomolgus Monkeys, 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT 59900) 
In  the  13-week  toxicity  study,  cynomolgus  monkeys  were  given  adjuvanted  13vPnC  SC  at  a  dose 
volume  of  0.5 mL/injection,  two  weeks  apart.  The  control  group  received  approximately  0.5 mL 
sterile 0.9% sodium chloride for injection.  
IgG  levels  and  titers  indicated  that  none  of  the  saline  control  animals  and  all  of  the  animals 
administered 13vPnC mounted a positive serum IgG antibody response to all serotypes in 13vPnC and 
to diphtheria toxoid. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Page 17 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These studies are not required for vaccines. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies are summarised in the following table 
Organ 
Systems 
Evaluated 
Study ID 
Central 
Nervous 
System 
RPT-64576 
Species/ 
Strain 
Rats/S-D 
Duration 
Method of 
Administration
Single-Dose 
SC 
Respiratory 
Rats/S-D 
Single-Dose 
SC 
RPT-64577 
Cardiovascula
r 
Monkeys/ 
Cynomolgus 
Single-Dose 
SC 
RPT-6457 
Dose 
(μg/mL) 
0 
61.6 μg 
polysaccharide,
58 μg CRM197, 
and 0.25 mg 
AlPO4 
0 
61.6 μg 
polysaccharide,
58 μg CRM197, 
and 0.25 mg 
AlPO4 
0 
61.6 μg 
polysaccharide,
58 μg CRM197, 
and 0.25 mg 
AlPO4 
N/ 
Gender/ 
Group 
8 M 
Noteworthy Findings 
•  There were no unscheduled 
deaths and no clinical signs. 
•  There were no effects of 
13vPnC on the CNS as 
measured during this study. 
8 M 
•  There were no unscheduled 
deaths and no clinical signs. 
•  There were no effects of 
13vPnC on the tidal volume, 
respiratory rate, or minute 
volume as measured during this 
study. 
4 M 
4 F 
•  All animals survived to study 
completion and no 13vPnC-
related clinical signs occurred. 
•  There were no 13vPnC-related 
effects noted for the mean blood 
pressure (arterial, systolic, 
diastolic) pulse pressure, or 
ECGs measured in this study.  
There was no evidence of QTc 
prolongation, morphologic 
changes, or abnormal atrial or 
ventricular arrhythmias in any 
of the ECGs examined.  PR, 
QRS, and QTc intervals were 
similar to those in the control 
group. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
These studies are not required for vaccines. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics testing is not required for vaccines. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  was  evaluated  after  administration  of  the  first  dose  in  the  repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies (see below).  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose toxicity was studied in rats, dogs and rabbits.  
Page 18 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adult Rats, First 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-59899) 
The study was performed to evaluate the toxicity of adjuvanted 13vPnC administered SC in rats, two 
weeks  apart.  There were no 13vPnC-related deaths during the study. There were no 13vPnC-related 
effects  on  clinical  signs,  body  weight,  food  consumption,  ophthalmoscopic  observations,  or  organ 
weight data. The only effects detected in this study were injection-site related and associated with the 
AlPO4 adjuvant after the SC injection of 13vPnC. Nodules were observed at the injection sites in male 
and  female  rats  in  the  13vPnC-treated  group,  starting  with  the  second  dose.  Clinical  pathology 
changes  consisting  of  increases  in  fibrinogen  and  absolute  neutrophil  counts,  as  well  as  increased 
globulin  with  concurrently  decreased  albumin  values,  were  seen  in  13vPnC-treated  rats.  There  was 
evidence of recovery in the clinical pathological changes. There was no evidence of systemic toxicity 
in this study. 
Adult Rats, Second 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-66951) 
This  study  was  conducted  to  allow  comparisons  between  saline  control,  AlPO4  vehicle  control, 
adjuvanted  13vPnC,  and  adjuvanted  7vPn  which  were  administered  SC  to  S-D  rats  at  a  dose  of  0.5 
mL/injection, 2 weeks apart. Selected animals underwent a 4-week dose free recovery period after the 
last  injection  to  assess  possible  immune  response,  delayed  effects,  and/or  recovery/reversibility  of 
AlPO4 vehicle control-, 13vPnC-, and 7vPnC-related effects. 
There  were  no  saline-,  AlPO4  vehicle  control-,  13vPnC-,  or  7vPnC-related  deaths  during  the  study. 
13vPnC  and  7vPnC  did  not  produce  clinical  signs  of  toxicity  or  an  effect  on  body  weight,  food 
consumption, ophthalmoscopy findings, or organ weights during the dosing or recovery phases. There 
were no biologically meaningful differences between the saline control and vehicle controls for these 
parameters.  The  only  clinical  signs  observed  during  the  study  were  at  the  injection  sites.  Transient 
edema and erythema, which were generally slight in magnitude, were observed at the injection sites of 
animals given 13vPnC and 7vPnC during the dosing phase. During the recovery phase, no edema or 
erythema  was  observed  with  the  exception  of  1  female  from  the  13vPnC  group  that  had  very  slight 
erythema only at the end of the recovery phase. Small masses (nodules) were observed at the injection 
sites of animals given the AlPO4 vehicle control, 13vPnC, and 7vPnC during the dosing phase. In the 
13vPnC  and  7vPnC  groups,  the  nodules  were  still  present  during  recovery;  however,  the  incidence 
and/or  size  of  the  nodules  decreased  over  time  indicating  resolution  over  the  recovery  period.  The 
nodules  correlated  with  thickened  injection  sites  at  necropsy  and  inflammation  at  the  injection  sites 
observed  microscopically.  In  the  13vPnC  and  7vPnC  groups,  they  also  correlated  with  clinical 
pathology effects (statistically significant [p ≤ 0.05] increases in neutrophil and monocyte counts, and 
fibrinogen levels; and decreases in albumin, increases in globulin, and decreases in albumin/globulin 
ratio) consistent with a minor inflammatory or immune response during the dosing phase. 
Rabbits, 5-Cycle (1 Dose/3 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-72055) 
This study was performed to assess the toxicity of adjuvanted 13vPnC administered intramuscularly at 
a dose of 0.5 mL/injection. 
There  were  no  unscheduled  deaths  in  the  study.  There  were  no  AlPO4  vehicle  control-  or  13vPnC-
related clinical signs, effects on body weight, food consumption, ophthalmology parameters, injection 
site  irritation,  body  temperature,  or  clinical  pathology.  In  addition,  there  were  no  13vPnC-related 
organ  weight,  macroscopic,  or  microscopic  changes.  At  the  end  of  the  dosing  period,  the  only 
microscopic  changes  were  localized  chronic  inflammation  and  degeneration/necrosis  at  the  injection 
site in both AlPO4 vehicle control- and 13vPnC-dosed animals. At the end of the observation period, 
the  microscopic  degeneration/necrosis  at  the  injection  site  completely  reversed  and  the  chronic 
inflammation  partially  reversed  (slight  in  both  AlPO4  vehicle  control-  and  13vPnC-dosed  animals 
based on average severity) with complete reversibility of injection site changes expected if the study 
had been extended. 
Cynomolgus Monkeys, 13-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT 59900) 
A  13-week  study  were  cynomolgus  monkeys  were  given  adjuvanted  13vPnC  SC  at  a  dose  0.5 
mL/injection two weeks apart was submitted. 
There  were  no  deaths  during  the  study.  There  were  no  effects  on  clinical  signs,  body  weight,  food 
consumption,  body  temperature,  ophthalmoscopic  observations,  hematology,  serum  chemistry,  or 
organ  weight  data.  The  only  effects  detected  in  this  study  were  injection-site  related  and  associated 
with  the  AlPO4  adjuvant  after  the  SC  injection  of  13vPnC.  Nodules  (small  circumscribed  SC  solid 
Page 19 of 61 
 
 
 
 
lumps) were observed in male and female monkeys from the 13vPnC-treated group, starting with the 
second dose. These effects were detected in the in-life observations, and macroscopic and microscopic 
evaluations. There was no evidence of systemic toxicity in this study. 
•  Genotoxicity and Carcinogenicity 
These studies are not required for vaccines. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Prevenar  13  is  intended  for  the  vaccination  of  infants.  No  studies  of  fertility,  embryo-fetal 
development, and peri- postnatal development toxicity have been conducted. A juvenile toxicity study 
was conducted in rats to support SC dosing of infants. 
•  Local tolerance  
A  study  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  irritation  potential  of  13vPnC,  with  and  without  the  AlPO4 
adjuvant, in male NZW rabbits after  a single IM injection (Study ID RPT-62420). 13vPnC (30.8 μg 
polysaccharide, 29 μg CRM197, and 0.125 mg AlPO4) and 13vPnC without the AlPO4 adjuvant (30.8 
μg polysaccharide and 29 μg CRM197) were administered as a single IM injection into the left vastus 
lateralis (thigh muscle), at a dose volume of 0.5 mL/injection, to 3 male rabbits/group. A control group 
(3 males) received 0.5 mL sterile 0.9% sodium chloride for injection. 
All  animals  survived to  scheduled  termination.  There  were  no  clinical  signs,  injection  site irritation, 
effects  on  body  weight  or  food  consumption,  or  macroscopic  or  microscopic  lesions  related  to 
13vPnC, with or without the AlPO4 adjuvant. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated  
Juvenile Rats, 8-Week (1 Dose/2 Weeks) Study (Study ID RPT-59901) 
In  an  8-week  toxicity  study  with  adjuvanted  13vPnC  in  S-D  juvenile  rats  was  administered  SC  2 
weeks apart to male and female S-D juvenile at a dose volume of approximately 0.15 mL/injection on 
post natal day 7 and 0.5 mL/injection on subsequent occasions.  The control group received injections 
of 0.15 mL sterile 0.9% sodium chloride and 0.5 mL at all subsequent doses. 
All animals survived to scheduled termination. There were no effects on viability index, clinical signs, 
body weight, food consumption, or clinical pathology; there were no adverse organ weights during the 
study.  The  only  effects  in  this  study  were  injection-site  related  and  associated  with  the  AlPO4 
adjuvant after the SC injection of 13vPnC. These effects were detected in the in-life observations, and 
macroscopic and microscopic evaluations. There was no evidence of systemic toxicity in this study. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with EMEA “Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products 
for Human Use” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) which specifies that vaccines are exempt due to the 
nature of their constituents, no additional information has been performed. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
There were no separate nonclinical pharmacodynamic studies conducted with Prevenar 13; however, 
immunogenicity of 13vPnC was evaluated as part of the nonclinical repeat-dose toxicity studies with 
13vPnC in rats, rabbits, and cynomolgus monkeys.  
In the repeat-dose toxicity studies animals were given a clinical dose every 2nd or 3rd week with a total 
of 5-7 injections. Antibody titres were determined using ELISA or Luminex technology. In all studies, 
vaccination  with  13vPnC  resulted  in  a  robust  antibody  response  to  all  tested  serotypes.  These  data 
Page 20 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrate  that  the  toxicity  studies  are  all  relevant  for  addressing  safety  concerns,  related  to  the 
generation of an immune response. 
Issues of concern in the clinical evaluation of the vaccine are the consequence of the increased number 
of serotypes on the immune response and the importance of the introduction of polysorbate 80 in the 
vaccine  formulation  which  took  place  during  the  clinical  development.  In  one  of  the  rat  studies 
(RPT-66951) a comparison was made between the previous 7-valent vaccine (without polysorbate 80) 
and the new 13-valent vaccine (with polysorbate 80). The immune response to the common serotypes 
was consistently higher with the 7-valent vaccine. While immunogenicity data from the animal studies 
is of no direct importance for the clinical evaluation of the vaccine, which should be based on human 
immunogenicity  data,  these  findings  indicate  a  potential  difference  in  immunogenicity  between  the 
vaccine formulations. This issue is further discussed in the Clinical part. 
Safety pharmacology studies addressing CNS and respiratory effects were performed in rats. A safety 
pharmacology  study  addressing  cardiovascular  effects  was  performed  in  monkeys.  There  were  no 
important findings. 
Repeat dose toxicity studies were performed in rats, rabbits and monkeys. The animals were given a 
clinical dose every 2nd or 3rd week with a total of 5-7 injections. The only finding in these studies was 
injection site reactions which were observed in rats  and  monkeys receiving SC injections  but not in 
rabbits receiving IM injections. Injection site reactions are also observed in the clinic. 
No  studies  on  genotoxicity  or  carcinogenicity  have  been  performed.  This  is  in  agreement  with 
applicable  guidelines.  Reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  have  not  been  studied.  This  is 
acceptable  since  the  vaccine  is  intended  for  vaccination  of  infants.  A  juvenile  toxicity  study  was 
performed in rats. There were no findings which differed from those seen in adult animals. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The initial indication proposed at the time of the application was: 
Active immunisation for the prevention of disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes 1, 
3,  4,  5,  6A,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  18C,  19A,  19F  and  23F  (including  sepsis,  meningitis,  bacteraemia, 
pneumonia and acute otitis media) in infants and children from 2 months to 5 years of age. 
The approved indication is: 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused 
by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks to 5 years of age. 
This  submission  included  immunogenicity  results  from  a  total  of  14  clinical  trials,  including  a 
formulation study in Poland (009), 2 pivotal non-inferiority trials in Germany (006) and in US (004). 
The study design and main objectives of the 14 studies are described in Table 1-1 below as well as in 
the section describing the individual study. 
The application includes safety and immunogenicity data obtained from 4429 infants, who received at 
least 1 dose of Prevenar 13 and from 354 older infants and young children. 
There are no efficacy studies with the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (Prevenar 13). The 
overall objective of the clinical development program was to evaluate the immunogenicity, safety and 
clinical consistency of Prevenar 13 in the target population. Non-inferiority of the immune response 
compared  with  licensed  7-valent  Prevenar  was  specifically  evaluated.  Studies  were  designed  to 
evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of the vaccine when used for primary, catch-up and booster 
vaccination;  and  to  evaluate  the  presence  of  immune  memory  through  administration  of  a  booster 
dose. Additionally, co-administration of Prevenar 13 with commonly administered paediatric vaccines 
was evaluated. Switching from 7-valent Prevenar to Prevenar 13 in Prevenar-primed subjects will be 
evaluated post-approval; data on 1 dose of Prevenar 13 to Prevenar-primed subjects in study 008 have 
been submitted during the procedure.  
Page 21 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N Vaccinated 
 per Group 
(as Randomized) 
Prevenar 13+P80: 250 
Prevenar 13-P80: 250 
Prevenar 13: 332 
Prevenar: 331 
Table 1-1: Overview of the Prevenar 13 Clinical Studies 
Study 
Country 
Formulation Bridging Trial 
6096A1-009 
Poland 
Study Objectives 
Demonstrate that the immune response to 13 
serotypes after administration of Prevenar 
13+P80 is non-inferior relative to Prevenar 
13-P80 measured 1 month after the infant 
series. 
Study Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Concomitant Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Prevenar 13+P80 or Prevenar 
13-P80  
(2, 3, 4, 12) 
Pentaxim (2, 3, 4) 
Engerix-B (2) 
Priorix (12) 
Pivotal Pneumococcal Non-inferiority Trials 
6096A1-004 
United 
States 
Demonstrate that the PnC serotype-specific IgG 
responses (proportion of responders at ≥0.35 
μg/mL) induced by Prevenar 13 are non-inferior 
to those induced by Prevenar or Prevenar 
referencea measured 1 month after the infant 
series.  
Demonstrate that the serotype-specific 
geometric mean IgG concentrations induced by 
Prevenar 13 are non-inferior to those induced by 
Prevenar or Prevenar referencea measured 1 
month after the toddler dose.  
Assess the non-inferiority of antigen-specific 
response (Dip, PT, FHA, PRN, Hib) 1 month 
after dose 3 of PnC and concomitant vaccine in 
the Prevenar 13 group relative to the  Prevenar 
group. 
Prevenar 13 or 
Prevenar  
(2, 4, 6, 12-15) 
Pediarix (2, 4, 6) 
ActHIB (2, 4, 6) 
PedvaxHIB (12-15) 
ProQuad (12-15) 
VAQTA (12-15) 
Page 22 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
6096A1-006 
Country 
Germany 
Study Objectives 
Demonstrate that the PnC serotype-specific IgG 
responses induced by Prevenar 13 are non-
inferior to those induced by  Prevenar or  
Prevenar referencea measured 1 month after the 
infant series.  
Assess the non-inferiority of antigen-specific 
response (Dip, HBV, Hib) 1 month after dose 3 
of PnC and concomitant vaccine in the Prevenar 
13 group relative to the  Prevenar group. 
Study Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Prevenar 13 or 
Prevenar (2, 3, 4, 11-12) 
Concomitant Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Infanrix hexa 
(2, 3, 4, 11-12) 
N Vaccinated 
 per Group 
(as Randomized) 
Prevenar 13: 300 
Prevenar: 303 
Manufacturing Scale Bridging Trials 
6096A1-3000 
Poland 
Assess the PnC response induced by 
manufacturing scale Prevenar 13 relative to 
pilot scale Prevenar 13 measured 1 month after 
the infant series. 
6096A1-3005 
United 
States 
Demonstrate that the immune responses induced 
by 3 lots of Prevenar 13 are equivalent at 1 
month after the infant series. 
Demonstrate the non-inferiority of immune 
response induced by Pediarix given with 
Prevenar 13 relative to Pediarix given with  
Prevenar 1 month after the infant series 
(antigens assessed: Tet; polio types 1, 2, 3; 
HBV). 
Prevenar 13 pilot lot or 
Prevenar 13 man lot  
(2, 3, 4, 12) 
Pentaxim (2, 3, 4) 
Engerix-B (2) 
Priorix (12) 
Prevenar 13 pilot lot 1, 
Prevenar 13 pilot lot 2, or 
Prevenar 13 man lot or  
Prevenar 
(2, 4, 6, 12) 
Pediarix (2, 4, 6) 
ActHIB (2, 4, 6) 
MMR II and Varivax (12) 
Havrix (12) 
Prevenar 13 pilot: 134 
Prevenar 13 man: 134 
Prevenar 13 pilot 1: 486 
Prevenar 13 pilot 2: 484 
Prevenar 13 man: 485 
Prevenar: 244 
Page 23 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Study Objectives 
Additional Vaccine Schedules and Concomitant Vaccine Immunogenicity Trials 
6096A1-007 
Country 
United 
Kingdom 
Study Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar 
(2, 4, 12) 
Evaluate the immune response after NeisVac-C 
(MnC using SBA) and Prevenar 13 relative to 
NeisVac-C and Prevenar measured 1 month 
after the infant series. 
Evaluate the immune response after Pediacel 
(antigens assessed: PT, FHA, PRN, FIM, Hib) 
and Prevenar 13 relative to Pediacel and  
Prevenar measured 1 month after the infant 
series. 
Assess the immune responses to Prevenar 13 
measured 1 month after the infant series. 
Concomitant Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
NeisVac-C (2, 4) 
Pediacel (2, 3, 4) 
Menitorix (12)  
N Vaccinated 
 per Group 
(as Randomized) 
Prevenar 13: 139 
Prevenar: 139 
6096A1-008 
France 
6096A1-011 
India 
6096A1-500 
Italy 
Demonstrate that the immune responses after 
Pentavac (antigens assessed: PT, FHA, Hib, 
Dip, Tet, polio types 1, 2, 3) and Prevenar 13 
are non-inferior to the response after Pentavac 
and Prevenar measured 1 month after the infant 
series. 
Assess the immune responses to Prevenar 13 
measured 1 month after the infant series. 
Assess the PnC immune response after Prevenar 
13 relative to Prevenar measured 1 month after 
the infant series. 
Assess the immune response after Easyfive, ie, 
DTP-Hib-HBV vaccine (antigens assessed: PT, 
FHA, PRN) and Prevenar 13 relative to DTP-
Hib-HBV and Prevenar measured 1 month after 
the infant series.  
Demonstrate that the immune response after 
Infanrix hexa (antigen assessed: HBV) and 
Prevenar 13 is non-inferior to the response after 
Infanrix hexa and Prevenar measured 1 month 
after the toddler dose. 
Assess the immune response to Prevenar 13 
measured 1 month after the infant series and 
just before the toddler dose.  
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar 
 (2, 3, 4, 12) 
Pentavac (2, 3, 4, 12) 
Prevenar 13: 302 
Prevenar: 309 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar (6, 10, 
14 weeks, 12 months) 
Easyfive (6, 10, 14 weeks) 
Biopolio (6, 10, 14 weeks) 
Prevenar 13: 178 
Prevenar:175 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar 
 (3, 5, 11) 
Infanrix hexa 
(3, 5, 11) 
Prevenar 13: 302 
Prevenar: 302 
Page 24 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Country 
6096A1-501 
Spain 
6096A1-3007 
Spain 
Study Objectives 
Assess the immune responses induced by 
Prevenar 13 relative to Prevenar measured 
1 month after the toddler dose. 
Demonstrate that the immune response after 
Meningitec (antigen assessed: MnC by SBA) 
and Prevenar 13 is non-inferior to response after 
Meningitec and Prevenar measured 1 month 
after a 2-dose Meningitec infant series. 
Assess the non-inferiority of antigen-specific 
response to PT, FHA, PRN, Dip, Tet, and polio 
types 1, 2, 3 after Infanrix hexa and Prevenar 13 
relative to Infanrix hexa and Prevenar. 
Assess the immune responses to Prevenar 13 
measured 1 month after dose 2 and 1 month 
after dose 3 of the infant series and 1 month 
after the toddler dose. 
Demonstrate the non-inferiority of immune 
response after NeisVac-C and Prevenar 13 
relative to NeisVac-C (antigen: MnC using 
SBA) and Prevenar measured 1 month after a 2-
dose NeisVac-C infant series. 
Demonstrate the non-inferiority of immune 
response after Infanrix hexa and Prevenar 13 
relative to Infanrix hexa (antigens assessed: 
Dip, Tet) and Prevenar measured 1 month after 
a 3-dose infant series. 
Assess the immune responses to Prevenar 13 
measured 1 month after dose 2 and 1 month 
after dose 3 of the infant series. 
Trial in Older Infants and Young Children 
Poland 
6096A1-3002 
Assess the PnC response induced by Prevenar 
13 when measured 1 month after the last 
scheduled dose in each age group. 
Study Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Concomitant Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar 
 (2, 4, 6, 15) 
Infanrix hexa (2, 4, 6) 
Meningitec (2, 4, 15) 
Infanrix-IPV+Hib (15) 
MMR II (12) 
N Vaccinated 
 per Group 
(as Randomized) 
Prevenar 13: 314 
Prevenar: 302 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar  
(2, 4, 6, 15) 
Infanrix hexa (2, 4, 6) 
NeisVac-C (2, 4, 15) 
Priorix (12) 
Infanrix-IPV+Hib (15) 
Prevenar 13: 218 
Prevenar: 226 
Prevenar 13:  
Group 1: (3 doses) 7 to <12 
months, 1 month later, and 12-
16 months 
Group 2: (2 doses) 12 to <24 
NA 
Page 25 of 61 
Group 1: 90 
Group 2: 112 
Group 3: 152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Country 
Study Objectives 
Phase 1-2 Trials 
6096A1-002 
United 
States 
6096A1-003 
United 
States 
(NOTE: Immunogenicity was a secondary 
objective in this study.) 
Assess the postvaccination responses to the 13 
pneumococcal serotypes in Prevenar 13. 
Obtain sera to be used as reagents for further 
development, validation, and standardization of 
pneumococcal assays. 
Compare the percentages of subjects achieving 
a predefined antibody level to each of the 7 
common serotypes after 3 doses of Prevenar 13 
relative to 3 doses of Prevenar. 
Study Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
months and 56 to 70 days later 
Group 3: (1 dose) 24 to  <72 
months 
Concomitant Vaccine 
Schedule (Months) 
N Vaccinated 
 per Group 
(as Randomized) 
Single dose of Prevenar 13 or 
23vPS 
NA 
23vPS: 15 
Prevenar 13: 15 
Prevenar 13 or Prevenar (2, 4, 
6, 12-15) 
Pediarix (2, 4, 6) 
ActHIB (2, 4, 6, 12-15) 
Prevenar 13: 121 
Prevenar: 126 
Abbreviations: Prevenar 13+P80 = Prevenar 13 formulated with polysorbate 80; Prevenar 13-P80 = Prevenar 13 formulated without polysorbate 80; 23vPS = 23-valent 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine; Dip = diphtheria; FHA = filamentous hemagglutinin; FIM = fimbrial agglutinogens; HBV = hepatitis B virus vaccine; Hib = 
Haemophilus influenzae type b; man = manufacturing; MnC = meningococcal C vaccine; NA = not applicable; PnC = pneumococcal conjugate vaccine; polio types 1, 2, 3 = 
poliovirus vaccine type 1, type 2, and type 3; PRN = pertactin; PT = pertussis toxoid; SBA = serum bactericidal assay; Tet = tetanus. 
Components of vaccines by trade name: ActHIB = Hib; Biopolio = OPV; Easyfive = DTP, Hib, and HBV; Engerix-B = HBV; Havrix = HAV; Infanrix hexa = DTaP, Hib, HBV, 
and IPV; Infanrix-IPV+Hib = DTaP, IPV, and Hib; Meningitec = meningococcal C vaccine; Menitorix = Hib and meningococcal C vaccine; MMR II = measles, mumps, and 
rubella vaccine; NeisVac-C = meningococcal C vaccine; Pediacel = DTP, Hib, and IPV; Pediarix = DTaP, HBV, and IPV; PedvaxHIB = Hib; Pentavac = DTaP, Hib, and IPV; 
Pentaxim = DTaP, Hib, and IPV; Priorix = MMR; ProQuad = MMR and varicella vaccine; VAQTA = HAV; Varivax = varicella vaccine. 
a. 
In studies 004 and 006, values for the additional serotypes in the Prevenar 13 group are compared with the Prevenar reference value, defined as the lowest value among the 7 
common serotypes in the Prevenar group. 
Page 26 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
Ongoing trials 
For  clinical  studies  3000,  3005,  007,  008,  and  3007,  only  primary  series  data  were  included  in  the 
application dossier. Booster data for study 007 and study 008 were submitted with the responses to the 
D120  LoQ.  Study  008  provides  important  information  concerning  the  effect  of  a  toddler  dose  of 
Prevenar 13 following a primary vaccination series with Prevenar. Two further studies (6096A1-3010 
and 6096A1-3011) are underway to demonstrate the safety of a 2nd dose of Prevenar 13 (equivalent of 
a 5th or 6th dose of a CRM conjugated vaccine) and will provide the safety data to support the use of 
two Prevenar 13 doses in toddlers previously immunized with Prevenar. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
In  January  2009  a  request  was  adopted  for  a  routine  GCP  inspection  on  Prevenar  13.  The  MAH 
notified  EMEA  in  March  2009  that  the  Drugs  Controller  General  India  (DCGI)  had  placed  the 
ongoing study 6096A-011 on hold. The review by DCGI has been completed and re-corrective actions 
implemented and the clinical hold has been lifted for all sites according to a notification by the MAH 
to EMEA. 
The  CHMP  requested  a  GCP  inspection  of  the  pivotal  studies  004  (US)  and  006  (Germany).  The 
inspection team concluded that the data presented in the report are accurately described and hence the 
data can be accepted for evaluation. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were not performed in accordance with the note for guidance on clinical 
evaluation of new vaccines (CPMP/EWP/463/97). 
Pharmacodynamics 
As  generally  done  with  vaccines,  pharmacodynamic  studies  are  essentially  comprised  by  the 
immunogenicity  studies 
to  vaccines.  The  detailed 
characterisation of the immunological response is discussed below. 
immune  response 
that  characterise 
the 
Clinical efficacy and immunogenicity  
•  Assays 
Serological assays 
The  serological  methods  used  for  assessing  vaccine  induced  immune  responses  included  a  22F-pre-
absorption  ELISA  for  measurement  of  total  anti-pneumococcal  IgG  concentrations  and  an 
opsonophagocytic  (OPA)  assay  for  measurement  of  functional  antibody  response.  Both  assays  were 
validated in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
The  ELISA  is  designed  to  measure  binding  IgG  concentrations  through  the  use  of  an  established 
antibody  standard  (89S-F  reference  serum)  following  guidelines  contained  in  the  relevant  WHO 
guidance  document.  The  adsorption  step  with  capsular  polysaccharide  from  serotype  22F  was 
introduced to further enhance the assay’s specificity following a well-designed bridging study to the 
reference  ELISA  assay.  The  WHO  reference  threshold  value  of  0.35  µg/ml  was  used  as  a  primary 
endpoint comparator for the current trials of Prevenar 13. 
The OPA assay was a killing-assay using a HL60 cell line. The OPA assays are not standardized to an 
external  standard,  as  the  ELISA.  The  lowest  recordable  titer  from  an  actual  OPA  assay  is  8,  as  the 
Page 27 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lowest dilution of sera tested is 1:8, which was used as an endpoint comparator for the current trials of 
Prevenar 13. 
Detailed data were provided on the testing methodology and validation strategy of the company OPA 
and 22F-ELISA. Each OPA assay was optimized on a serotype-specific basis and had been the subject 
of several improvements to increase specificity and testing throughput. The company OPA was shown 
to  be  in  good  agreement  with  the  four  other  OPA  assays  that  were  evaluated  in  a  WHO-initiated 
interlaboratory  study.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  continue  working  on  the  amelioration  of 
standardisation and validation methods of the serotype-specific OPA assays. 
Correlation analyses were performed between IgG ELISA and OPA values, using aggregate data from 
the  Prevenar  13  clinical  studies  in  which  OPA  responses  were  determined.  A  clear  association  was 
demonstrated between IgG ELISA responses and OPA responses following vaccination with Prevenar 
13 for each of the 6 additional serotypes, as well as for the 7 common serotypes. 
All assays used to evaluate the immune response to co-administered vaccine antigens were performed 
at the Wyeth central laboratory or in a validated laboratory using standardized, validated procedures 
with adequate controls.  
Serological testing in clinical studies 
Immunogenicity in terms of pneumococcal antibody response was measured with the 22F-ELISA in 
all  study  subjects.  Functional  antibodies  were  measured  by  OPA  assay  in  a  subset  of  subjects  in  5 
studies (003, 004. 006, 3000 and 500)  and constituted an exploratory endpoint. Overall, OPA data are 
available  on  a  total  of  660  subjects  (380  subjects  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  and  280  in  the  in  the 
Prevenar group). Supplementary data on functional immune response were also provided from studies 
009  and  3005  (using  a  P80-containing  vaccine  formulation),  study  007  and  008.  The  Applicant  has 
also included OPA assays in clinical trials 3010 and 3011 as well as in the post-marketing study 3014 
to complete the testing program. 
•  Dose response studies 
No dose response studies have been performed with the Prevenar 13 vaccine.  
The same dosage as Prevenar was maintained for the common serotypes in Prevenar 13 and the 2.2-µg 
dosage was selected for the additional serotypes that were added to the Prevenar 13 formulation. The 
Prevenar  13  clinical  program  was  designed  to  demonstrate  that  this  dosage  is  both  safe  and 
immunologically non-inferior to the effective Prevenar serotypes.  
•  Phase I/II studies 
The  clinical  program  began  with  a  phase  I  study  in  American  adults  (002,  n=30)  showing  that, 
compared with 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (23vPS), Prevenar 13 is well tolerated 
and immunogenic. This study provided the data required for proceeding to a phase I/II study in healthy 
infants (003).  
In study 003, the immune response and safety of Prevenar 13 was compared with that of Prevenar in 
249 US infants receiving 4 doses at 2, 4, 6, and 12 to 15 months of age. The results demonstrated that 
Prevenar 13 was immunogenic. Immune responses to all 13 pneumococcal serotypes in Prevenar 13 
were observed as was shown by the increases in antibody concentrations from pre-vaccination through 
post-primary  series  sustained  levels  through  the  pre-booster  dose;  and  post-booster  dose  serum  IgG 
increases    (except  serotype  3)  The  ELISA  IgG  and  functional  antibody  responses  to  the  7  common 
serotypes in subjects in the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups were similar, although somewhat lower 
in Prevenar 13 recipients. The data from the phase I/II study supported progression to phase III studies 
beginning in September 2006.  
Page 28 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Main studies  
A total of 12 phase III studies (Table 1-1) were conducted with the 13-valent vaccine. In 8 of the 12 
studies licensed 7–valent Prevenar was included as a comparator. The exceptions were the formulation 
bridging study (009), the manufacturing scale bridging trials (3000 and 3005) and the catch-up study 
(3002).  
The Prevenar 13 clinical program included 2 pivotal non-inferiority trials (study 004 in US infants and 
study  006  in  German  infants).  The  pivotal  trials  along  with  other  phase  III  studies  were  conducted 
using  a  formulation  of  Prevenar  13  that  did  not  contain  polysorbate  80  (P80)  in  contrast  to  the 
proposed commercial formulation. While the clinical trial program was initiated, it became apparent 
that  the  addition  of  0.02%  P80  to  the  final  Prevenar  13  formulation  was  necessary  to  optimize  the 
manufacturing  process.  Therefore,  a  formulation  bridging  study  (study  009)  was  performed  to 
compare  the  immune  responses  elicited  to  each  of  the  serotypes  by  Prevenar  13  without  P80  and 
Prevenar  13  with  P80  in  the  final  formulation.  Based  on  the  results  of  study  009,  it  was  decided  to 
include P80 in the final formulation. The final formulation including P80 was used in studies 3000 and 
3005. Clinical consistency of the manufacturing process was evaluated in these two studies. 
The  two  pivotal  trials  were  designed  and  powered  to  assess  non-inferiority  of  immune  response 
relative to licensed 7-valent Prevenar. In additional trials in Europe, the immunogenicity of Prevenar 
13 was evaluated using different vaccination schedules. Studies in France (008) and Spain (501, 3007) 
used a 3-dose infant series, whereas studies in Italy (500) and the UK (007) used a 2-dose infant series. 
In each of these studies, the serum IgG response to Prevenar 13 was assessed in the Prevenar 13 group 
only, except for study 500 in which IgG response was evaluated in both the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar 
groups after the toddler dose. However, some of these studies were powered to allow assessment of 
Prevenar  13  non-inferiority  should  questions  arise  from  the  pivotal  non-inferiority  trials.  Functional 
immune response (OPA assays) were performed for a subset of subjects (n=660) in both the Prevenar 
13 and Prevenar groups in the phase I/II study (003), in the pivotal non-inferiority trials in Germany 
(006) and the US (004), and in the pilot-to-manufacturing scale bridging study in Poland (3000). In the 
Italian  study  (500),  using  a  2-dose  infant  series,  OPA  responses  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  were 
assessed.  
Ten  studies  in  the  US,  Europe  and  India  evaluated  the  immune  responses  to  concomitantly 
administered routine paediatric vaccines. The co-administration of Prevenar 13 vaccine was evaluated 
with  the  following  monovalent  or  combination  vaccines  [including  the  combination  vaccine  DTPa-
HBV-IPV/Hib]:  diphtheria-tetanus,  acellular  pertussis  vaccine  (DTPa),  hepatitis  B  vaccine  (HBV), 
inactivated  polio  vaccine  (IPV),  Haemophilus  influenzae  type  b  vaccine  (Hib),  measles-mumps-
rubella vaccine (MMR), varicella vaccine, meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine and hepatitis 
A (HAV) vaccine. DTPw co-administration was evaluated in the EPI schedule in India. There are no 
immunogenicity data on concomitant administration of rotavirus vaccines, HAV vaccine or OPV. 
Primary immunisation in all studies started at 2 months of age months of age except in study 500 (3 
months) and study 011 (6 weeks). Catch-up vaccination were performed in children aged >6 months 
up to 5 years. All studies were conducted in healthy infants and toddlers. An important deficiency of 
the submitted documentation is the lack of data on vaccine immunogenicity in high-risk children, i.e. 
those  with  sickle  cell  disease,  asplenia,  nephrotic  syndrome,  immunosuppression,  HIV  infection, 
cochlear implant and cerebrospinal leaks which will be addressed in the post-marketing program. 
The clinical studies covered most of the primary immunisation schedules used in Europe and included 
an  appreciable  number  of  subjects  receiving  a  booster  dose.  The  EPI-schedule  (6-10-14  weeks)  was 
evaluated in a study in India. 
The  results  from  the  12  Phase  III  clinical  studies  supported  the  immunogenicity  of  the  13-valent 
vaccine. These studies evaluated the following issues: 
Page 29 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
 Non-inferiority of immune responses to Prevenar 13 relative to Prevenar (004 and 006) 
 Formulation (Prevenar 13+P80 vs.Prevenar 13-P80) (study 009) 
 Clinical consistency of the manufacturing process (studies 3000 and 3005) 
•  3-dose primary vaccination followed by a booster dose in the second year of life: 
2-3-4 months (studies 006, 008, 009, 3000) 
2-4-6 months (studies 004, 501, 3005, 3007) 
6-10-14 weeks (study 011) 
•  2-dose primary vaccination followed by a booster dose at 11-12 months of age: 
 2-4 (-12) months (study 007) 
       3-5 (-11) months (study 500) 
•  Catch up immunisation schedules (study 3002) 
•  Booster vaccination (studies 004, 006, 007, 008, 009, 3000, 3005, 501) 
• 
•  Co-administered vaccines (studies 004, 006, 007, 008, 011, 500, 501, 3005, 3007) 
Immune memory (same as the booster studies) 
•  Switching from Prevenar to Prevenar 13 in infants previously vaccinated with Prevenar 
(study 008:  infants previously vaccinated with 3 doses of Prevenar were randomized to either 
Prevenar or Prevenar 13 at 12 months of age - data submitted in the response to D120 LoQ). 
Methods (general) 
All primary vaccination studies were controlled randomised double-blind trials except for study 3002 
(catch-up vaccination), which was open-label.  
Objectives 
All  phase  III  studies  had  primary  immunogenicity  objectives  either  related  to  serotype-specific 
pneumococcal  response  or  to  antigen-specific  responses  in  co-administered  paediatric  vaccines.  The 
formulation  bridging  trial  (study  009)  and  manufacturing  scale  bridging  studies  (studies  3000  and 
3005)  had  specific  immunogenicity  objectives  related  to  formulation  (+/-  P80),  manufacturing  scale 
Prevenar  13  vs.  pilot  scale  Prevenar  13  and  consistency  of  3  lots  of  Prevenar  13,  respectively.  The 
toddler immunogenicity study had the objective to determine the immune response to Prevenar 13 in 
older age groups (7 to <12 months, 12 to <24 months and 2 to <5 years). 
Study objectives related to pneumococcal response 
The  primary  objectives  of  the  pivotal  studies  were  to  demonstrate  that  the  serotype-specific  IgG 
responses (proportion of responders >0.35µg/ml) induced by Prevenar 13 were non-inferior to those 
induced by Prevenar or Prevenar reference measured 1 month after the primary series. 
A  co-primary  (or  secondary)  objective  was  to  demonstrate  that  that  the  serotype-specific  geometric 
mean  IgG  concentrations  (GMCs)  induced  by  Prevenar  13  were  non-inferior  to  those  induced  by 
Prevenar or Prevenar reference measured 1 month after the primary series. 
As  (primary  or)  secondary  objectives,  the  immune  response  1  month  after  a  booster  dose  was 
compared in the same way as after the primary series. Immune memory was evaluated by the ability of 
the Prevenar 13 antibody response to be boosted using geometric mean fold rise (GMFR) in antibody 
concentration following the booster dose. 
The  secondary  objectives  also  included  comparison  of  the  vaccine  groups  at  other  serotype-specific 
IgG antibody thresholds, i.e.  ≥1.00 μg/ml and >0.15 μg/ml and also of the persistence of post-dose 3 
immune response until the booster dose. 
The explorative objective included to assess the level of OPA produced by Prevenar 13 relative to the 
level  of  OPA  produced  by  Prevenar  one  month  after  the  primary  series  and  one  month  after  the 
booster dose. Each of the serotype-specific assays was validated, but unlike the IgG ELISA, the OPA 
Page 30 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
assays are not standardized due to a lack of an external standard. While the IgG concentration values 
determined by the ELISA can be compared across serotypes, this cannot be done for the OPA assays. 
According  to  the  Applicant,  the values  generated  by  the  OPA  assays  are  not  biologically equivalent 
among the different serotypes and therefore can only be compared within a given serotype. 
Study objectives related to concomitant vaccine antigens 
The  primary  objectives  included  to  assess  non-inferiority  of  post-dose  3  antigen-specific  responses 
(the following antigens were targeted in different studies: DT, TT, PT, FHA PRN, FIM, Hib, HBV, 
polio, MenC or MMRV) of pneumococcal and concomitant vaccine in the Prevenar 13 group relative 
to  the  Prevenar  group.  The  proportion  of  subjects  in  each  vaccine  group  who  achieved  primary 
predetermined  antibody  levels,  geometric  mean  concentrations  (GMCs)  or  geometric  mean  titers 
(GMTs), and/or the proportion of subjects achieving alternative antibody concentration threshold were 
measured.  As secondary objectives, the same comparative analyses between the two vaccine groups 
were performed 1 month after the booster dose. 
Non-inferiority criteria and additional immunogenicity criteria 
The  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  an  IgG  ELISA  concentration  ≥0.35  µg/ml  was  calculated  for 
each  serotype  and  for  each  vaccine  group.  The  difference  in  proportions  (Prevenar  13-Prevenar  or 
Prevenar  reference)  was  then  calculated,  along  with  the  corresponding  2-sided  95% CI.  Non-
inferiority for a given serotype was declared if the lower limit of the CI for the difference was greater 
than -0.10. 
The IgG ELISA antibody geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) were determined for each serotype 
and for each vaccine group. Non-inferiority for a given serotype was declared if the lower limit of the 
2-sided, 95% CI for the geometric  mean ratio (GMR) (Prevenar 13 relative to Prevenar or Prevenar 
reference) was greater than 0.5 (i.e. no greater than 2-fold). 
Additional criteria were used to evaluate failed serotypes, including use of a lower antibody threshold 
≥0.15µg/ml. Functional activity data for each of the 13 serotypes, were expressed as the proportion of 
study subjects with an OPA titer ≥1:8 as well as the geometric mean of OPA titers (GMTs). 
Study 009 - Formulation change (addition of polysorbate 80 (P80)) 
Method 
Study  009  was  a  randomised,  double-blind  trial  evaluating  the  immunogenicity  of  a  Prevenar  13 
vaccine  manufactured  with  and  without  P80  in  500 healthy  Polish  infants  given  in  a  2-3-4-  and  12-
month  schedule.  The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  that  the  immune  responses  to  the  13 
pneumococcal  serotypes  induced  by  Prevenar  13+P80  were  non-inferior  to  the  immune  responses 
induced by Prevenar 13 without P80 when measured 1 month after the primary series. 
Results 
For  the  primary  series  analysis,  the  percentages  of  responders  were  somewhat  lower  in  Prevenar 
13+P80 group for most of the Prevenar 13 serotypes (Table 1-2). Among the 7 common serotypes the 
proportion  of  responders  at  ≥0.35  μg/ml  in  the  Prevenar  13+P80  group  ranged  from  60.9%  (6B)  to 
97.9% (18C). The corresponding range in the Prevenar 13-P80 group was 66.4% (6B) to 97.9% (18C). 
The responses to 6B and 23F were lower than expected, in particular in the 13vPvC+80 group. Among 
the additional 6 serotypes the proportion at ≥0.35 μg/ml ranged from 86.6% (6A) to 98.7% (19A) in 
the Prevenar 13+P80 group and from 86.1% (6A) to 100.0% (19A) in the Prevenar 13-P80 group. The 
non-inferiority criteria were met for 11 of the 13 serotypes. The exceptions were serotypes 6B and 
23F; for these 2 serotypes the lower bound of the 95% CI was -14.2% and -12.1%, respectively. The 
results  in  the  all-available  immunogenicity  population  were  similar  to  those  in  the  evaluable 
immunogenicity population. 
Page 31 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1-2: Comparison of Subjects Achieving a Pneumococcal IgG Antibody Concentration 
>0.35µg/mL After Dose 3 of the Infant series – Evaluable Infant Immunogenicity Population 
All 13 serotypes met the 2-fold non-inferiority criterion for IgG GMCs, defined as a ratio (Prevenar 
13+P80 to Prevenar 13-P80) at the lower limit of the 95% CI of >0.5. In general, GMC were lower in 
the  Prevenar  13+P80  group  with  GMC  ratios  (GMRs)  being  below  1  (0.84-0.97)  for  all  serotypes, 
except 7F.  
Both  non-inferiority  criteria  were  met  in  the  post-booster  dose  analysis.  The  post-primary  and  post-
booster antibody GMCs were, however, lower in the Prevenar 13+P80 group with GMRs for 12 and 
10 of the serotypes, respectively, falling below 1 (0.84-0.98). 
In  the  opinion  of  the  Applicant  the  differences  in  immunogenicity  in  the  Prevenar  13+P80  data  are 
unlikely  to  be  clinically  significant.  The  decision  was  made  to  include  P80  in  the  Prevenar  13 
formulation  and  was  based  on  a  more  robust  manufacturing  process  and  supported  by  the  overall 
similarity in the immunogenicity responses elicited by the Prevenar 13+P80 compared with Prevenar 
13-P80. 
Pivotal non-inferiority studies 006 and 004 
Method 
The  phase  III  clinical  program  included  2  pivotal  non-inferiority  trials  (study  004  in  US infants  and 
study  006  in  German  infants).    Both  were  double-blind,  controlled,  randomized  trials  and  involved 
approximately 300 infants per group with vaccinations given at 2, 3, 4, and 11 to 12 months of age 
(study  006)  and  at  2,  4,  6,  and  12  to  15  months  of  age  (study  400).  The  studies  were  powered  to 
demonstrate the non-inferiority of the pneumococcal IgG antibody responses elicited by Prevenar 13 
when compared with those elicited by Prevenar. 
The  primary  objective  of  the  trials  was  to  demonstrate  that  the  immune  responses  to  the  7  common 
serotypes (4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F) induced by Prevenar 13 were non-inferior to the immune 
responses  induced  by  Prevenar,  and  to  demonstrate  that  the  immune  responses  to  the  6  additional 
serotypes  (1, 3, 5, 6A, 7F, and 19A) induced by Prevenar 13 were non-inferior to the lowest immune 
response  among  the  7  common  serotypes  induced  by  Prevenar,  when  measured  1  month  after  the 
primary series. 
As  an  exploratory  objective  in  each  non-inferiority  trial,  functional  antibody  response  was  also 
assessed using opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) assay in a subset of subjects. OPA assay results were 
useful in evaluating the overall immune response to a given serotype, particularly if the serotype failed 
Page 32 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  primary  non-inferiority  criteria.  In addition,  OPA  results  provided  a  useful  method  for 
discriminating functional antibody for serotypes with cross-reactive IgG antibody responses. 
Results 
(cid:190) Study 006 (Germany) (n=600) 
Study 006 is the pivotal non-inferiority evaluation of Prevenar 13 compared to Prevenar for European 
licensure. 
ELISA Results 
Primary non-inferiority analysis 
At the primary pre-specified antibody level of  ≥0.35 μg/ml the non-inferiority criteria (a lower limit 
of the 95% CI for the difference greater than -10%) was met for  12 of 13 pneumococcal serotypes 
(except serotype 6B). The difference in proportions of responders to 6B was -9.6%, with a lower limit 
of the 95% CI of -16% (Table 1-3). For the 6 additional serotypes, the comparison serotype was 6B 
(87.1%). The proportions of responders in the Prevenar 13 group were all higher than 91.9% and all 
additional serotypes met the non-inferiority criterion.  
Table 1-3: Comparison of subjects achieving IgG antibody concentration >0.35 µg/ml post-dose 
3 of the primary series - Evaluable infant immunogenicity population  
N 
Serotype 
Common serotypes 
285 
4 
284 
6B 
285 
9V 
284 
14C 
285 
18C 
284 
19F 
23F 
284 
Additional serotypes 
285 
1 
282 
3 
284 
5 
283 
6A 
285 
7F 
285 
19A 
Prevenar 13 
% 
n 
280 
220 
281 
281 
277 
272 
252 
274 
277 
264 
260 
281 
283 
98.2 
77.5 
98.6 
98.9 
97.2 
95.8 
88.7 
96.1 
98.2 
93.0 
91.9 
98.6 
99.3 
Vaccine group 
Prevenar 
Difference 
95%CI 
96.0, 99.4 
72.2, 82.2 
96.4, 99.6 
96.9, 99.8 
94.5, 98.8 
92.7, 97.8 
84.5, 92.2 
93.2, 98.1 
95.9, 99.4 
89.3, 95.6 
88.1, 94.8 
96.4, 99.6 
97.5, 99.9 
N 
279 
278 
279 
279 
277 
277 
277 
278 
278 
278 
278 
278 
278 
n 
274 
242 
269 
272 
273 
266 
248 
242 
242 
242 
242 
242 
242 
% 
95%CI 
98.2 
87.1 
96.4 
97.5 
98.6 
96.0 
89.5 
87.1 
87.1 
87.1 
87.1 
87.1 
87.1 
95.9, 99.4 
82.5, 90.8 
93.5, 98.3 
94.9, 99.0 
96.3,99.6 
93.0, 98.0 
85.3, 92.9 
82.5, 90.8 
82.5, 90.8 
82.5, 90.8 
82.5, 90.8 
82.5, 90.8 
82.5, 90.8 
0.0 
-9.6 
2.2 
1.5 
-1.4 
-0.3 
-0.8 
9.1 
11.2 
5.9 
4.8 
11.5 
12.2 
95% CI 
-2.5, 2.6 
-16.0, -3.3 
-0.4, 5.2 
-0.9, 4.1 
-4.2, 1.2 
-3.8, 3.3 
-6.0, 4.5 
4.5. 13.9 
7.0, 15.8 
0.8, 11.1 
-0.3, 10.1 
7.4, 16.1 
8.3, 16.8 
Secondary non-inferiority analysis 
To  address  the  secondary  endpoint,  IgG  GMCs  were  calculated  and  GMCs  in  the  2  vaccine  groups 
were compared by computation of geometric mean ratios (GMRs, Prevenar 13 to Prevenar reference). 
For  the  6  additional  serotypes  the  GMRs  were  relative  to  the  GMC  value  for  serotype  23F  in  the 
Prevenar group. Results showed that all 13 pneumococcal serotypes met the 2-fold non-inferiority 
criterion, i.e. GMRs were greater than 0.5, including serotype 6B. 
OPA Results 
Proportions with OPA titre >1:8 
For  the  7  common  serotypes,  the  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  an  OPA  antibody  titer  ≥1:8  were 
similar  in  the  2  vaccine  groups.  For  each  serotype  responder  rates  were  ≥96.0%  in  Prevenar  13 
recipients and ≥93.6% in Prevenar recipients. The responder rate for 6B was 96% in the Prevenar 13 
group  and  98.9%  in  the  Prevenar  group.  The  proportion  with  OPA  titre  >1:8  to  the  6  additional 
serotypes was 93% (serotype 1) or higher in the Prevenar 13 group. The lower limits of the 95% CIs 
exceeded 86.1% for each serotype in the Prevenar 13 group and 86.6% for the 7 common serotypes in 
the Prevenar group.  
OPA GMTs 
When  values  were  compared  (Prevenar  13  to  Prevenar),  GMRs  for  the  7  common  serotypes  ranged 
from 0.64 (6B and 14) to 1.02 (23F). Five of the 7 common serotypes had GMRs with lower limits of 
the 95% CIs ≥0.5, except for serotypes 6B and 14, which had lower limits of the CI of 0.44 and 0.42, 
respectively.  For  the  six  additional  serotypes  GMTs  ranged  from  50.2  (serotype  1)  to  11,544.8 
(serotype 7F). 
Page 33 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1-4: Comparison post-dose 3 OPA GMTs - evaluable infant immunogenicity population  
Prevenar 13 
GMT 
Vaccine group 
Prevenar 
95%CI 
n 
GMT 
95%CI 
Ratio 
95%CI 
1573.5 
744.43 
4973.84 
2139.65 
1509.65 
150.12 
1089.92 
50.21 
250.73 
162.02 
1228.45 
11544.75 
442.48 
1283.0, 1929.2 
556.9, 995.1 
3614.8, 6745.1 
1570.1, 2915.8 
1243.7, 1832.6 
116.9, 192.8 
795.2, 1493.9 
39.39, 64.02 
205.5, 305.9 
126.3, 207.8 
883.5, 1708.1 
9364.0, 14233.3 
360.5, 543.1 
94 
94 
89 
89 
94 
94 
93 
92 
94 
94 
93 
94 
94 
1860.79 
1160.76 
5379.5 
3345.19 
1780.26 
165.69 
1070.83 
4.15 
6.13 
4.64 
122.40 
115.45 
6.70 
1540.0, 2248.4 
921.5, 1462.2 
3935.5, 7353.3 
2473.3, 4524.5 
1382.4, 2292.6 
122.9, 223.2 
785.59, 1457.8 
3.99, 4.32 
5.17, 7.28 
3.96, 5.43 
74.09, 202.21 
75.16, 177.32 
5.19, 8.66 
0.85 
0.64 
0.92 
0.64 
0.85 
0.91 
1.02 
12.09 
40.87 
34.95 
10.04 
100.0 
66.02 
0.64, 1.11 
0.44, 0.93 
0.59, 1.42 
0.42, 0.98 
0.62, 1.16 
0.62, 1.33 
0.66, 1.58 
9.37, 15.59 
31.46, 53.10 
25.96, 47.05 
5.57, 18.10 
62.69, 159.5 
47.69, 91.39 
n 
Serotype 
Common serotypes 
92 
4 
100 
6B 
89 
9V 
95 
14 
100 
18C 
100 
19F 
23F 
100 
Additional serotypes 
100 
1 
100 
3 
100 
5 
99 
6A 
99 
7F 
95 
19A 
Booster dose 
ELISA Results 
Non-inferiority analyses 
The  non-inferiority  criterion  at  the  0.35  μg/ml  level  was  met  for  12  of  the  13  serotypes  after  the 
booster  dose;  the  exception  was  serotype  3.  For  serotype  3,  the  difference  in  proportions  of 
responders was -6% and the lower limit of the 95% CI was -10.2%. As regards GMR, the 2-fold non-
inferiority criterion was met for 12 of 13 serotypes: the exception was serotype 3. 
GMFRs 
The geometric mean fold rises  (GMFRs) of antibody concentrations from pre- to post-boost for the 7 
common serotypes ranged from 3.8 (serotype14) to 10.1 (23F) in the Prevenar 13 group and from 4.2 
(serotype 14) to 11.0 (23F) in the Prevenar group. For the 6 additional serotypes, the fold rises ranged 
from  4  (serotype  3)  to  8.1  (serotype  1)  in  the  Prevenar  13  group.  In  the  comparison  of  GMFR  the 
lower limit of the CI for the ratio was at least 0.76, exceeding the 2-fold criterion for all serotypes.  
OPA Results 
Proportions with OPA titre >1:8 
For  the  7  common  serotypes,  the  percentage  of  subjects  achieving  an  OPA  antibody  titer  ≥1:8  was 
similar in the 2 vaccine groups; at least 97.9% (23F) in Prevenar 13 group and at least 94.8% (19F) in 
Prevenar group. OPA activity was present for all 6 additional serotypes in the Prevenar 13 group, with 
at least 98.0% of subjects achieving OPA titer ≥1:8. 
OPA GMTs 
GMTs for the 7 common serotypes were high in both vaccine groups. The highest GMTs were seen 
for serotype 9V and the lowest for serotype 19F in both groups.. For the additional serotypes in the 
Prevenar 13 group, the lowest GMTs were observed for serotype 3, followed by serotypes 1 and 5. 
For 4 of the 7 common serotypes, GMRs ranged from 0.86 to 1.30, and the lower bounds of the CIs 
were ≥0.60, but GMRs for serotypes 14, and 23F were  0.61 and  0.76 and the lower bounds of the CIs 
were less than 0.5 (0.43 to 0.47, respectively). 
(cid:190) Study 004 (US) (n=666) 
Study  004  is  the  pivotal  non-inferiority  evaluation  of  Prevenar  13  compared  to  Prevenar  for  US 
licensure. 
Page 34 of 61 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
ELISA Results 
Primary non-inferiority analysis 
The  primary  non-inferiority  criterion  was  met  for  10  of  the  13  serotypes.  The  exceptions  were 
serotypes  6B,  9V  and  3,  which  had    lower  limits  for  the  95%  CI  of  -10.9%,  -12.4%  and  -36.2%, 
respectively (Table 1-5). For the 6 additional serotypes, the serotype used as Prevenar reference was 
6B (92.8%).  
Table  1-5:  Comparison  of  Subjects  Achieving  a  Pneumococcal  IgG  Antibody  Concentration 
>0.35µg/mL After Dose 3 of the Infant Series – Evaluable Infant Immunogenicity Population 
GMC 
Twelve (12) of the 13 serotypes met the GMC ratio non-inferiority criterion (lower limit of the 95% 
CI for the GMR >0.5), even though all the GMRs were less than 1 (range 0.68 to 0.84). The exception 
was  serotype  3.  For  serotype  3,  the  GMR  was  0.35  (95%  CI,  0.30  to  0.41).  Results  for  the  all-
available population were consistent with those for the evaluable population. 
OPA Results 
Proportion of subjects achieving OPA GMT >1:8 
There were no differences in the proportion of infants exhibiting a OPA titer ≥1:8 for the 7 common 
serotypes, with response rates of at least 90.4% and 92.6% in the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups, 
respectively. For each of the 6 additional serotypes the proportions with OPA titer >1:8 was at least 
91.4%. 
OPA GMTs 
OPA GMTs for the 7 common serotypes ranged from 54.4 (19F) to 4035.4 (9V) in the Prevenar 13 
group and from 44.9 (19F) to 3259 (9V) in the Prevenar group after the primary series (Table 1-6). For 
the  additional  6  serotypes,  GMTs  ranged  from  51.8  (serotype  1)  to  9493.8  (serotype  7F)  in  the 
Prevenar 13 group. 
When GMTs were compared GMRs for the 7 common serotypes ranged from 0.67 to 1.24. Of note, 
the OPA GMRs were 0.70 and 1.24 for serotypes 6B and 9V, respectively, although neither of these 
serotypes met the primary non-inferiority criterion based on IgG antibody levels. Serotype 4 was the 
only serotype for which the lower limit of the 95% CI was less than 0.50.   
Page 35 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1-6: Comparison of Pneumococcal OPA GMTs After Dose 3 of Infant Series – Evaluable 
Infant Immunogenicity Population 
Booster dose 
ELISA Results 
One month after the booster dose, at least 98.7% of subjects in the 2 vaccine groups achieved antibody 
concentrations ≥0.35 μg/ml for the 7 common serotypes. Except for serotype 3 (90.5%), the proportion 
of responders to each of the 6 additional serotypes was at least 99.6% in the Prevenar 13 group. The 
non-inferiority  criterion  was  met  for  12  of  the  13  serotypes.  The  exception  was  serotype  3,  the 
difference  between  the  proportions  of  responders  of  90.5%  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  and  the 
comparison serotype (19F, 98.7%) was  -8.1% with a  lower limit  of the 95% CI of -12%. In the co-
primary comparison of post-booster IgG GMCs in the 2 vaccine groups, 12 of the 13 serotypes (all 
except  serotype  3)  met  the  2-fold  non-inferiority  criterion.  For  serotype  3,  GMCs  were  0.94  μg/ml 
and  0.07  μg/ml  in  the  Prevenar  13 group  and  Prevenar  group,  respectively, but  the  GMR calculated 
using the comparison serotype was 0.26 (95% CI, 0.22 to 0.30). GMRs were less than 1 (range 0.68 to 
1.18) for all the common serotypes, except serotype 19F. 
OPA Results 
For  each  common  serotype,  proportions  of  responders  (GMT  >1:8)  after  the  booster  dose  were 
≥96.7%  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  and  ≥94.8%  in  the  Prevenar  group  after  the  booster  dose.  The 
proportion of responders to the 6 additional serotypes was 97.8% (serotypes 19A and 3) or higher in 
the Prevenar 13 group.   
When OPA GMTs were compared (Prevenar 13 to Prevenar ratio), GMRs for the 7 common serotypes 
ranged from 0.55 to 1.19. The lower limits of the 95% CIs ranged from 0.36 to 0.76. The 2-fold non-
inferiority criterion was met for 4 of 7 common serotypes. The exceptions were serotypes 9V, 18C and 
23F.  
Other immunogenicity studies 
(cid:190) Lot-to-lot consistency 
Different  lots  of  Prevenar  13  produced  using  the  commercial  process,  all  of  which  contained  P80, 
were  tested  in  2 separate  studies  to  demonstrate  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process  and 
comparability of scale. The first study (3000) assessed the comparative immunogenicity of a pilot lot 
and a manufacturing lot of vaccine using a 2-, 3-, and 4-month primary series. The data showed that 
the  immune  responses  elicited  by  both  vaccines  were  comparable  across  all  serotypes.  The  second 
study  (3005)  was  conducted  using  a  2-,  4-,  and  6-month  infant  series.  Two  pilot  lots  and  one 
manufacturing  lot  were  assessed  for  equivalency  of  the  immune  response.  In  this  study,  lots  were 
tested  by  pair-wise  comparisons  of  all  3  lots.  To  be  considered  equivalent,  the  GMCs  needed  to  be 
Page 36 of 61 
 
 
 
within 2-fold (the lower limit of the 2-sided 95% CI for the GMR greater than 0.5 and the upper limit 
less  than  2.0).  Using  these  criteria  equivalent  responses  were  demonstrated  across  all  serotypes 
irrespective of the specific lot comparisons. 
(cid:190) 3-dose primary vaccination 
Nine primary vaccination studies evaluated immunogenicity of the Prevenar 13 in two different 3-dose 
schedules used in the EU,  2-3-4 months (studies 006, 008, 009 and 3000) and 2-4-6 months (studies 
003, 004,501, 3005  and 3007). In addition, one study in India assessed an EPI-schedule, but due to a 
clinical  hold,  this  study  was  not  fully  representative  of  a  6-10-14  week  schedule  and  is  not  further 
addressed. Only in the 2 pivotal studies 004 and 006 and in 2 other trials (011 and 500 (booster phase)) 
was the immune response to Prevenar 13 compared with that of Prevenar. The other studies evaluated 
the immune response of the co-administered vaccine antigens in the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups. 
The Prevenar 13 vaccine  was demonstrated to induce  an immune response to all 13 serotypes in all 
vaccination  schedules.  The  profile  was  similar  to  that  of  Prevenar  although  overall  the  13-valent 
vaccine  was  slightly  less  immunogenic.  Between  90.5%  to  99%  (Prevenar  13)  and  97.5%  to  98.6% 
(Prevenar)  of  subjects  achieved  an  antibody  concentration  ≥0.35  μg/ml  to  the  7  common  serotypes, 
except  for  serotypes  6B  and  23F  in  both  vaccine  groups.  Both  these  serotypes  exhibited  delayed 
responses with significant increase only after the 3rd dose. Across studies and schedules serotype 14 
was  the  most  immunogenic  serotype  by  ELISA.  The  ELISA  responses  for  the  additional  serotypes 
appeared to be in the range of those observed for the common serotypes, except for serotype 3 having 
the lowest proportion of responders (63.5%-99.2%) and GMCs. Schedule had an effect, higher GMCs 
were  measured  for  almost  all  serotypes  in  the  2-4-6  month  schedule  in  comparison  with  the  2-3-4 
month schedule.  
As regards the functional immune response induced to the 7 common serotypes, at least 84%-100% of 
subjects (80-100% for Prevenar) across all schedules achieved OPA titres ≥8. GMTs were somewhat 
lower in the Prevenar 13 group (with the possible exception of serotype 19F). For both vaccines and 
across  studies  the  highest  OPA  GMTs  were  observed  for  serotypes  9V  and  14  and  the  lowest  were 
observed for 19F. As regards the additional serotypes, the functional immune response induced to 7F 
and 6A appear satisfactory whereas the low GMTs observed for  serotypes 1, 3 and 5 raise concerns. 
The OPA response against serotype 19A was modest with 91-100% of subjects attaining OPA titres 
>1:8, and with GMTs ranging from 152 to 442. 
Cross-reactive responses in the Prevenar group 
Cross-reactive immune responses were observed by ELISA for serotypes 6A and 19A in the Prevenar 
group.  Increased  ELISA  reactivity  was  also  seen  for  serotype  5.  However,  only  the  serotype  6A 
responses  were  shown  to  exert  functional  activity,  which  has  also  been  confirmed  to  translate  to 
efficacy  of  Prevenar  against  6A  IPD.  As  regards  OPA,  substantial  responses  were  demonstrated  for 
serotype 7F in the Prevenar group. This opsonic activity was shown to be due to presence of 7F IgM 
antibodies, possibly as a result of natural exposure to 7F or cross-reactive 7F PS in bacteria.  
(cid:190) 2-dose primary vaccination and booster response 
Studies with a 2-dose primary series included 007 (2-4 months) and 500 (3-5 months). No comparison 
of  immunogenicity  with  Prevenar  after  the  primary  series  was  performed  in  any  of  the  study. 
Comparative data after a booster dose were available only from study 500. OPA responses post-dose 2 
and post-booster were provided only for the Prevenar 13 group in a subset of 100 subjects from study 
500.  In  addition,  studies  501  and  3007  provided  comparative  data  on  post-dose  2  and  post-dose  3 
immune responses. 
The  results  from  the  4  studies  showed  that  the  Prevenar  13  is  immunogenic  in  the  2-dose  primary 
eliciting an acceptable response to 10 of the 13 serotypes. The exceptions were serotypes 6B, 23F 
and  3.  The  proportion  of  infants  with  a  2-dose  infant  series  achieving  an  antibody  level  of  >  0.35 
μg/ml ranged from 27.9% to 58.4% for 6B, from 55.8% to 68.6% and for 23F from 73.8% to 92.8% 
for serotype 3. For the other common serotypes, the proportion of responders ranged from 85.6% (9V) 
to 100% (19F) and for the additional serotypes it ranged from 79.2% (6A) to 98.5% (7F and 19A). In 
general higher antibody concentrations were achieved after 2 doses of Prevenar 13 given at 3 and 5 
months of age, compared with 2 and 4 months of age. Following the administration of a third infant 
dose, in studies 501 and 3007, there was a substantial increase in GMCs for all serotypes,except for 
serotype 3, with a more pronounced rise in antibody concentrations for serotypes 6B and 23F.  
Page 37 of 61 
 
 
 
Post-booster  ELISA  GMCs  in  the  2+1  schedule  were  comparable  to  the  antibody  levels  achieved  1 
month after the fourth (booster) dose in a 3+1 schedule. In study 500, post-booster immunogenicity of 
Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar  was  compared.  The  95%  CI  for  the  difference  in  the  proportion  of 
responders  at  >0.35µg/ml  between  Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar  exceeded  -0.10  for  each  of  the  13 
pneumococcal serotypes. The post-booster responder proportions for 6B and 23F were both 100% and 
the  GMCs  were  also  high,  10.0  µg/ml  and  3.40  µg/ml,  respectively.  The  lowest  proportion  of 
responders as well as the lowest GMC  was observed for serotype 3.  
The proportion of Prevenar 13 recipients with an OPA titer ≥1:8 after the 2-dose series in study 500 
was 90% or higher for all serotypes. The responder rate at OPA titer ≥1:8 after the booster dose was 
97.9%  or  higher  for  all  serotypes.  The  post-dose  2  OPA  GMTs  were  lowest  for  the  additional 
serotypes, and in particular, for serotypes 1, 3, 5 and 19A. For these 4 types, OPA GMTs were lower 
than  those  observed  for  the  least  immunogenic  Prevenar  serotype  6B.  After  the  booster  dose,  the 
GMTs  increased  for  all  serotypes,  but  still  the  lowest  GMTs  among  the  13  serotypes  were  seen  for 
serotypes 1 and 3 along with 19F, the serotype with the lowest vaccine efficacy for Prevenar. 
(cid:190) Persistence of antibodies until booster dose 
Prior to booster vaccination, at least 30% (23F) of Prevenar 13-primed and 53.8% (23F) of Prevenar-
primed subjects had persisting IgG antibody concentrations ≥0.35 μg/ml to the 7 common serotypes. 
For  serotype  6B  an  increase  in  proportion  of  responders  was  observed  in  the  pre-booster  period. 
Overall, the highest percentage of subjects with pre-booster antibody concentrations ≥0.35μg/ml was 
noted for serotypes 14 (>93%) and 19F (>80%) in both vaccine groups. In the pivotal trials the non-
inferiority criterion at the >0.35 µg/ml  level was  missed by 4 serotypes (4, 9V, 18C, 23F)  in study 
006 and by 3 serotypes (4, 18C and 23F) in 004. A decline in antibody GMCs was observed for both 
vaccines between the post-primary and pre-booster time points for all serotypes, except 6B. In general, 
pre-booster GMCs were somewhat higher in the Prevenar group 
For the 6 additional serotypes, the persistence of antibody concentrations ≥0.35 μg/ml was lowest for 
serotype 3 in all studies, with the responder rates ranging from 14.3% to 34.2%. The corresponding 
percentages for the other serotypes varied from 66% to 91% for 6A and >89% for 19A. A decline in 
antibody GMCs was observed for all the 6 serotypes between the post-primary and pre-booster time 
points. Across studies the lowest GMCs were observed for serotype 3 and the highest for 19A. 
Data on the UK 2+1 schedule in study 007 were also provided during the procedure and gave some 
important results. Direct comparison of post-dose 2 responses immune responses between Prevenar 13 
and  Prevenar  showed  that  the  responder  rates  at  0.35µg/ml  and  GMCs  were  somewhat  lower  in  the 
Prevenar 13 group for the common serotypes, and in particular as regards serotype 6B (10% difference 
of  response  rate),  whereas  after  the  booster  dose  no  differences  in  responder  rates  between  vaccine 
groups were observed and IgG GMCs were in the same order of magnitude, including for serotype 6B. 
The  post-dose  2  responder  rates  to  the  additional  6  serotypes  ranged  from  79%  (6A)  to  97%  and 
GMCs ranged from 0.63 (serotype 3) to 2.14 µg/ml (7F). At the time of the booster dose particularly 
low  IgG  antibody  persistence  was  noted  for  serotype  3  (12.6%  remained  at  >0.35ug/ml).  After  the 
booster dose serotype 3 had the lowest response (88%; GMC: 1.0 µg/ml), whereas for the other types 
responder  rates  (90-100%)  and  GMCs  were  moderate  to  high.  As  regards  functional  OPA  response, 
the post-dose 2 and post-booster responses showed that responder rates at OPA titre >1:8 and GMTs 
were  comparable  between  Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar  groups  for  the  7  common  serotypes,  including 
6B. For the 6 additional serotypes, the proportions of positive OPA responder post-dose 2 ranged from 
89%  (serotype  1)  to  100%  (7F).  In  terms  of  GMTs,  low  titres  were  noted  for  serotypes  1,  3,  5  and 
19A. Pre-booster OPA data showed relatively good persistence of OPA response for the 6 additional 
serotypes with >70% remaining at titre >1:8 (except 19A, 33%). One month after the booster dose, the 
responder  rates  were  high  for  all  additional  serotypes  and  OPA  GMTs  increased  but  were  still 
relatively low for serotypes 1, 3 and 5. 
(cid:190) Booster vaccination 
Booster dose data were provided from 6 studies. Altogether 3240 subjects received a toddler dose, of 
whom  1626  subjects  received  Prevenar  13  and  1614  received  Prevenar.  The  results  indicated  that 
Prevenar  13  induces  a  robust  booster  response  and  ELISA  GMCs  were  higher  than  post-primary 
responses  for  all  serotypes,  except  serotype  3.  Increases  of  ELISA  responses  (at  least  4.0-fold 
increase)  were  observed  after  a  booster  dose  of  Prevenar  13  compared  to  pre-booster  levels.  These 
Page 38 of 61 
 
 
 
data indicate a priming effect of the 2 and 3 vaccine doses on the immune system and the boostability 
of the immune response by the Prevenar 13 vaccine against 12 of the 13 vaccine serotypes (exception 
serotype 3). In general post-booster ELISA responses were somewhat lower than those for Prevenar. 
Prevenar  induced  slightly  greater  fold increases  of  GMCs  from  pre-  to  post-boost  than  Prevenar  13, 
but the non-inferiority criterion was met by all the 7 common serotypes. No significant differences in 
booster response were noticeable by schedule, 2-dose or 3-dose primary series worked similarly well, 
also  for  the  low  immunogenic  serotypes  6B  and  23F  in  the  infant  series.  Nor  were  there  any 
substantial  differences  noted  in  serotype-specific  ELISA  response  rates  and  GMCs  after  the  booster 
dose between the P80-containing Prevenar 13 formulation and Prevenar 13 without P80 in study 009. 
The percentages of subjects with opsonic antibody levels at GMT > 1:8 after the booster  dose were 
similar for both vaccines. At least 97% of subjects in the Prevenar 13 group and 95% in the Prevenar 
group  attained  OPA  titres  >1:8  against  the  common  serotypes.  With  respect  to  the  6  additional 
serotypes,  at  least  98%  achieved  this  threshold.  However,  as  regards  OPA  GMTs,  the  2-fold  non-
inferiority criterion was missed by two of the common types (14 and 23F) in study 006 and by three 
serotypes (9V, 18C and 23F) in study 004, although the studies were not powered for this comparison. 
As regards the additional serotypes, strong post-booster OPA responses were induced by Prevenar 13 
against two serotypes (7F and 6A), whereas weaker responses were seen for serotypes 1, 3 and 5. 
(cid:190) Catch-up immunisation schedules 
Catch-up  vaccination  with  Prevenar  13  in  children  7-11  months,  12-23  months  and  24  months  to  5 
years  of  age  was  assessed  in  study  3002.  The  different  catch-up  schedules  were  documented  in  an 
appreciable number of children (n=355; 90-153/group). The study was open and functional antibody 
response was not measured. The 3 catch-up vaccination schedules evaluated were 2 doses at 7 to <12 
months with a booster dose at 12 to 16 months, 2 doses at 12 to <24 months, and 1 dose at 24 to <72 
months. These are the schedules currently recommended for Prevenar in the 3 age groups. The results 
showed  that  the  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  IgG  antibody  level  >0.35  μg/ml  was  high  (93%  to 
100%) for all serotypes and for all 3 age groups, with the exception of serotype 14 in the oldest group 
(88%).  Of  the  7  common  serotypes,  23  F  was  the  least  immunogenic  serotype  with  slightly  lower 
GMCs and also proportion of responders in the two older age groups. Across age groups, the lowest 
GMCs were observed for serotype 3. Of the other 5 additional serotypes, the strongest responses were 
seen to serotypes 7F and 19A. The individual serotype GMCs were similar for the 3 age groups, but 
were  always  numerically  lower  (except  for  19A)  in  the  oldest  age  group  receiving  a  single  dose.  In 
general,  the  GMCs  were  comparable  to  those  achieved  after  a  3-dose  infant  series.  The  results  are 
satisfactory and the dose recommendations given in the SPC are acceptable. 
(cid:190) Co-administered vaccines 
In all completed clinical trials (except 3002), DTPa-combination vaccines were co-administered with 
the Prevenar 13 vaccine. Different MenC conjugate vaccines were co-administered in studies 007, 501 
and  3007.  In  the  booster  dose  phase  of  study  004,  the  first  dose  of  MMRV  vaccine  was  co-
administered.  In  study  011  in  India  a  whole-cell  pertussis  combination  vaccine  was  evaluated.  This 
program  took  into  account  all  the  potential  co-administrations  currently  used  in  the  EU,  except  that 
immunogenicity was not measured after administration of rotavirus vaccines (and hepatitis A vaccine). 
Compared  with  Prevenar,  non-inferiority  of  antibody  response  to  each  of  the  vaccine  antigens  was 
demonstrated  with  Prevenar  13.  The  only  exceptions  were  related  to  the  antibody  response  to 
diphtheria and polio type 2 antigens in Pentavac, although the antibody response to the same antigens 
in other vaccine formulations was not altered. 
(cid:190) Switching of vaccines 
Study 008 
Study 008 (n=613) was designed as a 3-group study with 2 groups receiving the same vaccine during 
the primary series. The investigational group was to receive Prevenar 13 for all doses (13v/13v), the 
active-control  group  was  to  receive  Prevenar  for  all  doses  (7v/7v),  and  the  remaining  group  was  to 
receive  Prevenar  for  the  primary  series  and  Prevenar  13  for  the  booster  dose  (7v/13v).  In  the 
Applicant´s  responses  to  CHMP  D120  LoQ  the  toddler  results  were  provided.  The  post-booster 
Page 39 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responder rates at 0.35µg/ml and IgG GMCs were generally comparable between the 3 vaccine groups 
for all 7 common serotypes, although always somewhat higher in the 7v/7v group. For the 6 additional 
serotypes  significantly  lower  IgG  and  OPA  responses  were  seen  for  serotypes  1,  5  and  6A  in  the 
7v/13v  group  compared  with  the  group  that  received  Prevenar  13  for  all  doses.  For  serotype  3  the 
immune  responses  were  similarly  low  in  both  vaccine  groups,  whereas  comparable  responses  were 
observed for 7F and 19A.  
Overview of the different switching scenarios 
Three Dose Infant Series 
In countries in which a 3-dose infant series is used, there are 3 transition scenarios that need to be 
considered at the time of the introduction of Prevenar 13. 
Table 1-7: Three Dose Infant Series 
Infant Series - Vaccine Doses 
7v 
7v 
7v 
7v 
7v 
13v 
7v 
13v 
13v 
Toddler Dose 
(12-24 months) 
13v 
13v 
13v 
13v 
-- 
-- 
(cid:190) 7v 7v 7v / 13v 13v 
Based  on  experience  from  the  004  (US)  and  006  (Germany)  non-inferiority  trials,  as  well  as  the 
comparisons of Prevenar 13 and Prevenar in the 3005 lot consistency trial, this regimen will provide 
protective immunity against the 7 common serotypes that is non-inferior to a 4-dose Prevenar regimen.  
For  the  additional  6  serotypes,  the  Polish  3002  study  shows  that  2  doses  at  12-24  months  are 
sufficient. Safety data from study 3011 indicate that there is no evidence of an increase in either the 
frequency or the severity of local reactions or systemic events associated with Prevenar 13 given as a 
5th or 6th dose after immunization with Prevenar. 
(cid:190) 7v 7v 13v / 13v 
Based on experience from the 004 and 006 non-inferiority trials, and the comparisons of Prevenar 13 
and Prevenar in the 3005  lot consistency trial, this regimen will provide protective immunity against 
the 7 common serotypes that is non-inferior to a 4-dose Prevenar regimen.  There are no data on the 
response  to  the  6  new  serotypes  after  one  dose  of  Prevenar  13  given  before  the  age  of  6  months.  
Therefore, protection against the 6 additional serotypes between 6 and 12 months of age is not known.  
However,  a  subsequent  dose  of  Prevenar  13  at  12  months  should  elicit  an  appropriate  immune 
response  given  the  data  from  the  Polish  3002  study  showing  that  an  adequate  immune  response  is 
induced after a second dose of Prevenar 13 in the second year of life. 
(cid:190) 7v 13v 13v / 13v 
Based on experience from the 004 and 006 non-inferiority trials, and the comparisons of Prevenar 13 
and Prevenar in the 3005  lot consistency trial, this regimen should provide protection against the 7 
common serotypes that is non-inferior to a four dose Prevenar regimen.  Based on the “2+1” studies in 
the UK (007) and Italy (500), the response after the booster dose elicits an immune response that is 
comparable to the response after a 4-dose regimen. Therefore, no further Prevenar 13 dosing would be 
required.  
Two dose infant series 
For countries in which a 2-dose infant series is used, there are 2 transition scenarios that need to be 
considered at the time of the introduction of Prevenar 13. 
Table 1-8: Two Dose Infant Series 
Page 40 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infant Series - Vaccine Doses  
Toddler Dose 
(12 – 24 months) 
7v 
7v 
7v 
13v 
13v 
13v 
13v 
-- 
(cid:190) 7v 7v/13v 13v 
Based on experience from the 004 and 006 non-inferiority trials, and the comparisons of Prevenar 13 
and  Prevenar  in  the  3005  lot  consistency  trial,  this  regimen  should  provide  protective  immunity 
against the 7 common serotypes that is non-inferior to a 4-dose Prevenar regimen.  For the additional 6 
serotypes, the Polish 3002 study shows that two doses at 12-24 months are sufficient.   
(cid:190) 7v 13v/13v 
The data from the 2+1 studies in both the UK (007) and Italy (500) show that this regimen will elicit 
an acceptable immune response against the 7 common serotypes. 
There are no data on the response to the 6 new serotypes after one dose of Prevenar 13 given before 
the age of 6 months.  Therefore, protection against the 6 additional serotypes between 4 or 5 months 
and 12 months of age is not known.  However, a subsequent dose of Prevenar 13 at 12 months should 
elicit  an  appropriate  immune  response  given  the  data  from  the  Polish  3002  study  showing  that  an 
adequate immune response is induced after a second dose of Prevenar 13 in the second year of life  
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Not applicable 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
During  the  procedure,  the  use  of  P80-containing  Prevenar  13  formulation  and  its  impact  on  the 
immune response was discussed. The Applicant provided new data on a direct comparison of immune 
responses  between  Prevenar  13  in  the  final  formulation  (+P80)  and  Prevenar  in  study  3005  (lot 
consistency  study).  The  results  demonstrated  that  the  IgG  immune  responses  elicited  by  Prevenar 
13+P80 were comparable and non-inferior to those elicited by Prevenar against each of the common 
serotypes. New data on the functional immune responses to serotypes 6B and 23F in study 009, that 
did not fulfil  the primary non-inferiority criterion (for IgG responses), showed that the OPA responses 
were comparable in recipients that received Prevenar 13+P80 and Prevenar 13-P80. Considering the 
good correlation between IgG GMC and OPA GMT, there is no reason to believe that OPA responses 
elicited by the Prevenar 13+P80 and Prevenar vaccine would show a result that is divergent from the 
one  observed  for  the  anti-polysaccharide  response.  Moreover,  the  in  vitro  data  presented  do  not 
suggest that P80 affect antigenicity of Prevenar 13. 
The  results  from  studies  004  and  006  for  the  7  common  serotypes  demonstrated  that  the  immune 
response induced by Prevenar 13 can be considered non-inferior to that induced by Prevenar, despite 
that  a  few  serotypes  (6B  in  006  and  6B  and  9V  in  004)  missed  the  primary  criterion.  The  WHO 
guideline stipulates that non-inferiority to antibody response for each of the serotypes in the registered 
vaccine  is  desirable,  but  not  an  absolute  requirement.  The  margin  of  failure  was  small  for  these 
serotypes and they met all the secondary non-inferiority criteria and the pre-defined additional criteria. 
In addition, the post-booster responses for 6B and 9V were the strongest among the 7 serotypes and 
the OPA responses were good. Concerning the 6 additional serotypes, the low post-primary functional 
immune responses observed for serotypes 1, 3, 5 and 19A are difficult to interpret due to the lack of a 
standardised OPA assay and common reference serum as well as the lack of data on vaccine efficacy 
and identified serotype-specific protective thresholds. However, these data  may suggest that the low 
Page 41 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
post-primary functional immune responses observed for 4 of the 6 additional serotypes, in particular 
for serotypes 1, 3 and 5, could translate to reduced vaccine efficacy of the Prevenar 13 vaccine against 
pneumococcal disease due to these serotypes. Until post-marketing data have confirmed the vaccine’s 
effectiveness, information about the low functional immune response observed for serotypes 1, 3 
and 5 has been included in the SPC. 
During the procedure, it was questioned whether the Prevenar 13 vaccine induces hyporesponsiveness 
or tolerance to serotype 3 impacting negatively on the child´s capacity to respond to a natural serotype 
3 infection. The Applicant performed a thorough re-evaluation of the immune response  to serotype 3, 
including a review of the 008 clinical study results, a review of the IgG and OPA antibody responses 
across  the  Prevenar  13  program,  a  review  of  the  characteristics  of  hypo-responsiveness  elicited  by 
plain  polysaccharide  vaccines,  a  review  of  the  pneumococcal  PS  vaccine  effectiveness  against 
serotype  3  disease  and  a  discussion  of  the  efficacy  and  immunogenicity  of  the  investigational  11-
valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. The results of the review do not suggest that the Prevenar 13 
vaccine  induces  a  hyporesponsive  state  to  serotype  3.  The  Company  has  committed  to  conduct  a 
follow-up of study 008 with repeat vaccination at the approximate age of 36-42 months to measure 
serotype  3  responses  (IgG  and  OPA)  prior  and  after  a  booster  dose  of  Prevenar  13.  The  clinical 
consequences  of  the  atypical  immunogenicity  profile  of  serotype  3  as  regards  poor  boostability  are 
unknown, a statement has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
The 2-dose primary schedule in infants resulted in lower immune responses than the 3-dose primary 
series, in particular with regard to serotypes 6B and 23F, which could result in suboptimal protection 
against  IPD  and  AOM  during  the  pre-booster  period.  After  the  booster  dose  GMC  levels  are  in  the 
range of those after a 3-dose primary series.  
In general, persistence of post-primary antibody response to the majority of serotypes was higher in 
the Prevenar group than in the Prevenar 13 group. Data on pre-booster OPA titres provided for study 
007  (2+1  schedule)  during  the  assessment  period  indicate  that  the  Prevenar  13  will  likely  be  as 
effective  as  Prevenar  against  the  7  common  serotypes,  whereas  the  efficacy  against  the  additional 
serotypes is difficult to predict considering the low functional immune responses observed one month 
after  dose  2.  The  Applicant  has  planned  to  monitor  long-term  persistence  of  immunogenicity 
after the booster dose.  Also, surveillance programs will evaluate the effectiveness both of a 2+1 
and 3+1 schedule against IPD, pneumonia, and AOM-related outcomes. 
During the assessment period a summary surveillance report from the Heath Protection Agency in the 
UK was released, evaluating the impact of the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccination program 
in England and Wales. As a number of vaccine failures due to serotype 6B were seen with Prevenar 7 
in this study, the concern that Prevenar 13 may not offer adequate protection in a number of recipients 
for  6B  was  raised.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  provide  a  compilation  of  data  on  clinical 
effectiveness  (and  immunogenicity)  of  Prevenar  7  from  all  EU  and  non-EU  countries  using  the 
vaccine in national childhood vaccination programme (FUM). 
Regarding co-administered vaccines, data suggest that concomitant administration of Prevenar 13 does 
not  affect  the  immunogenicity  of  routinely  recommended  paediatric  vaccines.  Some  findings  in  the 
studies have been further addressed such as the unexpected reduced diphtheria response and the lower 
anti-MenC SBA GMTs (Meningitec) observed for Prevenar 13 cf. Prevenar, despite the higher content 
of  CRM197  carrier  protein  in  Prevenar  13.  Further  documentation  has  been  submitted  to  support  the 
adherence  to  the  claimed  vaccination  schedules  in  which  the  co-administered  vaccine  antigens  were 
given with Prevenar 13. The data on timing of vaccination for the 3 doses and for the 2 doses in the 
most  stringent  vaccination  schedules  in  the  relevant  studies  were  deemed  satisfactory.  A  careful  re-
evaluation of all relevant data in the phase III clinical trial programme for Prevenar 13 and in the post-
marketing surveillance period for Prevenar did not give any support for general statements regarding 
reduced response to pertussis antigens and IPV to be included in the SPC for Prevenar 13. 
With respect to switching of vaccines after the primary series, a 2-dose regimen of Prevenar 13 to 
Prevenar  primed  children  seems  more  appropriate,  in  line  with  what  is  recommended  for 
unvaccinated children 12-24 months of age. This is reflected in the SPC. 
Page 42 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
With  respect  to  switch  from  Prevenar  to  the  Prevenar  13  in  the  midst  of  the  primary  series,  the 
transition plan was not considered acceptable as there is a lack of immunogenicity data to support two 
of the proposed mixed dosing regimens (7v/7v/13v/13v and 7v/13v/13v). The 2 doses of Prevenar 13 
in  these  schedules  will  most  probably  result  in  insufficient  protective  immunity  against  the  6 
additional  serotypes.  In  line  with  the  3-dose  catch-up  schedule  recommended  for  unvaccinated 
children at 7 to <12 months of age, a third dose during the second year of life seems indicated, 
until additional data are available. The data is reflected in the SPC. 
Also, an open-label trial in Alaskan native children to assess the impact of Prevenar 13 (in terms of 
effectiveness and nasopharyngeal carriage) in a population with high rates of invasive disease has been 
ongoing throughout the application process. This study addresses the efficacy of use of Prevenar 13 in 
those  patients  who  have  received  0-3  prior  doses  of  Prevenar  during  the  transition  period. 
Additionally, the immunogenicity of Prevenar 13 as a single booster dose in those children who have 
received  Prevenar  as  their  primary  series  will  be  addressed  in  another  open  label  trial  enrolling 
children from the after of > 1 to < 10 years of age. 
During  the  procedure,  a  specific  concern  was  raised  about  the  absence  of  firm  commitments  with 
national surveillance agencies to investigate specific endpoints, such as investigation of incidence of 
serotypes  with  decreased  immunogenicity  (1,  3,  5,  19A),  vaccine  effectiveness,  and  changing 
epidemiology  of  the  pneumococcus  after  introduction  of  the  vaccine.  Therefore,  the  company  has 
provided  a  detailed  description  of  the  collaboration  with  the  national  surveillance  institutions  to 
perform  the  effectiveness  studies  in  5  EU  countries.  The  applicant  also  commits  to  follow  not  only 
replacement with non-vaccine pneumococcal serotypes but also replacement with other bacteria, like 
staphylococci. 
The applicant submitted sufficient immunogenicity data in infants <2 months (6 weeks -<8 weeks) of 
age (n= >600 + 354 6-week old infants vaccinated with Prevenar 13 in study 011 in India) to support 
an indication in children older than 6 weeks. This is also supported by comparable post-primary and 
post-booster ELISA IgG responses in subjects vaccinated <2 months of age and the overall vaccinated 
group. A separate safety analysis in this age group was not performed. For unsolicited AEs there were 
no safety signals in sufficient numbers of Prevenar 13 children to allow analysis by age of enrollment. 
For solicited AEs no safety signal has been seen with Prevenar 13 compared to Prevenar recipients and 
thus, no unequivocal signal will be apparent in any analysis in children <2 months of age. 
Clinical safety 
Most  of  the  clinical  trials  of  Prevenar  13  have  included  Prevenar,  thereby  permitting  a  direct  safety 
comparison  between  the  two  vaccines.  Given  the  similarity  of  Prevenar  13  to  Prevenar,  the  clinical 
development  of  Prevenar  13  confirms  the  safety  profile  that  has  been  established  for  Prevenar.  The 
safety profile of Prevenar is well defined on the basis of the vaccine´s pre-licensure clinical evaluation 
and  post-licensure  experience,  with  approximately  195  million  doses  having  been  distributed 
worldwide since year 2000.  
•  Patient exposure 
The safety of Prevenar 13 was evaluated based on data from 12 infant studies evaluating the safety and 
immunogenicity of Prevenar 13 administered with other paediatric vaccines. In the 12 studies a total of 
4429 subjects received at least 1 dose of Prevenar 13. All infant studies included healthy infants aged 
between 6 weeks and 3 months at time of the first dose of Prevenar 13. 
In  addition, 354  older  infants  and young  children  from  7  months  to  <  6 years  were  vaccinated  with 
Prevenar 13 co-administered with other paediatric vaccines.  
•  Adverse events  
The safety of Prevenar 13 was evaluated on the basis of prompted AEs, including local reactions and 
systemic events, as well as of spontaneously reported AEs. 
Page 43 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prompted Adverse events 
Local Reaction 
Results of the pooled data analyses demonstrate that, after all doses in both the infant series and the 
toddler dose, the incidence and intensity of local reactions at the study vaccine injection site for the 
Prevenar  13  group  were  similar  to  those  reported  for  Prevenar  (Table  2-1).  Although  the  analyses 
showed some statistically significant differences between the 2 vaccine groups (moderate induration 
and moderate erythema higher for Prevenar 13 after dose 1; significant tenderness higher for Prevenar 
after dose 2), these were relatively small. 
In the catch-up study 3002, in which children in 3 different age groups all received Prevenar 13, the 
incidence of tenderness after dose 1 increased across groups by age, being reported for approximately 
15% of subjects in group 1 (7 to <12 months of age); 33% of subjects in group 2 (12 to <24 months of 
age), and 42% in group 3 (24 to <72 months of age). However, within group 1, the incidence remained 
essentially  constant  (~15%)  after  all  3  doses  (with  the  third  dose  administered  between  12  and  16 
months of age). 
Table 2-1:  Subjects Reporting Local Reactions: Infant and Toddler Doses (All 12 Infant Studies) 
Dose 1a 
13vPn 
n(%) 
7vPn 
p-
valuec 
Dose 2 a 
13vPn 
7vPn 
Dose 3a 
13vPn 
7vPn 
p-valuec 
Toddlerb 
13vPn 
7vPn 
Tenderness 
N 
Any 
Significantd 
Induration 
N 
Any 
Milde 
Moderatee 
Severee 
Erythema 
N 
Any 
Milde 
Moderatee 
3878 
1816 
(46,8) 
292 
(8.3) 
3601 
828 
(23.0) 
710 
(19.8) 
240 
(6.9) 
0 
3623 
954 
(26.3) 
893 
(24.7) 
92 
(2.7) 
2148 
964 
(44,9) 
183 
(9.3) 
2025 
444 
(21.9) 
403 
(20.0) 
91 
(4.7) 
0 
2049 
569 
(27.8) 
547 
(26.8) 
35 
(1.8) 
0.562 
0.962 
0.096 
0.364 
0.013 
0.249 
0.109 
0.249 
p-
valuec 
0.349 
0.038 
0.987 
0.973 
0.612 
2809 
1151 
(41.0) 
145 
(6.0) 
2603 
784 
(30.1) 
713 
(27.6) 
194 
(8.0) 
3388 
1513 
(44.7) 
184 
(6.3) 
3087 
865 
(28.0) 
787 
(25.6) 
203 
(7.0) 
1824 
801 
(43.9) 
139 
(8.6) 
1699 
491 
(28.9) 
447 
(26.5) 
97 
(6.1) 
2(0.1) 
0 
0.543 
0 
3155 
1114 
(35.3) 
1063 
(33.9) 
1114 
(35.3) 
1762 
619 
(35.1) 
594 
(33.9) 
619 
(35.1) 
0.578 
0.378 
0.578 
2684 
1027 
(38,3) 
974 
(36.5) 
1027 
(38.3) 
1364 
539 
(39.5) 
69 
(5.9) 
1245 
377 
(30.3) 
344 
(27.9) 
83 
(7.2) 
0 
1292 
478 
(37.0) 
452 
(35.3) 
478 
(37.0) 
0.791 
0.451 
0.940 
0.908 
0.565 
0.338 
0.293 
0.338 
1198 
624 
(52.1) 
59 
(6.2) 
1049 
342 
(32.6) 
308 
(29.8) 
115 
(12.0) 
0 
1099 
479 
(43.6) 
427 
(39.4) 
479 
(43.6) 
791 
443 
(56.0) 
47 
(8.1) 
654 
219 
(33.5) 
187 
(29.4) 
62 
(10.5) 
0 
601 
302 
(43.7) 
271 
(40.0) 
302 
(43.7) 
p-
valuec 
0.842 
0.896 
0.569 
0.813 
0.618 
0.267 
0.356 
0.267 
0 
0 
0 
2(0.1) 
0.543f 
Severee 
Follow-up time = 4 days following each dose for all studies except studies 003 (stage 1 = 15 days; stage 2 = 8 days), 004 and 3005 (7 days). 
a. Infant dose data are included for all 12 infant studies in this submission. 
b. Toddler dose data are included for the 6 infant studies with toddler dose data in this submission: studies 003, 004, 006, 009, 500, and 501. 
c.  Mixed  model  used  to  calculate  difference  between  vaccine  groups  in  percentages  of  subjects  reporting  an  event  (random  effect  for 
protocol). 
d. Significant = present and interfered with limb movement. 
e. Intensity of induration and erythema are rated by the diameter of the affected area: 0.5-2.0 cm = mild; 2.5-7.0 cm = moderate; >7.0 cm = 
severe. 
f. Fisher exact test, 2-sided, used to calculate difference between vaccine groups in percentages of subjects reporting an event. 
>0.999 
1(0.2) 
1(0.0) 
1(0.1) 
0 
0.725 
Systemic events 
Systemic  events  evaluated  in  all  12  infant  studies  include  fever,  use  of  antipyretic  medications, 
decreased  appetite,  irritability,  increased  sleep,  and  decreased  sleep.  All  events  were  reported  at 
similar  incidences  in  both  vaccination  groups  (Table  2-2).  The  results  of  the  meta-analysis  of 
prompted data on systemic events other than fever show no statistically significant differences in the 
frequency  between  recipients  of  Prevenar  13  and  recipients  of  Prevenar,  with  the  exception  of 
decreased  sleep  that  was  reported  after  the  1st  dose  of  Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar,  respectively.  
Page 44 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information  regarding  hives  (urticaria)  was  collected  systematically  only  in  Study  004  and  Study 
3005. 
Table 2-2:  Subjects Reporting Systemic Events, Fever and Antipyretic Medications: Infant and Toddler 
Doses (All 12 Infant Studies) 
               Dose 2a                                                       Dose 3 
p-
13vPn 
valuec 
13vPn 
7vPn 
7vPn 
Decreased 
appetite 
N 
Irritability 
N 
Dose 1a 
13vPn 
n(%) 
3767 
1446 
(38.4) 
4022 
2782 
(69.2) 
Increased sleep 
N 
3959 
2334 
(59.0) 
Decreased sleep 
N 
3709 
1351 
(36.4) 
Fever 
N 
Anye 
>38°C but  
< 39°C 
>39°C  but> 
40°C 
>40° 
3594 
897 
(25.0) 
863 
(25.0) 
50 
(1.5) 
1 (0.0) 
Antipyretic  medications 
N 
Treat 
3983 
1758 
(45.9) 
Prevent 
1805 
(46.5) 
7vPn 
p-
valuec 
2094 
778 
(37.2) 
2215 
1415 
(63.9) 
2188 
1257 
(57.4) 
2068 
693 
(33.5) 
1998 
487 
(24.4) 
470 
(23.5) 
24 
(1.2) 
4 (0.2) 
2159 
967 
(45.9) 
971 
(46.0) 
0.354d 
0.114 
0.918 
0.027d 
0-013 
0.029 
0.626d 
0.002 
0.345 
0.428 
3261 
1233 
(37.8) 
3606 
2480 
(68.8) 
3379 
1719 
(50.9) 
3222 
1138 
(35.3) 
3110 
1002 
(32.2) 
951 
(30.7) 
85 
(3.0) 
3 (0.1) 
3579 
1683 
49.8 
1686 
(48,9) 
1782 
731 
(41.09 
1969 
1341 
(68.1) 
1852 
948 
(51.1) 
1754 
613 
(34.9) 
1718 
659 
(38.4) 
637 
(37.3) 
46 
(2.9) 
2(0.1) 
1934 
1025 
(55.3) 
944 
(50.9) 
0.697 
0.443 
0.729 
0.658 
0.370 
0.173 
0.181 
0.987 
0.408 
0.252 
2710 
992 
(36.6) 
3024 
1873 
(61.9) 
2731 
1125 
(41.2) 
2580 
916 
(34.0) 
2580 
7171 
(27.8) 
687 
(26.8) 
70 
(2.9) 
4(0.2) 
2998 
1308 
(46.1) 
1347 
(47.1) 
p-
valuec 
0.924 
0.249 
0.605 
0.496 
0.359 
0.401 
0.452 
1303 
497 
(38.1) 
1480 
897 
(60.6) 
1323 
539 
(40.7) 
1253 
420 
(32.8) 
1253 
406 
(32.4) 
391 
(31.3) 
30(2.6) 
2(0.2) 
0.959 
1448 
720 
(51.9) 
708 
(51.1) 
0.054 
0.134 
Toddlerb 
13vPn 
7vPn 
1132 
478 
(42.2) 
1283 
814 
(63.4) 
1114 
476 
(42.7) 
1103 
323 
(30.1) 
1103 
474 
(43.0) 
448 
(41.1) 
62 
(6.6) 
3(0.3) 
1191 
490 
(43.0) 
404 
(36.1) 
747 
375 
(50.2) 
873 
608 
(69.6) 
748 
391 
(52.3) 
721 
221 
(43.2) 
721 
359 
(49.8) 
343 
(48.2) 
48 
(8.3) 
1(0.2) 
827 
390 
(50.4) 
353 
(46.5) 
p-
valuec 
0.387 
0.217 
0.508 
0.870 
0.472 
0.602 
0.895 
0.605 
0.553 
0.244 
Follow-up time 4 days following each dose for all studies except studies 003 (stage 1 = 15 days; stage 2 = 8 days), 004 and 3005 (7 days) 
a. Infant dose data are included for all 12 infant studies in this submission. 
b. Toddler dose data are included for the 6 infant studies with toddler dose data in this submission: studies 003, 004, 006, 009, 500, and 501. 
c.  Mixed  model  used  to  calculate  difference  between  vaccine  groups  in  percentages  of  subjects  reporting  an  event  (random  effect  for 
protocol). 
d. Fisher exact test, 2-sided, used to calculate difference between vaccine groups in percentages of subjects reporting an event. (For analyses 
in  which  the  mixed  model  would  not  produce  a  p-value,  the  Fisher  exact  test  was  used  to  compare  vaccine  groups  if  the  models  did  not 
converge.  e.  "Any"  fever  =  subjects  with  any  temperature  ≥38°C;  for  subcategories  of  fever  by  degree  of  temperature,  subjects  may  be 
included in more than 1 row. 
Decreased Appetite, Irritability, Increased Sleep, and Decreased Sleep 
The  pooled  data  analyses  show  that  decreased  appetite,  irritability,  increased  sleep,  and  decreased 
sleep  was  reported  at  similar  frequencies  for  the  Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar  groups  (Table  2-2).  The 
ranges for the incidence of each event across studies are summarized in Table 2-3. 
Decreased appetite 
Table 2-3: Ranges for Incidence of Systemic Events by Study (All 12 Infant Studies) 
Toddler dosea 
Infant series 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 13 
22.4% 
14.7% 
53.4% 
58.8% 
38.8% 
37.4% 
88.1% 
86.1% 
19.0% 
20.2% 
58.6% 
71.9% 
13.1% 
18.5% 
43.3% 
55.1% 
Prevenar 
21.1% 
55.8% 
39.4% 
85.1% 
22.7% 
72.5% 
17.7% 
57.0% 
Low 
High 
Low 
High 
Low 
High 
Low 
High 
Decreased sleep 
Increased sleep 
Irritability 
Prevenar 
21.8% 
57.4% 
47.5% 
85.2% 
35.2% 
55.0% 
14.9% 
45.4% 
Follow-up time = 4 days after each dose for all studies except study 003 
(stage 1 = 15 days, stage 2 = 8 days). 
a. Toddler dose data are available for 6 studies: 003, 004, 006, 009, 500, and 501. 
Page 45 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fever  
“Any fever” ( > 38°C) were recorded for between 24.4% and 38.4% of subjects in each vaccine group 
after each dose in the infant series. For both vaccines, febrile reactions were more common following 
the toddler dose, with mild fever noted in 41.1% and 48.2% of Prevenar 13 and Prevenar recipients, 
respectively,  and  moderate  fever  in  6.6%  and  8.3%,  respectively.  In  comparative  studies  mild  fever 
was  reported  at  similar  frequencies  in  the  vaccine  groups.  During  the  infant  series,  the  incidence  of 
moderate fever in each study was < 8.8% for Prevenar 13 and < 7.0% in the Prevenar group after all 
doses, but after the toddler dose the incidence was similar for the two groups. In comparative studies 
the  incidence  of  moderate  fever  was  similar  between  the  groups.  The  incidence  of  severe  fever 
(>40.0ºC) did not exceed 2.1% (2 subjects) for any vaccine group after any dose in any study. In the 
catch-up study, in each age group, after any dose, mild fever was reported for <8.1% of subjects and 
moderate  fever  were  reported  for  <  2.3%  subjects.  No  severe  fever  was  reported  during  the  study. 
Statistically significant increase in severe fever at dose 1 was seen in the Prevenar group (Table 2-2). 
Possible  explanations  for  the  wide  range  of  fever  across  studies  were  given.  Among  these  was 
indicated  that  temperature  readings  were  performed  according  to  the  method  used  in  the  clinical 
practice  in  respective  countries.  The  variation  in  the  use  of  antipyretics  between  studies  provides 
another explanation for the range of fevers between studies. Different trends in the use of paracetamol 
based formulations compared with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory preparations may also have an 
impact  on  temperature  ranges  between  studies.  Variation  in  the  use  of  prophylactic  antipyretic 
medication  may  reflect  cultural  /social  variations  in  the  approach  to  expected  side  effects  of 
vaccination  and  may  confound  evaluation  of  fever  response  to  the  investigational  and  concomitant 
vaccines.  Studies  conducted  in  different  countries  showed  an  inconsistent  relationship  of  usage  of 
prophylactic  antipyretics  to  fever  rates.  The  variation  in  the  use  of  antipyretics  to  treat  fever  is 
potentially  a  more  objective  measurement  of  parental  response  to  actual  high  temperature 
measurements.  The  use  of  antipyretic  prophylaxis  and  antipyretic  treatment  differs  between 
geographical  areas,  which  are  also  discussed  in  the  present  response  report  as  well  as  the  impact  of 
cultural factors rather than by vaccine reactions. 
Use of Antipyretic Medications 
Data  from  the  meta-analysis  indicate  that,  for  each  dose,  the  proportion  of  infants  and  children 
receiving an antipyretic medication, given either to treat or to prevent symptoms, were not different 
between the 2 vaccine groups (Table 2-2).  
After each dose in the infant series, the incidence of use of antipyretic medications to treat symptoms 
was between 45.9% and 55.3% for each vaccine group. After the toddler dose, ~43.0% of subjects in 
the Prevenar 13 group and 50.4% of subjects in the Prevenar group received antipyretic medications 
for the treatment of symptoms. In the individual studies, during the infant series, the use of antipyretic 
medication to  treat symptoms was reported for 8.9% to 77.1% of subjects in the Prevenar 13 group 
and  for  19.1%  to  76.5%  in  thePrevenar.  After  the  toddler  dose  the  incidence  ranged  from  15.5%  to 
77.3% for Prevenar 13 and from 27.7% to 74.5% for Prevenar.  
The use of antipyretic medications to prevent symptoms was reported for between 46.0% and 51.1% 
of subjects in each vaccine group after each dose in the infant series and for 36.1% of subjects in the 
Prevenar  13  group  and  46.5%  of  subjects  in  the  Prevenar  group  after  the  toddler  dose.  During  the 
infant series, antipyretic medications were used to prevent symptoms in 8.3% to 85.1% of subjects in 
the Prevenar 13 and in 9.5% to 86.0% in the Prevenar groups, respectively. After the toddler dose the 
incidence was between 15.2% and 82.2% in the Prevenar 13 group and between 18.6% and 83.2% for 
Prevenar.group. In comparative studies the incidence was generally similar between the 2 groups.  
In the catch-up study, antipyretic medications were used to treat symptoms in no more than 13.3% of 
subjects in any group after any dose, and such medications were used to prevent symptoms in no more 
than 14.3% of subjects in any group after any dose. 
Page 46 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific adverse events 
Special attention was made to reports on the incidence of some specific adverse events including rash 
and urticaria – hives although only collected in Study 004 and 3005 conducted in the US comparing 
non-inferiority  of  Prevenar  13  to  Prevenar  vaccine  in  healthy  infants  with  routine  paediatric 
vaccination. 
Rash  
The overall incidence of rash was determined by data reviewed for MedDRA preferred terms: rash, 
rash  papular,  rash  erythematous,  rash  macular,  rash  maculopapular,  rash  generalized,  rash 
morbilliform,  rash  pruritic,  rash  rubelliform,  and  rash  vesicular.  The  incidence  of  any  type  of  rash 
during the infant series was similar (2.7%vs 2.8%) in the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups; and after 
the toddler dose 0.5% and 1.6%, respectively. No rash of any type was serious, and only 2 subjects in 
the Prevenar group discontinued study vaccine because of rash.  
Hives/Urticaria 
During the infant series, urticaria was reported in approximately 0.4% of subjects in the Prevenar 13 
group and 0.5% in the Prevenar group. The incidence after the toddler dose was approximately 0.1% 
in  both  groups.  Only  2  of  the  reported  AEs  of  urticaria  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be 
related  to  study  vaccine.  Both  occurrences  were  during  the  infant  series  in  the  Prevenar  13  group 
(~0.045%). 
Table 2-4 shows the incidence of reports on hives within 7 days in the infant series after each dose and 
after  the  toddler  dose.  Three  (3)  of  the  reports  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  were  determined  to  be 
inconsistent with hives, while the rest were neither confirmed nor determined .In the Prevenar group, 2 
were determined to be inconsistent with hives and after the toddler dose. 
Table 2-4: Subjects Reporting Hives Within 7 Days - Study 004 
Dose 
Vaccine Group as administered 
Prevenar 13 
Na 
178 
118 
89 
62 
Prevenar 
Na 
nb 
188 
3 
Dose 1 
120 
3 
Dose 2 
4d 
79 
Dose 3 
47 
3 
Toddler dose 
a. N = number of subjects reporting yes for at least 1 day or no for all days. 
b. n = Number of subjects reporting the event. 
c. Fisher exact test, 2-sided. 
d. One (1) report of hives was recorded in error on the e-diary of subject 
004-027-002402 in the Prevenar 13 group. The case of hives was actually in subject 
004-027-002403 in the Prevenar group. 
% 
1.7 
2.5 
4.5 
4.8 
nb 
2 
0 
0d 
3 
% 
1.1 
0.0 
0.0 
6.4 
p-valuec 
0.678 
0.120 
0.123 
>0.99 
During the infant series there were 27 reports of suspected hives in the Prevenar 13 group (Table 2-5), 
of which 15 were confirmed as consistent with hives by investigator assessment. In the Prevenar group 
there were 3 reports of suspected hives, with 2 confirmed by the investigator. 
Table 2-5: Subjects Reporting Hives Within 7 Days - Study 3005 
nb 
0 
1 
2 
% 
0.0 
0.8 
1.8 
p-valuec 
0.602 
>0.99 
0.680 
Dose 
Vaccine Group as administered 
Prevenar 13d 
Na 
996 
741 
686 
Prevenar 
Na 
nb 
164 
7 
Dose 1 
127 
10 
Dose 2 
10 
112 
Dose 3 
a. N = number of subjects reporting yes for at least 1 day or no for all days. 
b. n = Number of subjects reporting the event. 
c. Fisher exact test, 2-sided, of Prevenar 13 (combined across lots) versus Prevenar. 
d. Data are pooled across the three Prevenar 13 lots. 
% 
0.7 
1.3 
1.5 
Spontaneously Reported Adverse Events 
All Adverse Events 
Page 47 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the infant series, “any event” was reported at similar frequencies in the Prevenar 13 (64.8%) 
and  Prevenar  (63.4%)  groups.  Most  reported  types  of  events  were  grouped  in  the  following  SOCs: 
infections  and  infestations  in  51.3%  inPrevenar  13  and  in  49.9%  in  Prevenar  groups,  respectively; 
gastrointestinal  disorders  in  15.7%  vs  14.6%,;  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  in  15.2%  vs 
14.3%; respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders in 13.8% vs 11.5%; and general disorders and 
administration site conditions in 9.7% vs 10.4%, of the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups, respectively. 
The rate of events reported following the toddler dose was lower in both groups: 33.0% inPrevenar 13 
recipients  and  35.5%  in  Prevenar  recipients.  The  most  frequently  reported  types  of  events  were  the 
same as those in the infant series. 
Numerically significant differences in frequency were found for 52 AEs, classified according to SOC 
and  preferred  term,  between  study  vaccine  groups:  the  frequency  of  16  of  these  events  was  higher 
among  Prevenar  13  recipients  and  the  frequency  for  36  of  the  events  was  higher  among  Prevenar 
recipients. Except for nasopharyngitis during the period between the infant series and the toddler dose, 
the differences between vaccine groups for the events occurring with higher frequency in the Prevenar 
13 group were in all cases < 0.5%. 
Adverse Events Considered Related to Study Vaccine 
During the infant series, AEs considered related to study vaccine by the investigator were reported in 
3.9% and 4.3% of subjects vaccinated with Prevenar 13 and Prevenar, respectively. After the toddler 
dose, the rate was 1.6% vs 2.8%, respectively. Related AEs that were most frequently reported were 
grouped  into  the  following  SOCs:  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions,  gastro-
intestinal  disorders  (mostly  diarrhea  and  vomiting)  and  psychiatric  disorders  (largely  crying  and 
restlessness).  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
During the study period, death occurred in 4 infants. All 4 cases were attributable to SIDS. Three (3) 
cases occurred among Prevenar 13 recipients (3 days after dose 2, 14 days after dose 1, and 76 days 
after dose 3) and one (1) in the Prevenar group (13 days after dose 1).  
AE 
MedDra 
Term 
SIDS 
Table 2-6: Listing of Adverse Events Resulting in Death (All 12 Infant Studies) 
Last Dose  
Study 
AE Verbatim Term 
Subject 
Vaccine 
Administered 
Days since 
last dose 
60963005 
000107 
60963005 
000320 
SIDS 
60963005 
6096501 
007651 
000452 
SIDS 
SIDS 
death 
cause 
unexplained 
Infant 
unknown 
Sudden 
infant death 
Asphyxia due to SIDS 
unexpected 
Sudden 
death in infancy 
Prevenar 
Dose  1 
Prevenar 13 
Dose 1 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 13 
Dose 2 
Dose 3 
13 
14 
3 
76 
Related to 
Study 
Vaccinea 
Yes b 
No 
No 
No 
a. Based on investigator assessment. 
b.  Before  the  cause  of  death  was  determined,  the  investigator  wanted  to  take  the  most  conservative  approach  in  assessing  the  potential 
causality of the death. 
However, when the autopsy later revealed that the cause of death was sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), the investigator changed his  
causality, determining that the death was not related to study vaccine 
Experience  with  Prevenar  also  suggests  that  no  causal  relationship  exists  between  administration  of 
the vaccine and SIDS. To determine the observed number of infant deaths in Prevenar 13 studies the 
Company  evaluated  data  from  all  Prevenar  13  studies  conducted  in  the  US  (1908  subjects  received 
Prevenar 13 and 701 subjects received Prevenar). The results showed that the standardized mortality 
ratios (SMRs) were less than 1 and not statistically significant. The observed number of deaths in this 
clinical  program  is  consistent  with  the  expected  incidence  of  SIDS  in  the  general  infant  population. 
The  incidence  of  SIDS  is  low  in  Europe  although  available  data  are  old  and  from  no  later  than 
2001.However,  it  could  be  anticipated  that  the  incidence  decline  in  Europe  would  be  similar  to  that 
recorded  in  the  US.  A  true  comparison  would  be  difficult  due  to  various  circumstances  such  as 
misclassification,  incomplete  case  reporting  and  various  case  definitions  as  well  as  under  –or 
Page 48 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overestimation.  It  seems,  though,  that  the  global  incidence  may  be  considered  comparable  and  the 
available data would be generally representative 
Serious adverse events 
The incidence of SAEs reported during each period in the studies was 4.5% or less for each vaccine 
group. The most frequently reported types of SAEs (MedDRA SOCs) are summarized in Table 2-7. 
Table  2-7:  Number  (%)  of  Subjects  with  Serious  Adverse  Events:  MedDRA  System  Organ  Classes 
reported Most Frequently – Infant Series, Between Infant Series and Toddler Dose, Toddler Dose and 6-
Month Follow-up(All 12 Infant Studies) 
SOC  
Preferred 
Term 
6-Month Follow-upb 
Toddler dosea 
Infant series 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1701 
18(1.1) 
8(0.5) 
Prevenar 
N=1210 
19(0.8) 
5(0.4) 
Prevenar 
13 
N=950 
39(4.1) 
24(2.5) 
Prevenar 
N=455 
6(1.3) 
3(0.7) 
Prevenar 
N=2451 
Prevenar 
13 
N=4423 
168(3.8) 
132(3.0) 
Between Infant Series 
and Toddler Dosea 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1863 
83(4.5) 
52(2.8) 
45(3.3) 
29(2.1) 
Prevenar 
N=1357 
2(0.2) 
1(0.1) 
and 
and 
7(0.3) 
3(0.1) 
4(0.3) 
4(0.2) 
3(0.2) 
2(0.1) 
4(0.2) 
3(0.1) 
5(0.2) 
5(0.1) 
9(0.5) 
4(0.3) 
system 
12(0.6) 
19(0.4) 
10(0.2) 
92(3.8) 
71(2.9) 
Any event 
Infections 
Infestations 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Nervous 
disorders 
Injury,  poisoning 
and  procedural 
complications 
General 
disorders 
administration 
site conditions 
Metabolism  and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Infant series = from dose 1 through post infant series blood draw. 
Between infant series and toddler dose = from the post infant series blood draw through the toddler dose. 
Toddler dose = from the toddler dose through the post toddler dose blood draw. 
6-month follow-up = from post toddler dose blood draw to 6-month follow-up contact. 
a. Post infant series data are available for 6 studies: 003, 004, 006, 009, 500, and 501. 
b. 6-Month follow-up data are available for 3 studies: 003, 004, and 00 
10(0.2) 
12(0.6) 
5(0.39 
2(0.19 
1(0.1) 
2(0.1) 
3(0.2) 
2(0.1) 
2(0.1) 
6(0.4) 
3(0.2) 
2(0.1) 
4(0.2) 
6(0.1) 
9(0.4) 
and 
1(0.1) 
2(0.2) 
1(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
7(0.7) 
0(0.0) 
3(0.3) 
4(0.9) 
4(0.4) 
0(0.0) 
3(0.3) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
The table below indicates the listing of SAEs considered related to the study vaccine of the total of all 
12 infant studies. 
Table 2-8: Listing of Serious Adverse Events Considered Related to Study vaccine by the Investigator (All 
12 Infant Studies) 
Study 
Severitya 
Relatedb 
Subject 
Vaccine 
administered 
Last 
dose 
Duration 
(days) 
AE  MedDRA 
PT 
AE 
Verbatim 
Term 
Days 
since 
last 
dose 
117 
6096004 
000160 
Nephroblastoma  Bil.  Wilm´s 
Prevenar 
Dose 3 
6096004 
002269 
6096004 
6096006 
002269 
000244 
6096009 
60963000 
000420 
000812 
Febrile 
convulsion 
Pyrexia 
Febrile 
convulsion 
Bronchitis 
Crying 
60963005 
000107 
SIDSc 
60963005 
002857 
Allergy 
vaccine 
to 
60963005 
60963005 
6096500 
004255 
004275 
001824 
Bronchiolitis 
Pyrexia 
Infantile spasms 
tumor 
Febrile 
seizure 
Fever 
Febrile 
convulsion 
Bronchitis 
Unconsolable 
crying 
Infant  death 
cause 
unknownc 
Vaccine 
allergic 
reaction 
Bronchiolitis 
Fever 
Infantile 
Prevenar 13 
Dose 2 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 13 
Dose 2 
Toddler 
dose 
Dose 3 
Dose 1 
4 
4 
1 
2 
1 
Prevenar 
Dose 1 
13 
Prevenar 13  
Dose 2 
1 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 13 
Prevenar 
Dose 3 
Dose 2 
Dose 2 
1 
8 
38 
Page 49 of 61 
C 
1 
5 
3 
6 
1 
1 
8 
13 
3 
C 
LT 
Mi 
MO 
MO 
MO 
MI  
LT 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
MI 
Yes 
SE  
SE  
SE 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
6096501 
6096501 
000205 
001430 
Pyrexia 
Febrile 
convulsions 
spasms 
High fever 
Febrile 
seizures 
Prevenar 
Prevenar 
Dose 3 
Dose 3 
2 
2 
6 
2 
MO 
SE 
Yes 
Yes 
Abbreviation: C = continuing. 
a. Mild (MI), moderate (MO), severe (SE), or life-threatening (LT). 
b. Based on investigator assessment. 
c. The investigator initially determined that this event was related to the test article, since there was no other explanation. However, autopsy 
results revealed that the cause of death was sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and the investigator has since changed his assessment of 
causality, determining that the death was not related to test article 
Serious AEs that the investigations considered related to study vaccine were reported for 13 subjects 
(7 in the Prevenar 13 and 6 in the Prevenar vaccine group) (Table 2-8). In the catch-up study, SAEs 
were  reported  for  9  subjects.  None  of  these  SAEs  were  considered  related  to  study  vaccine.  AEs 
related  to  study  vaccine  included  injection  site  reactions,  diarrhea,  and  rhinitis.  The  incidence  of 
SAEs  for  each  of  the  study  periods  was  4.5%  or  less  for  each  vaccine  group.  By  far,  the  most 
frequently reported SAEs were infections and infestations. 
Adverse events of clinical interest 
Some  AEs  of  potential  clinical  interest  were  individually  evaluated.  Anemia  and  immune  system 
disorders,  were  evaluated  more  closely  because  of  more  striking  numerical  differences  between  the 
groups, and additional events (wheezing diagnoses, apnoea), were reviewed because of an association 
with Prevenar or vaccines in general.  
Anaemia 
During  the  infant  series,  anaemia  (PT)  was  reported  at  a  higher  incidence  in  the  Prevenar  13  group 
than in the Prevenar group (1 subject, 0.04%). All cases of anaemia, including the MedDRA preferred 
terms anaemia, iron deficiency anaemia, and microcytic anaemia, were reviewed. These events were 
reported in a total of 39 subjects: 30 subjects vaccinated with Prevenar 13 and 9 subjects vaccinated 
with Prevenar. Only 1 case was considered by the investigator to be related to study vaccine (anaemia 
in a subject vaccinated with Prevenar 13). 
Table 2-9: Percent (%) of Subjects with Adverse Events: Dose 1, Dose 2, Dose 3 and Toddler Dose (All 12 
Infant Studies) with reference to anaemia. 
SOC/PT 
Dose 1 
Toddler dose 
Dose 2 
Dose 3 
Prevenar 13 
N=4423 
Prevenar 
N=2451 
Prevenar 13 
N=4213 
Prevenar 
N=2329 
Prevenar 13 
N=3484 
Prevenar 
N=1850 
Any event 
17683(37.6) 
881(35.9) 
1854(44.0) 
993(42.6) 
1348(36.5) 
687(37.1) 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1701 
561(33.0) 
Prevenar 
N=1210 
430(35,8) 
Blood  and  lymphatic 
system disorders 
Anaemia 
deficiency 
Iron 
anaemia 
Leukocytosis 
Lymphadenopathy 
Lymphadenitis 
Microcytic anaemia 
Neutropenia 
Thrombocytaemia 
Thrombocytopenia 
9(0.2) 
6(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
2(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
2(0.1) 
10(0.2) 
2(0.1) 
13(0.4) 
5(0.3) 
6(0.4) 
4(0.3) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
6(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0 
1(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
2(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
6(0.2) 
4(0.1) 
1(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.1) 
1(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
2(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
1(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
4(0.2) 
2(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
3(0.2) 
1(0.1) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
0(0.0) 
Immune System Diagnoses 
After dose 2 in the infant series, the incidence of immune system disorders was higher in the Prevenar 
13  group  (12  subjects,  0.3%)  than  in  the  Prevenar  group  (0  subjects,  0.0%)  Only  1  event  was 
considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  vaccine:  allergy  to  vaccine,  which  occurred  in 
temporal association with Prevenar 13 vaccination. The AEs that accounted for most of the difference 
in  incidence  between  vaccine  groups  were  milk  allergy  and  food  allergy.  There  was  no  evidence  of 
Page 50 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
temporal  association  with  the  vaccine  for  these  events,  and  none  were  considered  to  be  related  to 
vaccination.  
Wheezing 
A post-marketing observational surveillance study of infants vaccinated with Prevenar has shown an 
increased risk of hospitalization for various conditions collected under the term “wheezing diagnoses” 
when  compared  with  a  historical  control  group.  This  increase  was  seen  after  the  primary  series  in 
children vaccinated with DTaP, but not DTP-HbOC or over the duration of the study. Other analyses 
in  the  study,  as  well  as  the  long-term  follow-up  of  the  large-scale,  multicenter,  controlled  pivotal 
efficacy study, did not confirm this finding. 
The overall incidence of diagnoses related to wheezing and asthma was 2.9% in the Prevenar 13 group 
and  lower  for  both  vaccine  groups  in  the  other  study  periods.  When  the  terms  “bronchiolitis”  and 
“bronchitis”  are  added  to  the  above  mentioned  events,  the  overall  incidence  during  the  infant  series 
increases to 13.9% in the Prevenar 13 group and 13.2% in the Prevenar group. Adding in the 2 terms 
related to RSV infections, the overall incidence was 15.1% for Prevenar 13 and 14.0% for Prevenar 
during the infant series. The incidence of the defined “wheezing diagnoses” was consistently similar 
between the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups. 
Table 2-10: Number (%) of subjects with selected respiratory terms: Infants series, Between Infant series 
and Toddler dose, Toddler dose(all 12 Infant Studies) 
SOC/PT 
Toddler Dose 
Infant Series 
Any event 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
asthmaticus, 
Wheezing(asthma, 
wheezing, 
reactivity, 
bronchospasm and reactive airway disease) 
Selected terms 
Wheezing/Bronchiolitis/Bronchitis 
bronchial 
status 
hyper 
Prevenar 13 
N=4423 
Prevenar 
N=2451 
128(2.9) 
128(2.9) 
128(2.9) 
60(2.4) 
60(2.4) 
60(2.4) 
Prevenar 
N=1357 
Between  Infant  Series 
and Toddler Dose 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1863 
11(0.6) 
11(0.6) 
11(0.6) 
14(0.1) 
14(0.1) 
14(0.1) 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1701 
10(0.6) 
10(0.6) 
10(0.6) 
Prevenar 
N=1210 
11(0.9) 
11(0.9) 
11(0.9) 
614(13.9) 
614(13.9) 
323(13.2) 
323(13.2) 
58(3.1) 
58(3.1) 
30(2.2) 
30(2.2) 
56(3.3) 
56(3.3) 
56(4.8) 
56(4.8) 
Apnoea 
All  cases  of  apnoea  (MedDRA  PTs  of  apnoea,  sleep  apnoea  syndrome,  and  apnoeic  attack).  These 
events were reported for 3 subjects (0.07%) vaccinated with Prevenar 13 and for 3 subjects (0.12%) in 
the Prevenar group. The events were serious in 3 subjects in the Prevenar 13 group and in 1 subject in 
the  Prevenar  group.  None  of  the  events  were  considered  related  to  study  vaccine,  and  none  were 
associated with prematurity.  
Seizures 
Seizures  (MedDRA  PTs  of  febrile  convulsions,  convulsions,  partial  seizures,  and  epilepsy)  were 
reported at similar frequencies in the Prevenar 13 and Prevenar groups, with no statistically significant 
differences in incidence between the 2 groups in any study period.  
Table  2-11:  Number  (%)  of  Subjects  with  Seizures  (Combined  terms):  Infant  Series,  Between  Infant 
Series and Toddler Dose, Toddler Dose and 6-Month Follow-Up telephone Contact (All 12 Infant Studies) 
SOC  PT 
6-Month Follow-upc 
Toddler Doseb 
Infant series 
Prevenar 
N=2451 
Prevenar 
13 
N=4423 
5 (0.1) 
Between  Infant  Series  and 
Toddler Dosea,b 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1863 
7(0.4) 
Prevenar 
N=1367 
3(0.2) 
Prevenar 
13 
N=1791 
2(0.1) 
Prevenar 
N=1210 
Prevenar 
N=455 
Prevenar 
13 
N=950 
3(0.3) 
1(0.0) 
Seizuresd 
Infant series = from dose 1 through postinfant series blood draw. 
Between infant series and toddler dose = from the post infant series blood draw through the toddler dose. 
Toddler dose = from the toddler dose through the post toddler dose blood draw. 
Mixed model used to calculate difference between vaccine groups in percentages of subjects reporting an event(random effect for protocol). 
*. Denotes significant difference in incidence between Prevenar 13 and Prevenar at the 0.05 (2-sided) level. 
a. Adverse events were collected differently for the period between the infant series and the toddler dose thanthey were for the infant and 
toddler doses. At the toddler dose visit, parents/guardians were to report any newchronic medical condition and any serious adverse events 
that had occurred since the previous visit.  
b. Post infant series data are available for 6 studies: 003, 004, 006, 009, 500, and 501. 
c. 6-Month follow-up data are available for 3 studies: 003, 004, and 009. 
d. "Seizures" includes MedDRA preferred terms of partial seizures, convulsion, febrile convulsion, and epilepsy. 
1(0.2) 
2(0.2) 
Page 51 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lymphadenopathy 
“Lymphadenopathy localized to the region of the injection site” was identified as an ADR associated 
with  Prevenar,  based  on  post-marketing  experience.  Adverse  events  corresponding  to  the  MedDRA 
PTs of lymphadenopathy and lymphadenitis were reported in a few subjects in both the Prevenar 13 
and Prevenar groups during the infant studies of Prevenar 13. 
Hypersensitivity Reaction 
“Hypersensitivity  reaction  including  face  oedema,  dyspnoea,  bronchospasm”  was  identified  as  an 
ADR for Prevenar based on post-marketing reports. The Prevenar 13 safety data were reviewed for the 
specific  MedDRA  PTs  of  hypersensitivity,  face  oedema,  dyspnoea,  and  bronchospasm.  There  have 
been no reports of face oedema in trials of Prevenar 13, and all cases of hypersensitivity, dyspnoea, 
and  bronchospasm  were  determined  to  be  related  as  there  was  no  temporal  association  with  the 
vaccine.  
Flushing 
In  addition  is  should  be  noted  that  the  Swedish  MPA  forwarded  a  summary  of  safety  reactions 
reported  for  Prevenar  to  the  MAH  during  the  period  of  2007-01-01  to  2008-08-01  requesting 
information about: Flush reactions occurring within minutes after injection with Prevenar and which 
disappear within minutes  10-15 minutes  have been  reported. Sometimes it is limited to the injected 
thigh, sometimes it spreads to the other thigh or the whole legs and sometimes the whole body turns 
red”. In the assessment of FUM 120 for Prevenar was concluded: 
No cases of flushing were presented specifically and were not discussed or commented on. However, 
“Facial  flushing  “was  reported  from  3  cases  enrolled  in  one  of  the  14  studies  of  the  Prevenar  13 
vaccine according to the search conducted on the Wyeth safety surveillance database. From the safety 
data base of Prevenar and Prevenar 13 a total of 1746 case reports were identified describing at least 
one of the search terms: Injection site erythema erythema, generalised erythema, rash erythematous, 
flushing  and  hot  flush.  According  to  the  case  definitions  described  by  the  MPA,  244  reports  were 
selected for further analysis. The preferred terms Flushing and hot flush were recorded in 17 and 2 of 
the  244  reports  respectively.  Facial  flushing  was  reported  from  3  cases  enrolled  in  one  of  the  14 
studies of the Prevenar 13 vaccine currently in development. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No specific laboratory findings. 
•  Safety in special populations 
High risk paediatric populations have so far not been studied in the present development program.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Effect of prophylactic medication on reactogenicity 
The systematic evaluation of the effect of prophylactic medication (paracetamol) on the reduction of 
febrile  reactions  following  the  concomitant  administration  of  Prevenar  and  Infanrix  hexa  has  been 
concluded in a study conducted by the company. The results show that prophylaxis can significantly 
reduce fever following the infant doses but has less effect following the booster dose. Another study 
showed that prophylactic use of acetaminophen significantly reduces the fever in infants 2-6 months of 
age post vaccination but there were no significant reduction in infants > 6 months. A similar study of 
prophylactic  use  of  ibuprophen  showed  no  significant  effect  on  fever  >38°C.  The  use  of  different 
concomitant vaccines would be expected to have an impact on temperature ranges between studies. 
Additional analyses of clinical data on antipyretic use and immunogenicity 
During  the  procedure,  data  on  antipyretic  use  on  Day  1  and  both  IgG  and  OPA  immune  responses 
were presented for infants and toddlers. The analysis that was provided pooled the data across all 13 
Page 52 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical  trials  in  the  Prevenar  13  dossier.  Pooled  analyses  across  trials  simplify  the  results  for  13 
serotypes across 13 trials, but also limit the ability to assess trial-level effects. 
The data indicate that any reduction in antibody response following vaccination with Prevenar 13 is 
negligible  and  not  medically  relevant  and  does  not  follow  any  consistent  pattern.  These  data  are 
particularly reassuring as they represent common medical practice on the use of antipyretics following 
vaccination in the different countries where the studies were conducted. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Withdrawals and Vaccination Discontinuations 
Overall, an AE resulted in the withdrawal from the study for 36 infants, of whom 21 (0.47%) were in 
the Prevenar 13 group and 15 (0.61%) in the Prevenar group). In both groups, the AE occurred during 
the infant series (n=22) or during the period between the infant series and the toddler dose (n=14). The 
most  frequent  AEs  resulting  in  withdrawal  from  the  study  included  nervous  system  disorders  (8 
subjects  in  each  group)  and  infections  (5  subjects  in  the  Prevenar  13  group  and  3  subjects  in  the 
Prevenar group). 
Study 011 on hold in India 
113  subjects  were  withdrawn  because  of  a  clinical  hold  by  the  DCGI  (Drugs  Controller  General  of 
India) 10-Oct-2007 were all from cohort 1 in Study 011, conducted in India. Four reports of serious 
adverse events (SAEs) that was unexpected and conducted outside of India were received and all of 
them had occurred in subjects who had received Prevenar (Prevenar, licensed in India) and considered 
possibly related to study vaccine. Although the hold in India was lifted and Study 011 was continuing 
at  all  sites  by  December  2007,  this  delay  in  vaccinations  resulted  in  the  discontinuation  of  many 
subjects from the study. An additional cohort 2 was enrolled including 354 subjects. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The integrated safety database includes data for 6929 subjects randomly assigned to treatment in the 
12 infant studies: 4458 were assigned to Prevenar 13 and 2471 to Prevenar. One study 3002 included 
354 children older than 6 months and up to 5 years.  
The  results  of  the  meta-analysis  of  safety  data  from  all  studies  demonstrate  that  Prevenar  13  has  a 
similar local reactogenicity profile as Prevenar. Numerically significant differences were small and no 
consistent pattern in differences was seen across doses. A trend towards increased rate of tenderness 
with  age  at  first  dose  was  seen  throughout  all  3  age  group.  There  was  no  age  or  dose  related 
differences  in  erythema  or  indurations.  However,  there  was  a  tendency  toward  increased  tenderness 
with age overall and with subsequent dose administration. Older subjects generally exhibited increased 
rate of local reactions compared with the infants. 
Fever > of 38ºC were recorded for between 24.4% and 38.4% of subjects in each vaccine group after 
each  dose  in  the  infant  series.  Numerically  significant  difference  between  the  vaccine  groups  in  the 
incidence  of  fever  was  noted  after  dose  1.  In  the  older  subjects  febrile  reactions  were  less  common 
than in infants. The proportion of infants and children receiving an antipyretic medication, given either 
to treat or to prevent symptoms, were not different between the 2 vaccine groups. 
Regarding  the  effect  of  antipyretic  use  on  the  immunogenicity  of  vaccine,  the  current  database  is 
limited as critical information such as the purpose of the antipyretic treatment (preventive or curative), 
the name of the antipyretic, the dose and exact time of administration in relation to vaccination have 
not  been  recorded.  Therefore,  the  company  has  committed  (FUMs)  to  collaborate  with  other 
Page 53 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
companies  to  investigate  the  possible  “class  effect”  of  antipyretic  use  on  the  immunogenicity  of 
vaccine. 
Adverse  events  of  special  interest  included  wheezing  diagnoses,  apnea,  convulsions/seizures,  and 
anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity which were addressed in the pharmacovigilance plan with pre-specified 
endpoints  in  the  post  authorisation  safety  study  and  as  pre-specified  topics  for  review  in  PSURs. 
Apnea, convulsions/seizures, and anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity have also been included in section 4.8 
of the SPC.  
No new or important safety signals were identified in any of the Prevenar 13 clinical studies. Based on 
the study results the reactogenicity profile of Prevenar 13 could be considered to be similar to that of 
Prevenar, with no clinically significant difference in the frequency or severity of AEs reported among 
infants  in  the  clinical  studies.  In  addition  to  the  AEs  that  have  been  noted  for  Prevenar  13  in  the 
Prevenar  13  clinical  program,  section 4.8  (Undesirable  Effects)  of  the  SPC  also  includes  ADRs  that 
were  reported  during  the  Prevenar  clinical  development  program  as  well  as  during  Prevenar  post-
marketing experience. 
The safety and immunogenicity of Prevenar 13 in HIV positive children and sickle cell children is to 
be addressed in several post-marketing studies. 
With respect to switching of vaccines, a new safety concern, one of “missing information”, has been 
added  to  the  RMP:  transition  plan.  Planned  pharmacovigilance  activities  for  this  concern  are 
monitoring  for  vaccine  failure  occurring  during  the  2-3  month  transition  through  collaboration  with 
the  national  surveillance  systems  and  PSUR  analysis.  Planned  risk  minimisation  activities  for  this 
concern include a Dear Health Care Professional Letter to describe how transition should be conducted 
for children who started with Prevenar and clear visual differentiating the two vaccines. 
The  impact  of  Prevenar  13  on  nasopharyngeal  carriage  is  being  investigated  through  both 
observational surveillance after vaccine introduction in France and a clinical trial, comparing isolates 
obtained from children receiving Prevenar with those obtained from children receiving Prevenar 13, a 
study which is currently ongoing in Israel. These activities have been assessed satisfactory. 
2.5 
 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Page 54 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.1. Summary of EU Risk Management Plan (version 3.2). 
Safety concern 
A.  Important identified risks: 
No important identified risks 
requiring further follow-up have 
been identified. 
B. Important potential risks: 
Unanticipated safety signals not 
seen in clinical trials of Prevenar 
13 vaccine 
Vaccine failure in children who 
are fully immunized according to 
local recommendations  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
Post-approval observational 
safety study and routine 
pharmacovigilance to monitor 
the safety profile of Prevenar 13 
vaccine 
None 
Post-approval observational 
safety study 4002 in at least 
43,000 children vaccinated with 
Prevenar 13 to monitor the 
safety profile of Prevenar 13.  
The study is designed to 
evaluate rates of all medically 
attended events in the hospital 
and emergency department 
settings and pre-specified events 
in hospital, emergency 
department, and outpatient 
clinic settings. Anaphylaxis, 
hypersensitivity, seizures, 
convulsions, wheezing, and 
apnea events will be included as 
pre-specified endpoints in the 
study (see Annex 3 in Section 
8.3 for study protocol of the 
RMP). 
Post-approval adverse event 
reports of vaccine failure.  
Follow-up questionnaire of 
vaccine failure reports to 
ascertain whether serotype 
information was collected 
None 
SPC warning that as with any 
vaccine, Prevenar 13 may not 
protect all individuals. 
Safety concern 
C. AEs which were not associated with Prevenar 13 in clinical trials or with Prevenar in 
post-authorisation observational safety studies, but are included in the Prevenar SPC: 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
Page 55 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
  - Wheezing diagnoses 
  - Apnea 
  - Convulsions/seizures 
  - Anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Wheezing diagnoses, apnea, 
convulsions, seizures, 
anaphylaxis and 
hypersensitivity will be 
pre-specified endpoints in the 
post-authorisation observational 
safety study (4002) and will be 
tracked as pre-specified topics 
in PSURs. 
D. Important missing information: 
Effectiveness of Prevenar 13 
consistent with the high 
effectiveness of Prevenar 
Population-based surveillance 
of the incidence rates of IPD in 
5 European countries for 5 years 
using national surveillance 
systems (in France, Germany, 
the Netherlands, Norway and 
the UK), pneumonia rates in the 
UK and Netherlands, and AOM 
rates in the UK for 5 years 
Potential changes in the 
epidemiology of non-vaccine S 
pneumoniae serotypes associated 
with reductions in vaccine 
serotypes 
The 5 European population- 
based surveillance systems will 
be used to monitor potential 
changes in non-Prevenar 13 
serotypes for 5 years 
Long-term vaccine effectiveness 
Safety and immunogenicity in 
high risk pediatric populations:  
HIV-infected children  
Premature infants <37 weeks of 
gestational age 
Children with sickle cell disease 
previously immunized with 
23-valent PS vaccine 
European, Canadian and US 
surveillance systems will be 
used to monitor long-term 
effectiveness 
Clinical trials of safety and 
immunogenicity in 
HIV-positive children, 
premature infants, and children 
with sickle cell disease 
previously immunized with 23-
valent PS vaccine 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
None 
None 
None 
None 
SPC warning that children 
with impaired immune 
responsiveness may have 
reduced antibody responses 
Page 56 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Impact of Prevenar 13 on 
nasopharyngeal carriage, 
including monitoring replacement 
with non-pneumococcal bacteria 
in the nasopharyngeal flora of 
children. 
Safety of more than 4 doses of 
CRM-based pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine when Prevenar 
13 is administered for protection 
against the 6 additional serotypes 
in children previously vaccinated 
with a primary series of Prevenar 
Immunogenicity of 1 booster dose 
of Prevenar 13 against the 
6 additional serotypes after a 
primary series of Prevenar 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Ongoing surveillance of 
nasopharyngeal carriage of S. 
pneumoniae in France through 
the ACTIV program and in a 
clinical trial in Israel (Study 
3006).  Monitoring of 
replacement with non-
pneumococcal bacteria in the 
nasopharyngeal flora of children 
in France through the ACTIV 
program. 
Two studies (Study 3011 in the 
US and Study 3010 in Alaska) 
will assess the safety of more 
than 4 doses of Prevenar 13 for 
catch-up program 
considerations 
Study 3011 catch-up study to 
confirm the Study 008 results 
that 1 toddler booster dose of 
Prevenar 13 provides adequate 
immunogenicity against the 
additional 6 serotypes among 
children who have received a 
primary series of 3 doses of 
Prevenar 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
None 
None 
SPC Section 4.2 states that 
protective immunity to the 
6 new serotypes requires age-
appropriate dosing as 
described in the posology 
section 
Page 57 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
Safety concern 
activities 
D. Important missing information (Cont’d): 
Transition Plan 
Vaccine failures occurring 
during the 2-3 month transition 
period will be evaluated by the 
UK, French, German, Dutch 
and Norwegian national 
surveillance programs. 
Vaccine failure reported to the 
Company via routine 
pharmacovigilance activities 
will be reviewed. PSUR 
analysis will identify all reports 
of vaccination failure occurring 
in patients who are transitioning 
from Prevenar to Prevenar 13. 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
The MAH will inform health 
care professionals about a) the 
differentiating characteristics 
of Prevenar 13 and Prevenar 
vaccines, i.e. differences in 
packaging, the product label 
and different colour of syringe 
and tip cap and b) how to 
transition to Prevenar 13 for 
children who started a 
vaccination schedule with 
Prevenar.  
In order to ensure that 
potential adverse event reports 
can be unambiguously linked 
to the type of vaccine 
administered, the MAH will 
ensure that the two vaccines 
have different batch numbers, 
different color of the plunger 
and tip cap of the syringe, and 
different carton packaging and 
label. 
Transition Plan 
Following marketing authorization approval of Prevenar 13 Infant vaccine, the switch-over from 
Prevenar to Prevenar 13 vaccine will occur according to a structured transition plan summarized in 
Table 3.2. 
Table 3.2. Transition Plan 
GOALS 
Ensure the uninterrupted supply of Prevenar or 
Prevenar 13 
Clear visual differentiation of vaccines 
Inform health care professionals about the 
transition 
•  Supplies of Prevenar 13 vaccine will be 
available at launch 
•  Different carton packaging 
•  Different product label on syringe 
•  Different colour of the plunger and tip cap of 
syringe 
•  The MAH will agree with national competent 
authorities on a communication to health care 
professionals about the differentiating 
characteristics of Prevenar 13 and Prevenar 
vaccines, and how to transition to Prevenar 13 
for children who started a vaccination schedule 
with Prevenar. 
Page 58 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOALS 
Ensure potential and adverse event reports can be 
unambiguously linked to the type of vaccine 
administered 
•  Batch number 
•  Different colour of the plunger and tip cap of 
the syringe 
•  Different carton packaging and label 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information: 
The MAH should inform health care professionals about the differentiating characteristics of 
Prevenar  13  and  Prevenar  vaccines,  i.e.  differences  in  packaging,  the  product  label  and  
different colour of syringe and tip cap and how to transition to Prevenar 13 for children who 
started a vaccination schedule with Prevenar. 
In order to ensure that potential adverse event reports can be unambiguously linked to the type 
of vaccine administered, the MAH shall ensure that the two vaccines have different batch 
numbers, different colour of the plunger and tip cap of the syringe, and different carton 
packaging and label. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The manufacture of the Pneumococcal polysaccharides, the monovalent bulk conjugates and the final 
sterile liquid suspension are appropriately controlled. Adequate release and shelf life specifications 
have been set. Commitments are made by the applicant to update some missing information, which 
does not impact on the risk/benefit assessment of this vaccine. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The non-clinical program was in accordance with CHMP guidelines. The immunogenicity of the 
vaccine was demonstrated in animal models. No important safety concerns were identified. 
Efficacy 
The 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (Prevenar 13) was demonstrated to induce an immune 
response to all 13 serotypes in all 3-dose primary vaccination schedules (6-10-14 weeks, 2-3-4 months 
and  2-4-6  months).  The  vaccine  induced  a  functional  immune  response  as  measured  by 
opsonophagocytic  (OPA)  assay.  The  majority  of  subjects  who  received  a  3-dose  primary  series 
achieved  an  antibody  concentration  >0.35µg/ml  (90.5-99.5%)  and  an  OPA  titre  >1:8  (84-100%), 
except for certain serotypes. For 12 of the 13 serotypes (except serotype 3), a good priming effect of 
the  3-dose  and  2-dose  schedules  was  shown  with  an  anamnestic  response  following  a  booster  dose. 
These data indicate the presence of an immune memory. The immune response to routine paediatric 
vaccines  co-administered  with  Prevenar  13  was  assessed  and  no  clinically  relevant  immune 
interferences were observed. 
The Prevenar 13 vaccine was demonstrated to be slightly less immunogenic than Prevenar overall and, 
in particular, with regard to certain serotypes (6B and 9V). The clinical relevance of this finding is not 
known,  but  will  probably  not  affect  vaccine  efficacy  against  the  7  common  serotypes.  Also,  the 
clinical trial results demonstrated that functional immune response elicited by Prevenar 13 was low for 
3  of  the  6  additional  serotypes.  Although  the  meaning  of  a  low  OPA  GMT  value  for  an  individual 
serotype  is  not  known,  that  may  suggest  reduced  efficacy  against  invasive  disease  caused  by  these 
serotypes. 
Page 59 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
A user consultation test has been performed and was considered to be acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
The introduction of Prevenar in the childhood immunisation program in the US in the year 2000 have 
resulted in a dramatic decline in rates of IPD due to the 7 vaccine serotypes in the target group, as well 
as in unvaccinated older subjects (herd protection). Significant reductions of pneumococcal AOM and 
pneumonia in children have also been demonstrated. Prevenar has 80 to 90% serotype coverage in the 
US,  but  somewhat  lower  in  Europe  (60-80%)  and  in  other  continents  (40-80%).  The  Prevenar  13 
vaccine  with  the  additional  serotypes  1,  3,  5,  6A,  7F  and  19A    is  expected  to  provide  an  increased 
coverage  of  approximately  90%  of  serotypes  responsible  for  IPD  in  children  aged  <5  years  in  most 
regions  of  the  world,  and more  than  73-100%  of  isolates  in  Europe.  The  13-valent  vaccine  includes 
serotypes responsible for a substantial burden of pneumococcal disease in Europe, such as serotypes 
6A  and  19A,  as  well  as  serotypes  1  and  3  associated  with  complicated  pneumonia  and  pleural 
empyemas and serotype 7F associated with a higher risk of more severe invasive disease.  
Uncertain  benefits  include  the  efficacy  of  the  Prevenar  13  vaccine  against  serotypes  1,  3,  and  5  in 
pneumonia  and  otitis  media.  The  results  demonstrated  that  functional  immune  response  elicited  by 
Prevenar  13  was  lower  for  3  of  the  6  additional  serotypes  compared  with  all  the  other  vaccine 
serotypes.  The  OPA  GMTs  for  the  concerned  additional  serotypes  in  Prevenar  13  lay  in  the  same 
range  as  those  for  19F  and  6A  in  Prevenar.  For  protection  against  non-invasive  disease  higher 
antibody titres are required and it is questioned whether the OPA titres observed for serotypes 1, 3 and  
5 would be sufficient to protect against pneumonia and otitis media due to these serotype. The poor 
boostability  observed  for  serotype  3  is  of  unknown  clinical  relevance,  but  may  result  in  reduced 
vaccine efficacy against pneumococcal disease due to this serotype. 
Risks 
The  safety  profile  of  Prevenar  13  is  comparable  to  the  licensed  7-valent  pneumococcal  conjugate 
vaccine (Prevenar) and no new or significant risks have been identified. The Prevenar 13 vaccine is 
commonly associated with range of local and systemic reactions. These adverse events are not often of 
severe  intensity  and  the  safety  profile  would  not  preclude  the  use  of  Prevenar  13  for  primary 
vaccination, booster vaccination or catch-up vaccination. 
Data showing that after introduction of earlier vaccines, e.g. 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 
and Hib vaccine, diseases caused by vaccine-related serotypes decreased dramatically and an increase 
of  infections  caused  by  other  serotypes  (e.g.  pneumococcal  serotype  19A)  was  noticed.  Serotype 
replacement  is  considered  as  an  important  potential  risk  which  must  be  included  in  the  risk 
management  plan.  Data  showing  that  after  introduction  of  Prevenar,  diseases  caused  by  vaccine 
Page 60 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
serotypes decreased dramatically and an increase of infections caused by other serotypes in particular 
19A  was  noticed.  Risk  minimisation  measures  are  in  place.  Monitoring  of  replacement  with  non-
pneumoccal bacteria, like staphylococci, have also been included in the risk management plan. 
The  Prevenar  13  may  induce  suboptimal  vaccine  efficacy  to  certain  serotypes  with  a  risk  of 
breakthrough infections and only short term persistence of efficacy. 
The 2-dose primary schedule in infants resulted in lower immune responses than the 3-dose primary 
series, in particular with regard to serotypes 6B and 23F, which could result in suboptimal protection 
against IPD and AOM during the pre-booster period. 
 It  has  to  be  noted  that  there  are  no  data  demonstrated  for  use  in  the  populations  at  high  risk  for 
infection  with  the  pneumococcus.  Any  use  in  these  populations  may  not  provide  satisfactory 
protection and could result in break-through infections. 
                                                                                                                              .                                                                
Balance 
The overall benefit/risk of Prevenar 13 is considered favourable. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  Additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Prevenar 13 for the “active immunisation for the prevention 
of invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants 
and children from 6 weeks to 5 years of age” was favourable and therefore recommended the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 61 of 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
