15 August 2014 
EMA/189944/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Prevenar 13 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (13-valent, adsorbed) 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/001104 
P46  056 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On July 21, 2013, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Prevenar 13, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
Scientific discussion 
Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  “B1851037:  Final  1-  and  2-Year  Report:  A  Phase  4,  Open-label  Trial  Describing 
the  Safety,  Tolerability,  and  Immunogenicity  of  the  13-valent  Pneumococcal  Conjugate  Vaccine  in 
Preterm Compared to Term Infants is a standalone study” is a stand-alone study. The primary part of 
the study was submitted to the EMA in December 2012 to fulfil the post-marketing commitment (FUM 
014) and add information to the SmPC and package leaflet on the use of Prevenar 13 in infants born 
prematurely (EMEA/H/C/1104/II/76).  
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The formulation used in this study was the same as the commercially available.  
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Protocol  B1851037  Final  1-  and  2-Year  Report:  A  Phase  4,  Open-label  Trial  Describing  the 
Safety, Tolerability, and Immunogenicity of the 13-valent Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine in 
Preterm Compared to Term Infants; 
Clinical study 
Protocol  B1851037:  Final  1-  and  2-Year  Report:  A  Phase  4,  Open-label  Trial  Describing  the 
Safety, Tolerability, and Immunogenicity of the 13-valent Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine 
in Preterm Compared to Term Infants; 
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
Primary Objectives: 
• 
To  describe  the  pneumococcal  immune  response  induced  by  pneumococcal  13-valent 
pneumococcal  conjugate  vaccine  (13vPnC)  when  measured  1  month  after  the  infant  series  in 
preterm infants compared to term infants (≥37 weeks of gestation) 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
To  evaluate  the  safety  profile  of  13vPnC  administered  at  2,  3,  4,  and  12  months  of  age  to 
preterm  and  term  infants,  as  measured  by  the  incidence  rates  of  local  reactions,  systemic 
events, and adverse events (AEs) 
Secondary Objective: The secondary objective of this study was to describe the pneumococcal immune 
response  induced  by  13vPnC  when  measured  1  month  after  the  toddler  dose  in  preterm  infants 
compared to term infants (≥37 weeks of gestation). 
Exploratory Objectives: 
• 
To describe the pneumococcal immune response induced by 13vPnC when measured 1 month 
after the infant series in the following preterm infant subgroups: 
o  Born  at  more  than  or  equal  to  32  weeks  and  less  than  37  weeks  of  gestation  (32≤ 
gestational age [GA] <37) 
o  Born at more than or equal to 29 weeks and less than 32 weeks of gestation (29≤ GA 
<32) 
o  Born at less than 29 weeks of gestation (GA <29) 
• 
To  describe  the  pneumococcal  immune  response  induced  by  13vPnC  when  measured  before 
and 1 month after the toddler dose in the following preterm infant subgroups: 
o  Born at more than or equal to 32 weeks and less than 37 weeks of gestation (32≤ GA 
<37) 
o  Born at more than or equal to 29 weeks and less than 32 weeks of gestation (29≤ GA 
<32) 
o  Born at less than 29 weeks of gestation (GA <29) 
Study design 
This  was  a  multicenter,  Phase  4,  open-label,  2-arm,  parallel-group  study  to  assess  the  safety, 
tolerability, and immunogenicity of 13vPnC in preterm infants compared to term infants (≥37 weeks of 
gestation)  receiving  13vPnC  at  2,  3,  4,  and  12  months  of  age.  This  was  a  post-authorization  safety 
study carried out in response to a request from the European Medicines Agency. 
Study population /Sample size 
Inclusion Criteria:  
Group 1: Preterm Infant 
1.  Male or female infant born at <37 weeks of gestation (GA as determined by the investigator). 
2.  Chronological age ≥42 to ≤98 days (approximately 2 months) at the time of enrolment. 
3.  Otherwise healthy preterm infant as determined by medical history, physical examination, and 
judgment of the investigator. 
4.  Parent/legal  guardian  was  able  to  complete  all  relevant  study  procedures  during  study 
participation. 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 3/15 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5.  Available  for  the  entire  study  period  and  whose  parent/legal  guardian  could  be  reached  by 
telephone. 
Group 2: Term Infant 
As for preterm infants but: 
1.  Male or female infant born at ≥37 weeks of gestation (GA as determined by the investigator). 
2.  Chronological age ≥42 to ≤98 days (approximately 2 months) at the time of enrolment. 
Exclusion Criteria: Subjects were ineligible to participate in this study if they met any of the following 
exclusion criteria: 
Previous  vaccination  with  licensed  or  investigational  pneumococcal  vaccine,  Haemophilus  influenzae 
type b (Hib) conjugate vaccine, meningococcal C conjugate vaccine, or diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, 
or poliovirus vaccines 
A previous anaphylactic reaction or allergy to any vaccine or vaccine-related component  
Contraindication to vaccination with any routine pediatric vaccines 
Bleeding  diathesis  or  condition  associated  with  prolonged  bleeding  time  that  would  contraindicate 
intramuscular injection 
History of culture-proven invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumonia 
Known or suspected immune deficiency or immune suppression 
Major known congenital malformation or serious chronic disorder 
Significant  neurological  disorder  or  history  of  seizure  including  febrile  seizure,  or  significant  stable  or 
evolving disorders such as cerebral palsy, encephalopathy, hydrocephalus, or other significant disorder  
Receipt of any other investigational vaccines, drugs, or medical devices from 28 days before inclusion 
and the  first study vaccination until the end of the  study. (Note: participation in purely observational 
studies was acceptable.) 
Infant who was a direct descendant (e.g., child or grandchild) of the study personnel  
Major  illness  or  conditions  that,  in  the  investigator ’ s  judgment,  substantially  increased  the  risk 
associated with the subject’s participation in, and completion of, the study, or could have precluded 
the evaluation of the subject’s response 
Treatments 
No vaccinations were given during the study period covered by this report. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Immunogenicity  Evaluations:  Blood  samples  were  obtained,  according  to  the  subject’s  weight,  at  1 
month after the third dose of the infant series (Visit 4, at approximately 5 months of age), just before 
the toddler dose (Visit 5, at approximately 12 months of age), 1 month after the toddler dose (Visit 6, 
at  approximately  13  months  of  age),  the  1-year  follow-up  (Visit  7,  at  approximately  24  months  of 
age), and the 2-year follow-up (Visit 8, at approximately 36 months of age). A total volume of up to 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
approximately  5  mL  to  25  mL  of  blood  (depending  on  the  subject’s  weight)  was  collected  during  the 
study. 
Serotype-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) concentrations to the 13 pneumococcal serotypes in 13vPnC 
were  determined  by  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay  in  all  subjects  for  each  blood  sample  and 
expressed as micrograms per milliliter (μg/mL). 
Assays of serum OPA elicited by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes were performed for all subjects where 
sufficient sera was available, and the results were reported as OPA titers. 
Safety  Evaluations:  AEs  were  collected  and  recorded  on  the  case  report  form  based  on  ancillary 
information  on  the  electronic  diary,  clinical  evaluation  during  a  study  visit,  and  verbal  questioning  of 
the parent or legal guardian about the child’s health since the last visit. AEs were collected from the 
signing of the informed consent to Visit 4 and from Visit 5 to Visit 6, and for 24 hours after Visits 7 and 
8. All serious adverse events (SAEs) were recorded from the signing of the informed consent to Visit 6 
and  for  24  hours  after  Visits  7  and  8,  and  were  to  be  reported  at  any  time  an  investigator  became 
aware. When  a subject withdrew from the study due to an SAE, the  SAE was reported in accordance 
with  the  reporting  requirements.  For  SAEs,  the  active  reporting  period  to  Pfizer  or  its  designated 
representative began at the time that the subject’s parent(s) or legal guardian(s) provided informed 
consent, which was obtained prior to the subject’s participation in the study, ie, prior to undergoing 
any study-related procedure and/or receiving investigational product, through and including Visit 6 but 
no  less  than  28  calendar  days  after  the  last  administration  of  the  investigational  product.  If  an 
investigator was made aware of any SAE occurring any time after the active reporting period, it was to 
be  promptly  reported.  Local  reactions  and  systemic  events  were  not  applicable  to  the  study  period 
covered by this report. 
Statistical Methods 
Immunogenicity  analyses  were  performed  for  2  populations,  the  evaluable  and  all-available 
immunogenicity  populations.  The  primary 
immunogenicity  population  was 
the  evaluable 
immunogenicity population.  
The primary endpoint for each of the pneumococcal serotypes was the proportion of subjects achieving 
a  serotype-specific  IgG  concentration  ≥0.35  μg/mL  measured  1  month  after  the  infant  series.  Within 
each group, geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) of the pneumococcal IgG antibody were calculated 
for each visit at which blood was drawn. 
Additionally,  the  geometric  mean  fold  rises  (GMFRs)  in  antibody  concentration  (post-vaccination/pre-
vaccination)  were  summarized  by  geometric  means  and  confidence  interval  (CI),  and  also  computed 
using  the  logarithmically  transformed  assay  results  at  appropriate  time  points,  for  all  groups.  Only 
subjects with both pre- and post-vaccination results were included in the derivation of GMFRs. 
Comparisons  between  Groups  1  and  2  were  constructed  using  geometric  mean  ratios  and  95%  CI 
following  the  infant  series,  prior  to  the  toddler  dose,  after  the  toddler  dose,  and  at  each  persistence 
time point as data permitted. The OPA data were similarly analysed. 
Subgroup  data  in  Group  1  was  descriptively  summarized  by  subgroup,  but  no  formal  comparisons 
between subgroups were constructed. 
The  safety  populations  included  all  subjects  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  13vPnC,  and  who  had  a 
safety observation during the follow-up period. 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 5/15 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Immunogenicity: 
For each of the pneumococcal serotypes, the proportion of the subjects achieving IgG concentration ≥
0.35  μg/mL  measured  1  month  after  the  infant  series  was  calculated  along  with  an  exact,  2-sided 
95%  CI.  The  difference  in  the  proportion  between  the  2  groups  was  computed  along  with  exact, 
unconditional,  2-sided  95%  CI,  with  the  standardized  test  statistics  and  gamma=0.000001.  In 
addition, the ratio of the GMCs of the 2 groups with 2-sided 95% CI was calculated for each serotype. 
For  the  assay  results  1  month  after  the  toddler  dose,  immunogenicity  analyses  were  performed 
similarly.  In  addition,  the  serotype-specific  fold  rise  in  antibody  concentration  from  the  pre-toddler 
dose  to  1  month  after  the  toddler  dose  was  derived  for  each  subject  and  summarized  using  GMFR 
along  with  2-sided  95%  CI.  The  2  groups  were  compared  by  computing  the  ratio  of  the  GMFR  along 
with 2-sided 95% CI. 
For  the  3  subgroups  in  Group  1  (32≤  GA  <37  weeks,  29≤  GA  <32  weeks,  and  GA  <29  weeks),  the 
above  descriptive  statistics  were  summarized  by  subgroup  following  the  infant  series  and  the  toddler 
dose. 
Serum  OPA  was  described  by  geometric  mean  titer  (GMT)  along  with  2-sided  95%  CI  for  each 
serotype.  The  OPA  results  following  the  infant  series  and  the  toddler  dose  and  at  1  and  2  years 
following the toddler dose were analysed in the same manner as IgG concentration. 
Proportions  of  the  subjects  achieving  OPA  titers  ≥  lower  limit  of  quantitation  (LLOQ)  were  derived. 
Proportions  were  compared  between  groups  in  a  manner  similar  to  what  was  done  for  the  IgG 
proportions. 
Reverse cumulative distribution curves (RCDCs) are presented graphically by group for each serotype-
specific  pneumococcal  IgG  antibody  concentration  and  for  OPA  titers.  The  RCDCs  for  each  group  plot 
pre-  and  post-vaccination  IgGs  on  the  same  graph  where  appropriate,  distinguishable  by  symbol 
and/or line style choice. Separate plots were generated for the subgroups in Group 1. 
Safety: 
The  safety  endpoints  were  AEs,  local  reactions,  and  systemic  events  including  fever,  and  use  of 
antipyretic medications to treat and prevent symptoms. AEs were categorized according to the Medical 
Dictionary  for  Regulatory  Activities  and  were  summarized  by  vaccine  group  for  each  pneumococcal 
conjugate  vaccination  separately.  All  summaries  showed,  by  vaccine  group,  the  number,  and  the 
percentage  of  subjects  experiencing  at  least  1  event  and  the  number  of  events.  SAEs  were 
summarized for the infant series and toddler dose, rather than for each vaccination separately. 
Comparisons between Groups 1 and 2 were constructed using Fisher’s exact test for proportions and 
95% CIs. Proportions were also derived for the subgroup data from Group 1, but no formal comparison 
between subgroups was constructed. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Subject Disposition and Demography: Of the 200 subjects enrolled in the study, 176 subjects (88.0%) 
completed the 1-year follow-up after the toddler dose visit and 161 subjects (80.5%) completed the 2-
year  follow-up  after  the  toddler  dose  visit.  Twenty  (20)  subjects  (10.0%)  were  withdrawn  from  the 
study before the 1-year follow-up: 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 6/15 
 
 
  
 
 
 
16  subjects  (8.0%)  were  no  longer  willing  to  participate  in  the  study  (7  subjects  in  Group  1  and  9 
subjects  in  Group  2)  and  4  subjects  (2.0%)  in  Group  1  were  lost  to  follow-up.  An  additional  15 
subjects (7.5%) were withdrawn from the study before the 2-year follow-up: 11 subjects (5.5%) were 
no  longer  willing to participate  in  the  study  (5  subjects  in  Group  1  and  6  subjects  in  Group  2)  and  4 
subjects (2.0%) no longer met eligibility criteria (2 subjects in Group 1 and 2 subjects in Group 2). 
For the evaluable 1-year follow-up immunogenicity population, subjects in Groups 1 and 2 were similar 
with  respect  to  race,  sex,  and  age  at  Dose  1.  All  subjects  were  white  and  there  were  more  male 
(55.0%)  than  female  (45.0%)  subjects  enrolled  in  Group  1,  while  there  were  more  female  (58.8%) 
than male (41.3%) subjects enrolled in Group 2. The mean age at Dose 1 was 1.8 months for Group 1 
and 1.6 months for Group 2. The mean GA was 30.8 weeks for Group 1 and 39.4 weeks for Group 2. 
The mean birth weight was 1.5 kg for Group 1 and 3.3 kg for Group 2. 
For the evaluable 2-year follow-up immunogenicity population, subjects in Groups 1 and 2 were similar 
with respect to race, sex, and age at Dose 1. Subjects in Groups 1 and 2 were similar with respect to 
race, sex, and age at Dose 1. The gender distribution, mean age at Dose 1, mean GA, and mean birth 
weight were all similar to the evaluable 1-year follow-up immunogenicity population for both groups. 
Immunogenicity results 
Pneumococcal IgG Response 
Pneumococcal IgG GMCs for each time point and the ratio of GMCs between groups are presented for 
the  evaluable  immunogenicity  population  in  Table  11.  The  results  1  month  after  the  infant  series, 
before  the  toddler  dose,  and  1  month  after  the  toddler  dose  were  presented  in  the  primary-analysis 
report; they are shown again here to provide a frame of reference for the results at the 1- and 2-year 
follow-up.  
Table  11.  Comparison  of  Pneumococcal  IgG  GMCs  ( μ g/mL)  by  Time  Point  –   Evaluable 
Immunogenicity 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Population
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 8/15 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Preterm Infant Subgroups (Groups 1A, 1B, and 1C) 
Pneumococcal  IgG  GMCs  for  each  time  point  were  presented  for  the  preterm  infant  subgroups  of  the 
evaluable  immunogenicity  population.  In  summary,  at  the  1-  and  2-year  follow-up,  for  all  serotypes, 
there were no discernible patterns in GMCs across the preterm infant subgroups based on GA. For all 
serotypes, there was a pattern of decline of GMCs from 1 month after the toddler dose to the 1-year 
follow-up.  For  the  majority  of  serotypes,  GMCs  remained  higher  than  or  similar  to  those  before  the 
toddler dose. 
CHMP’s  comment:  The  three  groups  were  children  born  32 ≤GA  <37  wks,  29  ≤GA  <32  and  GA  ≤29 
wks. As in the primary report for this study (infant and boster dose) it is noted that the first subgroup 
generally had numerically higher IgG GMC compared to the other groups, but the differences were not 
statistically differences (overlapping 95% CI). 
Pneumococcal IgG Concentrations ≥0.35 μg/mL 
The  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  evaluable  immunogenicity  population  with  a  residual  pneumococcal 
IgG concentration ≥0.35 μ g/mL at the 1-year follow-up was numerically lower for subjects in Group 1 
compared to Group 2 for all serotypes and statistically significantly lower (upper limit of 95% CI for the 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
difference  <0)  for  6  of  13  serotypes  (3,  4,  9V,  18C,  19A,  and  23F).  At  the  2-year  follow-up,  the 
proportion  of  subjects  in  the  evaluable  immunogenicity  population  with  IgG  concentrations  ≥0.35 
μg/mL  was  numerically  lower  for  subjects  in  Group  1  compared  to  Group  2  for  all  serotypes  and 
statistically significantly lower (upper limit of 95% CI for the difference <0) for 3 serotypes (18C, 19A, 
and 23F).  
Pneumococcal OPA Geometric Mean Titers 
Group 1 (Preterm Infant) versus Group 2 (Term Infant) 
A  comparison  of  the  Group  1  and  Group  2  pneumococcal  OPA  GMTs  at  each  time  point,  along  with 
ratios, is presented for the evaluable immunogenicity population in Table 13. For all serotypes, GMTs 
at  the  1-  and  2-year  follow-up  were  generally  numerically  higher  than  or  similar  to  those  before  the 
toddler dose and numerically lower than those 1 month after the toddler dose. At the 1-year follow-up, 
Group 1 had significantly lower GMTs compared to Group 2 for serotypes 6A, 18C, 19A, and 23F (the 
upper  limit  of  the  95%  CI  ratios  of  the  GMTs  were  <1.0).  At  the  2-year  follow-up,  Group  1  had 
significantly lower GMTs compared to Group 2 for serotypes 5 and 19A (the upper limit of the 95% CI 
ratios of the GMTs were <1.0). 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table  13.  Comparison  of  Pneumococcal  OPA  GMTs  by  Time  Point  –   Evaluable 
Immunogenicity 
Population
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Preterm Infant Subgroups (Groups 1A, 1B, and 1C) 
GMTs  at  each  time  point  were  presented  for  the  preterm  infant  subgroups  of  the  evaluable 
immunogenicity  population  (data  not  shown  in  this  AR).  For  the  3  preterm  infant  subgroups,  there 
were no discernible patterns in GMTs across the preterm infant subgroups based on GA at the 1- and 
2-year  follow-up.  GMTs  at  the  1-  and  2-year  follow-up  were  generally  numerically  higher  than  or 
similar  to  those  before  the  toddler  dose  and  numerically  lower  than  those  1  month  after  the  toddler 
dose for all serotypes. 
CHMP’s  comment:  As  for  the  IgG  GMCs  it  is  noted  that  the  first  subgroup  generally  had  numerically 
higher  IgG  GMC  compared  to  the  other  groups,  but  the  differences  were  not  statistically  differences 
(overlapping 95% CI). 
OPA Titer ≥LLOQ 
The  proportion  of  subjects  of  the  evaluable  immunogenicity  population  who  had  pneumococcal  OPA 
antibody titers ≥LLOQ at the 1-year follow-up was numerically lower for subjects in Group 1 compared 
to Group 2 for the majority of serotypes and statistically significantly lower (upper limit of 95% CI <0) 
for serotypes 6A, 18C, 19A, and 23F. 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
This trend was also observed at the 2-year follow-up, with the addition that OPA antibody titers ≥LLOQ 
was also statistically significantly lower (upper limit of 95% CI <0) for serotype 5 as well. 
There  were  no  discernible  patterns  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  had  OPA  antibody  titres  ≥LLOQ 
among  preterm  infant  subgroups  based  on  GA  for  the  evaluable  and  all-available  immunogenicity 
populations at the 1-year follow-up and at the 2-year follow-up.  
MAH Immunogenicity conclusions 
This  study  assessed  the  immunogenicity  of  13vPnC  in  preterm  infants  compared  to  term  infants 
receiving 13vPnC at 2, 3, 4, and 12 months of age. During the vaccination phase, which was detailed 
in the primary-analysis report, the immune responses to 13vPnC were lower for preterm infants than 
for term infants after both the infant series and toddler dose. This report evaluated the persistence of 
antibody responses at the 1- and 2-year follow-up among former preterm (Group 1) and term (Group 
2)  infants,  in  the  absence  of  any  additional  13vPnC  vaccination.  The  differences  in  the  immune 
responses  between  former  preterm  and  term  infants  persisted  through  2  years  after  the  last 
vaccination.  
At  the  1-  and  2-year  follow-up,  in  both  groups,  GMCs  for  all  serotypes  were,  with  few  exceptions, 
numerically higher than or similar to those before the toddler dose; and were  numerically lower than 
those 1 month after the toddler dose. These findings were consistent with decay of antibody from the 
booster response after the toddler dose. 
At both the 1- and 2-year follow-up, the Group 1/Group 2 GMC ratios were <1.0 for all 13 serotypes, 
and the difference was statistically significant for the majority of serotypes.  
There were no discernible patterns in GMCs across the preterm infant subgroups based on GA at the 1- 
and 2-year follow-up. 
At the 1- and 2-year follow-up, the proportion of subjects in the evaluable immunogenicity population 
with a residual pneumococcal IgG concentration ≥0.35 μg/mL was lower for Group 1 than Group 2 for 
all serotypes. 
Fewer differences in OPA GMTs between groups were apparent than in IgG GMCs. At the 1-year follow-
up, Group 1 had significantly lower GMTs compared with Group 2 for serotypes 6A, 18C, 19A, and 23F. 
At the 2-year follow-up, Group 1 had significantly lower GMTs compared with Group 2 for serotypes 5 
and 19A. 
For  the  3  preterm  infant  subgroups,  there  were  no  discernible  patterns  in  GMTs  across  the  preterm 
infant subgroups based on GA at the 1- and 2-year follow-up. 
At both the 1- and 2-year follow-up, the proportion of subjects who had a pneumococcal OPA antibody 
titer  ≥LLOQ  was  numerically  lower  for  Group  1  compared  to  Group  2  for  the  majority  of  serotypes. 
There  were  no  discernible  patterns  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  had  OPA  antibody  titers  ≥LLOQ 
among preterm infant subgroups based on GA. 
CHMP’s comment: The results of this long-term follow-up are in agreement with the primary phase of 
the study. It is not surprising that the lower titres seen after the primary and booster dose in pre-term 
infants  compared  to  full  term  infants  remain  lower  at  one  and  2  years  after  the  booster  dose.  It  is 
somewhat  reassuring  that  the  differences  were  generally  smaller  when  looking  at  functional  immune 
responses, i.e. OPA responses between the two groups.  
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety results 
At the 1-year follow-up, SAEs overall were reported for similar proportions of subjects in Group 1 (13 
subjects, 13.1%) and in Group 2 (8 subjects, 8.2%) (p=0.357). Infections and infestations (including 
pneumonia, bronchitis and respiratory tract infection) were among the most common SAEs, and were 
reported for significantly more subjects in Group 1 (12 subjects, 12.1%) than in Group 2 (3 subjects, 
3.1%) (p=0.029). 
At the 2-year follow-up, SAEs were reported for similar proportions of subjects in Group 1 (6 subjects, 
6.8%)  and  in  Group  2  (8  subjects,  9.1%).  Infections  and  infestations,  the  most  common  SAE  by 
system  organ  class  (SOC),  were  reported  for  a  similar  proportion  of  subjects  in  Group  1  (3  subjects, 
3.4%) and Group 2 (4 subjects, 4.5%). 
None of the AEs reported at the 1- and 2-year follow-up were considered related to the investigational 
product.  No  subjects  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  for  safety-related  reasons  and  no  deaths  were 
reported during the study period covered in this report. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
The results of this 2-year follow up of vaccination of preterm infants compared to full-term infants are 
in agreement with the results of the primary phase of the study, as evaluated in type II variation II76. 
The  pre-term  infants  have  lower  IgG  GMCs  to  the  majority  of  serotypes  at  1  and  2  years  after  the 
booster  dose  compared  to  the  full-term  infants,  and  to  a  lesser  degree  also  lower  OPA  titres.  When 
looking at subgroups of pre-term infants, the group with the highest gestational age (GA) at birth had 
consistently higher immune responses compared to the two groups with lower GA, but there were no 
consistent differences between these two latter groups. Thus, it is possible that the immune responses 
vary according to GA, but the data presented in this study do not provide clear evidence for this. The 
data  support  the  conclusions  drawn  in  variation  II76,  i.e.  preterm  infants  generally  had  lower 
responses  than  the  full  term  infants,  but  the  responses  were  still  considered  adequate  to  provide  a 
significant benefit for these children. Thus, the rapporteur does not consider it necessary to update the 
SPC to include these new data which were very much as expected.  
The safety r the  MAH should provide the assessment of immune response against HPV antigens from 
study V59P40 when available. 
Results from this follow-up study do not cause any new safety concerns.  
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
This  P46  procedure  is  considered  fulfilled,  and  no  further  regulatory  action  is  needed.  The  results 
confirm the conclusions of the previously assessed data from the primary phase of the study.  
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
  Not fulfilled: 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable. 
Prevenar 13 
P46 056 
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
