19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/771740/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Prevenar 13 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (13-valent, 
adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001104/PSUV/090 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Prevenar 13, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
The identified risk of convulsion/seizures (as well as the additional event of HHE) is of concern. 
Reviews of convulsions/HHE have been made several times, most recently in an extensive cumulative 
review requested in the last PSUR and assessed in LEG027.1. This concluded that, while estimations of 
the incidence of seizures and HHE from the clinical trial program for 13vPnC are not possible given 
limitations related to the size of the database, the cumulative review of all adverse events reported for 
Prevenar 13 reveals increased rates for both overall neurological events, as well as the more specific 
conditions of convulsions and HHE, when comparing groups which reported use of Prevenar 13 with 
concomitant hexavalent vaccine to those which reported use of Prevenar 13 alone.  Given that there 
are suggestions from the literature of increased risks associated with combination use of vaccines as 
well as the biological plausibility of a link between fever and certain neurological events, it appears that 
such an association between an increased risk of neurological events and receipt of coadministered 
Prevenar 13 and Infanrix hexa is possible. The data from this PSUR continue to support the conclusions 
from the cumulative review assessed in LEG027.1. Therefore, in view of available data regarding an 
increased risk of convulsion/seizures and HHE with concomitant administration of Prevenar 13 and 
Infanrix hexa, the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Prevenar 13 the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance pneumococcal polysaccharide 
type 4, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 23f, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 7f,  pneumococcal 
polysaccharide type 6a, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 5, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 9v, 
pneumococcal polysaccharide type 1, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 18c,  pneumococcal 
polysaccharide type 19f, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 3, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 14, 
pneumococcal polysaccharide type 19a, pneumococcal polysaccharide type 6b [pneumococcal 
polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) - 13-valent] is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
