9 January 2018 
EMA/785410/2017 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Prevymis (letermovir) 
Prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in patients with impaired cell-
mediated immunity deemed at risk  
EU/3/11/849 (EMA/OD/090/10) 
Sponsor: Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 8 
4. COMP position adopted on 17 November 2017 ...................................... 13 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 2/13 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
(S)-{8-fluoro-2-2[4-(3-methoxyphenyl)-1-
piperazinyl]-3-[2-methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)-
phenyl]-3,4-dihydro-4-quinazolinyl} acetic acid 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Letermovir 
Orphan indication 
Prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in patients with 
impaired cell-mediated immunity deemed at risk 
Pharmaceutical form 
Film-coated tablets 
Route of administration 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Oral use 
Intravenous use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Antivirals for Systemic Use, ATC code: J05AX18 
Sponsor’s details: 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited 
Hertford Road 
Hoddesdon 
Hertfordshire EN11 9BU 
United Kingdom 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Post-designation procedural history 
AiCuris GmbH & Co. KG 
12 January 2011 
15 April 2011 
EU/3/11/849 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from AiCuris GmbH & Co. KG to Merck Sharp 
& Dohme Limited – EC decision of 15 March 2013 
Marketing authorisation 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
F.Josephson / S. B. Sarac 
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited  
31 March 2017 
20 April 2017 
EMA/H/C/H0004536 
Prevymis 
Prevymis is indicated for prophylaxis of 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and disease in 
adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic 
haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). 
Further information on Prevymis can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public 
CHMP opinion date 
assessment reports.  
9 November 2017 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
A. Magrelli/ F. Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
3 April and 10 August 2017 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 3/13 
 
 
 
 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
5-7 September 2017 
questions 
Sponsor’s response to list of questions 
19 October 2017 
Oral explanation 
COMP opinion date 
30 October 2017 
17 November 2017 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2011 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
the population of patients eligible for prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in patients with 
impaired cell-mediated immunity deemed at risk (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to be approximately 3.1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the 
application was made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening due to complications such as 
pneumonitis, hepatitis, inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract and reduced graft survival in 
transplanted patients; 
although satisfactory methods of prevention of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, sufficient justification has been provided that (S)-{8-fluoro-2-2[4-(3-methoxyphenyl)-1-
piperazinyl]-3-[2-methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-3,4-dihydro-4-quinazolinyl} acetic acid may 
be of significant benefit to the population at risk of developing the condition. This appears justified 
in particular with regards to a potential clinically relevant advantage based on the new mechanism 
of action which may confer improved efficacy in resistant CMV strains. This is in line with the 
preclinical studies and preliminary clinical data presented. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The sponsor is proposing that Cytomegalovirus disease in patients with impaired mediated immunity 
deemed at risk is a distinct medical entity which was the indication that they obtained in their orphan 
designation in 2010. For this application the COMP agreed to expand this orphan condition to just 
cytomegalovirus disease.  
Human CMV or human herpesvirus 5 is a ubiquitous double-stranded DNA virus belonging to the 
Betaherpesvirinae. There is a large heterogeneity of CMV strains. The seroprevalence of CMV in the 
general population ranges from 30%-97% and increases with age. CMV can be transmitted through 
saliva, urine, sexual contact, placental transfer, breastfeeding, blood transfusion, solid-organ 
transplantation, or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. After primary infection, the virus 
establishes a lifelong latency within the host. Periodical reactivation with production and shedding of 
lytic virus occurs in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised individuals. In an 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 4/13 
 
 
 
immunocompetent host, primary CMV infection often is asymptomatic, although it can manifest as a 
mononucleosis-like syndrome. In contrast, in immunocompromised hosts, primary CMV infection, 
reactivation of latent infection, or reinfection with a different strain usually causes CMV disease (Am J 
Kidney Dis. 2011;58(1):118-126).  
The diagnosis of CMV disease is made based on the presence of “typical” clinical signs and symptoms 
combined with the detection of CMV in blood and/or the involved organs as shown in Table 2 below, 
taken from Clin Infect Dis.2002;34(8):1094-1097. 
The term disease is generally used in the context of patients who have developed a cytomegalovirus 
infection within the context of the latent virus becoming active due to the immune system becoming 
compromised under one of 4 underlying conditions namely; i) HIV infection, ii) haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation, iii)solid organ transplantation and iv) primary immune deficiency disease. The 
term infection is not used as this would also encompass latent infection in both healthy and 
immunocompromised patients as noted above. The two tables below highlight the differences between 
infection and disease. 
Table 1.  Definitions of CMV Infection 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 5/13 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Definitions of CMV Disease 
Cytomegalovirus disease is an acute condition in immunocompromised patients and is different from 
cytomegalovirus infection which can occur in normal individuals because it does not manifest in the 
same manner nor present with the same morbidity and mortality.  
The approved therapeutic indication “PREVYMIS is indicated for prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) 
reactivation and disease in adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic haematopoietic 
stem cell transplant (HSCT). Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use 
of antiviral agents.” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “prevention of 
cytomegalovirus disease”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat, prevent or diagnose the condition has been 
justified. Please refer to the EPAR for PREVYMIS.  
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
CMV is a problematic infection in many transplant patients. It can be acquired by seronegative patients 
from seropositive organ donors or via reactivation of latent infections in seropositive transplant 
recipients upon immunosuppression. CMV-related disease manifests differently depending on which 
organ is transplanted. CMV is known to damage various organs, including the lung, liver, 
gastrointestinal tract, bone marrow, and retina. It has been noted that CMV disease is associated with 
substantial increases in the risk of graft rejection and mortality (Hakimi Z et al, Transplant Infection 
Disease July 2017). 
In bone marrow recipients, CMV disease occurs often as an interstitial pneumonia with high mortality.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 6/13 
 
 
 
 
CMV remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 
recipients. CMV can cause tissue-invasive disease including pneumonia, hepatitis, colitis, retinitis, and 
encephalitis. Mortality in HSCT recipients with CMV disease can be as high as 60%. CMV infection is 
associated with increased risk of secondary bacterial and fungal infections, increased risk of graft-
versus host disease, and high rates of non-relapse mortality following HSCT (Camargo J et al, Hematol 
Oncol Stem Cell Ther (2017)).  
An association of CMV infection with increased HIV disease progression and death in HIV-infected 
individuals has been reported (Jennifer A Slyker  J Virus Erad. 2016 Oct; 2(4): 208–214.). 
Around 12% of solid tumour transplant patients develop CMV disease and associated complications of 
graft rejection and damage to other organs (HAKIMI et al, 2017) 
In liver recipients, hepatitis can be problematic and may be difficult to discern from organ rejection. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
To date no notable registries in Europe specifically record cases of CMV disease within the context of 
patients with an immune compromised system as those found in the four patients populations describe 
in the condition section namely: i) solid organ transplant recipient, ii)  hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation recipients, iii) HIV patients and iv) primary immunodeficiency disease. However, there 
is a European Society for Immunodeficiencies which has a dedicated registry with focus on primary 
immunodeficiencies. 
A risk calculation of CMV disease for each of the four targeted patient populations has been provided 
by the applicant and is summarised in the table below.  
Table 3.   
Calculations in 2010 
Updated calculations in 2017 
Patients 
N 
Prevalence per 
N 
SOT Recipients 
26,671  
HBPCT* Recipients 
23,333  
allogeneic HSCT 
recipients 
autologous HSCT 
recipients 
HIV Patients (with 
CD4 <= 50 cells/mL) 
CCL (Oncology 
patients receiving 
alemtuzumab 
Primary 
immunodeficiency 
diseases (PIDD) 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10,000 
0.5 
0.6 
31,165  
36, 469 
15,765  
Prevalence per 
10,000 
0.6 
0.7 
       0.3 
20,704  
       0.4 
1.5 
0.5 
96,000  
- 
1.9 
- 
- 
30,952 
0.6 
3.1 
194,586 
3.8 
* HBPCT, human blood precursor cell transplant, which is the term used previously for HSCTs in the report in 2010. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 7/13 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
                  
 
 
This calculation indicates that reporting has increased since 2010 in HIV patients, SOT patients and 
HSCT patients. These assumptions are based on recent publications and reports from European 
databases. It is acknowledged that the incidences submitted by the sponsor offer a more current 
calculation of the situation in Europe because there has been an increase in the number of CMV 
disease cases reported since 2010.  
The assumptions for acquired immune deficiency patients focus primarily on oncology patients who 
have received alemtuzumab. In view that alemtuzumab for the treatment of patients with CLL had 
been withdrawn from the EU market in 2012, the number of patients in this group is highly uncertain.      
Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDD) are indicated as one of the causes of CMV disease in 
several publications and has been highlighted in the condition section. The incidence of these 
conditions in 2004 was reported to be 1 in 10,000 (Lim M et al,  Journal of Molecular Diagnostics, Vol. 
6, No. 2, May 2004). According to this publication the reporting rates increased. The sponsor showed 
that primary immunodeficiency diseases comprised of more than 200 rare, inherited chronic diseases 
that result in defects in the immune system. As stated by the sponsor, the European Society for 
Immunodeficiencies (ESID) registry reported 19,355 cases in 2014. The prevalence ranges across 
Europe varied from 0.023 in 100,000 in Croatia to 6.2 in 100,000 in France. The sponsor has proposed 
to use the higher prevalence of 0.6 in 10,000 for the overall European prevalence. This has been 
added to the prevalences of the other three conditions linked to CMV disease.  
Based on these assumptions the sponsor concluded on a prevalence of 3.8 in 10,000. The COMP 
accepted this calculation as the final prevalence.   
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Currently there are two products authorised for the prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in Europe. 
These are ganciclovir and valganciclovir. There are no specific European Guidelines for the treatment of 
CMV disease however different reviews and guidance documents address treatment of the patients 
receiving HSCT, solid organ transplant and with HIV infection. The use of either of these products is 
highlighted in the prevention of the CMV disease and highlighted in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics of each product. In the case of valganciclovir section 4.1 limits the use to “the 
prevention of CMV disease in CMV-negative adults and children (aged from birth to 18years) who have 
received a solid organ transplant from a CMV-donor”. In the case of ganciclovir the Summary of 
Product Characteristics states in section 4.1: “prevention of CMV disease in patients with drug-induced 
immunosuppression (for example following organ transplantation or cancer chemotherapy)”. 
Valganciclovir is available as a 450mg tablet which is taken bid. Ganciclovir is only available as an IV 
formulation.  
Current reviews and guidelines support the recommendation of the use of either of these antiviral 
agents within the context of the management of the risk of CMV disease. (Updated international 
consensus guidelines on the management of cytomegalovirus in solid-organ transplantation; 
Contemporary management of cytomegalovirus infection in transplant recipients: guidelines from an 
IHMF workshop, 2007(external link); 2008 prevention of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected 
adolescents and adults guidelines: recommendations of GESIDA/National AIDS Plan AIDS Study Group 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 8/13 
 
 
 
(GESIDA) and National AIDS Plan; Management of CMV, HHV-6, HHV-7 and Kaposi-sarcoma 
herpesvirus (HHV-8) infections in patients with haematological malignancies and after SCT).  
Significant benefit 
The sponsor proposed that letermovir offers an alternative to ganciclovir, valganciclovir and foscarnet 
in the prophylaxis of CMV disease. The sponsor notes that valganciclovir and foscarnet are not 
authorised for the prophylaxis of CMV disease in HSCT. In its assessment of the current SmPC the 
COMP has confirmed the use of valganciclovir in the prevention of CMV disease in solid organ 
transplantation (Section 4.2 11 March 2015).  
No question on significant benefit was raised by the sponsor during the protocol assistance (October 
2013).  
The sponsor claims a significant benefit based on a clinically relevant advantage due to a better safety 
profile compared to ganciclovir and a major contribution to patient care based on the oral formulation 
compared to the IV formulation of ganciclovir, in the prevention of CMV disease in patients receiving 
HSCT. As oral valganciclovir is not authorised in this particular target population it is not considered for 
the assessment of significant benefit.  
For the purpose of establishing significant benefit the sponsor has focused primarily on the Phase III 
study but it should be noted below that two other studies have been submitted in the report to CHMP 
which can also be considered for the assessment.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 9/13 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials conducted by the Sponsor 
Merck Trial 
No. 
(AiCuris 
No., as 
Number of 
Subjects 
who 
Received 
Trial Type 
Applicable*)  Trial Short Title/Design 
Primary Objective 
Letermovir 
Phase 2 
MK-8228-019 
Phase 2a, randomized, 
To determine the decline 
18 
(AIC001-2-
001) 
active controlled, multi-
in human 
center, open-label dose 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) 
ranging trial in a majority 
DNA load after a 14-day 
of kidney and 
treatment for each 
kidney/pancreas transplant 
letermovir dosing 
recipients (and 1 HSCT 
regimen and to compare 
recipient) with CMV viremia  
this to an observational 
control group 
MK-8228-020 
Phase 2b, multi-center, 
To compare the safety 
98 
(AIC246-01-
II-2) 
randomized, double-blind, 
and efficacy of 3 
placebo-controlled, dose-
different doses of 
ranging trial to investigate 
letermovir with matching 
safety and efficacy of 3 
placebo as prophylaxis  
different oral doses of 
in the prevention of CMV 
letermovir in comparison 
infection 
with matching placebo over 
12 weeks in CMV-
seropositive, allogeneic 
HSCT recipients 
Phase 3 
MK-8228-001  Phase 3 randomized, 
To evaluate the efficacy 
373 
placebo-controlled trial to 
of letermovir as 
evaluate the safety and 
prophylaxis in the 
efficacy of letermovir in 
prevention of clinically 
adult, CMV-seropositive 
significant CMV infection 
allogeneic HSCT recipients 
through Week 24 (~6 
months) post-transplant 
following adminstration 
of letermovir or placebo. 
* AiCuris protocol numbers are provided for Phase 2 trials sponsored by AiCuris. 
‡ MK-8228-018 Part 2: All 16 subjects received only the IV arginine formulation of letermovir. 
‖ MK-8228-017: Of the 34 subjects exposed to letermovir, 22 subjects received only the IV arginine formulation of 
letermovir.  The remaining 12 subjects received both the oral tablet and IV arginine formulations of letermovir. 
QD= once daily; BID=twice daily 
The sponsor has not submitted any data associated with the prevention of CMV disease in patients with 
HIV infection nor in patients who are immunocompromised for any other reason therefore this will not 
be considered in the assessment. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary source of the data used for this assessment comes from the MK-8228-001 a Phase 3 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of letermovir in adult, CMV-
seropositive allogeneic HSCT recipients. This Phase 3 trial was designed to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of letermovir at a dose of 480 mg QD, adjusted to 240 mg QD when co-administered with CsA, 
versus placebo in adult, CMV-seropositive allogeneic HSCT recipients (R+). Treatment was 
administered through Week 14 (~100 days) post-transplant. Overall, 570 subjects were randomized 
with 376 in the letermovir group and 194 in the placebo group.  The aim of the study was to evaluate 
the efficacy of letermovir as prophylaxis in the prevention of clinically significant CMV infection through 
Week 24 (~6 months) post-transplant following administration of letermovir or placebo.  
The primary end-point of this study was made up of two end-points namely: 1) onset of CMV end-
organ disease and 2) initiation of anti-CMV PET based on documented CMV viremia (as measured by 
the central laboratory) and the clinical condition of the subject. Initiation of PET in the trial referred to 
the practice of initiating therapy with the following anti-CMV agents when active CMV viral replication 
was documented: GCV, VGCV, foscarnet, and/or cidofovir.   
There are three strategies for the management of CMV: Prophylaxis, pre-emptive therapy and 
treatment of established CMV disease. The prophylaxis strategy is aimed at preventing all infections. 
The pre-emptive strategy consists in treating patients with clinical relevant infections (based on 
documented CMV viremia and the clinical condition of the patient) to prevent disease. Moreover, finally 
when CMV disease is present, the aim of the treatment is to avoid organ damage and death. 
In the case of preemptive therapy for CMV the proof of concept was established by the City of Hope-
Stanford-Syntex CMV Study Group in an open, randomized study of 104 allogeneic SCT patients. 
Asymptomatic patients underwent bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) on day +35 post-transplant. CMV was 
evaluated in BAL by classic virologic techniques: shell-vial cell and conventional cell cultures, and 
cytology. Patients found positive for CMV (40 patients) were randomized to receive (20 patients) or not 
receive (20 patients) intravenous ganciclovir. At day +120 post-transplant, 75% of patients with 
positive CMV on BAL not treated developed CMV pneumonitis compared to 25% of those treated with 
ganciclovir, and 20% in those who were negative for CMV on BAL. This study proved the value of 
preemptive therapy for the prevention of CMV pneumonitis and started the era of the preemptive 
therapy for CMV (de la Camera R et al, 2016). 
The sponsor’s product was evaluated for the prevention of CMV disease in the prophylaxis setting.  
The COMP focused primarily on the data generated regarding the need for preemptive therapy because 
literature review has demonstrated no meaningful change regarding prophylaxis and the need for 
preemptive therapy in the last 15-20 years (de la Camera R et al, 2016).  
The sponsor presented data on the incidence of pre-emptive therapy for documented CMV viremia 
through week 24 post-transplant. A certain proportion of these patients received combination therapy 
with other antivirals such as: ganciclovir, valganciclovir, foscarnet and cidofovir. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 11/13 
 
 
 
Figure 1.   
It was noted that among HSCT recipients who are CMV seropositive, ~80% develop CMV reactivation 
and 20-30% progress to CMV disease without preventative measures. Current practice is to monitor 
HSCT recipients for CMV reactivation and to use ganciclovir as pre-emptive therapy as it cannot be 
used prophylactically due to its myelotoxicity. The data submitted by the sponsor indicated that at 
week 24, 40% of the placebo group needed preemptive therapy using predominantly 
ganciclovir/valganciclovir  compared to only 16% in the letermovir group (results from Study P001). 
End organ disease occurred only in a low number of patients in both groups.  
The cumulative rates of all-cause re-hospitalisation at week 14 and 24 are numerically lower in the 
letermovir group compared to placebo. Also, the mean number of days in hospital is numerically lower 
in the letermovir group, while the median is however similar between groups. 
This finding is supportive for significant benefit and indicate that letermovir prophylaxis could reduce 
the overall need of in-patient care compared to a standard-of-care PET approach. 
It was noted by the COMP that any significant reduction in the need for preemptive therapy in the 
management of these patients is considered a clinically relevant advantage. As data presented by the 
sponsor supported a clinically relevant reduction in the need for preemptive treatment for CMV 
infection at week 24 the COMP was of the opinion that this could support the basis of significant 
benefit. This was further supported by data showing the lower rates of re-hospitalisation where for 
example the re-hospitalisation for CMV in the letermovir group was 3.1% vs 7.6% in the placebo group 
at week 24. The potential for a major contribution to patient care due to letermovir being an oral 
formulation was discussed in relation to ganciclovir which is only available as an IV. The sponsor 
however, did not submit sufficient data to support the major contribution to patient care offered by the 
oral formulation over the IV formulation. The COMP acknowledged the possible contribution but did not 
consider this as the principle basis supporting significant benefit at the review for the maintenance.  
The COMP conclude that sufficient data was submitted by the sponsor to support a clinically relevant 
advantage of using letermovir in a prophylactic setting as it has been shown to reduce the need for 
preemptive therapy compared to the current standard of care. The COMP therefore recommended the 
granting of the maintenance of the orphan designation.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 17 November 2017 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the population of patients eligible for prevention of cytomegalovirus disease (hereinafter referred 
to as “the condition”) was estimated to be approximately 3.8 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is life-threatening due to frequent development of acute severe hepatitis, 
pneumonitis, colitis, haemorrhagic cystitis and encephalitis. Disseminated disease can be rapidly 
fatal, with mortality rates reported to be as high as 80%; 
although satisfactory methods of prevention of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Prevymis may be of potential significant benefit to the population at 
risk of developing the condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data which supported 
a reduction in the number of patients in need of pre-emptive therapy. The COMP considered that 
this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Prevymis, (S)-{8-fluoro-2-2[4-
(3-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]-3-[2-methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-3,4-dihydro-4-
quinazolinyl} acetic acid, letermovir, EU/3/11/849 for prevention of cytomegalovirus disease in 
patients with impaired cell-mediated immunity deemed at risk is not removed from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/785410/2017  
Page 13/13 
 
 
 
 
