ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral suspension
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each ml of oral suspension contains 100 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
Excipient with known effect: sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219) 3.43 mg/ml.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Oral suspension
White to off-white opaque suspension
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
PREZISTA, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) 
infection in adult and paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 15 kg body weight (see 
section 4.2).
PREZISTA, co-administered with cobicistat is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in adults
and adolescents (aged 12 years and older, weighing at least 40 kg) (see section 4.2).
In deciding to initiate treatment with PREZISTA co-administered with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir,
careful consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns 
of mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of PREZISTA (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with PREZISTA has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dosage, 
dose form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider.
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different contraindications and 
recommendations for concomitant medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5).
Posology
PREZISTA must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic 
enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation 
of therapy with PREZISTA. Cobicistat is not indicated for use in twice daily regimens or for use in the 
paediatric population less than 12 years of age and weighing less than 40 kg.
2
ART-naïve adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily or ritonavir 
100 mg once daily taken with food.
ART-experienced adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food.
A dose regimen of 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily or ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily taken with food may be used in patients with prior exposure to antiretroviral medicinal products 
but without darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 
RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L.
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
If HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the recommended dose regimen is PREZISTA 600 mg
twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken with food.
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
The weight-based dose of PREZISTA taken with ritonavir or cobicistat taken with food in paediatric 
patients is provided in the table below. The dose of cobicistat to be used with PREZISTA in children 
less than 12 years of age has not been established.
Recommended dose for treatment-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with PREZISTA 
and ritonavira or cobicistatb
Body weight (kg)
≥ 15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg to < 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
Dose (once daily with food)
600 mg (6 ml) PREZISTA/100 mg (1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily
675 mg (6.8 ml)c PREZISTA/100 mg (1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily
800 mg (8 ml) PREZISTA/100 mg (1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily or
800 mg (8 ml) PREZISTA/150 mg (tablet) cobicistatb once daily
a
b
c
ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
adolescents 12 years and older
rounded up for suspension dosing convenience
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
PREZISTA twice daily taken with ritonavir taken with food is usually recommended.
A once daily dose regimen of PREZISTA taken with ritonavir or cobicistat taken with food may be 
used in patients with prior exposure to antiretroviral medicinal products but without darunavir 
resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA 
< 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L.
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The weight-based dose of PREZISTA taken with ritonavir or cobicistat in paediatric patients is 
provided in the table below. The recommended dose of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir should not 
exceed the recommended adult dose (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily). The dose of 
PREZISTA with cobicistat in adolescent patients 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg is 
800/150 mg once daily taken with food. The dose of cobicistat to be used with PREZISTA in children 
less than 12 years of age has not been established.
Recommended dose for treatment-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with 
PREZISTA and ritonavira or cobicistatb
Body weight (kg)
≥ 15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg to < 40 kg
Dose (once daily with food)
Dose (twice daily with food)
600 mg (6 ml) PREZISTA/100 mg 
(1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily
675 mg (6.8 ml)c PREZISTA/100 mg 
(1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily
380 mg (3.8 ml) PREZISTA/50 mg
(0.6 ml) ritonavir twice daily
460 mg (4.6 ml) PREZISTA/60 mg 
(0.8 ml) ritonavir twice daily
3
≥ 40 kg
800 mg (8 ml) PREZISTA/100 mg 
(1.2 ml) ritonavir once daily or
800 mg (8 ml) PREZISTA/150 mg 
(tablet) cobicistatb once daily
a
b
c
ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
adolescents 12 years and older
rounded up for suspension dosing convenience
600 mg (6 ml) PREZISTA/100 mg 
(1.2 ml) ritonavir twice daily
For ART-experienced paediatric patients HIV genotypic testing is recommended. However, when HIV 
genotypic testing is not feasible, the PREZISTA (taken with ritonavir or cobicistat) once daily dosing 
regimen is recommended in HIV protease inhibitor-naïve paediatric patients and the PREZISTA taken 
with ritonavir twice daily dosing regimen is recommended in HIV protease inhibitor-experienced 
patients.
PREZISTA oral suspension can be used in patients unable to swallow PREZISTA tablets. PREZISTA 
is also available as 75 mg, 150 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg and 800 mg film-coated tablets.
Advice on missed doses
The following guidance is based on the half-life of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat or ritonavir 
and the recommended dosing interval of approximately 12 hours (twice daily regimen) or 
approximately 24 hours (once daily regimen).


If using the twice daily regimen: in case a dose of PREZISTA and/or ritonavir is missed within 
6 hours of the time it is usually taken, patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose 
of PREZISTA and ritonavir with food as soon as possible. If this is noticed later than 6 hours 
after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose should not be taken and the patient should 
resume the usual dosing schedule.
If using the once daily regimen: in case a dose of PREZISTA and/or cobicistat or ritonavir is
missed within 12 hours of the time it is usually taken, patients should be instructed to take the 
prescribed dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir with food as soon as possible. If this is
noticed later than 12 hours after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose should not be taken 
and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule.
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA with cobicistat 
or ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicine, the patient does not need to take another dose of PREZISTA with cobicistat or 
ritonavir until the next regularly scheduled time.
Special populations
Elderly
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, 
PREZISTA should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of 
darunavir exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, PREZISTA must not be used in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir in patients with renal impairment (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2). Cobicistat has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, and, therefore, no 
recommendation can be made for the use of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients.
4
Cobicistat inhibits the tubular secretion of creatinine and may cause modest increases in serum 
creatinine and modest declines in creatinine clearance. Hence, the use of creatinine clearance as an 
estimate of renal elimination capacity may be misleading. Cobicistat as a pharmacokinetic enhancer of 
darunavir should, therefore, not be initiated in patients with creatine clearance less than 70 ml/min if 
any co-administered agent requires dose adjustment based on creatinine clearance: e.g. emtricitabine, 
lamivudine, tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate, phosphate or succinate) or adefovir dipovoxil.
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Paediatric population
PREZISTA should not be used in children
-
-
below 3 years of age, because of safety concerns (see sections 4.4 and 5.3), or,
less than 15 kg body weight, as the dose for this population has not been established in a 
sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1).
PREZISTA taken with cobicistat should not be used in children aged 3 to 11 years of age weighing 
< 40 kg as the dose of cobicistat to be used in these children has not been established (see sections 4.4 
and 5.3).
Pregnancy and postpartum
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). Therefore, therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen, (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). PREZISTA/ritonavir may be considered 
as an alternative.
Method of administration
Patients should be instructed to take PREZISTA with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir within 
30 minutes after completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see 
sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2).
PREZISTA suspension is administered orally. Shake the bottle vigorously prior to each dose. The 
supplied oral dosing pipette should not be used for any other medicinal products.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment.
Concomitant treatment with any of the following medicinal products given the expected decrease in 
plasma concentrations of darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat and the potential for loss of therapeutic 
effect (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Applicable to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat:
-
-
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampicin and herbal preparations containing St John’s Wort
(Hypericum perforatum). Co-administration is expected to reduce plasma concentrations of 
darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat, which could lead to loss of therapeutic effect and possible 
development of resistance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
5
Applicable to darunavir boosted with cobicistat, not when boosted with ritonavir:
-
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction than darunavir 
boosted with ritonavir. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers is contraindicated, since 
these may reduce the exposure to cobicistat and darunavir leading to loss of therapeutic effect. 
Strong CYP3A inducers include e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin (see sections 
4.4 and 4.5).
Darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat inhibits the elimination of active substances that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance, which results in increased exposure to the 
co-administered medicinal product. Therefore, concomitant treatment with such medicinal products 
for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is 
contraindicated (applies to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat). These active 
substances include e.g.:
alfuzosin
-
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine
-
astemizole, terfenadine
-
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5)
-
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine)
-
elbasvir/grazoprevir
-
cisapride
-
dapoxetine
-
domperidone
-
naloxegol
-
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5)
-
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
-
see section 4.5)
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil
simvastatin, lovastatin, lomitapide (see section 4.5)
ticagrelor (see section 4.5).
-
-
-
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed.
PREZISTA must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic 
enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 5.2). The 
Summary of Product Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be 
consulted prior to initiation of therapy with PREZISTA.
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of cobicistat or ritonavir.
Darunavir binds predominantly to 1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is 
concentration-dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of 
medicinal products highly bound to 1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5).
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing
PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than 
B (see section 5.1).
6
Paediatric population
PREZISTA is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
Pregnancy
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medications which may 
further decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during the second and third trimester has 
been shown to result in low darunavir exposure, with a reduction of around 90% in Cmin levels (see 
section 5.2). Cobicistat levels decrease and may not provide sufficient boosting. The substantial 
reduction in darunavir exposure may result in virological failure and an increased risk of mother to 
child transmission of HIV infection. Therefore, therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be 
initiated during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with 
PREZISTA/cobicistat should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.6). 
PREZISTA given with low dose ritonavir may be considered as an alternative.
Elderly
As limited information is available on the use of PREZISTA in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of PREZISTA in elderly patients, reflecting the greater 
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2).
Severe skin reactions
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. PREZISTA should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include,
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia.
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA (see section 4.8).
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. PREZISTA should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy.
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with PREZISTA. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products.
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with PREZISTA used in 
combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and patients should be monitored during treatment. 
Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, 
cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first 
several months of PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir treatment.
7
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low 
dose ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of treatment should be considered promptly.
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment
The safety and efficacy of PREZISTA have not been established in patients with severe underlying 
liver disorders and PREZISTA is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Cobicistat has 
not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, therefore, no recommendation can be made for the use 
of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients (see section 4.2).
Cobicistat decreases the estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of 
creatinine. This should be taken into consideration if darunavir with cobicistat is administered to 
patients in whom the estimated creatinine clearance is used to adjust doses of co-administered 
medicinal products (see section 4.2 and cobicistat SmPC).
There are currently inadequate data to determine whether co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil and 
cobicistat is associated with a greater risk of renal adverse reactions compared with regimens that 
include tenofovir disoproxil without cobicistat.
Haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
8
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).
Interactions with medicinal products
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5.
Pharmacokinetic enhancer and concomitant medications
Darunavir has different interaction profiles depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat:
-
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction: concomitant use of 
darunavir/cobicistat and strong CYP3A inducers is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3), 
and concomitant use with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended (see section
4.5). Concomitant use of darunavir/ritonavir and darunavir/cobicistat with strong CYP3A 
inducers such as lopinavir/ritonavir, rifampicin and herbal products containing St John’s Wort,
Hypericum perforatum, is contraindicated (see section 4.5).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not have inducing effects on enzymes or transport proteins (see 
section 4.5). If switching the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat, caution is required 
during the first two weeks of treatment with darunavir/cobicistat, particularly if doses of any 
concomitantly administered medicinal products have been titrated or adjusted during use of 
ritonavir as a pharmacoenhancer. A dose reduction of the co-administered drug may be needed 
in these cases.
-
Efavirenz in combination with boosted PREZISTA may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in combination with PREZISTA, the PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily regimen should be used. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 75 mg, 
150 mg and 600 mg tablets (see section 4.5).
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
PREZISTA oral suspension contains sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219) which may cause 
allergic reactions (possibly delayed).
PREZISTA oral suspension contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The interaction profile of darunavir may differ depending on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacoenhancer. The recommendations given for concomitant use of darunavir and other medicinal 
products may therefore differ depending on whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4), and caution is also required during the first time of treatment if switching 
the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (ritonavir as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
9
concentrations of these compounds and consequently that of darunavir, leading to loss of therapeutic 
effect and possible development of resistance (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). CYP3A inducers that are 
contraindicated include rifampicin, St John’s Wort and lopinavir.
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, which may result in increased plasma concentrations 
of darunavir and ritonavir. Co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is not recommended and 
caution is warranted, these interactions are described in the interaction table below (e.g. indinavir, 
azole antifungals such as clotrimazole).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (cobicistat as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and cobicistat are metabolised by CYP3A, and co-administration with CYP3A inducers 
may therefore result in subtherapeutic plasma exposure to darunavir. Darunavir boosted with 
cobicistat is more sensitive to CYP3A induction than ritonavir-boosted darunavir: co-administration of 
darunavir/cobicistat with medicinal products that are strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g. St John’s Wort, 
rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of darunavir/cobicistat with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers (e.g. efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine, fluticasone, and bosentan) is not recommended (see interaction table below).
For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the same recommendations apply independent 
of whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or with cobicistat (see section above).
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.
Co-administration of boosted darunavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss 
of their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below).
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3).
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in 
combination with a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect.
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone,
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.
10
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below).
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with cobicistat
The recommendations for darunavir boosted with ritonavir are similar to the recommendations for 
darunavir boosted with cobicistat with regard to substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein, 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 (see contraindications and recommendations presented in the section 
above). Cobicistat 150 mg given with darunavir 800 mg once daily enhances darunavir 
pharmacokinetic parameters in a comparable way to ritonavir (see section 5.2).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or 
UGT1A1. For further information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Interaction table
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated.
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different recommendations for concomitant 
medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat. The same 
recommendations apply, unless specifically indicated. For further information on cobicistat, consult 
the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”).
In the table below the specific pharmacokinetic enhancer is specified when recommendations differ. 
When the recommendation is the same for PREZISTA when co-administered with a low dose ritonavir 
or cobicistat, the term “boosted PREZISTA” is used.
The below list of examples of drug-drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with PREZISTA should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration.
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration
Interaction
Geometric mean change (%)
Medicinal product 
examples by therapeutic 
area
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors
Dolutegravir
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22%
dolutegravir C24h ↓ 38%
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%
darunavir ↔*
* Using cross-study comparisons to historical 
pharmacokinetic data
Boosted PREZISTA and 
dolutegravir can be used without 
dose adjustment.
11
Raltegravir
Some clinical studies suggest raltegravir 
may cause a modest decrease in 
darunavir plasma concentrations.
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Didanosine
400 mg once daily
Tenofovir disoproxil
245 mg once daily‡
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%
didanosine Cmin ND
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16%
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules)
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔
Tenofovir ↑
Abacavir
Emtricitabine
Lamivudine
Stavudine
Zidovudine
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other NRTIs 
zidovudine, emtricitabine, stavudine, 
lamivudine, that are primarily renally 
excreted, and abacavir for which 
metabolism is not mediated by CYP450, 
no interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and boosted
PREZISTA.
At present the effect of raltegravir 
on darunavir plasma 
concentrations does not appear to 
be clinically relevant. Boosted 
PREZISTA and raltegravir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Boosted PREZISTA and 
didanosine can be used without 
dose adjustments.
Didanosine is to be administered 
on an empty stomach, thus it 
should be administered 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after boosted 
PREZISTA given with food.
Monitoring of renal function may 
be indicated when boosted 
PREZISTA is given in 
combination with tenofovir
disoproxil, particularly in patients 
with underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for 
dose adjustment of tenofovir
disoproxil.
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide is 200/10 mg once 
daily when used with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Boosted PREZISTA can be used 
with these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for 
dose adjustment of emtricitabine or 
lamivudine.
12
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)
Efavirenz
600 mg once daily
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15%
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction)
Etravirine
100 mg twice daily
Nevirapine
200 mg twice daily
Rilpivirine
150 mg once daily
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%
#darunavir: concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition)
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to 
efavirenz may be indicated when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is given in 
combination with efavirenz.
Efavirenz in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
once daily may result in 
sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in 
combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily regimen should be used 
(see section 4.4).
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and etravirine 
200 mg twice daily can be used
without dose adjustments.
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and nevirapine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
Boosted PREZISTA and rilpivirine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
13
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and atazanavir 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
When used in combination with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir, dose 
adjustment of indinavir from 
800 mg twice daily to 600 mg 
twice daily may be warranted in 
case of intolerance.
PREZISTA co-administered with
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
It is not recommended to combine 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir with saquinavir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
Atazanavir
300 mg once daily
atazanavir AUC ↔
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Indinavir
800 mg twice daily
Saquinavir
1,000 mg twice daily
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once 
daily vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily in 
combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily in combination with 
atazanavir 300 mg once daily.
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%
indinavir Cmax ↔
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11%
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice 
daily vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with indinavir 800 mg 
twice daily.
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6%
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1,000/100 mg twice 
daily vs. saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1,000/400/100 mg twice daily
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with saquinavir 1,000 mg 
twice daily.
14
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily
Lopinavir/ritonavir
533/133.3 mg twice daily
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡
lopinavir AUC ↔
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%
‡ based upon non dose normalised values
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the 
combination have not been 
established. Hence, concomitant 
use of boosted PREZISTA and the 
combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
CCR5 ANTAGONIST
Maraviroc
150 mg twice daily
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%
maraviroc Cmin ND
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129%
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST
Based on theoretical considerations 
PREZISTA is expected to increase 
alfuzosin plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Alfuzosin
ANAESTHETIC
Alfentanil
Not studied. The metabolism of alfentanil 
is mediated via CYP3A, and may as such 
be inhibited by boosted PREZISTA.
The concomitant use with boosted 
PREZISTA may require to lower 
the dose of alfentanil and requires 
monitoring for risks of prolonged 
or delayed respiratory depression.
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring, if available, is 
recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and amiodarone, 
bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, or ranolazine is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is 
recommended that the lowest 
possible dose of digoxin should 
initially be prescribed in case 
digoxin is given to patients on 
boosted PREZISTA therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired 
clinical effect while assessing the 
overall clinical state of the subject.
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC
Disopyramide
Flecainide
Lidocaine (systemic)
Mexiletine
Propafenone
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antiarrhythmic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Amiodarone
Bepridil
Dronedarone
Ivabradine
Quinidine
Ranolazine
Digoxin
0.4 mg single dose
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%
digoxin Cmin ND
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29%
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of 
P-gp)
15
ANTIBIOTIC
Clarithromycin
500 mg twice daily
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations 
were not detectable when combined with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A inhibition 
and possible P-gp inhibition)
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
boosted PREZISTA.
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose.
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Dabigatran etexilate
Edoxaban
Ticagrelor
Clopidogrel
Warfarin
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with these 
anticoagulants may increase 
concentrations of the anticoagulant.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg):
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64%
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 164%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 164%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 88%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 99%
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted PREZISTA 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition).
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, which 
may reduce the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel.
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations may 
be affected when co-administered with 
boosted PREZISTA.
The use of boosted PREZISTA 
with a direct oral anticoagulant 
(DOAC) that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 and transported by P-gp
is not recommended as this may 
lead to an increased bleeding risk.
Darunavir/ritonavir:
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, 
including dabigatran etexilate and 
edoxaban, is co-administered with 
PREZISTA/rtv.
Darunavir/cobicistat:
Clinical monitoring and dose 
reduction is required when a 
DOAC transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, 
including dabigatran etexilate and 
edoxaban, is co-administered with 
PREZISTA/cobi.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with ticagrelor 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended. Use of other 
antiplatelets not affected by CYP 
inhibition or induction (e.g. 
prasugrel) is recommended.
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio 
(INR) be monitored when warfarin 
is combined with boosted 
PREZISTA.
16
ANTICONVULSANTS
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
Not studied. Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
are expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Carbamazepine
200 mg twice daily
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clonazepam
ANTIDEPRESSANTS
Paroxetine
20 mg once daily
Sertraline
50 mg once daily
Amitriptyline
Desipramine
Imipramine
Nortriptyline
Trazodone
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with clonazepam 
may increase concentrations of 
clonazepam. (CYP3A inhibition)
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%
#darunavir Cmax ↔
In contrast to these data with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, 
PREZISTA/cobicistat may increase these 
antidepressant plasma concentrations 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition).
Concomitant use of boosted PREZISTA 
and these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
17
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir should not be 
used in combination with these 
medicines.
The use of these medicines with
PREZISTA/cobicistat is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
No dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir is 
recommended. If there is a need to 
combine PREZISTA/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be 
monitored and its dose should be 
titrated for adequate response. 
Based upon the findings, the 
carbamazepine dose may need to 
be reduced by 25% to 50% in the 
presence of PREZISTA/ritonavir.
The use of carbamazepine with
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with clonazepam.
If antidepressants are 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, the recommended 
approach is a dose titration of the 
antidepressant based on a clinical 
assessment of antidepressant 
response. In addition, patients on a 
stable dose of these antidepressants 
who start treatment with boosted 
PREZISTA should be monitored 
for antidepressant response.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these 
antidepressants and a dose 
adjustment of the antidepressant 
may be needed.
ANTI-DIABETICS
Metformin
Not studied. Based on theoretical 
considerations PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat is 
expected to increase metformin plasma 
concentrations.
(MATE1 inhibition)
ANTIEMETICS
Domperidone
Not studied.
ANTIFUNGALS
Voriconazole
Fluconazole
Isavuconazole
Itraconazole
Posaconazole
Clotrimazole
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES
Colchicine
ANTIMALARIALS
Artemether/Lumefantrine
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 
8, 24, 36, 48, and 
60 hours
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Concentrations of voriconazole may 
increase or decrease when 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat.
(inhibition of CYP450 enzymes)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA may 
increase antifungal plasma concentrations 
and posaconazole, isavuconazole, 
itraconazole or fluconazole may increase 
darunavir concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not Studied. Concomitant systemic use
of clotrimazole and boosted PREZISTA
may increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole.
darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model)
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
colchicine and boosted PREZISTA may 
increase the exposure to colchicine.
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition)
artemether AUC ↓ 16%
artemether Cmin ↔
artemether Cmax ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13%
darunavir Cmax ↔
18
Careful patient monitoring and 
dose adjustment of metformin is 
recommended in patients who are 
taking PREZISTA co-administered 
with cobicistat.
(not applicable for PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir)
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated.
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with boosted 
PREZISTA unless an assessment 
of the benefit/risk ratio justifies the 
use of voriconazole.
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended. When 
co-administration is required the 
daily dose of itraconazole should 
not exceed 200 mg.
A reduction in colchicine dosage 
or an interruption of colchicine 
treatment is recommended in 
patients with normal renal or 
hepatic function if treatment with 
boosted PREZISTA is required. 
For patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment colchicine with 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see sections 4.3
and 4.4).
The combination of boosted 
PREZISTA and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be 
used without dose adjustments; 
however, due to the increase in 
lumefantrine exposure, the 
combination should be used with 
caution.
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS
Rifampicin
Rifapentine
Rifabutin
150 mg once every other 
day
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have 
been shown to cause profound decreases
in concentrations of other protease 
inhibitors, which can result in virological 
failure and resistance development 
(CYP450 enzyme induction). During 
attempts to overcome the decreased 
exposure by increasing the dose of other 
protease inhibitors with low dose 
ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin.
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55%
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39%
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin (parent 
drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite)
** ↑ ND
** ↔
The interaction trial showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure for 
rifabutin between treatment at 300 mg 
once daily alone and 150 mg once every 
other day in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in 
the daily exposure to the active 
metabolite 25-O-desacetylrifabutin. 
Furthermore, AUC of the sum of active 
moieties of rifabutin (parent drug 
+ 25-O-desacetyl metabolite) was 
increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax remained 
comparable.
Data on comparison with a 150 mg once 
daily reference dose is lacking.
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate of 
CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 100 mg 
ritonavir was co-administered with 
rifabutin (150 mg once every other day).
ANTINEOPLASTICS
Dasatinib
Nilotinib
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antineoplastic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Everolimus
Irinotecan
19
The combination of rifapentine and 
boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended.
The combination of rifampicin and 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
A dosage reduction of rifabutin by 
75% of the usual dose of 
300 mg/day (i.e. rifabutin 150 mg 
once every other day) and 
increased monitoring for rifabutin 
related adverse events is warranted 
in patients receiving the 
combination with PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir. In 
case of safety issues, a further 
increase of the dosing interval for 
rifabutin and/or monitoring of 
rifabutin levels should be 
considered.
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the 
appropriate treatment of 
tuberculosis in HIV infected 
patients.
Based upon the safety profile of 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the increase 
in darunavir exposure in the 
presence of rifabutin does not 
warrant a dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
Based on pharmacokinetic 
modeling, this dosage reduction of 
75% is also applicable if patients 
receive rifabutin at doses other 
than 300 mg/day.
Co-administration of PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat 
and rifabutin is not recommended.
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA resulting in the 
potential for increased adverse 
events usually associated with 
these agents.
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
irinotecan and boosted PREZISTA 
is not recommended.
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS
Quetiapine
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antipsychotic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Perphenazine
Risperidone
Thioridazine
Lurasidone
Pimozide
Sertindole
β-BLOCKERS
Carvedilol
Metoprolol
Timolol
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antipsychotic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp
inhibition)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these β-blocker 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP2D6 inhibition)
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS
Amlodipine
Diltiazem
Felodipine
Nicardipine
Nifedipine
Verapamil
CORTICOSTEROIDS
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including 
betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone)
Dexamethasone
(systemic)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA can be 
expected to increase the plasma 
concentrations of calcium channel 
blockers.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily 
were co-administered with 50 g 
intranasal fluticasone propionate (4 times 
daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects, 
fluticasone propionate plasma 
concentrations increased significantly, 
whereas the intrinsic cortisol levels 
decreased by approximately 86% (90% 
CI 82-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone is inhaled. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression have been reported in 
patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered fluticasone. The 
effects of high fluticasone systemic 
exposure on ritonavir plasma levels are 
unknown.
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased 
when co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, resulting in reduced serum 
cortisol concentrations.
Not studied. Dexamethasone may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
darunavir.
(CYP3A induction)
20
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and quetiapine 
is contraindicated as it may 
increase quetiapine-related 
toxicity. Increased concentrations 
of quetiapine may lead to coma
(see section 4.3).
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with boosted PREZISTA.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and 
lurasidone, pimozide or sertindole 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with β-blockers. A 
lower dose of the β-blocker should 
be considered.
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse effects is 
recommended when these 
medicines are concomitantly 
administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Concomitant use of boosted 
PREZISTA and corticosteroids (all 
routes of administration) that are 
metabolised by CYP3A may 
increase the risk of development of 
systemic corticosteroid effects, 
including Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression.
Co-administration with CYP3A-
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should 
be monitored for systemic 
corticosteroid effects.
Alternative corticosteroids which 
are less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly 
for long term use.
Systemic dexamethasone should 
be used with caution when 
combined with boosted 
PREZISTA.
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Bosentan
Not studied. Concomitant use of bosentan 
and boosted PREZISTA may increase 
plasma concentrations of bosentan.
Bosentan is expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(CYP3A induction)
When administered concomitantly 
with PREZISTA and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient’s tolerability 
of bosentan should be monitored.
Co-administration of PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat 
and bosentan is not recommended.
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS
NS3-4A protease inhibitors
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
HERBAL PRODUCTS
St John's Wort
(Hypericum perforatum)
Boosted PREZISTA may increase the 
exposure to grazoprevir.
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition)
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and pibrentasvir.
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition)
Not studied. St John’s Wort is expected 
to decrease the plasma concentrations of 
darunavir or its pharmacoenhancers.
(CYP450 induction)
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Atorvastatin
10 mg once daily
Pravastatin
40 mg single dose
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin 
are expected to have markedly increased 
plasma concentrations when 
co-administered with boosted
PREZISTA.
(CYP3A inhibition)
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold
# darunavir/ritonavir
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 290% Ω
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ 319% Ω
atorvastatin Cmin ND Ω
Ω with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶
pravastatin Cmin ND
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63%
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in a 
limited subset of subjects
21
Concomitant use of boosted 
PREZISTA and
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
It is not recommended to 
co-administer boosted PREZISTA 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.
Boosted PREZISTA must not be 
used concomitantly with products 
containing St John’s Wort
(Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.3). If a patient is already 
taking St John’s Wort, stop 
St John’s Wort and if possible 
check viral levels. Darunavir 
exposure (and also ritonavir 
exposure) may increase on 
stopping St John’s Wort. The 
inducing effect may persist for at 
least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John’s Wort.
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may 
cause myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use 
of boosted PREZISTA with 
lovastatin and simvastatin is 
therefore contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
When administration of 
atorvastatin and boosted
PREZISTA is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response.
When administration of pravastatin 
and boosted PREZISTA is
required, it is recommended to 
start with the lowest possible dose 
of pravastatin and titrate up to the 
desired clinical effect while 
monitoring for safety.
Rosuvastatin
10 mg once daily
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║
║ based on published data with 
darunavir/ritonavir
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 93%§
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 277%§
rosuvastatin Cmin ND§
§ with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS
Lomitapide
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA is expected to 
increase the exposure of lomitapide when 
co-administered.
(CYP3A inhibition)
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Ranitidine
150 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS
Ciclosporin
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Everolimus
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
(CYP3A inhibition)
INHALED BETA AGONISTS
Salmeterol
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and boosted darunavir may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
salmeterol.
When administration of 
rosuvastatin and boosted
PREZISTA is required, it is 
recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of 
rosuvastatin and titrate up to the 
desired clinical effect while 
monitoring for safety.
Co-administration is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Boosted PREZISTA can be 
co-administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose 
adjustments.
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration 
occurs.
Concomitant use of everolimus 
and boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended.
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended. The combination 
may result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse event with 
salmeterol, including QT 
prolongation, palpitations and 
sinus tachycardia.
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE
Methadone
individual dose ranging 
from 55 mg to 150 mg 
once daily
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16%
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24%
PREZISTA/cobicistat may, in contrast, 
increase methadone plasma 
concentrations (see cobicistat SmPC).
Buprenorphine/naloxone
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once 
daily
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%
buprenorphine Cmin ↔
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%
naloxone AUC ↔
naloxone Cmin ND
naloxone Cmax ↔
22
No adjustment of methadone 
dosage is required when initiating 
co-administration with boosted
PREZISTA. However, adjustment 
of the methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time. Therefore, clinical 
monitoring is recommended, as 
maintenance therapy may need to 
be adjusted in some patients.
The clinical relevance of the 
increase in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has 
not been established. Dose 
adjustment for buprenorphine may 
not be necessary when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA but a careful clinical 
monitoring for signs of opiate 
toxicity is recommended.
Fentanyl
Oxycodone
Tramadol
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these analgesics.
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once 
daily)
Ethinylestradiol
Norethindrone
35 g/1 mg once daily
drospirenone AUC ↑ 58%€
drospirenone Cmin ND€
drospirenone Cmax ↑ 15%€
ethinylestradiol AUC  30%€
ethinylestradiol Cmin ND€
ethinylestradiol Cmax  14%€
€ with darunavir/cobicistat
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44%β
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62%β
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32%β
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14%β
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30%β
norethindrone Cmax ↔β
β with darunavir/ritonavir
OPIOID ANTAGONIST
Naloxegol
Not studied.
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS
For the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with
PREZISTA and low dose ritonavir.
Avanafil
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
When PREZISTA is 
co-administered with a 
drospirenone-containing product, 
clinical monitoring is 
recommended due to the potential 
for hyperkalaemia.
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when 
oestrogen-based contraceptives are 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA. Patients using 
oestrogens as hormone 
replacement therapy should be 
clinically monitored for signs of 
oestrogen deficiency.
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and naloxegol is 
contraindicated.
The combination of avanafil and 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction with boosted 
PREZISTA should be done with 
caution. If concomitant use of 
boosted PREZISTA with 
sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil is 
indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 
48 hours, vardenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 
72 hours or tadalafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 10 mg in 
72 hours is recommended.
23
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
sildenafil or tadalafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension and 
boosted PREZISTA may increase plasma 
concentrations of sildenafil or tadalafil.
(CYP3A inhibition)
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS
Omeprazole
20 mg once daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS
Buspirone
Clorazepate
Diazepam
Estazolam
Flurazepam
Midazolam (parenteral)
Zolpidem
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. 
Co-administration with boosted 
PREZISTA may cause a large increase in 
the concentration of these medicines.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with boosted PREZISTA 
it may cause a large increase in the 
concentration of this benzodiazepine. 
Data from concomitant use of parenteral 
midazolam with other protease inhibitors 
suggest a possible 3-4 fold increase in 
midazolam plasma levels.
Midazolam (oral)
Triazolam
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION
Dapoxetine
Not studied.
UROLOGICAL DRUGS
Fesoterodine
Solifenacin
Not studied.
24
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA has not been 
established. There is an increased 
potential for sildenafil-associated 
adverse events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, 
prolonged erection and syncope). 
Therefore, co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and sildenafil 
when used for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of tadalafil for 
the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with boosted 
PREZISTA is not recommended.
Boosted PREZISTA can be 
co-administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose 
adjustments.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these 
sedatives/hypnotics and a lower 
dose of the sedatives/hypnotics 
should be considered.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, it should be done in 
an intensive care unit (ICU) or 
similar setting, which ensures 
close clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical management 
in case of respiratory depression 
and/or prolonged sedation. Dose 
adjustment for midazolam should 
be considered, especially if more 
than a single dose of midazolam is 
administered.
Boosted PREZISTA with 
triazolam or oral midazolam is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated.
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary.
#
Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see 
section 4.2 Posology).
† The efficacy and safety of the use of PREZISTA with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir 
and tipranavir) has not been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with 
protease inhibitors is generally not recommended.
Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily.
‡
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see section 5.2), which may be associated with an increased risk of treatment failure and an increased 
risk of HIV transmission to the child. Therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be initiated 
during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat 
should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring.
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving PREZISTA.
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
PREZISTA in combination with cobicistat or ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with 
regimens containing PREZISTA co-administered with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and should be 
borne in mind when considering a patient’s ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
During the clinical development program (N=2,613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one 
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia.
25
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in 
treatment-naïve subjects was similar to that seen with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in 
treatment-experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in 
treatment-naïve subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were 
identified in the 192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment 
duration of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks.
During the Phase III clinical trial GS-US-216-130 with darunavir/cobicistat (N=313 treatment-naïve 
and treatment-experienced subjects), 66.5% of subjects experienced at least one adverse reaction. The 
mean treatment duration was 58.4 weeks. The most frequent adverse reactions reported were diarrhoea 
(28%), nausea (23%), and rash (16%). Serious adverse reactions are diabetes mellitus, (drug) 
hypersensitivity, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, rash and vomiting.
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical trials and post-marketing
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Infections and infestations
uncommon
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
uncommon
rare
Immune system disorders
uncommon
Endocrine disorders
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
uncommon
Psychiatric disorders
common
uncommon
Adverse reaction
herpes simplex
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, 
leukopenia
increased eosinophil count
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, 
(drug) hypersensitivity
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased 
weight, increased weight, hyperglycaemia, 
insulin resistance, decreased high density 
lipoprotein, increased appetite, polydipsia, 
increased blood lactate dehydrogenase
insomnia
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dreams, nightmare, 
decreased libido
rare
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness
26
Nervous system disorders
common
uncommon
rare
Eye disorders
uncommon
rare
Ear and labyrinth disorders
uncommon
Cardiac disorders
uncommon
rare
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase 
rhythm disturbance
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye
visual disturbance
vertigo
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, 
prolonged electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations
Vascular disorders
uncommon
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
uncommon
hypertension, flushing
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation
rare
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
rhinorrhoea
diarrhoea
common
uncommon
rare
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
common
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased 
blood amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, 
flatulence
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry 
mouth, abdominal discomfort, constipation, 
increased lipase, eructation, oral dysaesthesia
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, 
coated tongue
increased alanine aminotransferase
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood 
bilirubin, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferase
rash (including macular, maculopapular, 
papular, erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus
27
uncommon
rare
not known
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
uncommon
rare
Renal and urinary disorders
uncommon
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic 
dermatitis, urticaria, eczema, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, night sweats, alopecia, acne, dry 
skin, nail pigmentation
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, 
skin lesion, xeroderma
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, 
muscular weakness, arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, osteoporosis, increased blood creatine 
phosphokinase
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria,
bilirubinuria, dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria
rare
decreased creatinine renal clearance
rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
asthenia, fatigue
crystal nephropathy§
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia
uncommon
rare
§
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, 
feeling hot, irritability, pain
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined 
using the "Rule of 3".
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/cobicistat in adult patients
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Immune system disorders
common
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
Psychiatric disorders
common
Nervous system disorders
very common
Adverse reaction
(drug) hypersensitivity
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
anorexia, diabetes mellitus, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hyperlipidaemia
abnormal dreams
headache
28
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
common
uncommon
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
very common
common
rare
not known
diarrhoea, nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, 
dyspepsia, flatulence, pancreatic enzymes 
increased
pancreatitis acute
hepatic enzyme increased
hepatitis*, cytolytic hepatitis*
rash (including macular, maculopapular, 
papular, erythematous, pruritic rash, generalised 
rash, and allergic dermatitis)
angioedema, pruritus, urticaria
drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms*, Stevens-Johnson syndrome*
toxic epidermal necrolysis*, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis*
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
common
myalgia
uncommon
Renal and urinary disorders
rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
osteonecrosis*
crystal nephropathy*§
gynaecomastia*
fatigue
uncommon
Investigations
common
* these adverse drug reactions have not been reported in clinical trial experience with darunavir/cobicistat but have been 
increased blood creatinine
asthenia
§
noted with darunavir/ritonavir treatment and could be expected with darunavir/cobicistat too.
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined 
using the "Rule of 3".
Description of selected adverse reactions
Rash
In clinical trials, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4. In a single arm trial investigating darunavir 800 mg once daily in combination with 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and other antiretrovirals 2.2% of patients discontinued treatment due to 
rash.
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to those containing PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be 
29
drug-related occurred at similar rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 
4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years (PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 
per 100 PYR, respectively. The rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity 
and did not result in discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see 
section 4.4).
Musculoskeletal abnormalities
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs.
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety assessment of PREZISTA with ritonavir in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week 
analysis of safety data from three Phase II trials. The following patient populations were evaluated 
(see section 5.1):

80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents.
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received PREZISTA oral 
suspension with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1).


Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population.
The safety assessment of PREZISTA with cobicistat in paediatric patients was evaluated in 
adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg through the clinical trial 
GS-US-216-0128 (treatment-experienced, virologically suppressed, N=7). Safety analyses of this 
study in adolescent subjects did not identify new safety concerns compared to the known safety profile 
of darunavir and cobicistat in adult subjects.
Other special populations
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1,968 treatment-experienced patients receiving PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4).
30
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Human experience of acute overdose with PREZISTA co-administered with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir is limited. Single doses up to 3,200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1,600 mg 
of the tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with PREZISTA. Treatment of overdose with PREZISTA 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be 
beneficial in significant removal of the active substance.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.
Mechanism of action
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease 
(KD of 4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles.
Antiviral activity in vitro
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
human monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to 
5.0 ng/ml). Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M 
(A, B, C, D, E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM.
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM.
Resistance
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 
23-50-fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased 
susceptibility to darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained 
by the emergence of these protease mutations.
The clinical trial data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN trial and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 trials) showed that virologic response to PREZISTA
co-administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment.
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
31
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40
are resistant (see Clinical results).
Viruses isolated from patients on PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases.
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART.
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN trials.
ARTEMIS
Week 192
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=343
55 (16.0%)
ODIN
Week 48
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=294
65 (22.1%)
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=296
54 (18.2%)
TITAN
Week 48
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=298
31 (10.4%)
39 (11.4%)
16 (4.7%)
11 (3.7%)
54 (18.4%)
11 (3.7%)
43 (14.5%)
16 (5.4%)
15 (5.0%)
Total number of 
virologic failuresa, n 
(%)
Rebounders
Never suppressed 
subjects
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
PI RAMs
0/43
4/43
1/60
7/60
0/42
4/42
6/28
10/28
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N
PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/ml)
IAS-USA lists
1/58
1/58
2/56
2/57
1/58
0/56
0/58
0/41
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/41
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
3/26
0/22
0/22
1/24
0/23
0/22
1/25
a
b
Low rates of developing resistant HIV-1 virus were observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir/cobicistat once daily in combination with other ART, and in 
ART-experienced patients with no darunavir RAMs receiving darunavir/cobicistat in combination 
with other ART. The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and resistance 
to PIs in virologic failures at endpoint in the GS-US-216-130 trial.
GS-US-216-130
Week 48
Treatment-naïve
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
once daily
N=295
Treatment-experienced
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
once daily
N=18
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and genotype data that develop mutationsb at endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
0/8
1/7
32
PI RAMs
2/8
1/7
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and phenotype data that show resistance to PIs at endpointc, n/N
HIV PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
a Virogic failures were defined as: never suppressed: confirmed HIV-1 RNA < 1 log10 reduction from baseline and 
≥ 50 copies/ml at the week-8; rebound: HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml followed by confirmed HIV-1 RNA to 
≥ 400 copies/ml or confirmed > 1 log10 HIV-1 RNA increase from the nadir; discontinuations with HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 400 copies/ml at last visit
IAS-USA lists
In GS-US216-130 baseline phenotype was not available
b
c
Cross-resistance
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3,309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir,
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir.
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS trial no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.
In the virologic failures of the GS-US-216-130 trial no cross-resistance with other HIV PIs was 
observed.
Clinical results
The pharmacokinetic enhancing effect of cobicistat on darunavir was evaluated in a Phase I study in 
healthy subjects that were administered darunavir 800 mg with either cobicistat at 150 mg or ritonavir 
at 100 mg once daily. The steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of darunavir were comparable 
when boosted with cobicistat versus ritonavir. For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat 
Summary of Product Characteristics.
Adult patients
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 150 mg cobicistat once daily in 
ART-naïve and ART-experienced patients
GS-US-216-130 is a single arm, open-label, Phase III trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, 
tolerability, and efficacy of darunavir with cobicistat in 313 HIV-1 infected adult patients 
(295 treatment-naïve and 18 treatment-experienced). These patients received darunavir 800 mg once 
daily in combination with cobicistat 150 mg once daily with an investigator selected background 
regimen consisting of 2 active NRTIs.
HIV-1 infected patients who were eligible for this trial had a screening genotype showing no darunavir 
RAMs and plasma HIV-1 RNA ≥ 1,000 copies/ml. The table below shows the efficacy data of the 
48 week analyses from the GS-US-216-130 trial:
Treatment-naïve
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once
daily+ OBR
N=295
245 (83.1%)
-3.01
GS-US-216-130
Treatment-experienced
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily
+ OBR
N=18
8 (44.4%)
-2.39
All subjects
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily
+ OBR
N=313
253 (80.8%)
-2.97
Outcomes at Week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
mean HIV-1 RNA log change 
from baseline 
(log10 copies/ml)
33
CD4+ cell count mean 
change from baselineb
a
b Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
+174
+102
+170
Efficacy of PREZISTA 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in 
ART-naïve patients
The evidence of efficacy of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily is based on the analyses of 
192 week data from the randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial ARTEMIS in antiretroviral 
treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients comparing PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily with 
lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg per day (given as a twice-daily or as a once-daily regimen). Both arms 
used a fixed background regimen consisting of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily and 
emtricitabine 200 mg once daily.
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week and 96 week analyses from the ARTEMIS
trial:
ARTEMIS
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
Week 48a
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 mg 
per day
N=346
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
83.7%
(287)
85.8%
(194/226)
78.3%
(271)
84.5%
(191/226)
5.3%
(-0.5; 11.2)d
1.3%
(-5.2; 7.9)d
79.0%
(271)
80.5%
(182/226)
79.5%
(93/117)
66.7%
(80/120)
12.8%
(1.6; 24.1)d
76.1%
(89/117)
79.4%
(112/141)
70.3%
(104/148)
9.2%
(-0.8; 19.2)d
78.7%
(111/141)
Week 96b
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 m
g per day
N=346
70.8%
(245)
75.2%
(170/226)
62.5%
(75/120)
64.9%
(96/148)
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
8.2%
(1.7; 14.7)d
5.3%
(-2.3; 13.0)d
13.6%
(1.9; 25.3)d
13.9%
(3.5; 24.2)d
86.6%
(175/202)
84.3%
(167/198)
2.3%
(-4.6; 9.2)d
79.2%
(160/202)
75.3%
(149/198)
4.0%
(-4.3; 12.2)d
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mlc
All patients
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
< 100,000
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
≥ 100,000
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count < 200
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 200
141
171
188
137
median 
CD4+ cell count 
change from 
baseline 
(x 106/L)e
a Data based on analyses at week 48
b Data based on analyses at week 96
c
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
d Based on normal approximation to the difference in % response
e Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0
Non-inferiority in virologic response to the PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment, defined as the percentage 
of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at the pre-defined 12% 
non-inferiority margin) for both Intent-To-Treat (ITT) and On Protocol (OP) populations in the 
48 week analysis. These results were confirmed in the analyses of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the 
ARTEMIS trial. These results were sustained up to 192 weeks of treatment in the ARTEMIS trial.
34
Efficacy of PREZISTA 600 mg twice daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir twice daily in 
ART-experienced patients
The evidence of efficacy of PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) in 
ART-experienced patients is based on the 96 weeks analysis of the Phase III trial TITAN in 
ART-experienced lopinavir naïve patients, on the 48 week analysis of the Phase III trial ODIN in 
ART-experienced patients with no DRV-RAMs, and on the analyses of 96 weeks data from the 
Phase IIb trials POWER 1 and 2 in ART-experienced patients with high level of PI resistance.
TITAN is a randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial comparing PREZISTA co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) versus lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg twice daily) in
ART-experienced, lopinavir naïve HIV-1 infected adult patients. Both arms used an Optimised 
Background Regimen (OBR) consisting of at least 2 antiretrovirals (NRTIs with or without NNRTIs).
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week analysis from the TITAN trial.
TITAN
Outcomes
PREZISTA/ritonavir
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=298
70.8% (211)
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=297
60.3% (179)
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
10.5% (2.9; 18.1)b
88
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
median CD4+ cell 
count change 
from baseline 
(x 106/L)c
a
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c NC=F
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
81
At 48 weeks non-inferiority in virologic response to the PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment, defined as the 
percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 400 and < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at 
the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) for both ITT and OP populations. These results were 
confirmed in the analysis of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the TITAN trial, with 60.4% of patients in 
the PREZISTA/ritonavir arm having HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 96 compared to 55.2% in the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm [difference: 5.2%, 95% CI (-2.8; 13.1)].
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label trial comparing PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected 
patients with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA 
> 1,000 copies/ml. Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms 
used an optimised background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs.
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml)
< 100,000
≥ 100,000
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L)
≥ 100
< 100
ODIN
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily + 
OBR
N=294
72.1% (212)
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=296
70.9% (210)
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b
77.6% (198/255)
35.9% (14/39)
73.2% (194/265)
51.6% (16/31)
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9)
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7)
75.1% (184/245)
57.1% (28/49)
72.5% (187/258)
60.5% (23/38)
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3)
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8)
35
With HIV-1 clade
Type B
Type AE
Type C
Otherc
70.4% (126/179)
90.5% (38/42)
72.7% (32/44)
55.2% (16/29)
108
64.3% (128/199)
91.2% (31/34)
78.8% (26/33)
83.3% (25/30)
112
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6)
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6)
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7)
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3)
-5d (-25; 16)
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline
(x 106/L)e
a
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX
d Difference in means
e
Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be 
non-inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily for both ITT and OP populations.
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in 
patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is 
available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B.
POWER 1 and POWER 2 are randomised, controlled trials comparing PREZISTA co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) with a control group receiving an investigator-selected PI(s) 
regimen in HIV-1 infected patients who had previously failed more than 1 PI containing regimen. An 
OBR consisting of at least 2 NRTIs with or without enfuvirtide (ENF) was used in both trials.
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48-week and 96-week analyses from the pooled 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 trials.
POWER 1 and POWER 2 pooled data
Week 48
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
11.3%
(14)
103
17
33.7%
(23.4%; 
44.1%)c
86
(57; 114)c
Outcomes
HIV RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
45.0%
(59)
CD4+ cell count
mean change from 
baseline 
(x 106/L)b
a
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
38.9%
(51)
133
Week 96
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
8.9%
(11)
15
30.1%
(20.1; 40.0)c
118
(83.9; 
153.4)c
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
b Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
c
95% confidence intervals.
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment in the POWER trials demonstrated sustained 
antiretroviral efficacy and immunologic benefit.
Out of the 59 patients who responded with complete viral suppression (< 50 copies/ml) at week 48, 
47 patients (80% of the responders at week 48) remained responders at week 96.
36
Baseline genotype or phenotype and virologic outcome
Baseline genotype and darunavir FC (shift in susceptibility relative to reference) were shown to be a 
predictive factor of virologic outcome.
Proportion (%) of patients with response (HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 24) to PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) by baseline genotypea, and baseline 
darunavir FC and by use of enfuvirtide (ENF): As treated analysis of the POWER and DUET trials.
Number of baseline mutationsa
Baseline DRV FCb
Response (HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/ml 
at week 24)
%, n/N
All patients
All 
ranges
0-2
3
≥ 4
All ranges
≤ 10
10-40
> 40
45%
455/1,014
54%
359/660
39%
67/172
12%
20/171
45%
455/1,014
55%
364/659
29%
59/203
8%
9/118
39%
290/741
Patients with 
no/non-naïve use of 
ENFc
Patients with naïve 
use of ENFd
a Number of mutations from the list of mutations associated with a diminished response to PREZISTA/ritonavir (V11I, 
66%
120/182
39%
290/741
51%
244/477
60%
165/273
60%
165/273
50%
238/477
66%
121/183
17%
25/147
29%
35/120
7%
10/135
28%
10/36
62%
32/52
61%
34/56
5%
5/94
17%
4/24
V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V or L89V)
fold change in EC50
“Patients with no/non-naïve use of ENF” are patients who did not use ENF or who used ENF but not for the first time
“Patients with naïve use of ENF” are patients who used ENF for the first time
b
c
d
Paediatric patients
Efficacy of PREZISTA with ritonavir in paediatric patients
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 6 to < 18 years, and weighing at least 20 kg
DELPHI is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir in 80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric 
patients aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg. These patients received PREZISTA/ritonavir 
twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
recommendations per body weight). Virologic response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 
RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus baseline.
In the study, patients who were at risk of discontinuing therapy due to intolerance of ritonavir oral 
solution (e.g. taste aversion) were allowed to switch to the capsule formulation. Of the 44 patients 
taking ritonavir oral solution, 27 switched to the 100 mg capsule formulation and exceeded the
weight-based ritonavir dose without changes in observed safety.
Outcomes at week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
a
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
DELPHI
PREZISTA/ritonavir
N=80
47.5% (38)
147
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
According to the TLOVR non-virologic failure censored algorithm 24 (30.0%) patients experienced 
virological failure, of which 17 (21.3%) patients were rebounders and 7 (8.8%) patients were 
non-responders.
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 3 to < 6 years
The pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability and efficacy of PREZISTA/ritonavir twice daily in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents in 21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
37
aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing 10 kg to < 20 kg was evaluated in an open-label, Phase II trial, 
ARIEL. Patients received a weight-based twice daily treatment regimen, patients weighing 10 kg to 
< 15 kg received darunavir/ritonavir 25/3 mg/kg twice daily, and patients weighing 15 kg to < 20 kg 
received darunavir/ritonavir 375/50 mg twice daily. At week 48, the virologic response, defined as the 
percentage of patients with confirmed plasma viral load < 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml, was evaluated in 
16 paediatric patients 15 kg to < 20 kg and 5 paediatric patients 10 kg to < 15 kg receiving 
PREZISTA/ritonavir in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
recommendations per body weight).
Outcomes at week 48
PREZISTA/ritonavir
ARIEL
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from 
baselineb
a
b NC=F
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
10 kg to < 15 kg
N=5
80.0% (4)
4
16
15 kg to < 20 kg
N=16
81.3% (13)
4
241
Limited efficacy data are available in paediatric patients below 15 kg and no recommendation on a 
posology can be made.
ART-naïve paediatric patients from the age of 12 years to < 18 years, and weighing at least 40 kg
DIONE is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir in 12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
aged 12 to less than 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg. These patients received 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Virologic 
response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus 
baseline.
DIONE
Outcomes at week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
≥ 1.0 log10 decrease from baseline in plasma viral load
a
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
PREZISTA/ritonavir
N=12
83.3% (10)
14
221
100%
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
Efficacy of PREZISTA with cobicistat in paediatric patients
In the open-label, Phase II/III trial GS-US-216-0128, the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of 
darunavir 800 mg and cobicistat 150 mg (administered as separate tablets) and at least 2 NRTIs were 
evaluated in 7 HIV-1 infected, treatment-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents weighing 
at least 40 kg. Patients were on a stable antiretroviral regimen (for at least 3 months), consisting of 
darunavir administered with ritonavir, combined with 2 NRTIs. They were switched from ritonavir to 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and continued darunavir (N=7) and 2 NRTIs.
Virologic outcome in ART-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents at week 48
GS-US-216-0128
Outcomes at Week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL per FDA Snapshot 
Approach
Darunavir/cobicistat + at least 2 NRTIs
(N=7)
85.7% (6)
38
CD4+ percent median change from baselinea
CD4+ cell count median change from baselinea
a No imputation (observed data).
-6.1%
-342 cells/mm³
Pregnancy and postpartum
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical trial of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with cobicistat or ritonavir, have been 
evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher 
in HIV-1 infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 
infected patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of 
α1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to 
plasma AAG and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations.
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Cobicistat and ritonavir inhibit CYP3A, thereby 
increasing the plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably.
For information on cobicistat pharmacokinetic properties, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Absorption
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours.
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4).
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat 
or low dose ritonavir is lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, PREZISTA tablets should 
be taken with cobicistat or ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to 
darunavir.
Distribution
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein.
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir.
Biotransformation
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir trial in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
39
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV.
Elimination
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir.
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively.
Special populations
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in
74 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed 
that the administered weight-based doses of PREZISTA/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure 
comparable to that in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 
14 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once 
daily dosage may be used in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at 
least 40 kg without darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma 
HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 
10 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, 
pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages 
of 3 to < 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed 
the identification of weight-based PREZISTA/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric 
patients weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients 
without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir 800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in paediatric 
patients have been studied in 7 adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg in 
Study GS-US-216-0128. The geometric mean adolescent exposure (AUCtau) was similar for darunavir 
and increased 19% for cobicistat compared to exposures achieved in adults who received darunavir 
800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in Study GS-US-216-0130. The difference observed 
for cobicistat was not considered clinically relevant.
40
Adults in Study 
GS-US-216-0130, week 24
(Reference)a
Mean (%CV)
GLSM
60c
Adolescents in Study 
GS-US-216-0128, day 10
(Test)b
Mean (%CV)
GLSM
7
GLSM Ratio
(90% CI)
(Test/Reference)
81,646 (32.2)
77,534
7,663 (25.1)
7,422
1,311 (74.0)
947
80,877 (29.5)
77,217
7,506 (21.7)
7,319
1,087 (91.6)
676
1.00 (0.79-1.26)
0.99 (0.83-1.17)
0.71 (0.34-1.48)
N
DRV PK 
Parameter
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d
Cmax (ng/mL)
Ctau (ng/mL)d
COBI PK 
Parameter
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d
Cmax (ng/mL)
Ctau (ng/mL)d
7,596 (48.1)
7,022
991 (33.4)
945
32.8 (289.4)
17.2e
a Week 24 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg.
b Day 10 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg.
c N=59 for AUCtau and Ctau.
d Concentration at predose (0 hours) was used as surrogate for concentration at 24 hours for the purposes of estimating 
8,741 (34.9)
8,330
1,116 (20.0)
1,095
28.3 (157.2)
22.0e
1.16 (1.00-1.35)
1.19 (0.95-1.48)
1.28 (0.51-3.22)
AUCtau and Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0128.
e N=57 and N=5 for GLSM of Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0130 and Study GS-US-216-0128, respectively.
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant.
Renal impairment
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged.
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with 
PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total 
plasma concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate 
(Child-Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. 
However, unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and
100% (Child-Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown 
therefore, PREZISTA should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).
41
Pregnancy and postpartum
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum.
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC12h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
a
n=11 for AUC12h
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)a
4,668 ± 1,097
39,370 ± 9,597
1,922 ± 825
Third trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)
5,328 ± 1,631
45,880 ± 17,360
2,661 ± 1,269
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=12)
6,659 ± 2,364
56,890 ± 26,340
2,851 ± 2,216
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC24h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=17)
4,964 ± 1,505
62,289 ± 16,234
1,248 ± 542
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=15)
5,132 ± 1,198
61,112 ± 13,790
1,075 ± 594
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=16)
7,310 ± 1,704
92,116 ± 29,241
1,473 ± 1,141
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum.
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during pregnancy results in low darunavir 
exposure. In women receiving darunavir/cobicistat during the second trimester of pregnancy, mean 
intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 49%, 56% and 92% lower, 
respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total darunavir 
Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 37%, 50% and 89% lower, respectively, as compared with 
postpartum. The unbound fraction was also substantially reduced, including around 90% reductions of 
Cmin levels. The main cause of these low exposures is a marked reduction in cobicistat exposure as a 
consequence of pregnancy-associated enzyme induction (see below).
42
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy, and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/mL
AUC24h, ng.h/mL
Cmin, ng/mL
Second trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=7)
4,340 ± 1,616
47,293 ± 19,058
168 ± 149
Third trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=6)
4,910 ± 970
47,991 ± 9,879
184 ± 99
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=6)
7,918 ± 2,199
99,613 ± 34,862
1,538 ± 1,344
The exposure to cobicistat was lower during pregnancy, potentially leading to suboptimal boosting of 
darunavir. During the second trimester of pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin were 50%, 
63%, and 83% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum. During the third trimester of 
pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin, were 27%, 49%, and 83% lower, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs.
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time.
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose.
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1,000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1,000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats.
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years 
of age.
43
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1,000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses.
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy).
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including 
bacterial reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo
micronucleus test in mice.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Hydroxypropyl cellulose
Microcrystalline cellulose
Carmellose sodium
Citric acid monohydrate
Sucralose
Strawberry cream flavour
Masking flavour
Sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219)
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment)
Purified water
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 30°C.
Do not refrigerate or freeze. Avoid exposure to excessive heat.
Store in the original container.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Amber-coloured multiple-dose glass bottle for 200 ml suspension with a polypropylene closure with 
LDPE liner packaged with a 6 ml oral dosing pipette with 0.2 ml gradations. The bottle neck is filled 
with a low density polyethylene (LDPE) insert that accommodates the dosing pipette.
44
PREZISTA oral suspension is available in packs of one bottle.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Shake the bottle vigorously prior to each dose. The supplied oral dosing pipette should not be used for 
any other medicinal products.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/006
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 12 February 2007
Date of latest renewal: 19 September 2013
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
45
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
Excipient with known effect:
Each tablet contains a maximum of 2.750 mg sunset yellow FCF (E110).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
Film-coated tablet.
White caplet shaped tablet of 9.2 mm, debossed with “75” on one side and “TMC” on the other side.
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
Film-coated tablet.
White oval shaped tablet of 13.7 mm, debossed with “150” on one side and “TMC” on the other side.
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
Film-coated tablet.
Orange oval shaped tablet of 21.1 mm, debossed with “600MG” on one side and “TMC” on the other 
side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
PREZISTA, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infection (see section 4.2).
PREZISTA 75 mg, 150 mg, and 600 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens (see 
section 4.2):

For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in antiretroviral treatment (ART)-experienced adult 
patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated.
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 
15 kg body weight.

In deciding to initiate treatment with PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir, careful 
consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of 
46
mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of PREZISTA (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection.
After therapy with PREZISTA has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dosage, 
dose form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider.
Posology
PREZISTA must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product Characteristics of 
ritonavir must, therefore, be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is also available as an oral suspension for use in patients who are unable to swallow 
PREZISTA tablets (please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA oral 
suspension).
ART-experienced adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food. PREZISTA 75 mg, 150 mg, and 600 mg tablets can be used to construct the twice daily 
600 mg regimen.
The use of 75 mg and 150 mg tablets to achieve the recommended dose is appropriate when there is a 
possibility of hypersensitivity to specific colouring agents, or difficulty in swallowing the 600 mg 
tablets.
ART-naïve adult patients
For dosage recommendations in ART-naïve patients see the Summary of Product Characteristics for 
PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets.
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
The weight-based dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir in paediatric patients is provided in the table 
below.
Recommended dose for treatment-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with PREZISTA 
tablets and ritonavira
Body weight (kg)
Dose (once daily with food)
≥ 15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg to < 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
600 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir once daily
675 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir once daily
800 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir once daily
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
PREZISTA twice daily taken with ritonavir taken with food is usually recommended.
A once daily dose regimen of PREZISTA taken with ritonavir taken with food may be used in patients 
with prior exposure to antiretroviral medicinal products but without darunavir resistance associated 
mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L.
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The weight-based dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir in paediatric patients is provided in the table 
below. The recommended dose of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir should not exceed the 
recommended adult dose (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily).
47
Recommended dose for treatment-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with
PREZISTA tablets and ritonavira
Body weight (kg)
≥ 15 kg–< 30 kg
≥ 30 kg–< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
Dose (once daily with food)
600 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
675 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
800 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
Dose (twice daily with food)
375 mg PREZISTA/50 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
450 mg PREZISTA/60 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
600 mg PREZISTA/100 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
For ART-experienced paediatric patients HIV genotypic testing is recommended. However, when HIV 
genotypic testing is not feasible, the PREZISTA/ritonavir once daily dosing regimen is recommended 
in HIV protease inhibitor-naïve paediatric patients and the twice daily dosing regimen is 
recommended in HIV protease inhibitor-experienced patients.
The use of only 75 mg and 150 mg tablets or the 100 mg/ml oral suspension to achieve the 
recommended dose of PREZISTA could be appropriate when there is a possibility of hypersensitivity 
to specific colouring agents.
Advice on missed doses
In case a dose of PREZISTA and/or ritonavir is missed within 6 hours of the time it is usually taken, 
patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir with food as soon 
as possible. If this is noticed later than 6 hours after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose should 
not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule.
This guidance is based on the 15 hour half-life of darunavir in the presence of ritonavir and the 
recommended dosing interval of approximately 12 hours.
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA with ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, the patient does not need to take another dose of PREZISTA with ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time.
Special populations
Elderly
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, 
PREZISTA should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of 
darunavir exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, PREZISTA must not be used in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Paediatric population
PREZISTA/ritonavir should not be used in children with a body weight of less than 15 kg as the dose 
for this population has not been established in a sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1). 
PREZISTA/ritonavir should not be used in children below 3 years of age because of safety concerns 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.3).
48
The weight-based dose regimen for PREZISTA and ritonavir is provided in the tables above.
Pregnancy and postpartum
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2).
Method of administration
Patients should be instructed to take PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir within 30 minutes after 
completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.2).
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment.
Combination of strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampicin with PREZISTA with concomitant low 
dose ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with herbal preparations containing St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.5).
Co-administration of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir, with active substances that are highly 
dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with 
serious and/or life-threatening events. These active substances include e.g.:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
alfuzosin
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine
astemizole, terfenadine
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5)
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine)
elbasvir/grazoprevir
cisapride
dapoxetine
domperidone
naloxegol
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5)
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
see section 4.5)
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5)
ticagrelor (see section 4.5).
-
-
-
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed.
PREZISTA must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 5.2). The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation of therapy 
with PREZISTA.
49
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations It is not recommended to alter the dose of ritonavir.
Darunavir binds predominantly to 1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is 
concentration-dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of 
medicinal products highly bound to 1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5).
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing
PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than 
B (see section 5.1).
Paediatric population
PREZISTA is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
Pregnancy
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medications which may 
further decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2).
Elderly
As limited information is available on the use of PREZISTA in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of PREZISTA in elderly patients, reflecting the greater 
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2).
Severe skin reactions
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. PREZISTA should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include,
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia.
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA (see section 4.8).
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. PREZISTA should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy.
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with PREZISTA. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products.
50
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir and patients should be monitored during treatment. Increased AST/ALT 
monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients 
who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of 
PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment.
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using PREZISTA/ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of 
treatment should be considered promptly.
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment
The safety and efficacy of PREZISTA have not been established in patients with severe underlying 
liver disorders and PREZISTA is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
51
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).
Interactions with medicinal products
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5.
Efavirenz in combination with boosted PREZISTA once daily may result in sub-optimal darunavir 
Cmin. If efavirenz is to be used in combination with PREZISTA, the PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily regimen should be used (see section 4.5).
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
PREZISTA 600 mg tablets contain sunset yellow FCF (E110) which may cause an allergic reaction.
PREZISTA 75 mg, 150 mg, and 600 mg tablets contain less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, 
that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.
Co-administration of darunavir/ritonavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss 
of their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below).
PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products 
that are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is
associated with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3).
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, PREZISTA must only be used in 
combination with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect.
52
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir/ritonavir exposure
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and ritonavir (e.g. rifampicin, St John’s Wort, lopinavir). 
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir and other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir and may result in increased plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and ritonavir (e.g. indinavir, azole antifungals like clotrimazole). These interactions are 
described in the interaction table below.
Interaction table
Interactions between PREZISTA/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”).
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated.
The below list of examples of drug-drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with PREZISTA should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration.
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration
Interaction
Geometric mean change (%)
Medicinal product
examples by therapeutic 
area
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors
Dolutegravir
Raltegravir
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22%
dolutegravir C24h ↓ 38%
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%
darunavir ↔*
* Using cross-study comparisons to historical 
pharmacokinetic data
Some clinical studies suggest raltegravir 
may cause a modest decrease in 
darunavir plasma concentrations.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and dolutegravir 
can be used without dose 
adjustment.
At present the effect of raltegravir 
on darunavir plasma 
concentrations does not appear to 
be clinically relevant. PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose
ritonavir and raltegravir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
53
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Didanosine
400 mg once daily
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%
didanosine Cmin ND
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
Tenofovir disoproxil
245 mg once daily‡
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16%
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules)
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔
Tenofovir ↑
Abacavir
Emtricitabine
Lamivudine
Stavudine
Zidovudine
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other NRTIs 
zidovudine, emtricitabine, stavudine, 
lamivudine, that are primarily renally 
excreted, and abacavir for which 
metabolism is not mediated by CYP450, 
no interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)
Efavirenz
600 mg once daily
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15%
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction)
Etravirine
100 mg twice daily
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
54
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and didanosine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Didanosine is to be administered 
on an empty stomach, thus it 
should be administered 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after 
PREZISTA/ritonavir given with 
food.
Monitoring of renal function may 
be indicated when PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir is given in combination 
with tenofovir disoproxil, 
particularly in patients with 
underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents.
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide is 200/10 mg once 
daily when used with PREZISTA
with low dose ritonavir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir can be used 
with these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment.
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to 
efavirenz may be indicated when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is given in 
combination with efavirenz.
Efavirenz in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
once daily may result in 
sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in 
combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily regimen should be used 
(see section 4.4).
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and etravirine 
200 mg twice daily can be used
without dose adjustments.
Nevirapine
200 mg twice daily
Rilpivirine
150 mg once daily
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%
#darunavir: concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition)
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%
darunavir Cmax ↔
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and nevirapine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and rilpivirine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
Atazanavir
300 mg once daily
atazanavir AUC ↔
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and atazanavir 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
When used in combination with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir, dose 
adjustment of indinavir from 
800 mg twice daily to 600 mg
twice daily may be warranted in 
case of intolerance.
Indinavir
800 mg twice daily
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once 
daily vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily in 
combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily in combination with 
atazanavir 300 mg once daily.
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%
indinavir Cmax ↔
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11%
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice 
daily vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with indinavir 800 mg 
twice daily.
55
Saquinavir
1,000 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6%
It is not recommended to combine 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir with saquinavir.
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1,000/100 mg twice 
daily vs. saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1,000/400/100 mg twice daily
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with saquinavir 1,000 mg 
twice daily.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily
Lopinavir/ritonavir
533/133.3 mg twice daily
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡
lopinavir AUC ↔
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%
‡ based upon non dose normalised values
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the 
combination have not been 
established. Hence, concomitant 
use of PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir and the 
combination product
lopinavir/ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
CCR5 ANTAGONIST
Maraviroc
150 mg twice daily
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%
maraviroc Cmin ND
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129%
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir.
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST
Alfuzosin
ANAESTHETIC
Alfentanil
Based on theoretical considerations 
PREZISTA is expected to increase 
alfuzosin plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Co-administration of PREZISTA
with low dose ritonavir and
alfuzosin is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Not studied. The metabolism of alfentanil 
is mediated via CYP3A, and may as such 
be inhibited by PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
The concomitant use with 
PREZISTA and low dose ritonavir 
may require to lower the dose of 
alfentanil and requires monitoring 
for risks of prolonged or delayed 
respiratory depression.
56
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC
Disopyramide
Flecainide
Lidocaine (systemic)
Mexiletine
Propafenone
Not studied. PREZISTA is expected to 
increase these antiarrhythmic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Amiodarone
Bepridil
Dronedarone
Ivabradine
Quinidine
Ranolazine
Digoxin
0.4 mg single dose
ANTIBIOTIC
Clarithromycin
500 mg twice daily
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%
digoxin Cmin ND
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29%
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of 
P-gp)
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations 
were not detectable when combined with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A inhibition 
and possible P-gp inhibition)
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring, if available, is 
recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and 
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, 
ivabradine, quinidine, or 
ranolazine is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is 
recommended that the lowest 
possible dose of digoxin should 
initially be prescribed in case 
digoxin is given to patients on 
darunavir/ritonavir therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired 
clinical effect while assessing the 
overall clinical state of the subject.
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir.
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose.
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with these 
anticoagulants may increase 
concentrations of the anticoagulant.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
The use of boosted PREZISTA 
with a direct oral anticoagulant 
(DOAC) that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 and transported by P-gp
is not recommended as this may 
lead to an increased bleeding risk.
57
Dabigatran etexilate
Edoxaban
Ticagrelor
Clopidogrel
Warfarin
ANTICONVULSANTS
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
Carbamazepine
200 mg twice daily
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg):
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64%
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22%
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted PREZISTA 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition).
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, which 
may reduce the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel.
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations may 
be affected when co-administered with 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir.
Not studied. Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
are expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clonazepam
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with clonazepam 
may increase concentrations of 
clonazepam. (CYP3A inhibition)
Darunavir/ritonavir:
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, 
including dabigatran etexilate and 
edoxaban, is co-administered with 
PREZISTA/rtv.
Concomitant administration of
boosted PREZISTA with ticagrelor 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended. Use of other 
antiplatelets not affected by CYP 
inhibition or induction (e.g. 
prasugrel) is recommended.
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio 
(INR) be monitored when warfarin 
is combined with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir should not be 
used in combination with these 
medicines.
No dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir is 
recommended. If there is a need to 
combine PREZISTA/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be 
monitored and its dose should be 
titrated for adequate response. 
Based upon the findings, the 
carbamazepine dose may need to 
be reduced by 25% to 50% in the 
presence of PREZISTA/ritonavir.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted
PREZISTA with clonazepam.
58
If antidepressants are 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir, the 
recommended approach is a dose 
titration of the antidepressant 
based on a clinical assessment of 
antidepressant response. In 
addition, patients on a stable dose 
of these antidepressants who start 
treatment with PREZISTA with 
low dose ritonavir should be 
monitored for antidepressant 
response.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering PREZISTA with 
low dose ritonavir with these 
antidepressants and a dose 
adjustment of the antidepressant 
may be needed.
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated.
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir unless an assessment of 
the benefit/risk ratio justifies the 
use of voriconazole.
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended. When 
co-administration is required the 
daily dose of itraconazole should 
not exceed 200 mg.
ANTIDEPRESSANTS
Paroxetine
20 mg once daily
Sertraline
50 mg once daily
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Amitriptyline
Desipramine
Imipramine
Nortriptyline
Trazodone
ANTIEMETICS
Domperidone
ANTIFUNGALS
Voriconazole
Fluconazole
Isavuconazole
Itraconazole
Posaconazole
Clotrimazole
Concomitant use of PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir 
and these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
Not studied.
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Not studied. PREZISTA may increase 
antifungal plasma concentrations and 
posaconazole, isavuconazole,
itraconazole, or fluconazole may increase 
darunavir concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not studied. Concomitant systemic use of 
clotrimazole and darunavir 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole.
darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model)
59
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES
Colchicine
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
colchicine and darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir may increase the 
exposure to colchicine.
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition)
ANTIMALARIALS
Artemether/Lumefantrine
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 
8, 24, 36, 48, and 
60 hours
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS
Rifampicin
Rifapentine
artemether AUC ↓ 16%
artemether Cmin ↔
artemether Cmax ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have 
been shown to cause profound decreases 
in concentrations of other protease 
inhibitors, which can result in virological 
failure and resistance development 
(CYP450 enzyme induction). During 
attempts to overcome the decreased 
exposure by increasing the dose of other 
protease inhibitors with low dose 
ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin.
A reduction in colchicine dosage 
or an interruption of colchicine 
treatment is recommended in 
patients with normal renal or 
hepatic function if treatment with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is required. For 
patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment colchicine with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4).
The combination of PREZISTA 
and artemether/lumefantrine can 
be used without dose adjustments; 
however, due to the increase in 
lumefantrine exposure, the 
combination should be used with 
caution.
The combination of rifapentine and 
PREZISTA with concomitant low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended.
The combination of rifampicin and 
PREZISTA with concomitant low 
dose ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
60
** ↑ ND
** ↔
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55%
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39%
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin (parent 
drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite)
The interaction trial showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure for 
rifabutin between treatment at 300 mg 
once daily alone and 150 mg once every 
other day in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in 
the daily exposure to the active 
metabolite 25-O-desacetylrifabutin. 
Furthermore, AUC of the sum of active 
moieties of rifabutin (parent drug 
+ 25-O-desacetyl metabolite) was 
increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax remained 
comparable.
Data on comparison with a 150 mg once 
daily reference dose is lacking.
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate of 
CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 100 mg 
ritonavir was co-administered with 
rifabutin (150 mg once every other day).
Not studied. PREZISTA is expected to 
increase these antineoplastic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Rifabutin
150 mg once every other 
day
ANTINEOPLASTICS
Dasatinib
Nilotinib
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Everolimus
Irinotecan
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS
Quetiapine
Not studied. PREZISTA is expected to
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
61
A dosage reduction of rifabutin by 
75% of the usual dose of 
300 mg/day (i.e. rifabutin 150 mg 
once every other day) and 
increased monitoring for rifabutin 
related adverse events is warranted 
in patients receiving the 
combination with PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir. In 
case of safety issues, a further 
increase of the dosing interval for 
rifabutin and/or monitoring of 
rifabutin levels should be 
considered.
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the 
appropriate treatment of 
tuberculosis in HIV infected 
patients.
Based upon the safety profile of 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the increase 
in darunavir exposure in the 
presence of rifabutin does not 
warrant a dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
Based on pharmacokinetic 
modeling, this dosage reduction of 
75% is also applicable if patients 
receive rifabutin at doses other 
than 300 mg/day.
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir resulting in 
the potential for increased adverse 
events usually associated with 
these agents.
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with 
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir.
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
irinotecan and PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir is not recommended.
Concomitant administration of 
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir and quetiapine is 
contraindicated as it may increase 
quetiapine-related toxicity. 
Increased concentrations of 
quetiapine may lead to coma (see 
section 4.3).
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir.
Concomitant administration of 
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir and lurasidone, pimozide 
or sertindole is contraindicated
(see section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering PREZISTA with 
β-blockers. A lower dose of the 
β-blocker should be considered.
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse effects is 
recommended when these 
medicines are concomitantly 
administered with PREZISTA with 
low dose ritonavir.
Concomitant use of PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir and 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) that are 
metabolised by CYP3A may 
increase the risk of development of 
systemic corticosteroid effects, 
including Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression.
Co-administration with CYP3A-
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should 
be monitored for systemic 
corticosteroid effects.
Alternative corticosteroids which 
are less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly 
for long term use.
Systemic dexamethasone should 
be used with caution when 
combined with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir.
Perphenazine
Risperidone
Thioridazine
Lurasidone
Pimozide
Sertindole
β-BLOCKERS
Carvedilol
Metoprolol
Timolol
Not studied. PREZISTA is expected to 
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp
inhibition)
Not studied. PREZISTA is expected to 
increase these β-blocker plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP2D6 inhibition)
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS
Amlodipine
Diltiazem
Felodipine
Nicardipine
Nifedipine
Verapamil
CORTICOSTEROIDS
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including 
betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone)
Dexamethasone
(systemic)
Not studied. PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir can be expected 
to increase the plasma concentrations of 
calcium channel blockers.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily 
were co-administered with 50 g 
intranasal fluticasone propionate (4 times 
daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects, 
fluticasone propionate plasma 
concentrations increased significantly, 
whereas the intrinsic cortisol levels 
decreased by approximately 86% (90% 
CI 82-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone is inhaled. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression have been reported in 
patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered fluticasone. The 
effects of high fluticasone systemic 
exposure on ritonavir plasma levels are 
unknown.
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased 
when co-administered with PREZISTA
with low dose ritonavir, resulting in 
reduced serum cortisol concentrations.
Not studied. Dexamethasone may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
darunavir.
(CYP3A induction)
62
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Bosentan
Not studied. Concomitant use of bosentan 
and PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of bosentan.
Bosentan is expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(CYP3A induction)
When administered concomitantly 
with PREZISTA and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient’s tolerability 
of bosentan should be monitored.
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS
NS3-4A protease inhibitors
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
HERBAL PRODUCTS
St John's Wort
(Hypericum perforatum)
PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir may 
increase the exposure to grazoprevir.
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition)
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and pibrentasvir.
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition)
Not studied. St John’s Wort is expected 
to decrease the plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and ritonavir.
(CYP450 induction)
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin 
are expected to have markedly increased 
plasma concentrations when 
co-administered with 
PREZISTAco-administered with low 
dose ritonavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Atorvastatin
10 mg once daily
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold
#darunavir/ritonavir
Pravastatin
40 mg single dose
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶
pravastatin Cmin ND
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63%
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in a 
limited subset of subjects
63
Concomitant use of PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir and
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
It is not recommended to 
co-administer boosted PREZISTA 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir must not be 
used concomitantly with products 
containing St John’s Wort
(Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.3). If a patient is already 
taking St John’s Wort, stop 
St John’s Wort and if possible 
check viral levels. Darunavir 
exposure (and also ritonavir 
exposure) may increase on 
stopping St John’s Wort. The 
inducing effect may persist for at 
least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John’s Wort.
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may 
cause myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use 
of PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir with 
lovastatin and simvastatin is 
therefore contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
When administration of 
atorvastatin and PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response.
When administration of pravastatin 
and PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir is required, 
it is recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of pravastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety.
Rosuvastatin
10 mg once daily
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║
║ based on published data with 
darunavir/ritonavir
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS
Lomitapide
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA is expected to 
increase the exposure of lomitapide when 
co-administered.
(CYP3A inhibition)
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Ranitidine
150 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS
Ciclosporin
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Everolimus
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
INHALED BETA AGONISTS
Salmeterol
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir may increase 
plasma concentrations of salmeterol.
When administration of 
rosuvastatin and PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir is required, it is 
recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of 
rosuvastatin and titrate up to the 
desired clinical effect while 
monitoring for safety.
Co-administration is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir can be 
co-administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose 
adjustments.
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration 
occurs.
Concomitant use of everolimus 
and PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir is not 
recommended.
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is not 
recommended. The combination 
may result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse event with 
salmeterol, including QT 
prolongation, palpitations and 
sinus tachycardia.
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE
Methadone
individual dose ranging 
from 55 mg to 150 mg 
once daily
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16%
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24%
No adjustment of methadone 
dosage is required when initiating 
co-administration with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir. However, 
increased methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time due to induction of 
metabolism by ritonavir. 
Therefore, clinical monitoring is 
recommended, as maintenance 
therapy may need to be adjusted in 
some patients.
64
Buprenorphine/naloxone
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once 
daily
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%
buprenorphine Cmin ↔
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%
naloxone AUC ↔
naloxone Cmin ND
naloxone Cmax ↔
Fentanyl
Oxycodone
Tramadol
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once 
daily)
Ethinylestradiol
Norethindrone
35 g/1 mg once daily
Not studied with darunavir/ritonavir.
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44%β
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62%β
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32%β
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14%β
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30%β
norethindrone Cmax ↔β
β with darunavir/ritonavir
OPIOID ANTAGONIST
Naloxegol
Not studied.
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS
For the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with
PREZISTA and low dose ritonavir.
Avanafil
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
The clinical relevance of the 
increase in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has 
not been established. Dose 
adjustment for buprenorphine may 
not be necessary when 
co-administered with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir but a careful 
clinical monitoring for signs of 
opiate toxicity is recommended.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these analgesics.
When PREZISTA is co-
administered with a drospirenone-
containing product, clinical 
monitoring is recommended due to 
the potential for hyperkalaemia.
Alternative or additional
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when 
oestrogen-based contraceptives are 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
and low dose ritonavir.
Patients using oestrogens as 
hormone replacement therapy 
should be clinically monitored for 
signs of oestrogen deficiency.
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and naloxegol is 
contraindicated.
The combination of avanafil and 
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). Concomitant use of 
other PDE-5 inhibitors for the 
treatment of erectile dysfunction 
with PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir should be 
done with caution. If concomitant 
use of PREZISTA co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir with 
sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil is 
indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 
48 hours, vardenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 
72 hours or tadalafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 10 mg in 
72 hours is recommended.
65
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
sildenafil or tadalafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension and 
darunavir co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of sildenafil or tadalafil.
(CYP3A inhibition)
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS
Omeprazole
20 mg once daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS
Buspirone
Clorazepate
Diazepam
Estazolam
Flurazepam
Midazolam (parenteral)
Zolpidem
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. 
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir may cause a large 
increase in the concentration of these 
medicines.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir it 
may cause a large increase in the 
concentration of this benzodiazepine. 
Data from concomitant use of parenteral 
midazolam with other protease inhibitors 
suggest a possible 3-4 fold increase in 
midazolam plasma levels.
Midazolam (oral)
Triazolam
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION
Dapoxetine
Not studied. 
66
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
and low dose ritonavir has not 
been established. There is an 
increased potential for 
sildenafil-associated adverse 
events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, 
prolonged erection and syncope). 
Therefore, co-administration of 
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir and sildenafil when used 
for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of tadalafil for 
the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with PREZISTA and 
low dose ritonavir is not 
recommended.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir can be 
co-administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose 
adjustments.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering PREZISTA with 
these sedatives/hypnotics and a 
lower dose of the 
sedatives/hypnotics should be 
considered.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
with low dose ritonavir, it should 
be done in an intensive care unit 
(ICU) or similar setting, which 
ensures close clinical monitoring 
and appropriate medical 
management in case of respiratory 
depression and/or prolonged 
sedation. Dose adjustment for 
midazolam should be considered, 
especially if more than a single 
dose of midazolam is 
administered.
PREZISTA with low dose 
ritonavir with triazolam or oral 
midazolam is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated.
UROLOGICAL DRUGS
Fesoterodine
Solifenacin
Not studied. 
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary.
#
Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see 
section 4.2 Posology).
† The efficacy and safety of the use of PREZISTA with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir 
and tipranavir) has not been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with 
protease inhibitors is generally not recommended.
Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily.
‡
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring.
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving PREZISTA.
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
PREZISTA in combination with ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use 
machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with regimens 
containing PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir and should be borne in mind when 
considering a patient’s ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
During the clinical development program (N=2,613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one 
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia.
67
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in 
treatment-naïve subjects was similar to that seen with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in 
treatment-experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in 
treatment-naïve subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were 
identified in the 192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment 
duration of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical trials and post-marketing
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Infections and infestations
Uncommon
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Uncommon
Rare
Immune system disorders
Uncommon
Endocrine disorders
Uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common
Uncommon
Psychiatric disorders
Common
uncommon 
Rare
Nervous system disorders
Common
Uncommon
Adverse reaction
herpes simplex
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, 
leukopenia
increased eosinophil count
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, 
(drug) hypersensitivity
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased 
weight, increased weight, hyperglycaemia, 
insulin resistance, decreased high density 
lipoprotein, increased appetite, polydipsia, 
increased blood lactate dehydrogenase
insomnia
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dreams, nightmare, 
decreased libido
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence
68
Rare
Eye disorders
Uncommon
Rare
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Uncommon
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon
Rare
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase 
rhythm disturbance
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye
visual disturbance
vertigo
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, 
prolonged electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations
Vascular disorders
Uncommon
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon
hypertension, flushing
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation
Rare
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
rhinorrhoea
diarrhoea
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Hepatobiliary disorders
Common
Uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Common
Uncommon
Rare
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased 
blood amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, 
flatulence
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry 
mouth, abdominal discomfort, constipation, 
increased lipase, eructation, oral dysaesthesia
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, 
coated tongue
increased alanine aminotransferase
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood 
bilirubin, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferase
rash (including macular, maculopapular, 
papular, erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic 
dermatitis, urticaria, eczema, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, night sweats, alopecia, acne, dry 
skin, nail pigmentation
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, 
skin lesion, xeroderma
69
not known
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Uncommon
Rare
Renal and urinary disorders
Uncommon
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, 
muscular weakness, arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, osteoporosis, increased blood creatine 
phosphokinase
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria,
bilirubinuria, dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria
Rare
decreased creatinine renal clearance
Rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
Uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
Common
asthenia, fatigue
crystal nephropathy§
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia
Uncommon
Rare
§
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, 
feeling hot, irritability, pain
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined 
using the "Rule of 3".
Description of selected adverse reactions
Rash
In clinical trials, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4.
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to those containing PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be 
drug-related occurred at similar rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 
4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years (PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 
per 100 PYR, respectively. The rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity 
and did not result in discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see 
section 4.4).
Musculoskeletal abnormalities
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs.
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
70
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety assessment in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week analysis of safety data from three 
Phase II trials. The following patient populations were evaluated (see section 5.1):

80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents.
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received PREZISTA oral 
suspension with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1).


Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population.
Other special populations
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1,968 treatment-experienced patients receiving PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Human experience of acute overdose with PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir is 
limited. Single doses up to 3,200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1,600 mg of the 
tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with PREZISTA. Treatment of overdose with PREZISTA 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be 
beneficial in significant removal of the active substance.
71
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.
Mechanism of action
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease 
(KD of 4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles.
Antiviral activity in vitro
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
human monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to
5.0 ng/ml). Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M 
(A, B, C, D, E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM.
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM.
Resistance
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 
23-50-fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased 
susceptibility to darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained 
by the emergence of these protease mutations.
The clinical trial data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN trial and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 trials) showed that virologic response to PREZISTA
co-administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment.
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40
are resistant (see Clinical results).
Viruses isolated from patients on PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases.
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART.
72
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN trials.
ARTEMIS
Week 192
PREZISTA/
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=343
55 (16.0%)
ODIN
Week 48
PREZISTA/
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=294
65 (22.1%)
PREZISTA/
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=296
54 (18.2%)
TITAN
Week 48
PREZISTA/
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=298
31 (10.4%)
39 (11.4%)
16 (4.7%)
11 (3.7%)
54 (18.4%)
11 (3.7%)
43 (14.5%)
16 (5.4%)
15 (5.0%)
Total number of 
virologic failuresa, n 
(%)
Rebounders
Never suppressed 
subjects
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
PI RAMs
0/43
4/43
1/60
7/60
0/42
4/42
6/28
10/28
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N
PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/ml)
IAS-USA lists
0/41
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/41
1/58
1/58
2/56
2/57
1/58
0/56
0/58
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
3/26
0/22
0/22
1/24
0/23
0/22
1/25
a
b
Cross-resistance
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3,309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir.
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS trial no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.
Clinical results
Adult patients
For clinical trial results in ART-naïve adult patients, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
for PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets or 100 mg/ml oral suspension.
Efficacy of PREZISTA 600 mg twice daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir twice daily in 
ART-experienced patients
The evidence of efficacy of PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) in 
ART-experienced patients is based on the 96 weeks analysis of the Phase III trial TITAN in 
ART-experienced lopinavir naïve patients, on the 48 week analysis of the Phase III trial ODIN in 
ART-experienced patients with no DRV-RAMs, and on the analyses of 96 weeks data from the 
Phase IIb trials POWER 1 and 2 in ART-experienced patients with high level of PI resistance.
TITAN is a randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial comparing PREZISTA co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) versus lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg twice daily) in 
73
ART-experienced, lopinavir naïve HIV-1 infected adult patients. Both arms used an Optimised 
Background Regimen (OBR) consisting of at least 2 antiretrovirals (NRTIs with or without NNRTIs).
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week analysis from the TITAN trial.
TITAN
Outcomes
PREZISTA/ritonavir
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=298
70.8% (211)
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=297
60.3% (179)
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
10.5% (2.9; 18.1)b
88
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
median CD4+ cell 
count change 
from baseline 
(x 106/L)c
a
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c NC=F
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
81
At 48 weeks non-inferiority in virologic response to the PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment, defined as the 
percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 400 and < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at 
the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) for both ITT and OP populations. These results were 
confirmed in the analysis of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the TITAN trial, with 60.4% of patients in 
the PREZISTA/ritonavir arm having HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 96 compared to 55.2% in the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm [difference: 5.2%, 95% CI (-2.8; 13.1)].
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label trial comparing PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected 
patients with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA 
> 1,000 copies/ml. Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms 
used an optimised background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs.
74
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml)
< 100,000
≥ 100,000
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L)
≥ 100
< 100
With HIV-1 clade
Type B
Type AE
Type C
Otherc
ODIN
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily + 
OBR
N=294
72.1% (212)
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=296
70.9% (210)
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b
77.6% (198/255)
35.9% (14/39)
73.2% (194/265)
51.6% (16/31)
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9)
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7)
75.1% (184/245)
57.1% (28/49)
72.5% (187/258)
60.5% (23/38)
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3)
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8)
70.4% (126/179)
90.5% (38/42)
72.7% (32/44)
55.2% (16/29)
108
64.3% (128/199)
91.2% (31/34)
78.8% (26/33)
83.3% (25/30)
112
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6)
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6)
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7)
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3)
-5d (-25; 16)
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline
(x 106/L)e
a
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX
d Difference in means
e
Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be 
non-inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily for both ITT and OP populations.
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in 
patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is 
available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B.
POWER 1 and POWER 2 are randomised, controlled trials comparing PREZISTA co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) with a control group receiving an investigator-selected PI(s) 
regimen in HIV-1 infected patients who had previously failed more than 1 PI containing regimen. An 
OBR consisting of at least 2 NRTIs with or without enfuvirtide (ENF) was used in both trials.
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48-week and 96-week analyses from the pooled 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 trials.
Outcomes
HIV RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
45.0%
(59)
POWER 1 and POWER 2 pooled data
Week 48
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
11.3%
(14)
33.7%
(23.4%; 
44.1%)c
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
38.9%
(51)
Week 96
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
8.9%
(11)
30.1%
(20.1; 40.0)c
75
17
103
CD4+ cell count
mean change from 
baseline (x 
106/L)b
a
b Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
c
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
95% confidence intervals.
86
(57; 114)c
133
15
118
(83.9; 
153.4)c
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment in the POWER trials demonstrated sustained 
antiretroviral efficacy and immunologic benefit.
Out of the 59 patients who responded with complete viral suppression (< 50 copies/ml) at week 48, 
47 patients (80% of the responders at week 48) remained responders at week 96.
Baseline genotype or phenotype and virologic outcome
Baseline genotype and darunavir FC (shift in susceptibility relative to reference) were shown to be a 
predictive factor of virologic outcome.
Proportion (%) of patients with response (HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 24) to PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) by baseline genotypea, and baseline 
darunavir FC and by use of enfuvirtide (ENF): As treated analysis of the POWER and DUET trials.
Number of baseline mutationsa
Baseline DRV FCb
Response (HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/ml 
at week 24)
%, n/N
All patients
All 
ranges
0-2
3
≥ 4
All 
ranges
≤ 10
10-40
> 40
45%
455/1,014
54%
359/660
39%
67/172
12%
20/171
45%
455/1,014
55%
364/659
29%
59/203
8%
9/118
39%
290/741
Patients with 
no/non-naïve use of 
ENFc
17%
Patients with naïve 
use of ENFd
4/24
a Number of mutations from the list of mutations associated with a diminished response to PREZISTA/ritonavir (V11I, 
66%
120/182
60%
165/273
66%
121/183
60%
165/273
51%
244/477
39%
290/741
50%
238/477
17%
25/147
29%
35/120
7%
10/135
62%
32/52
28%
10/36
61%
34/56
5%
5/94
V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V or L89V)
fold change in EC50
“Patients with no/non-naïve use of ENF” are patients who did not use ENF or who used ENF but not for the first time
“Patients with naïve use of ENF” are patients who used ENF for the first time
b
c
d
Paediatric patients
For clinical trial results in ART-naïve paediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years, refer to the Summary of 
Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets or PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral 
suspension.
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 6 to < 18 years, and weighing at least 20 kg
DELPHI is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir in 80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric 
patients aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg. These patients received PREZISTA/ritonavir 
twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
recommendations per body weight). Virologic response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 
RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus baseline.
In the study, patients who were at risk of discontinuing therapy due to intolerance of ritonavir oral 
solution (e.g. taste aversion) were allowed to switch to the capsule formulation. Of the 44 patients 
taking ritonavir oral solution, 27 switched to the 100 mg capsule formulation and exceeded the 
weight-based ritonavir dose without changes in observed safety.
76
Outcomes at week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
a
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
DELPHI
PREZISTA/ritonavir
N=80
47.5% (38)
147
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
According to the TLOVR non-virologic failure censored algorithm 24 (30.0%) patients experienced 
virological failure, of which 17 (21.3%) patients were rebounders and 7 (8.8%) patients were 
non-responders.
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 3 to < 6 years
The pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability and efficacy of PREZISTA/ritonavir twice daily in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents in 21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing 10 kg to < 20 kg was evaluated in an open-label, Phase II trial, 
ARIEL. Patients received a weight-based twice daily treatment regimen, patients weighing 10 kg to 
< 15 kg received darunavir/ritonavir 25/3 mg/kg twice daily, and patients weighing 15 kg to < 20 kg
received darunavir/ritonavir 375/50 mg twice daily. At week 48, the virologic response, defined as the 
percentage of patients with confirmed plasma viral load < 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml, was evaluated in 
16 paediatric patients 15 kg to < 20 kg and 5 paediatric patients 10 kg to < 15 kg receiving 
PREZISTA/ritonavir in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
recommendations per body weight).
Outcomes at week 48
PREZISTA/ritonavir
ARIEL
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
a
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
b NC=F
10 kg to < 15 kg
N=5
80.0% (4)
4
16
15 kg to < 20 kg
N=16
81.3% (13)
4
241
Limited efficacy data are available in paediatric patients below 15 kg and no recommendation on a 
posology can be made.
Pregnancy and postpartum
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical trial of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with ritonavir, have been evaluated in 
healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher in HIV-1 
infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 infected 
patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of α1-acid 
glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to plasma AAG 
and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations.
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A, thereby increasing the 
plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably.
77
Absorption
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours.
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4).
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of low dose 
ritonavir is 30% lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, PREZISTA tablets should be taken 
with ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to darunavir.
Distribution
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein.
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir.
Biotransformation
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir trial in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV.
Elimination
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir.
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively.
Special populations
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 
74 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed 
that the administered weight-based doses of PREZISTA/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure 
comparable to that in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in
14 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
78
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once 
daily dosage may be used in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at 
least 40 kg without darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma 
HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 
10 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, 
pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages 
of 3 to < 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed 
the identification of weight-based PREZISTA/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric 
patients weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients 
without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant.
Renal impairment
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged.
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with 
PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total 
plasma concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate 
(Child-Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. 
However, unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and 
100% (Child-Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown 
therefore, PREZISTA should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).
Pregnancy and postpartum
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum.
79
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC12h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
a
n=11 for AUC12h
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)a
4,668 ± 1,097
39,370 ± 9,597
1,922 ± 825
Third trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)
5,328 ± 1,631
45,880 ± 17,360
2,661 ± 1,269
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=12)
6,659 ± 2,364
56,890 ± 26,340
2,851 ± 2,216
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC24h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=17)
4,964 ± 1,505
62,289 ± 16,234
1,248 ± 542
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=15)
5,132 ± 1,198
61,112 ± 13,790
1,075 ± 594
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=16)
7,310 ± 1,704
92,116 ± 29,241
1,473 ± 1,141
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs.
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time.
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose.
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1,000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
80
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1,000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats.
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years 
of age.
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1,000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses.
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy).
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including 
bacterial reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo
micronucleus test in mice.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Crospovidone
Magnesium stearate
Tablet film-coat
Poly(vinyl alcohol) – partially hydrolysed
Macrogol 3350
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc
81
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Crospovidone
Magnesium stearate
Tablet film-coat
Poly(vinyl alcohol) – partially hydrolysed
Macrogol 3350
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Crospovidone
Magnesium stearate
Tablet film-coat
Poly(vinyl alcohol) – partially hydrolysed
Macrogol 3350
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc
Sunset yellow FCF (E110)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
Opaque, white, high density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic, 160 ml bottle containing 480 tablets, fitted 
with polypropylene (PP) child resistant closure.
Pack size of one bottle.
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
Opaque, white, high density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic, 160 ml bottle containing 240 tablets, fitted 
with polypropylene (PP) child resistant closure.
Pack size of one bottle.
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
Opaque, white, high density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic, 160 ml bottle containing 60 tablets, fitted 
with polypropylene (PP) child resistant closure.
Pack size of one bottle.
82
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/005
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/004
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/002
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 12 February 2007
Date of latest renewal: 19 September 2013
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
83
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
Excipient with known effect: Each tablet contains 0.834 mg sunset yellow FCF (E110).
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg of darunavir (as ethanolate).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
Film-coated tablet.
Light orange oval shaped tablet of 19.1 mm, debossed with “400MG” on one side and “TMC” on the 
other side.
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
Film-coated tablet.
Dark red oval shaped tablet of 20.0 mm, debossed with “800” on one side and “T” on the other side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
PREZISTA, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infection.
PREZISTA, co-administered with cobicistat is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in adults
and adolescents (aged 12 years and older, weighing at least 40 kg) (see section 4.2).
PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection in adult and paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 40 kg 
body weight who are:


antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve (see section 4.2).
ART-experienced with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) and who 
have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L. In 
deciding to initiate treatment with PREZISTA in such ART-experienced patients, genotypic 
testing should guide the use of PREZISTA (see sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with PREZISTA has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dosage, 
dose form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider.
84
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different contraindications and 
recommendations for concomitant medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5).
Posology
PREZISTA must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic 
enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation 
of therapy with PREZISTA. Cobicistat is not indicated for use in twice daily regimens or for use in the 
paediatric population less than 12 years of age weighing less than 40 kg.
PREZISTA is also available as an oral suspension for use in patients who are unable to swallow 
PREZISTA tablets (please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA oral 
suspension).
ART-naïve adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily taken with cobicistat 150 mg once daily or 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food. PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to 
construct the once daily 800 mg regimen.
ART-experienced adult patients
The recommended dose regimens are as follows:

In ART-experienced patients with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* 
and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.1) a regimen of 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg 
once daily or ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food may be used. PREZISTA 400 mg and 
800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once daily 800 mg regimen.
In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral 
suspension, 75 mg, 150 mg or 600 mg tablets.

* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg)
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with 
food or 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily taken with food (in adolescent patients 
12 years of age or older). PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once 
daily 800 mg regimen. The dose of cobicistat to be used with PREZISTA in children less than 
12 years of age has not been established.
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg)
The dose of cobicistat to be used with PREZISTA in children less than 12 years of age has not been 
established.
The recommended dose regimens are as follows:
In ART-experienced patients without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA 
< 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.1) a regimen of 800 mg 
once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food or 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 
150 mg once daily taken with food (in adolescent patients 12 years of age or older) may be used. 
PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once daily 800 mg regimen The 
dose of cobicistat to be used with PREZISTA in children less than 12 years of age has not been 
established.
85

In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen is described in the Summary of Product Characteristics for 
PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral suspension,75 mg, 150 mg and 600 mg tablets.
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
Advice on missed doses
If a once daily dose of PREZISTA and/or cobicistat or ritonavir is missed within 12 hours of the time 
it is usually taken, patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of PREZISTA and 
cobicistat or ritonavir with food as soon as possible. If this is noticed later than 12 hours after the time 
it is usually taken, the missed dose should not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing 
schedule.
This guidance is based on the half-life of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat or ritonavir and the 
recommended dosing interval of approximately 24 hours.
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA with cobicistat 
or ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicine, the patient does not need to take another dose of PREZISTA with cobicistat or 
ritonavir until the next regularly scheduled time.
Special populations
Elderly
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, 
PREZISTA should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of 
darunavir exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, PREZISTA must not be used in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir in patients with renal impairment (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2). Cobicistat has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, and, therefore, no 
recommendation can be made for the use of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients.
Cobicistat inhibits the tubular secretion of creatinine and may cause modest increases in serum 
creatinine and modest declines in creatinine clearance. Hence, the use of creatinine clearance as an 
estimate of renal elimination capacity may be misleading. Cobicistat as a pharmacokinetic enhancer of 
darunavir should, therefore, not be initiated in patients with creatine clearance less than 70 ml/min if 
any co-administered agent requires dose adjustment based on creatinine clearance: e.g. emtricitabine, 
lamivudine, tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate, phosphate or succinate) or adefovir dipovoxil.
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Paediatric population
PREZISTA should not be used in children
-
-
below 3 years of age, because of safety concerns (see sections 4.4 and 5.3), or,
less than 15 kg body weight, as the dose for this population has not been established in a 
sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1).
PREZISTA taken with cobicistat should not be used in children aged 3 to 11 years of age weighing 
< 40 kg as the dose of cobicistat to be used in these children has not been established (see sections 4.4 
and 5.3).
86
PREZISTA 400 and 800 mg tablets are not suitable for this patient population. Other formulations are 
available, see the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 75 mg, 150 mg, 600 mg tablets 
and 100 mg/ml oral suspension.
Pregnancy and postpartum
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). Therefore, therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). PREZISTA/ritonavir may be considered 
as an alternative.
Method of administration
Patients should be instructed to take PREZISTA with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir within 
30 minutes after completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see 
sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2).
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment.
Concomitant treatment with any of the following medicinal products given the expected decrease in 
plasma concentrations of darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat and the potential for loss of therapeutic 
effect (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Applicable to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat:
-
-
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampicin and herbal preparations containing St John’s Wort
(Hypericum perforatum). Co-administration is expected to reduce plasma concentrations of 
darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat, which could lead to loss of therapeutic effect and possible 
development of resistance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Applicable to darunavir boosted with cobicistat, not when boosted with ritonavir:
-
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction than darunavir 
boosted with ritonavir. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers is contraindicated, since 
these may reduce the exposure to cobicistat and darunavir leading to loss of therapeutic effect. 
Strong CYP3A inducers include e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin (see sections 
4.4 and 4.5).
Darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat inhibits the elimination of active substances that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance, which results in increased exposure to the 
co-administered medicinal product. Therefore, concomitant treatment with such medicinal products 
for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is 
contraindicated (applies to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat). These active 
substances include e.g.:
alfuzosin
-
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine
-
astemizole, terfenadine
-
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5)
-
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine)
-
elbasvir/grazoprevir
-
cisapride
-
87
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dapoxetine
domperidone
naloxegol
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5)
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
see section 4.5)
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5)
ticagrelor (see section 4.5).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed.
PREZISTA 400 mg or 800 mg must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a 
pharmacokinetic enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 
5.2). The Summary of Product Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore 
be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with PREZISTA.
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of cobicistat or ritonavir.
Darunavir binds predominantly to 1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is 
concentration-dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of 
medicinal products highly bound to 1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5).
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing
PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than
B (see section 5.1).
Paediatric population
PREZISTA is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
Pregnancy
PREZISTA/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the 
potential risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medications which may 
further decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during the second and third trimester has 
been shown to result in low darunavir exposure, with a reduction of around 90% in Cmin levels (see 
section 5.2). Cobicistat levels decrease and may not provide sufficient boosting. The substantial 
reduction in darunavir exposure may result in virological failure and an increased risk of mother to 
child transmission of HIV infection. Therefore, therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be 
initiated during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with 
PREZISTA/cobicistat should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.6). 
PREZISTA given with low dose ritonavir may be considered as an alternative.
Elderly
As limited information is available on the use of PREZISTA in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of PREZISTA in elderly patients, reflecting the greater 
88
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2).
Severe skin reactions
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. PREZISTA should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include,
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia.
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA (see section 4.8).
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. PREZISTA should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy.
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with PREZISTA. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products.
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with PREZISTA used in 
combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and patients should be monitored during treatment. 
Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, 
cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first 
several months of PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir treatment.
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using PREZISTA used in combination with cobicistat or low 
dose ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of treatment should be considered promptly.
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment
The safety and efficacy of PREZISTA have not been established in patients with severe underlying 
liver disorders and PREZISTA is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, PREZISTA should be used with 
caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Cobicistat has 
not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, therefore, no recommendation can be made for the use 
of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients (see section 4.2).
89
Cobicistat decreases the estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of 
creatinine. This should be taken into consideration if darunavir with cobicistat is administered to 
patients in whom the estimated creatinine clearance is used to adjust doses of co-administered 
medicinal products (see section 4.2 and cobicistat SmPC).
There are currently inadequate data to determine whether co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil and 
cobicistat is associated with a greater risk of renal adverse reactions compared with regimens that 
include tenofovir disoproxil without cobicistat.
Haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with PREZISTA 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).
Interactions with medicinal products
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5.
Pharmacokinetic enhancer and concomitant medications
Darunavir has different interaction profiles depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat:
-
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction: concomitant use of
darunavir/cobicistat and strong CYP3A inducers is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3), 
90
-
and concomitant use with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended (see section 
4.5). Concomitant use of darunavir/ritonavir and darunavir/cobicistat with strong CYP3A 
inducers such as lopinavir/ritonavir, rifampicin and herbal products containing St John’s Wort, 
Hypericum perforatum, is contraindicated (see section 4.5).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not have inducing effects on enzymes or transport proteins (see 
section 4.5). If switching the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat, caution is required 
during the first two weeks of treatment with darunavir/cobicistat, particularly if doses of any 
concomitantly administered medicinal products have been titrated or adjusted during use of 
ritonavir as a pharmacoenhancer. A dose reduction of the co-administered drug may be needed 
in these cases.
Efavirenz in combination with boosted PREZISTA may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in combination with PREZISTA, the PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily regimen should be used. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 75 mg, 
150 mg and 600 mg tablets (see section 4.5).
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
PREZISTA 400 mg tablets contain sunset yellow FCF (E110) which may cause an allergic reaction.
PREZISTA 400 mg and 800 mg tablets contain less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The interaction profile of darunavir may differ depending on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacoenhancer. The recommendations given for concomitant use of darunavir and other medicinal 
products may therefore differ depending on whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4), and caution is also required during the first time of treatment if switching 
the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (ritonavir as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of these compounds and consequently that of darunavir, leading to loss of therapeutic 
effect and possible development of resistance (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). CYP3A inducers that are 
contraindicated include rifampicin, St John’s Wort and lopinavir.
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, which may result in increased plasma concentrations 
of darunavir and ritonavir. Co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is not recommended and 
caution is warranted, these interactions are described in the interaction table below (e.g. indinavir, 
azole antifungals like clotrimazole).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (cobicistat as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and cobicistat are metabolised by CYP3A, and co-administration with CYP3A inducers 
may therefore result in subtherapeutic plasma exposure to darunavir. Darunavir boosted with 
cobicistat is more sensitive to CYP3A induction than ritonavir-boosted darunavir: co-administration of 
darunavir/cobicistat with medicinal products that are strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g. St John’s Wort, 
rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of darunavir/cobicistat with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers (e.g. efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine, fluticasone, and bosentan) is not recommended (see interaction table below).
For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the same recommendations apply independent 
of whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or with cobicistat (see section above).
91
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted darunavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss 
of their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below).
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in 
combination with a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect.
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below).
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with cobicistat
The recommendations for darunavir boosted with ritonavir are similar to the recommendations for 
darunavir boosted with cobicistat with regard to substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein, 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 (see contraindications and recommendations presented in the section 
above). Cobicistat 150 mg given with darunavir 800 mg once daily enhances darunavir 
pharmacokinetic parameters in a comparable way to ritonavir (see section 5.2).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or 
UGT1A1. For further information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Interaction table
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated.
92
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different recommendations for concomitant 
medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat. No 
interaction studies presented in the table have been performed with darunavir boosted with cobicistat. 
The same recommendations apply, unless specifically indicated. For further information on cobicistat, 
consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”).
In the table below the specific pharmacokinetic enhancer is specified when recommendations differ. 
When the recommendation is the same for PREZISTA when co-administered with a low dose ritonavir 
or cobicistat, the term “boosted PREZISTA” is used.
The below list of examples of drug-drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with PREZISTA should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration.
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration
Interaction
Geometric mean change (%)
Medicinal product 
examples by therapeutic 
area
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors
Dolutegravir
Raltegravir
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22%
dolutegravir C24h ↓ 38%
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%
darunavir ↔*
* Using cross-study comparisons to historical 
pharmacokinetic data
Some clinical studies suggest raltegravir 
may cause a modest decrease in 
darunavir plasma concentrations.
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Didanosine
400 mg once daily
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%
didanosine Cmin ND
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
Boosted PREZISTA and 
dolutegravir can be used without 
dose adjustment.
At present the effect of raltegravir 
on darunavir plasma 
concentrations does not appear to 
be clinically relevant. Boosted 
PREZISTA and raltegravir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Boosted PREZISTA and 
didanosine can be used without 
dose adjustments.
Didanosine is to be administered 
on an empty stomach, thus it 
should be administered 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after boosted 
PREZISTA given with food.
93
Tenofovir disoproxil
245 mg once daily‡
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16%
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules)
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide 
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔
Tenofovir ↑
Abacavir
Emtricitabine
Lamivudine
Stavudine
Zidovudine
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other NRTIs 
zidovudine, emtricitabine, stavudine, 
lamivudine, that are primarily renally 
excreted, and abacavir for which 
metabolism is not mediated by CYP450, 
no interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and boosted
PREZISTA.
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)
Efavirenz
600 mg once daily
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15%
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction)
Monitoring of renal function may 
be indicated when boosted
PREZISTA is given in 
combination with tenofovir
disoproxil, particularly in patients 
with underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for 
dose adjustment of tenofovir
disoproxil.
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide is 200/10 mg once 
daily when used with boosted 
PREZISTA. 
Boosted PREZISTA can be used 
with these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for 
dose adjustment of emtricitabine or 
lamivudine.
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to 
efavirenz may be indicated when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is given in 
combination with efavirenz.
Efavirenz in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
once daily may result in 
sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in 
combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily regimen should be used 
(see section 4.4).
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
94
Etravirine
100 mg twice daily
Nevirapine
200 mg twice daily
Rilpivirine
150 mg once daily
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%
#darunavir: concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition)
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%
darunavir Cmax ↔
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and etravirine 
200 mg twice daily can be used
without dose adjustments.
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and nevirapine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Co-administration with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is not recommended (see 
section 4.4).
Boosted PREZISTA and rilpivirine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
Atazanavir
300 mg once daily
atazanavir AUC ↔
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Indinavir
800 mg twice daily
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once 
daily vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily in 
combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily in combination with 
atazanavir 300 mg once daily.
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%
indinavir Cmax ↔
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11%
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice 
daily vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with indinavir 800 mg 
twice daily.
95
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and atazanavir 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
When used in combination with 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir, dose 
adjustment of indinavir from 
800 mg twice daily to 600 mg 
twice daily may be warranted in 
case of intolerance.
PREZISTA co-administered with
cobicistat should not be used in
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
Saquinavir
1,000 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6%
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1,000/100 mg twice 
daily vs. saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1,000/400/100 mg twice daily
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
in combination with saquinavir 1,000 mg 
twice daily.
It is not recommended to combine 
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir with saquinavir.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means 
of co-administration with an 
inhibitor of CYP3A4 (see section 
4.5).
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir†
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily
Lopinavir/ritonavir
533/133.3 mg twice daily
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡
lopinavir AUC ↔
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%
‡ based upon non dose normalised values
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the 
combination have not been 
established. Hence, concomitant 
use of boosted PREZISTA and the 
combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
CCR5 ANTAGONIST
Maraviroc
150 mg twice daily
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%
maraviroc Cmin ND
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129%
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST
Alfuzosin
ANAESTHETIC
Alfentanil
Based on theoretical considerations 
PREZISTA is expected to increase 
alfuzosin plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Not studied. The metabolism of alfentanil 
is mediated via CYP3A, and may as such 
be inhibited by boosted PREZISTA.
The concomitant use with boosted 
PREZISTA may require to lower 
the dose of alfentanil and requires 
monitoring for risks of prolonged 
or delayed respiratory depression.
96
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC
Disopyramide
Flecainide
Lidocaine (systemic)
Mexiletine
Propafenone
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antiarrhythmic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Amiodarone
Bepridil
Dronedarone
Ivabradine
Quinidine
Ranolazine
Digoxin
0.4 mg single dose
ANTIBIOTIC
Clarithromycin
500 mg twice daily
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%
digoxin Cmin ND
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29%
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of 
P-gp)
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations 
were not detectable when combined with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A inhibition 
and possible P-gp inhibition)
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring, if available, is 
recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and amiodarone, 
bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, or ranolazine is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is 
recommended that the lowest 
possible dose of digoxin should 
initially be prescribed in case 
digoxin is given to patients on 
boosted PREZISTA therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired 
clinical effect while assessing the 
overall clinical state of the subject.
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
boosted PREZISTA.
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose.
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with these 
anticoagulants may increase 
concentrations of the anticoagulant.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
The use of boosted PREZISTA
with a direct oral anticoagulant 
(DOAC) that is metabolised by 
CYP3A4 and transported by P-gp
is not recommended as this may 
lead to an increased bleeding risk.
97
Dabigatran etexilate
Edoxaban
Ticagrelor
Clopidogrel
Warfarin
ANTICONVULSANTS
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg):
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64%
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 164%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 164%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 88%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 99%
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted PREZISTA 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition).
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, which 
may reduce the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations may 
be affected when co-administered with 
boosted PREZISTA.
Not studied. Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
are expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Darunavir/ritonavir:
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, 
including dabigatran etexilate and 
edoxaban, is co-administered with 
PREZISTA/rtv.
Darunavir/cobicistat:
Clinical monitoring and dose 
reduction is required when a 
DOAC transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, 
including dabigatran etexilate and 
edoxaban, is co-administered with
PREZISTA/cobi.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with ticagrelor 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended. Use of other 
antiplatelets not affected by CYP 
inhibition or induction (e.g. 
prasugrel) is recommended.
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio 
(INR) be monitored when warfarin 
is combined with boosted 
PREZISTA.
PREZISTA co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir should not be 
used in combination with these 
medicines.
The use of these medicines with
PREZISTA/cobicistat is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
98
Carbamazepine
200 mg twice daily
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clonazepam
ANTIDEPRESSANTS
Paroxetine
20 mg once daily
Sertraline
50 mg once daily
Amitriptyline
Desipramine
Imipramine
Nortriptyline
Trazodone
ANTI-DIABETICS
Metformin
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA with clonazepam 
may increase concentrations of 
clonazepam. (CYP3A inhibition)
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%
#darunavir Cmax ↔
In contrast to these data with
PREZISTA/ritonavir, 
PREZISTA/cobicistat may increase these 
antidepressant plasma concentrations 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition).
Concomitant use of boosted PREZISTA 
and these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
Not studied. Based on theoretical 
considerations PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat is 
expected to increase metformin plasma 
concentrations.
(MATE1 inhibition)
99
No dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir is 
recommended. If there is a need to 
combine PREZISTA/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be 
monitored and its dose should be 
titrated for adequate response. 
Based upon the findings, the 
carbamazepine dose may need to 
be reduced by 25% to 50% in the 
presence of PREZISTA/ritonavir.
The use of carbamazepine with
PREZISTA co-administered with 
cobicistat is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with clonazepam.
If antidepressants are 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, the recommended 
approach is a dose titration of the 
antidepressant based on a clinical 
assessment of antidepressant 
response. In addition, patients on a 
stable dose of these antidepressants 
who start treatment with boosted 
PREZISTA should be monitored 
for antidepressant response.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these 
antidepressants and a dose 
adjustment of the antidepressant 
may be needed.
Careful patient monitoring and 
dose adjustment of metformin is 
recommended in patients who are 
taking PREZISTA co-administered 
with cobicistat.
(not applicable for PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir)
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated.
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with boosted 
PREZISTA unless an assessment 
of the benefit/risk ratio justifies the 
use of voriconazole.
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended.
When co-administration is
required the daily dose of 
itraconazole should not exceed 
200 mg.
A reduction in colchicine dosage 
or an interruption of colchicine 
treatment is recommended in 
patients with normal renal or 
hepatic function if treatment with 
boosted PREZISTA is required. 
For patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment colchicine with 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see sections 4.3
and 4.4).
The combination of boosted 
PREZISTA and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be 
used without dose adjustments; 
however, due to the increase in 
lumefantrine exposure, the 
combination should be used with 
caution.
ANTIEMETICS
Domperidone
Not studied.
ANTIFUNGALS
Voriconazole
Fluconazole
Isavuconazole
Itraconazole
Posaconazole
Clotrimazole
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES
Colchicine
ANTIMALARIALS
Artemether/Lumefantrine
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 
8, 24, 36, 48, and 
60 hours
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Concentrations of voriconazole may 
increase or decrease when 
co-administered with PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat.
(inhibition of CYP450 enzymes)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA may 
increase antifungal plasma concentrations 
and posaconazole, isavuconazole, 
itraconazole or fluconazole may increase 
darunavir concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not studied. Concomitant systemic use of 
clotrimazole and boosted PREZISTA
may increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole.
darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model)
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
colchicine and boosted PREZISTA may 
increase the exposure to colchicine.
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition)
artemether AUC ↓ 16%
artemether Cmin ↔
artemether Cmax ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13%
darunavir Cmax ↔
100
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS
Rifampicin
Rifapentine
Rifabutin
150 mg once every other 
day
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have 
been shown to cause profound decreases 
in concentrations of other protease 
inhibitors, which can result in virological 
failure and resistance development 
(CYP450 enzyme induction). During 
attempts to overcome the decreased 
exposure by increasing the dose of other 
protease inhibitors with low dose 
ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin.
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55%
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39%
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin (parent 
drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite)
** ↑ ND
** ↔
The interaction trial showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure for 
rifabutin between treatment at 300 mg 
once daily alone and 150 mg once every 
other day in combination with 
PREZISTA/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in 
the daily exposure to the active 
metabolite 25-O-desacetylrifabutin. 
Furthermore, AUC of the sum of active 
moieties of rifabutin (parent drug 
+ 25-O-desacetyl metabolite) was 
increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax remained 
comparable.
Data on comparison with a 150 mg once 
daily reference dose is lacking.
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate of 
CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed when 
PREZISTA co-administered with 100 mg 
ritonavir was co-administered with 
rifabutin (150 mg once every other day).
ANTINEOPLASTICS
Dasatinib
Nilotinib
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antineoplastic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Everolimus
Irinotecan
101
The combination of rifapentine and 
boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended.
The combination of rifampicin and 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
A dosage reduction of rifabutin by 
75% of the usual dose of 
300 mg/day (i.e. rifabutin 150 mg 
once every other day) and 
increased monitoring for rifabutin 
related adverse events is warranted 
in patients receiving the 
combination with PREZISTA 
co-administered with ritonavir. In 
case of safety issues, a further 
increase of the dosing interval for 
rifabutin and/or monitoring of 
rifabutin levels should be 
considered.
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the 
appropriate treatment of 
tuberculosis in HIV infected 
patients.
Based upon the safety profile of 
PREZISTA/ritonavir, the increase 
in darunavir exposure in the 
presence of rifabutin does not 
warrant a dose adjustment for 
PREZISTA/ritonavir.
Based on pharmacokinetic 
modeling, this dosage reduction of 
75% is also applicable if patients 
receive rifabutin at doses other 
than 300 mg/day.
Co-administration of PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat 
and rifabutin is not recommended.
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA resulting in the 
potential for increased adverse 
events usually associated with 
these agents.
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Concomitant use of everolimus or
irinotecan and boosted PREZISTA 
is not recommended.
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS
Quetiapine
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antipsychotic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Perphenazine
Risperidone
Thioridazine
Lurasidone
Pimozide
Sertindole
β-BLOCKERS
Carvedilol
Metoprolol
Timolol
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these antipsychotic 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp
inhibition)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA is 
expected to increase these β-blocker 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP2D6 inhibition)
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS
Amlodipine
Diltiazem
Felodipine
Nicardipine
Nifedipine
Verapamil
CORTICOSTEROIDS
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including 
betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone)
Dexamethasone
(systemic)
Not studied. Boosted PREZISTA can be 
expected to increase the plasma 
concentrations of calcium channel 
blockers.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily 
were co-administered with 50 g 
intranasal fluticasone propionate (4 times 
daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects, 
fluticasone propionate plasma 
concentrations increased significantly, 
whereas the intrinsic cortisol levels 
decreased by approximately 86% (90% 
CI 82-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone is inhaled. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression have been reported in 
patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered fluticasone. The 
effects of high fluticasone systemic 
exposure on ritonavir plasma levels are 
unknown.
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased 
when co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, resulting in reduced serum 
cortisol concentrations.
Not studied. Dexamethasone may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
darunavir.
(CYP3A induction)
102
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and quetiapine 
is contraindicated as it may 
increase quetiapine-related 
toxicity. Increased concentrations 
of quetiapine may lead to coma
(see section 4.3).
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with boosted PREZISTA.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and 
lurasidone, pimozide or sertindole 
is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with β-blockers. A 
lower dose of the β-blocker should 
be considered.
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse effects is 
recommended when these 
medicines are concomitantly 
administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
Concomitant use of boosted 
PREZISTA and corticosteroids (all 
routes of administration) that are 
metabolised by CYP3A may 
increase the risk of development of 
systemic corticosteroid effects, 
including Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression.
Co-administration with CYP3A-
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should 
be monitored for systemic 
corticosteroid effects.
Alternative corticosteroids which 
are less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly 
for long term use.
Systemic dexamethasone should 
be used with caution when 
combined with boosted 
PREZISTA.
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Bosentan
Not studied. Concomitant use of bosentan 
and boosted PREZISTA may increase 
plasma concentrations of bosentan.
Bosentan is expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(CYP3A induction)
When administered concomitantly 
with PREZISTA and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient’s tolerability 
of bosentan should be monitored.
Co-administration of PREZISTA 
co-administered with cobicistat 
and bosentan is not recommended.
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS
NS3-4A protease inhibitors
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
HERBAL PRODUCTS
St John's Wort
(Hypericum perforatum)
Boosted PREZISTA may increase the 
exposure to grazoprevir.
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition)
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and pibrentasvir.
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition)
Not studied. St John’s Wort is expected 
to decrease the plasma concentrations of 
darunavir or its pharmacoenhancers.
(CYP450 induction)
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Atorvastatin
10 mg once daily
Pravastatin
40 mg single dose
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin 
are expected to have markedly increased 
plasma concentrations when 
co-administered with boosted
PREZISTA.
(CYP3A inhibition)
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold
# darunavir/ritonavir
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 290% Ω
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ 319% Ω
atorvastatin Cmin ND Ω
Ω with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶
pravastatin Cmin ND
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63%
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in a 
limited subset of subjects
103
Concomitant use of boosted 
PREZISTA and
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
It is not recommended to 
co-administer boosted PREZISTA 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.
Boosted PREZISTA must not be 
used concomitantly with products 
containing St John’s Wort
(Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.3). If a patient is already 
taking St John’s Wort, stop 
St John’s Wort and if possible 
check viral levels. Darunavir 
exposure (and also ritonavir 
exposure) may increase on 
stopping St John’s Wort. The 
inducing effect may persist for at 
least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John’s Wort.
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may 
cause myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use 
of boosted PREZISTA with 
lovastatin and simvastatin is 
therefore contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
When administration of 
atorvastatin and boosted
PREZISTA is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response.
When administration of pravastatin 
and boosted PREZISTA is
required, it is recommended to 
start with the lowest possible dose 
of pravastatin and titrate up to the 
desired clinical effect while 
monitoring for safety.
Rosuvastatin
10 mg once daily
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║
║ based on published data with 
darunavir/ritonavir
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 93%§
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 277%§
rosuvastatin Cmin ND§
§ with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS
Lomitapide
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA is expected to 
increase the exposure of lomitapide when 
co-administered.
(CYP3A inhibition)
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS
Ranitidine
150 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS
Ciclosporin
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Everolimus
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA.
(CYP3A inhibition)
INHALED BETA AGONISTS
Salmeterol
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and boosted darunavir may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
salmeterol.
When administration of 
rosuvastatin and boosted
PREZISTA is required, it is 
recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of 
rosuvastatin and titrate up to the 
desired clinical effect while 
monitoring for safety.
Co-administration is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Boosted PREZISTA can be 
co-administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose 
adjustments.
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration 
occurs.
Concomitant use of everolimus 
and boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended.
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
boosted PREZISTA is not 
recommended. The combination 
may result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse event with 
salmeterol, including QT 
prolongation, palpitations and 
sinus tachycardia.
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE
Methadone
individual dose ranging 
from 55 mg to 150 mg 
once daily
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16%
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24%
PREZISTA/cobicistat may, in contrast, 
increase methadone plasma 
concentrations (see cobicistat SmPC).
Buprenorphine/naloxone
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once 
daily
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%
buprenorphine Cmin ↔
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%
naloxone AUC ↔
naloxone Cmin ND
naloxone Cmax ↔
104
No adjustment of methadone 
dosage is required when initiating 
co-administration with boosted
PREZISTA. However, adjustment 
of the methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time. Therefore, clinical 
monitoring is recommended, as 
maintenance therapy may need to 
be adjusted in some patients.
The clinical relevance of the 
increase in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has 
not been established. Dose 
adjustment for buprenorphine may 
not be necessary when 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA but a careful clinical 
monitoring for signs of opiate 
toxicity is recommended.
Fentanyl
Oxycodone
Tramadol
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted PREZISTA may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these analgesics.
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once 
daily)
Ethinylestradiol
Norethindrone
35 g/1 mg once daily
drospirenone AUC ↑ 58%€
drospirenone Cmin ND€
drospirenone Cmax ↑ 15%€
ethinylestradiol AUC  30%€
ethinylestradiol Cmin ND€
ethinylestradiol Cmax  14%€
€ with darunavir/cobicistat
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44%β
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62%β
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32%β
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14%β
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30%β
norethindrone Cmax ↔β
β with darunavir/ritonavir
OPIOID ANTAGONIST
Naloxegol
Not studied.
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS
For the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with
PREZISTA and low dose ritonavir.
Avanafil
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
sildenafil or tadalafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension and 
boosted PREZISTA may increase plasma 
concentrations of sildenafil or tadalafil.
(CYP3A inhibition)
105
When PREZISTA is co-
administered with a drospirenone-
containing product, clinical 
monitoring is recommended due to 
the potential for hyperkalaemia.
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when 
oestrogen-based contraceptives are 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA. Patients using 
oestrogens as hormone 
replacement therapy should be 
clinically monitored for signs of 
oestrogen deficiency.
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA and naloxegol is 
contraindicated.
The combination of avanafil and 
boosted PREZISTA is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction with boosted 
PREZISTA should be done with 
caution. If concomitant use of 
boosted PREZISTA with 
sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil is 
indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 
48 hours, vardenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 
72 hours or tadalafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 10 mg in 
72 hours is recommended.
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA has not been 
established. There is an increased 
potential for sildenafil-associated 
adverse events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, 
prolonged erection and syncope). 
Therefore, co-administration of 
boosted PREZISTA and sildenafil 
when used for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of tadalafil for 
the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with boosted 
PREZISTA is not recommended.
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS
Omeprazole
20 mg once daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS
Buspirone
Clorazepate
Diazepam
Estazolam
Flurazepam
Midazolam (parenteral)
Zolpidem
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. 
Co-administration with boosted 
PREZISTA may cause a large increase in 
the concentration of these medicines.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with boosted PREZISTA 
it may cause a large increase in the 
concentration of this benzodiazepine. 
Data from concomitant use of parenteral 
midazolam with other protease inhibitors 
suggest a possible 3-4 fold increase in 
midazolam plasma levels.
Midazolam (oral)
Triazolam
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION
Dapoxetine
Not studied.
UROLOGICAL DRUGS
Fesoterodine
Solifenacin
Not studied.
Boosted PREZISTA can be 
co-administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose 
adjustments.
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when 
co-administering boosted 
PREZISTA with these 
sedatives/hypnotics and a lower 
dose of the sedatives/hypnotics 
should be considered.
If parenteral midazolam is 
co-administered with boosted 
PREZISTA, it should be done in 
an intensive care unit (ICU) or 
similar setting, which ensures 
close clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical management 
in case of respiratory depression 
and/or prolonged sedation. Dose 
adjustment for midazolam should 
be considered, especially if more 
than a single dose of midazolam is 
administered.
Boosted PREZISTA with 
triazolam or oral midazolam is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted 
PREZISTA with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated.
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary.
#
Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see 
section 4.2 Posology).
† The efficacy and safety of the use of PREZISTA with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir 
and tipranavir) has not been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with 
protease inhibitors is generally not recommended.
Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily.
‡
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
106
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see section 5.2), which may be associated with an increased risk of treatment failure and an increased 
risk of HIV transmission to the child. Therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat should not be initiated 
during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with PREZISTA/cobicistat 
should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring.
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving PREZISTA.
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
PREZISTA in combination with cobicistat or ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with 
regimens containing PREZISTA co-administered with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and should be 
borne in mind when considering a patient’s ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
During the clinical development program (N=2,613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one 
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia.
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in 
treatment-naïve subjects was similar to that seen with PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in 
treatment-experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in 
treatment-naïve subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were 
identified in the 192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment 
duration of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks.
During the Phase III clinical trial GS-US-216-130 with darunavir/cobicistat (N=313 treatment-naïve 
and treatment-experienced subjects), 66.5% of subjects experienced at least one adverse reaction. The 
mean treatment duration was 58.4 weeks. The most frequent adverse reactions reported were diarrhoea 
(28%), nausea (23%), and rash (16%). Serious adverse reactions are diabetes mellitus, (drug) 
hypersensitivity, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, rash and vomiting.
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
107
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical trials and post-marketing
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Infections and infestations
uncommon
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
uncommon
rare
Immune system disorders
uncommon
Endocrine disorders
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
uncommon
Psychiatric disorders
common
uncommon 
rare
Nervous system disorders
common
uncommon
rare
Eye disorders
uncommon
Adverse reaction
herpes simplex
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, 
leukopenia
increased eosinophil count
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, 
(drug) hypersensitivity
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased 
weight, increased weight, hyperglycaemia, 
insulin resistance, decreased high density 
lipoprotein, increased appetite, polydipsia, 
increased blood lactate dehydrogenase
insomnia
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dreams, nightmare, 
decreased libido
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase 
rhythm disturbance
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye
rare
Ear and labyrinth disorders
uncommon
visual disturbance
vertigo
108
Cardiac disorders
uncommon
rare
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, 
prolonged electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations
Vascular disorders
uncommon
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
uncommon
hypertension, flushing
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation
rare
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
rhinorrhoea
diarrhoea
common
uncommon
rare
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
common
uncommon
rare
not known
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
uncommon
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased 
blood amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, 
flatulence
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry 
mouth, abdominal discomfort, constipation, 
increased lipase, eructation, oral dysaesthesia
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, 
coated tongue
increased alanine aminotransferase
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood 
bilirubin, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferase
rash (including macular, maculopapular, 
papular, erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic 
dermatitis, urticaria, eczema, erythema, 
hyperhidrosis, night sweats, alopecia, acne, dry 
skin, nail pigmentation
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, 
skin lesion, xeroderma
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, 
muscular weakness, arthralgia, pain in 
extremity, osteoporosis, increased blood creatine 
phosphokinase
rare
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness
109
Renal and urinary disorders
uncommon
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria, 
bilirubinuria, dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria
rare
decreased creatinine renal clearance
rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
asthenia, fatigue
crystal nephropathy§
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia
uncommon
rare
§
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, 
feeling hot, irritability, pain
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined 
using the "Rule of 3".
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/cobicistat in adult patients
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Immune system disorders
common
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
Psychiatric disorders
common
Nervous system disorders
very common
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
common
uncommon
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
very common
Adverse reaction
(drug) hypersensitivity
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
anorexia, diabetes mellitus, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hyperlipidaemia
abnormal dreams
headache
diarrhoea, nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, 
dyspepsia, flatulence, pancreatic enzymes 
increased
pancreatitis acute
hepatic enzyme increased
hepatitis*, cytolytic hepatitis*
rash (including macular, maculopapular, 
papular, erythematous, pruritic rash, generalised 
rash, and allergic dermatitis)
common
angioedema, pruritus, urticaria
110
rare
not known
drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms*, Stevens-Johnson syndrome*
toxic epidermal necrolysis*, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis*
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
common
myalgia
uncommon
Renal and urinary disorders
rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
osteonecrosis*
crystal nephropathy*§
gynaecomastia*
fatigue
uncommon
Investigations
common
* these adverse drug reactions have not been reported in clinical trial experience with darunavir/cobicistat but have been 
increased blood creatinine
asthenia
§
noted with darunavir/ritonavir treatment and could be expected with darunavir/cobicistat too.
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined 
using the "Rule of 3".
Description of selected adverse reactions
Rash
In clinical trials, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4. In a single arm trial investigating darunavir 800 mg once daily in combination with 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and other antiretrovirals 2.2% of patients discontinued treatment due to 
rash.
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing 
PREZISTA/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to those containing PREZISTA/ritonavir without 
raltegravir or raltegravir without PREZISTA/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be 
drug-related occurred at similar rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 
4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years (PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 
per 100 PYR, respectively. The rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity 
and did not result in discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see 
section 4.4).
Musculoskeletal abnormalities
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs.
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
111
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety assessment of PREZISTA with ritonavir in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week 
analysis of safety data from three Phase II trials. The following patient populations were evaluated 
(see section 5.1):

80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents.
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received PREZISTA oral 
suspension with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received PREZISTA tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1).


Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population.
The safety assessment of PREZISTA with cobicistat in paediatric patients was evaluated in 
adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg through the clinical trial 
GS-US-216-0128 (treatment-experienced, virologically suppressed, N=7). Safety analyses of this 
study in adolescent subjects did not identify new safety concerns compared to the known safety profile 
of darunavir and cobicistat in adult subjects.
Other special populations
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1,968 treatment-experienced patients receiving PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Human experience of acute overdose with PREZISTA co-administered with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir is limited. Single doses up to 3,200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1,600 mg 
of the tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with PREZISTA. Treatment of overdose with PREZISTA 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
112
clinical status of the patient. Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be 
beneficial in significant removal of the active substance.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.
Mechanism of action
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease 
(KD of 4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles.
Antiviral activity in vitro
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
human monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to
5.0 ng/ml). Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M 
(A, B, C, D, E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM.
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM.
Resistance
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 
23-50-fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased 
susceptibility to darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained 
by the emergence of these protease mutations.
The clinical trial data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN trial and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 trials) showed that virologic response to PREZISTA
co-administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment.
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40
are resistant (see Clinical results).
Viruses isolated from patients on PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases.
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART.
113
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN trials.
ARTEMIS
Week 192
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=343
55 (16.0%)
ODIN
Week 48
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=294
65 (22.1%)
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=296
54 (18.2%)
TITAN
Week 48
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=298
31 (10.4%)
39 (11.4%)
16 (4.7%)
11 (3.7%)
54 (18.4%)
11 (3.7%)
43 (14.5%)
16 (5.4%)
15 (5.0%)
Total number of 
virologic failuresa, n 
(%)
Rebounders
Never suppressed 
subjects
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
PI RAMs
0/43
4/43
1/60
7/60
0/42
4/42
6/28
10/28
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N
PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/ml)
IAS-USA lists
0/41
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/41
1/58
1/58
2/56
2/57
1/58
0/56
0/58
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
3/26
0/22
0/22
1/24
0/23
0/22
1/25
a
b
Low rates of developing resistant HIV-1 virus were observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir/cobicistat once daily in combination with other ART, and in 
ART-experienced patients with no darunavir RAMs receiving darunavir/cobicistat in combination 
with other ART. The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and resistance 
to PIs in virologic failures at endpoint in the GS-US-216-130 trial.
GS-US-216-130
Week 48
Treatment-naïve
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
once daily
N=295
Treatment-experienced
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
once daily
N=18
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and genotype data that develop mutationsb at endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
PI RAMs
0/8
2/8
1/7
1/7
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and phenotype data that show resistance to PIs at endpointc, n/N
HIV PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
0/8
114
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
0/7
a Virologic failures were defined as: never suppressed: confirmed HIV-1 RNA < 1 log10 reduction from baseline and 
≥ 50 copies/ml at the week-8; rebound: HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml followed by confirmed HIV-1 RNA to 
≥ 400 copies/ml or confirmed > 1 log10 HIV-1 RNA increase from the nadir; discontinuations with HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 400 copies/ml at last visit
IAS-USA lists
In GS-US216-130 baseline phenotype was not available
b
c
Cross-resistance
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3,309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir.
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS trial no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.
In the virologic failures of the GS-US-216-130 trial no cross-resistance with other HIV PIs was 
observed.
Clinical results
The pharmacokinetic enhancing effect of cobicistat on darunavir was evaluated in a Phase I study in 
healthy subjects that were administered darunavir 800 mg with either cobicistat at 150 mg or ritonavir 
at 100 mg once daily. The steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of darunavir were comparable 
when boosted with cobicistat versus ritonavir. For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat 
Summary of Product Characteristics.
Adult patients
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 150 mg cobicistat once daily in 
ART-naïve and ART-experienced patients
GS-US-216-130 is a single arm, open-label, Phase III trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, 
tolerability, and efficacy of darunavir with cobicistat in 313 HIV-1 infected adult patients 
(295 treatment-naïve and 18 treatment-experienced). These patients received darunavir 800 mg once 
daily in combination with cobicistat 150 mg once daily with an investigator selected background 
regimen consisting of 2 active NRTIs.
HIV-1 infected patients who were eligible for this trial had a screening genotype showing no darunavir 
RAMs and plasma HIV-1 RNA ≥ 1,000 copies/ml. The table below shows the efficacy data of the 
48 week analyses from the GS-US-216-130 trial:
Treatment-naïve
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily
+ OBR
N=295
245 (83.1%)
-3.01
Outcomes at Week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
mean HIV-1 RNA log change 
from baseline 
(log10 copies/ml)
CD4+ cell count mean 
change from baselineb
a
b Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
+174
GS-US-216-130
Treatment-experienced
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily
+ OBR
N=18
8 (44.4%)
-2.39
All subjects
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily
+ OBR
N=313
253 (80.8%)
-2.97
+102
+170
Efficacy of PREZISTA 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in 
ART-naïve patients
The evidence of efficacy of PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily is based on the analyses of 
192 week data from the randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial ARTEMIS in antiretroviral 
treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients comparing PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily with 
lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg per day (given as a twice-daily or as a once-daily regimen). Both arms 
115
used a fixed background regimen consisting of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily and 
emtricitabine 200 mg once daily.
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week and 96 week analyses from the ARTEMIS
trial:
ARTEMIS
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
Week 48a
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 mg 
per day
N=346
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
PREZISTA/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
83.7%
(287)
85.8%
(194/226)
79.5%
(93/117)
78.3%
(271)
84.5%
(191/226)
5.3%
(-0.5; 11.2)d
1.3%
(-5.2; 7.9)d
79.0%
(271)
80.5%
(182/226)
66.7%
(80/120)
12.8%
(1.6; 24.1)d
76.1%
(89/117)
79.4%
(112/141)
70.3%
(104/148)
9.2%
(-0.8; 19.2)d
78.7%
(111/141)
Week 96b
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 m
g per day
N=346
70.8%
(245)
75.2%
(170/226)
62.5%
(75/120)
64.9%
(96/148)
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
8.2%
(1.7; 14.7)d
5.3%
(-2.3; 13.0)d
13.6%
(1.9; 25.3)d
13.9%
(3.5; 24.2)d
86.6%
(175/202)
84.3%
(167/198)
2.3%
(-4.6; 9.2)d
79.2%
(160/202)
75.3%
(149/198)
4.0%
(-4.3; 12.2)d
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mlc
All patients
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
< 100,000
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
≥ 100,000
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count < 200
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 200
141
137
171
median 
CD4+ cell count 
change from 
baseline (x 
106/L)e
a Data based on analyses at week 48
b Data based on analyses at week 96
c
d Based on normal approximation to the difference in % response
e Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
188
Non-inferiority in virologic response to the PREZISTA/ritonavir treatment, defined as the percentage 
of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at the pre-defined 12% 
non-inferiority margin) for both Intent-To-Treat (ITT) and On Protocol (OP) populations in the 
48 week analysis. These results were confirmed in the analyses of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the 
ARTEMIS trial. These results were sustained up to 192 weeks of treatment in the ARTEMIS trial.
Efficacy of PREZISTA 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in 
ART-experienced patients
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label trial comparing PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected 
patients with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA 
> 1,000 copies/ml. Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms 
used an optimised background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs.
116
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml)
< 100,000
≥ 100,000
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L)
≥ 100
< 100
With HIV-1 clade
Type B
Type AE
Type C
Otherc
ODIN
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily + 
OBR
N=294
72.1% (212)
PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=296
70.9% (210)
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b
77.6% (198/255)
35.9% (14/39)
73.2% (194/265)
51.6% (16/31)
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9)
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7)
75.1% (184/245)
57.1% (28/49)
72.5% (187/258)
60.5% (23/38)
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3)
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8)
70.4% (126/179)
90.5% (38/42)
72.7% (32/44)
55.2% (16/29)
108
64.3% (128/199)
91.2% (31/34)
78.8% (26/33)
83.3% (25/30)
112
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6)
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6)
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7)
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3)
-5d (-25; 16)
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline
(x 106/L)e
a
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX
d Difference in means
e
Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be 
non-inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to PREZISTA/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily for both ITT and OP populations.
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in 
patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is 
available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B.
Paediatric patients
ART-naïve paediatric patients from the age of 12 years to < 18 years, and weighing at least 40 kg
DIONE is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir in 12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
aged 12 to less than 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg. These patients received 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Virologic 
response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus 
baseline.
DIONE
Outcomes at week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
≥ 1.0 log10 decrease from baseline in plasma viral load
a
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
PREZISTA/ritonavir
N=12
83.3% (10)
14
221
100%
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
117
In the open-label, Phase II/III trial GS-US-216-0128, the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of 
darunavir 800 mg and cobicistat 150 mg (administered as separate tablets) and at least 2 NRTIs were 
evaluated in 7 HIV-1 infected, treatment-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents weighing 
at least 40 kg. Patients were on a stable antiretroviral regimen (for at least 3 months), consisting of 
darunavir administered with ritonavir, combined with 2 NRTIs. They were switched from ritonavir to 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and continued darunavir (N=7) and 2 NRTIs.
Virologic outcome in ART-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents at week 48
GS-US-216-0128
Outcomes at Week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL per FDA Snapshot 
Approach
CD4+ percent median change from baselinea
CD4+ cell count median change from baselinea
a No imputation (observed data).
Darunavir/cobicistat + at least 2 NRTIs
(N=7)
85.7% (6)
-6.1%
-342 cells/mm³
For additional clinical study results in ART-experienced adults and paediatric patients, refer to the 
Summary of Product Characteristics for PREZISTA 75 mg, 150 mg or 600 mg tablets and 100 mg/ml 
oral suspension.
Pregnancy and postpartum
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical trial of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with cobicistat or ritonavir, have been 
evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher 
in HIV-1 infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 
infected patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of 
α1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to 
plasma AAG and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations.
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Cobicistat and ritonavir inhibit CYP3A, thereby 
increasing the plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably.
For information on cobicistat pharmacokinetic properties, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Absorption
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours.
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4).
118
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat 
or low dose ritonavir is lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, PREZISTA tablets should 
be taken with cobicistat or ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to 
darunavir.
Distribution
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein.
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir.
Biotransformation
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir trial in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV.
Elimination
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir.
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively.
Special populations
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in
74 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed 
that the administered weight-based doses of PREZISTA/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure 
comparable to that in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 
14 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that 
PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once 
daily dosage may be used in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at 
least 40 kg without darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma 
HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 
10 treatment-experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to 
< 20 kg, showed that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that 
achieved in adults receiving PREZISTA/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, 
119
pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages 
of 3 to < 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed 
the identification of weight-based PREZISTA/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric 
patients weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients 
without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir 800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in paediatric 
patients have been studied in 7 adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg in 
Study GS-US-216-0128. The geometric mean adolescent exposure (AUCtau) was similar for darunavir 
and increased 19% for cobicistat compared to exposures achieved in adults who received darunavir 
800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in Study GS-US-216-0130. The difference observed 
for cobicistat was not considered clinically relevant.
Adults in Study 
GS-US-216-0130, week 24
(Reference)a
Mean (%CV)
GLSM
60c
Adolescents in Study 
GS-US-216-0128, day 10
(Test)b
Mean (%CV)
GLSM
7
GLSM Ratio
(90% CI)
(Test/Reference)
81,646 (32.2)
77,534
7,663 (25.1)
7,422
1,311 (74.0)
947
80,877 (29.5)
77,217
7,506 (21.7)
7,319
1,087 (91.6)
676
1.00 (0.79-1.26)
0.99 (0.83-1.17)
0.71 (0.34-1.48)
N
DRV PK 
Parameter
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d
Cmax (ng/mL)
Ctau (ng/mL)d
COBI PK 
Parameter
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d
Cmax (ng/mL)
Ctau (ng/mL)d
7,596 (48.1)
7,022
991 (33.4)
945
32.8 (289.4)
17.2e
a Week 24 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg.
b Day 10 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg.
c N=59 for AUCtau and Ctau.
d Concentration at predose (0 hours) was used as surrogate for concentration at 24 hours for the purposes of estimating 
8,741 (34.9)
8,330
1,116 (20.0)
1,095
28.3 (157.2)
22.0e
1.19 (0.95-1.48)
1.28 (0.51-3.22)
1.16 (1.00-1.35)
AUCtau and Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0128.
e N=57 and N=5 for GLSM of Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0130 and Study GS-US-216-0128, respectively.
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant.
Renal impairment
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged.
120
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with 
PREZISTA co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total 
plasma concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate 
(Child-Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. 
However, unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and
100% (Child-Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown 
therefore, PREZISTA should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).
Pregnancy and postpartum
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum.
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC12h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
a
n=11 for AUC12h
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)a
4,668 ± 1,097
39,370 ± 9,597
1,922 ± 825
Third trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=12)
5,328 ± 1,631
45,880 ± 17,360
2,661 ± 1,269
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=12)
6,659 ± 2,364
56,890 ± 26,340
2,851 ± 2,216
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC24h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
Second trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=17)
4,964 ± 1,505
62,289 ± 16,234
1,248 ± 542
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy
(n=15)
5,132 ± 1,198
61,112 ± 13,790
1,075 ± 594
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=16)
7,310 ± 1,704
92,116 ± 29,241
1,473 ± 1,141
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum.
121
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during pregnancy results in low darunavir 
exposure. In women receiving darunavir/cobicistat during the second trimester of pregnancy, mean 
intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 49%, 56% and 92% lower, 
respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total darunavir 
Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 37%, 50% and 89% lower, respectively, as compared with 
postpartum. The unbound fraction was also substantially reduced, including around 90% reductions of 
Cmin levels. The main cause of these low exposures is a marked reduction in cobicistat exposure as a 
consequence of pregnancy-associated enzyme induction (see below).
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy, and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/mL
AUC24h, ng.h/mL
Cmin, ng/mL
Second trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=7)
4,340 ± 1,616
47,293 ± 19,058
168 ± 149
Third trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=6)
4,910 ± 970
47,991 ± 9,879
184 ± 99
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=6)
7,918 ± 2,199
99,613 ± 34,862
1,538 ± 1,344
The exposure to cobicistat was lower during pregnancy, potentially leading to suboptimal boosting of 
darunavir. During the second trimester of pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin were 50%, 
63%, and 83% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum. During the third trimester of 
pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin, were 27%, 49%, and 83% lower, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs.
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time.
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose.
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1,000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
122
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1,000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats.
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, PREZISTA with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years 
of age.
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1,000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses.
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy).
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including 
bacterial reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo
micronucleus test in mice.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Crospovidone
Magnesium stearate
Tablet film-coat
Poly(vinyl alcohol) – partially hydrolysed
Macrogol 3350
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc
Sunset yellow FCF (E110)
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Crospovidone
Magnesium stearate
Hypromellose
123
Tablet film-coat
Poly(vinyl alcohol) – partially hydrolysed
Macrogol 3350
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc
Iron oxide red (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
Opaque, white, high density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic, 160 ml bottle containing 60 tablets, fitted 
with polypropylene (PP) child resistant closure.
Pack size of one bottle.
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
Opaque, white, high density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic, 75 ml bottle containing 30 tablets, fitted 
with polypropylene (PP) child resistant closure.
Pack size of one bottle or three bottles per carton.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/003
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/007 - 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/008 - 90 film-coated tablets (3 x 30)
124
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 12 February 2007
Date of latest renewal: 19 September 2013
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
125
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
126
A. MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
PREZISTA oral suspension
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
PREZISTA tablets
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
Borgo San Michele
04100 Latina
Italy
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.
127
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
128
A. LABELLING
129
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON FOR ORAL SUSPENSION
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral suspension
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each ml of suspension contains 100 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219).
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Oral suspension
200 ml bottle
Pack includes a 6 ml dosing pipette with 0.2 ml gradations.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Shake bottle vigorously before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
Do not refrigerate or freeze. Avoid exposure to excessive heat.
130
Store in the original container.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 100 mg/ml
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
131
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL FOR ORAL SUSPENSION
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral suspension
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each ml of suspension contains 100 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219).
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Oral suspension
200 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Shake bottle vigorously before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
Do not refrigerate or freeze. Avoid exposure to excessive heat.
Store in the original container.
132
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
133
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
480 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
134
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/005
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 75 mg (this is only applicable to the outer pack)
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
135
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
240 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
136
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 150 mg (this is only applicable to the outer pack)
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
137
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Also contains sunset yellow FCF (E110).
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
138
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 400 mg (this is only applicable to the outer pack)
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
139
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Also contains sunset yellow FCF (E110).
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
140
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 600 mg (this is only applicable to the outer pack)
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
141
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON / BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg darunavir (as ethanolate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
30 film-coated tablets
90 film-coated tablets (3 bottles containing 30 tablets each)
The bottles are not to be distributed individually.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
142
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/380/007 - 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/06/380/008 - 90 film-coated tablets (3 x 30)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
prezista 800 mg (this is only applicable to the outer pack)
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
143
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
144
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 100 mg/ml oral suspension
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
PREZISTA is used to treat HIV infected adults as well as HIV infected children of 3 years of age and 
above, and at least 15 kilogram body weight (see How to take PREZISTA).
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of cobicistat or ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section
6) or to cobicistat or ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine
Purpose of the medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
145
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
-
-
-
146
-
-
-
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children
PREZISTA is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with cobicistat or ritonavir has 
not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dosage of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you 
take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can 
be combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
-
-
-
147
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions)
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
148
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA oral suspension contains sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate. This ingredient may 
cause allergic reactions (sometimes delayed).
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to 
your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight and age of the child (see table 
below). This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram PREZISTA 
together with 150 milligram cobicistat or 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much PREZISTA oral suspension and how much cobicistat 
(tablet) or ritonavir (capsules, tablets or solution) the child must take.
Weight
between 15 and 
30 kilograms
between 30 and 
40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
One PREZISTA dose is One ritonavira dose is One cobicistat dose is
600 milligram 
(6 milliliter)
675 milligram 
(6.8 milliliter)
800 milligram 
(8 milliliter)
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
150 milligramb
Do not take
Do not take
a
b
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
the child must be 12 years old or older
The child must take PREZISTA every day and always in combination with 150 milligram cobicistat or 
100 milligram of ritonavir and with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. The child must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking PREZISTA 
and either cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important.
Your child’s doctor will determine if your child should take PREZISTA with either cobicistat or 
ritonavir.
149
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight and age of the child (see table below). The 
doctor will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose 
must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram PREZISTA together with 150 milligram 
cobicistat or 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much PREZISTA oral suspension and how much cobicistat 
(tablet) or ritonavir (capsules, tablets or solution) the child must take.
Twice daily dosing
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
380 milligram (3.8 milliliter)
460 milligram (4.6 milliliter)
600 milligram (6 milliliter)
One ritonavira dose is
50 milligram (0.6 milliliter)
60 milligram (0.8 milliliter)
100 milligram (1.2 milliliter)
Once daily dosing
Weight
between 15 and 
30 kilograms
between 30 and 
40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
One PREZISTA dose 
is
600 milligram 
(6 milliliter)
675 milligram 
(6.8 milliliter)
800 milligram 
(8 milliliter)
a
b
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
the child must be 12 years old or older
One ritonavira dose is One cobicistat dose 
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
100 milligram 
(1.2 milliliter)
is
Do not take
Do not take
150 milligramb
Instructions for children
-
The child must take PREZISTA always together with cobicistat or ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot 
work properly without cobicistat or ritonavir.
The child must take the appropriate doses of PREZISTA and ritonavir two times per day or once 
a day or PREZISTA and cobicistat once a day. If prescribed PREZISTA twice daily the child 
must take one dose in the morning, and one dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will 
determine the appropriate dosing regimen for your child.
The child must take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important.
-
-
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
The usual dose of PREZISTA is 800 milligram once daily.
You must take PREZISTA every day and always in combination with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 
100 milligram of ritonavir and with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. You must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your PREZISTA 
and cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
OR
800 milligram PREZISTA together with 150 milligram cobicistat or 100 milligram ritonavir 
once daily.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
150
Instructions for adults
-
Take PREZISTA always together with cobicistat or ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work properly 
without cobicistat or ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The type of food is 
not important.
-
Instructions for use
Use the dosing pipette supplied with the pack to measure your dose accurately:
1.
2.
Shake the bottle well before each use.
Open the bottle of PREZISTA oral suspension by pushing downward on the cap and twisting it 
counter-clockwise.
3.
Insert the supplied oral dosing pipette all the way into the 
bottle.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Pull the plunger until the top of the barrel meets the line that matches the dose prescribed by 
your healthcare provider.
Take the dose of PREZISTA. Place the tip of the oral dosing pipette in the mouth. Press on the 
plunger of the pipette towards the mouth, then swallow.
Close the bottle with the cap after use, and store PREZISTA oral suspension as directed in 
section 5 below.
Remove the plunger from the barrel of the pipette, rinse both with water and allow to air dry 
after each use.
Put the oral dosing pipette back together after air drying and store with the PREZISTA bottle.
Do not use the dosing pipette for any other medicines.
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you take PREZISTA two times a day and if you notice within 6 hours, you must take the oral 
suspension immediately. Always take with ritonavir and food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip 
the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you take PREZISTA once a day and if you notice within 12 hours, you must take the oral 
suspension immediately. Always take with cobicistat or ritonavir and food. If you notice after 
12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a double dose to make up 
for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or 
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking 
the medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir until 
the next regularly scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
151
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is important to talk to your 
doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms or whether 
PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
152
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Do not store above 30°C.
Do not refrigerate or freeze. Avoid exposure to excessive heat.
Store in the original container.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each milliliter contains 100 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are hydroxypropyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose 
sodium, citric acid monohydrate, sucralose, strawberry cream flavour, masking flavour, sodium 
methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219), hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment), purified water.
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
White to off-white opaque oral suspension. Provided in a 200 ml amber glass bottle with 
polypropylene child resistant closure and a 6 ml low density polyethylene (LDPE) oral dosing pipette 
153
with 0.2 ml gradations. The bottle neck is filled with a low density polyethylene (LDPE) insert that 
accommodates the dosing pipette. Do not use the oral dosing pipette for any other medicines.
PREZISTA is also available as 75 milligram, 150 milligram, 400 milligram, 600 milligram and 
800 milligram film-coated tablets.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
154
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
155
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 75 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
PREZISTA is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines.
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine
Purpose of the medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
156
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
-
-
-
157
-
-
-
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children
PREZISTA is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with ritonavir has not been 
tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage 
of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other 
anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be 
combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
-
-
-
158
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
159
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram PREZISTA together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much PREZISTA tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take.
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how many PREZISTA tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of other strengths are available and your doctor may 
have prescribed a certain combination of tablets to construct the appropriate dosing regimen.
PREZISTA oral suspension is also available. Your doctor will determine whether PREZISTA tablets 
or oral suspension is right for the child.
Twice daily dosing
Weight
One dose is
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms*
375 milligram PREZISTA + 50 milligram ritonavir twice a day
450 milligram PREZISTA + 60 milligram ritonavir twice a day
600 milligram PREZISTA + 100 milligram ritonavir twice a day
160
* For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if PREZISTA 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 75 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of PREZISTA are available.
Once daily dosing
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
Instructions for children
-
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The child must take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work 
properly without ritonavir.
The child must take the appropriate doses of PREZISTA and ritonavir two times per day or once 
a day. If prescribed PREZISTA twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and 
one dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for 
your child.
The child must take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important.
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
You will require a different dose of PREZISTA which cannot be administered with these 75 milligram 
tablets. Other strengths of PREZISTA are available.
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
OR
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
PREZISTA 400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once 
daily 800 milligram regimen.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Instructions for adults
-
Take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work properly without 
ritonavir.
In the morning, take 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
In the evening, take 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The type of food is 
not important.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
PREZISTA 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral 
suspension have been developed for use in children, but can also be used in adults in some 
cases.
Removing the child resistant cap
The plastic bottle comes with a child resistant cap and must be opened as follows:
Push the plastic screw cap down while turning it counter clockwise.
-
Remove the unscrewed cap.
-
161
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir should 
be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the medicine, 
then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir until the next regularly 
scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
162
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
PREZISTA does not require any special storage conditions.
163
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 75 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains poly(vinyl alcohol) - partially hydrolysed, 
macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc.
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated, white, caplet shaped tablet, mentioning TMC on one side, 75 on the other side. 
480 tablets in a plastic bottle.
PREZISTA is also available as 150 milligram, 400 milligram, 600 milligram and 800 milligram 
film-coated tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA, Via C. Janssen, Borgo San Michele, 04100 Latina, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
164
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
165
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
166
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 150 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
PREZISTA is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines.
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine
Purpose of the medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
167
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
-
-
-
168
-
-
-
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children
PREZISTA is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with ritonavir has not been 
tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage 
of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other 
anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be 
combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
-
-
-
169
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
170
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram PREZISTA together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much PREZISTA tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take.
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how many PREZISTA tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of other strengths are available and your doctor may 
have prescribed a certain combination of tablets to construct the appropriate dosing regimen.
PREZISTA oral suspension is also available. Your doctor will determine whether PREZISTA tablets 
or oral suspension is right for the child.
Twice daily dosing
Weight
One dose is
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms*
375 milligram PREZISTA + 50 milligram ritonavir twice a day
450 milligram PREZISTA + 60 milligram ritonavir twice a day
600 milligram PREZISTA + 100 milligram ritonavir twice a day
171
* For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if PREZISTA 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 150 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of PREZISTA are available.
Once daily dosing
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
Instructions for children
-
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The child must take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work 
properly without ritonavir.
The child must take the appropriate doses of PREZISTA and ritonavir two times per day or once 
a day. If prescribed PREZISTA twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and 
one dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for 
your child.
The child must take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important.
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
You will require a different dose of PREZISTA which cannot be administered with these
150 milligram tablets. Other strengths of PREZISTA are available.
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
OR
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
PREZISTA 400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once 
daily 800 milligram regimen.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Instructions for adults
-
Take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work properly without 
ritonavir.
In the morning, take 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
In the evening, take 600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The type of food is 
not important.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
PREZISTA 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral 
suspension have been developed for use in children, but can also be used in adults in some 
cases.
Removing the child resistant cap
The plastic bottle comes with a child resistant cap and must be opened as follows:
Push the plastic screw cap down while turning it counter clockwise.
-
Remove the unscrewed cap.
-
172
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir should 
be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the medicine, 
then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir until the next regularly 
scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
173
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
PREZISTA does not require any special storage conditions.
174
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 150 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains poly(vinyl alcohol) - partially hydrolysed, 
macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc.
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated, white, oval shaped tablet, mentioning TMC on one side, 150 on the other side. 
240 tablets in a plastic bottle.
PREZISTA is also available as 75 milligram, 400 milligram, 600 milligram and 800 milligram 
film-coated tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA, Via C. Janssen, Borgo San Michele, 04100 Latina, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
175
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
176
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
177
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 400 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
The PREZISTA 400 milligram tablet is used to treat adults and children (3 years of age and above, at 
least 40 kilograms body weight) who are infected by HIV and
who have not used antiretroviral medicines before.
-
in certain patients who have used antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
-
this).
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of cobicistat or ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to cobicistat or ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
178
Medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
Purpose of the medicine
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
-
-
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
179
-
-
-
-
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children and adolescents
The PREZISTA 400 milligram tablet is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or 
weighing less than 40 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with cobicistat or ritonavir has 
not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dosage of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you 
take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can 
be combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
-
180
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions)
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
181
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA tablets contain sunset yellow FCF (E110) which may cause allergic reactions.
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to 
your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
PREZISTA 400 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 800 milligram 
regimen.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
The usual dose of PREZISTA is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 
1 tablet containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) once daily.
You must take PREZISTA every day and always in combination with 150 milligram of cobicistat or
100 milligram of ritonavir and with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. You must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your PREZISTA 
and cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
Instructions for adults
-
-
-
-
-
Take two 400 milligram tablets at the same time, once a day, every day.
Take PREZISTA always together with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 100 milligram of ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir 
as recommended by your doctor.
PREZISTA 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension has been developed for use in children, 
but can also be used in adults in some cases.
-
182
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 150 milligram cobicistat or 
100 milligram ritonavir once daily.
OR
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this)
-
The usual dose of PREZISTA is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of 
PREZISTA or 1 tablet containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat once daily.
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 
150 milligram of cobicistat once daily.
OR
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Instructions for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above 
with cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms
-
Take 800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) at the same time, once a day, every day.
Take PREZISTA always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat.
Take PREZISTA with food.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with PREZISTA and ritonavir or cobicistat
as recommended by your doctor.
-
-
-
-
Removing the child resistant cap
The plastic bottle comes with a child resistant cap and must be opened as follows:
Push the plastic screw cap down while turning it counter clockwise.
-
Remove the unscrewed cap.
-
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you notice within 12 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or 
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking 
183
the medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir until 
the next regularly scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is important to talk to your 
doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms or whether 
PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
-
-
-
-
-
-
184
-
-
-
-
-
-
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
PREZISTA does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 400 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains poly(vinyl alcohol) - partially hydrolysed, 
macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc, sunset yellow FCF (E110).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
185
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated, light orange, oval shaped tablet, mentioning TMC on one side, 400MG on the other side. 
60 tablets in a plastic bottle.
PREZISTA is also available as 75 milligram, 150 milligram, 600 milligram and 800 milligram 
film-coated tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA, Via C. Janssen, Borgo San Michele, 04100 Latina, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
186
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
187
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 600 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
PREZISTA is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines.
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine
Purpose of the medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
188
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, ranolazine
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
-
-
-
189
-
-
-
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children
PREZISTA is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with ritonavir has not been 
tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage 
of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other 
anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be 
combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
-
-
-
190
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
191
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA tablets contain sunset yellow FCF (E110) which may cause allergic reactions.
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
You will require a different dose of PREZISTA which cannot be administered with these 
600 milligram tablets. Other strengths of PREZISTA are available.
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
OR
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
PREZISTA 400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once 
daily 800 milligram regimen.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Instructions for adults
-
-
-
-
-
-
Take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work properly without 
ritonavir.
In the morning, take one 600 milligram PREZISTA tablet together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
In the evening, take one 600 milligram PREZISTA tablet together with 100 milligram ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The type of food is 
not important.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
PREZISTA 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral 
suspension have been developed for use in children, but can also be used in adults in some 
cases.
192
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram PREZISTA together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much PREZISTA tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take.
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this)
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram PREZISTA together with
100 milligram of ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram PREZISTA together with 
100 milligram ritonavir once a day. The doctor will inform you on how many PREZISTA tablets and 
how much ritonavir (capsules, tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of lower strengths are 
available to construct the appropriate dosing regimen. PREZISTA oral suspension is also available. 
Your doctor will determine whether PREZISTA tablets or oral suspension is right for the child.
Twice daily dosing
Weight
One dose is
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms*
* For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if PREZISTA 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 600 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of PREZISTA are available.
375 milligram PREZISTA + 50 milligram ritonavir twice a day
450 milligram PREZISTA + 60 milligram ritonavir twice a day
600 milligram PREZISTA + 100 milligram ritonavir twice a day
Once daily dosing
Weight
between 15 and 30 kilograms
between 30 and 40 kilograms
more than 40 kilograms
a
Instructions for children
-
ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter
One PREZISTA dose is
600 milligram
675 milligram
800 milligram
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram
100 milligram
100 milligram
-
-
-
-
The child must take PREZISTA always together with ritonavir. PREZISTA cannot work 
properly without ritonavir.
The child must take the appropriate doses of PREZISTA and ritonavir two times per day or once 
a day. If prescribed PREZISTA twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and 
one dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for 
your child.
The child must take PREZISTA with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important.
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
PREZISTA 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral 
suspension have been developed for use in children weighing less than 40 kilograms, but can 
also be used in some cases.
193
Removing the child resistant cap
The plastic bottle comes with a child resistant cap and must be opened as follows:
Push the plastic screw cap down while turning it counter clockwise.
-
Remove the unscrewed cap.
-
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take your missed dose immediately. Always take with 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir should 
be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the medicine, 
then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and ritonavir until the next regularly 
scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicine may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
194
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
195
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
PREZISTA does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 600 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains poly(vinyl alcohol) - partially hydrolysed, 
macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc, sunset yellow FCF (E110).
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated, orange, oval shaped tablet, mentioning TMC on one side, 600MG on the other side. 
60 tablets in a plastic bottle.
PREZISTA is also available as 75 milligram, 150 milligram, 400 milligram and 800 milligram 
film-coated tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA, Via C. Janssen, Borgo San Michele, 04100 Latina, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
196
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
197
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
198
Package leaflet: Information for the user
PREZISTA 800 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take PREZISTA
Possible side effects
How to store PREZISTA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What PREZISTA is and what it is used for
What is PREZISTA?
PREZISTA contains the active substance darunavir. PREZISTA is an antiretroviral medicine used in 
the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of medicines 
called protease inhibitors. PREZISTA works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. This will 
improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV infection.
What it is used for?
The PREZISTA 800 milligram tablet is used to treat adults and children (3 years of age and above, at 
least 40 kilograms body weight) who are infected by HIV and
who have not used antiretroviral medicines before.
-
in certain patients who have used antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
-
this).
PREZISTA must be taken in combination with a low dose of cobicistat or ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take PREZISTA
Do not take PREZISTA
-
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to cobicistat or ritonavir.
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary.
-
Tell your doctor about all medicines you take including medicines taken orally, inhaled, injected or 
applied to the skin.
Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
199
Medicine
Avanafil
Astemizole or terfenadine
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam
Cisapride
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems)
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Alfuzosin
Sildenafil
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
Purpose of the medicine
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety
to treat some stomach conditions
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever
to treat psychiatric conditions
to treat migraine headaches
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat
to lower cholesterol levels
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class 
as PREZISTA
to treat hepatitis C infection
to treat enlarged prostate
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine PREZISTA with products that contain St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking PREZISTA may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor.
People taking PREZISTA may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash.
In patients taking PREZISTA and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately.
-
-
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.
-
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take PREZISTA.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. PREZISTA might increase sugar levels in the blood.
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms.
200
-
-
-
-
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment.
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. PREZISTA might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections).
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor.
Elderly
PREZISTA has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use PREZISTA.
Children and adolescents
The PREZISTA 800 milligram tablet is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or 
weighing less than 40 kilograms.
Other medicines and PREZISTA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
There are some medicines that you must not combine with PREZISTA. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine PREZISTA with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, PREZISTA can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. PREZISTA with cobicistat or ritonavir has 
not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dosage of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you 
take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can 
be combined.
The effects of PREZISTA might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures)
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid)
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection).
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take PREZISTA and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol,
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased.
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered.
-
201
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. PREZISTA 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of 
non-hormonal contraception are recommended.
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. PREZISTA might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone.
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation.
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects.
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence)
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma)
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria)
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer)
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension)
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or PREZISTA’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take:
-
-
-
-
-
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures)
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders)
Clarithromycin (antibiotic)
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation.
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections)
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation)
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety)
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection)
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence)
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain)
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever)
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation)
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents)
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions)
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes).
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking.
PREZISTA with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take PREZISTA.’
202
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women
should not take PREZISTA with cobicistat.
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving PREZISTA.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking PREZISTA.
PREZISTA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take PREZISTA
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to 
your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor.
PREZISTA 800 milligram tablets are intended for once daily use only.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this)
The usual dose of PREZISTA is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 
1 tablet containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) once daily.
You must take PREZISTA every day and always in combination with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 
100 milligram of ritonavir and with food. PREZISTA cannot work properly without cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. You must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your PREZISTA 
and cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
Instructions for adults
-
-
-
-
-
Take one 800 milligram tablet at the same time, once a day, every day.
Take PREZISTA always together with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 100 milligram of ritonavir.
Take PREZISTA with food.
Swallow the tablet with a drink such as water or milk.
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir 
as recommended by your doctor.
PREZISTA 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension has been developed for use in children, 
but can also be used in adults in some cases.
-
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 150 milligram cobicistat or
100 milligram ritonavir once daily.
203
OR
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this)
-
The usual dose of PREZISTA is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of 
PREZISTA or 1 tablet containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat once daily.
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this)
The dose is either:
-
800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 
150 milligram of cobicistat once daily.
OR
600 milligram PREZISTA together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily.
-
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you.
Instructions for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above 
with cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms
-
Take 800 milligram PREZISTA (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of PREZISTA or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of PREZISTA) at the same time, once a day, every day.
Take PREZISTA always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat.
Take PREZISTA with food.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk.
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with PREZISTA and ritonavir or cobicistat 
as recommended by your doctor
-
-
-
-
Removing the child resistant cap
The plastic bottle comes with a child resistant cap and must be opened as 
follows:
-
-
Push the plastic screw cap down while turning it counter clockwise.
Remove the unscrewed cap.
If you take more PREZISTA than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
If you forget to take PREZISTA
If you notice within 12 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you vomit after taking PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or 
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking 
the medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of PREZISTA and cobicistat or ritonavir until 
the next regularly scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
204
Do not stop taking PREZISTA without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
PREZISTA. Talk to your doctor first.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes.
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start PREZISTA. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs.
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether PREZISTA must be stopped.
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
-
diarrhoea.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
-
-
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
-
-
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test.
high blood pressure, flushing
red or dry eyes
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
205
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
-
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung]
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations
visual disturbance
chills, feeling abnormal
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue
running nose
skin lesions, dry skin
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as PREZISTA. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
-
serious.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store PREZISTA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
PREZISTA does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What PREZISTA contains
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 800 milligram of darunavir (as 
ethanolate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate, hypromellose. The film-coating contains poly(vinyl alcohol) - partially 
hydrolysed, macrogol 3350, titanium dioxide (E171), talc, iron oxide red (E172).
What PREZISTA looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated, dark red, oval shaped tablet, mentioning T on one side, 800 on the other side. 30 tablets 
in a plastic bottle. The PREZISTA 800 milligram tablets are available in packs containing one bottle 
or three bottles per carton.
206
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
PREZISTA is also available as 75 milligram, 150 milligram, 400 milligram and 600 milligram 
film-coated tablets and 100 milligram per milliliter oral suspension.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA, Via C. Janssen, Borgo San Michele, 04100 Latina, Italy
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Lietuva
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON"
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
lt@its.jnj.com
България
„Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 489 94 00
jjsafety@its.jnj.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
janssen@jacbe.jnj.com
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel: +420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
jacdk@its.jnj.com
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
jancil@its.jnj.com
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
janssenhu@its.jnj.com
Malta
AM MANGION LTD
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
janssen@jacnl.jnj.com
Eesti
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 617 7410
ee@its.jnj.com
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
jacno@its.jnj.com
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
contacto@its.jnj.com
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
207
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
medisource@its.jnj.com
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
jjsafety@JNJCR.JNJ.com
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
janssen@vistor.is
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
janssenita@its.jnj.com
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22 207 700
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Janssen_safety_slo@its.jnj.com
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
jacfi@its.jnj.com
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
jacse@its.jnj.com
Latvija
UAB "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
lv@its.jnj.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
208
