PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for PREZISTA (Darunavir [TMC114]) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for PREZISTA. The RMP details important 
risks of PREZISTA, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about PREZISTA's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
PREZISTA's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet provide essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how PREZISTA should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for PREZISTA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of PREZISTA's 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
PREZISTA  coadministered  with  low-dose  ritonavir  (darunavir  [DRV]/rtv)  or  PREZISTA 
coadministered with cobicistat (DRV/COBI) is authorized in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicines  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  human  immunodeficiency  virus  type  1  (HIV-1) 
infection (see SmPC for the full indication). PREZISTA contains DRV (or TMC114) as the active 
substance and is given as an oral tablet (DRV 75 mg, 150 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg, 800 mg) or oral 
suspension (DRV 100 mg/mL). 
Further information about the evaluation of PREZISTA’s benefits can be found in PREZISTA’s 
European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
European Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/prezista. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of PREZISTA, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about PREZISTA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed  including  Periodic  Benefit-Risk  Evaluation  Report/Periodic  Safety  Update 
Report assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of PREZISTA is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  PREZISTA  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of PREZISTA. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the 
safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (eg,  on  the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks  None  
Important potential risks  None  
Missing information 
Long-term safety data in children from 3 to <6 years of age (DRV/rtv) 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Missing information: Long-term safety data in children from 3 to <6 years of age (DRV/rtv) 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
 
 
 
SmPC Section 4.8 
SmPC Section 5.1 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
  None 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
PREZISTA. 
 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
There are no studies required for PREZISTA.  
 
