European Medicines Agency 
London, 20 November 2008 
EMEA/CHMP/637631/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
PREZISTA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
darunavir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/707/X/16 
Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH): Janssen-Cilag International NV 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu      http://www.emea.europa.eu  
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
As  of  the  end  of  2007,  an  estimated  33.2  million  people  worldwide  –  30.8  million  adults  and  2.5 
children  younger  than  15  years  –  were  living  with  HIV/AIDS.  Approximately  50%  of  adults  living 
with  HIV/AIDS  are  women.  An  estimated  2.5  million  new  HIV  infections  and  2.1  million  AIDS 
deaths occurred worldwide during 2007 (Source: UNAIDS). 
Current options for the treatment of HIV-1 infected patients are: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nucleoside/tide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)  
Protease inhibitors (PIs) 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Fusion or entry inhibitor 
Integrase inhibitor 
CCR5 receptor antagonist 
For  treatment-naïve  patients,  a  triple regimen  is  considered  standard  of  care.  The  goal  is  to  achieve 
effective  suppression  of  viral  replication  below  the  detection  limits  of  the  available  tests,  thereby 
strongly reducing the emergence of resistance. 
The  use  of  PIs  has  been  a  major  breakthrough  in  the  therapy  for  HIV-1  infection,  substantially 
reducing morbidity and mortality in infected individuals. However, the long-term use of the currently 
licensed PIs is often hampered by different factors such as poor compliance due to a high pill burden 
and  food  restrictions,  side  effects  with  impact  on  the  quality  of  life  and  the  emergence  of  resistant 
virus that is no longer inhibited by the medicinal product used. 
As a consequence of side effects and resistance emergence, patients often switch between various HIV 
medications.  Whilst  new  therapies  have  significantly  simplified  and  enhanced  the  efficacy  of 
antiretroviral  (ARV)  regimens  in  treatment-naïve  patients,  resistance  and  the  resulting  inability  to 
achieve  suppression  of  viral  replication  remain  a  significant  problem  affecting  large  numbers  of 
patients.  Resistance  can  be  addressed  by  development  of  medicinal  products  with  a  different 
mechanism  of  action  or  by  development  of  potent  medicines  with  substantial  barriers  to  cross-class 
resistance. 
Darunavir is an inhibitor of wild type and mutant HIV-1 protease without inhibiting human cellular 
proteases. The activity has been demonstrated on laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and 
HIV-2,  and  it  has  been  found  to  be  efficacious  and  safe  in  treating  HIV-1  infection  in  treatment 
experienced  adult  patients,  including  those  that  have  been  highly  pre  treated.  The  CHMP  issued  a 
positive opinion on the latter indication. The present submission for the 400 mg tablets evaluates the 
efficacy, safety and tolerability of darunavir in patients who are treatment naïve. 
The PI darunavir (TMC114) is a close analogue of amprenavir (APV). The binding of darunavir to the 
wild-type protease was 87-fold greater than that of APV versus 33- fold more tightly than APV in the 
case of multi-drug resistant protease. Darunavir binds also more tightly to HIV-1 proteases than the 
protease inhibitors indinavir, ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir, amprenavir, lopinavir, and atazanavir. 
Darunavir  is  currently  licensed  for  use  in  treatment-experienced  patients  at  a  dose  of  600mg  twice 
daily (b.i.d.), with ritonavir 100mg b.i.d., in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. 
The  current  submission  addresses  Follow-Up  Measure  (FUM)  24:  “Week  48  study  report  from 
TMC114-C211,  a  randomised,  controlled  open-label  trial  to  compare  the  efficacy,  safety  and 
tolerability  of  TMC114/ritonavir  versus  lopinavir/ritonavir  in  treatment-naïve  HIV-1  infected 
subjects” resulting in a new proposed indication for which the dose regimen requires a 400 mg tablet.  
Page 2 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH proposed the following therapeutic indication for the 400 mg film-coated tablet: 
PREZISTA,  co-administered  with  100 mg  ritonavir  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal products  is indicated for the treatment  of human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV-1) 
infection in adult patients. 
This covers a broader population than the target population of the clinical trial submitted within this 
submission,  namely  ARV-naïve  patients.  It  also  includes  the  population  of  treatment  experienced 
adults,  which,  however,  are  subject  to  a  different  posology  and  not  covered  by  any  clinical  data 
submitted in this extension application.  
Proposed posology:  
In  protease  inhibitor  naïve  adults:  The  recommended  dosage  of  PREZISTA  is  800 mg  once 
daily (q.d.) taken with ritonavir 100 mg q.d. and with food. 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
PREZISTA must always be given orally with 100 mg ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer 
and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products.  
The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir. 
The new indication is based on Week -48 analyses of plasma HIV RNA levels and CD4+ cell count 
from  one  open-label  controlled  trial  comparing  darunavir/ritonavir,  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  given  in 
combination with an optimised antiretroviral background treatment. 
The following guidelines are applicable for the current application:  
•  Guideline  on  the  clinical  development  of  medicinal  products  for  treatment  of  HIV  infection 
(CPMP/EWP/633/02, Rev. 1) 
•  Choice of a Non-Inferiority Margin (CPMP/EWP/2158/99) 
•  Points 
on  Switching 
to  Consider 
between  Superiority 
and  Non-inferiority 
(CPMP/EWP/482/99) 
•  Points to Consider on Adjustment for Baseline Covariates (CPMP/EWP/2863/99)  
•  Points to Consider on Missing Data (CPMP/EWP/1776/99) 
A Paediatric Investigation Plan was submitted September 2007 and has received a positive opinion in 
June 2008. 
No Scientific Advice from any European regulatory authority including the EMEA was requested by 
the Company within the framework of the current submission.  
•  User consultation 
The MAH considered it justified that no new user testing was performed for this application based on 
the following elements: 
• 
full user testing in compliance with the above mentioned legislative requirements was performed 
(n=37  participants)  on the initial  patient  leaflet for  Prezista  300  mg  film-coated tablets  that  was 
approved on 12 February 2007; 
•  with  the  proposed  indication  extension  to  include  antiretroviral  naïve  patients  no  new  route  of 
administration is proposed; 
•  with the proposed indication extension the target group of users (i.e. HIV-1 infected patients) will 
not fundamentally change. 
Page 3 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  the  MAH’s  argumentation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  that  no  new  user 
consultation had to be provided. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  medicinal  product  Prezista  400  mg  is  presented  as  light  orange  film-coated  tablets  containing 
darunavir as darunavir ethanolate in a dosage of 433.64 mg, corresponding to 400 mg darunavir. 
The  other  ingredients  include  microcrystalline  cellulose,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  crospovidone, 
magnesium  stearate,  poly(vinyl  alcohol)  –  partially  hydrolysed,  macrogol  3350,  titanium  dioxide 
(E171), talc and sunset yellow FCF (E110). 
The tablets are packed in high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles closed with polypropylene (PP) 
child resistant closures. 
Active Substance 
The  active  substance  is  darunavir.  It  is  manufactured  in  solvated  form  as  darunavir  ethanolate,  an 
established  substance  not  described  in  any  pharmacopoeia.  Darunavir  ethanolate  is  a  hygroscopic 
substance, which is very slightly soluble in aqueous solutions. The active substance possesses 5 chiral 
centres  [1S,2R,3aS,4S,6aR]  and  stereochemical  purity  is  controlled  by  adequate  specifications  on 
stereochemical purity of the starting materials.  
Full documentation on the active substance has already been assessed within the original Marketing 
Authorisation  Application  (MAA)  for  Prezista  300  mg.  For  this  line  extension  to  add  the  400  mg 
strength,  the  MAH  has  only  submitted  new  data  on  the  active  substance  manufacturers  and 
manufacturing  process,  the  active  substance  specifications  and  justifications  for  the  amended 
specifications and the active substance stability.  
•  Manufacture 
The purified active substance is produced by a 4 step process, out of two starting  materials. For the 
manufacturing  process  reference  is  made  to  the  already  marketed  300  mg  Prezista.  For  the 
manufacturing  of  the  400  mg  strength,  an  additional  active  substance  manufacturer  has  been 
introduced.  This  manufacturer  applies  a  different  method  of  drying,  resulting  in  a  different  particle 
size distribution of the active substance. Due to this change, the formulation of the finished product 
needed  to  be  modified  in  order  to  keep  flow  characteristics  of  the  blend  at  an  acceptable  level. 
Bioequivalence / Bioavailability studies have been performed with modified formulations. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification has been established in-house by the MAH. The MAH has justified 
the acceptance criteria for the particle size of the active substance by submission of laser diffraction 
patterns of the active substance batches used in clinical studies.  
For  both  the  approved  and  the  proposed  additional  manufacturing  site,  batch  analytical  data 
demonstrating compliance with the active substance specification have been provided for at least 3 full 
scaled batches. The data demonstrate consistency in the manufacturing process and compliance with 
the proposed active substance specifications.  
•  Stability 
Active substance stability data from one active substance manufacturer has already been assessed in 
the  original  MAA  for  the  300  mg  strength.  For  this  line  extension  application,  the  MAH  submitted 
Page 4 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long term stability data from 3 full scale batches manufactured at the additional production site. The 
results cover 3 months at 30°C/65%RH and 40°C/75%RH.  
The manufacturing of the active substance at the new manufacturing sites does not lead to changes in 
the impurity profile of the substance. Also, the container closure system remains the same. It is thus 
not  expected  to  affect the stability  of  the  substance. The  particle size  distribution  is  not  expected to 
affect the stability of the active substance either. The currently approved active substance retest period 
for the 300 mg is therefore approvable for both manufacturing sites. No special storage conditions are 
necessary. 
Medicinal Product 
The currently approved commercial dosage form for darunavir is a 300 mg orange film-coated tablet. 
To address unmet clinical needs, the additional 400 mg (light orange) strength has been developed.  
The 400 mg tablets are prepared from a formulation that is qualitatively the same as that used for the 
approved commercial 300 mg tablet, incorporating all the same ingredients, with a minor decrease in 
the percentage of microcrystalline cellulose, and a corresponding minor increase in the percentages of 
colloidal  anhydrous  silica  and  magnesium  stearate,  to  provide  better  powder  flow  properties  for 
compression of the tablets (i.e. modified formulation). Multiple strengths of the modified formulation 
can be compressed from a common powder blend. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  development  of  the  400  mg  tablets  was  based  on  the  300  mg  tablets.  However,  the  MAH  has 
introduced an adapted formulation for the 400 mg strength. The provided justification for adapting the 
formulation in view of manufacturability issues, due to a change in particle size of the drug substance 
is considered adequate. 
In  total,  14  different  formulations  were  evaluated.  The  test  formulations  varied  slightly  from  the 
current  300  mg  tablet formulation  and  were  manufactured  with  mechanically  dried  active  substance 
lots  having  a  small  particle  size  and  reduced  flow  properties.  For  each  formulation,  the  physical 
properties  of  the  final  blend  (particle  size,  flowability,  volume)  and  the  tablet  cores  (appearance, 
weight, hardness, disintegration time, friability) were measured. Results from the current formulation 
manufactured with a statically dried (i.e., good flowing) active substance lot were used as the baseline. 
The  currently  proposed  formulation  was  identified  as  having  improved  manufacturability:  improved 
flow properties and/or a reduced tendency for sticking without risk of blend flow obstruction or tablet 
sticking on scale-up.  
The qualitative composition of the 400 mg strength is identical to the already approved 300 mg tablets. 
Only a minor change in quantitative composition has taken place. The pharmaceutical development of 
the product has been adequately performed. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
There are no substances of ruminant animal origin present in the product nor have any been used in the 
manufacturing of this product, so a theoretical risk of transmitting TSE can be excluded. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process consists of blending the tablet core components, direct compression of the 
tablets  and  coating  of  the  tablet  cores.  The  manufacturing  process  can  be  considered  as  standard. 
Adequate in-process controls are proposed and the critical aspects of the manufacturing process (e.g. 
particle size, manufacturability, drug substance content of 52%) are adequately dealt with.  
Page 5 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch  analysis  results  support  the  view  that  active  substance  dosage,  uniformity  of  content, 
degradation  products  and  chromatographic  purity,  dissolution,  and  microbiological  purity  are 
adequately controlled. The Process Validation Scheme proposed by the MAH is appropriate. 
•  Product Specification 
Appropriate medicinal product specifications have been set. The specifications for the finished product 
at  release  and  shelf  life  are  classical  for  this  pharmaceutical  form  and  include  tests  for  appearance, 
identity,  assay,  degradation,  dissolution,  microbiological  purity  and  uniformity  of  dosage  units.  The 
excipients  used  in  the  medicinal  product  comply  with  pharmacopoeial  requirements  or  national 
standards where applicable. The proposed test parameters and acceptance criteria are acceptable.  
The analytical methods have been adequately described and validated. Batch analytical data from the 
proposed site for  commercial  production  have  been  provided  on  2  pilot  scaled development  batches 
and 2 production scaled batches, demonstrating compliance with the release specification.  
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  studies  include  long  term  and  accelerated  studies,  bulk  tablet  studies,  in-use  studies, 
photostability studies and some auxiliary studies.  
The performed stability studies follow a bracketing design that incorporates the not yet marketed high 
(600-mg) and the low (75-mg) strengths of the modified formulation tablets, the various package sizes 
and counts, and the tablet colours under development. The bracketing approach has been adequately 
justified. 
Stability data have been provided for 3 pilot scaled batches of 75 mg tablets and 6 pilot scaled batches 
of  600  mg  tablets  filled  in  two  sizes  of  containers.  The  batches  have  been  stored  at  25°C/60%  RH 
(12 months)  and  40°C/75%  RH  (6  months)  in  the  proposed  container.  The  conditions  used  in  the 
stability  studies  are according  to the  ICH  stability  guideline; several additional conditions have  also 
been tested.  
Several  supportive  studies  have  been  performed.  Data  covering  24  months  have  been  provided  for 
2 batches of modified 300 mg tablets and 9 month data of modified 400 mg tablets stored at ICH long 
term and accelerated conditions. 
During all of the above studies, the test parameters were shown to be stable at all test conditions. In 
view  of  the  stability  results,  the  proposed  shelf-life,  with  no  special  storage  condition,  can  be 
approved.  The MAH has committed to submit additional stability data, covering the complete shelf-
life. 
Furthermore,  in-use  stability  data  has  been  provided  demonstrating  that  the  modified  formulation  is 
stable after opening the container (75 mg, 3 months and 600 mg, 1 month). Photostability studies show 
that the product is not sensitive to light. In view of the observed stability during the in-use trials with 
the modified formulation, no additional in-use storage conditions nor a separate in-use shelf-life are 
considered necessary for the 400 mg tablets.  
The  stability  data  are  considered  adequate  and  support  the  proposed  shelf  of  life  24  months  for  the 
400 mg strength. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the active substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing process enhances to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life.  
Page 6 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Non-clinical aspects – Environmental Risk Assessment  
There  were  no  new  non-clinical  data  submitted  within  this  extension  application.  However,  with 
reference to already submitted data, an environmental risk assessment was provided.  
The recommended dosage for the newly proposed patient group is darunavir 800 mg q.d. taken with 
ritonavir 100 mg and together with food. The currently approved dosage for ARV therapy experienced 
patients is 600 mg b.i.d. taken with ritonavir, also together with food. Therefore the total daily dose is 
lower in the new patient group (800 mg/day) than that currently authorised (1200 mg/day). 
In the original dossier, the exposures to darunavir in animal species in the repeated dose studies was 
similar  to,  or  lower,  than  that  in  man  at  the  clinical  dose  and  therefore  safety  margins  were  absent. 
This was so, despite the co-administration of ritonavir, which increased exposure to darunavir in rats 
and mice. The exposure margins were calculated using an AUC value of 121µg•h/ml in man after a 
dose of darunavir/ritonavir of 600/100 mg b.i.d. 
In  a  sub  study  of  study  TMC114-C211  (the  main  clinical  study  submitted  in  support  of  the  new 
strength and indication), the mean Cmax values for darunavir at a dose of 800/100 mg q.d. for 4, 24 and 
48 weeks with a fixed background regimen in treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected subjects were 5.5, 5.8 
and 6.8 µg/ml, respectively, with AUC24h values being 64.2, 66.9 and 75.6 µg•h/ml at these same time 
points.  
The  Cmax  and  AUC  values  were  lower  in  this  group  of  patients  than  the  values  of  10µg/ml  and 
121µg•h/ml  for  Cmax  and  AUC  that  were  previously  reported  at  the  recommended  clinical  dose  of 
600/100 mg b.i.d. 
Therefore the pharmacokinetics of the new dosage regimen in the new patient population were within 
the values previously obtained and although safety margins are lacking, they are not further eroded in 
this group of patients. 
The environmental risk assessment dated February 2008 comprised Phase II Tier A environmental fate 
and  effects  analysis.  The  values  given  in  the  summary  for  PECsurface  water  and  the  PEC:PNEC  ratios 
were  different  from  those  calculated  in  the  body  of  the  report.  For  example,  the  PECsurface  water  was 
stated to be 0.044µg/l in the summary, but in the rest of the report 6µg/l or 0.057µg/l, depending upon 
whether the default Fpen of 1% or a refined Fpen was used.  
Therefore,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  comment  on  these  differences.  The  different  predicted 
environmental  concentration  (PEC)  values  in  the  summary  and  the  body  of  the  report  (sediment 
toxicity  study  with  Hyalella  sp,  Lumbriculus  sp  or  Chironomus  sp)  was  due  to  the  fact  that  the 
summary was not updated with the newly calculated values in the body of the report (based on the new 
market  penetration  data  forecast).  A  revised  environmental  risk  assessment  was  submitted  in  June 
2008 in the Extension Application for the 75 and 150 mg tablets (pending) and the values between the 
report and the summary were aligned. The overall conclusion on the environmental risk remained the 
same. 
The  guideline  on  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human  use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) states that ‘If a substance is not readily biodegradable and if the results 
from the water sediment study (OECD 308) demonstrate significant shifting of the active substance to 
the  sediment,  effects  on  sediment  organisms  should  be  investigated  in  Tier  B.  The  criterion  for 
sediment  studies  is  met  if  more  that  10%  of  the  substance  at  any  time  point  after  or  at  14  days  is 
present in sediment. 
In the biodegradation test (OECD 301B), the low rate of CO2 evolution suggested that darunavir is not 
readily biodegradable. The aquatic sediment studies conducted according to OECD 308 and submitted 
in  fulfilment  of  FUM  13  showed  a  significant  amount  of  the  radioactivity  accumulating  as  non-
extractable bound residues in the sediments in both the aerobic and anaerobic studies. In both systems 
there  was  >40%  of  the  applied  dose  as  bound  residues.  Therefore  an  additional  FUM  was  raised  at 
Page 7 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
renewal  of  the  conditional  MA  in  November  2007,  that  a  sediment  toxicity  study  with  Hyalella  sp, 
Lumbriculus  sp.  or  Chironomus  sp.  was  required  (FU2  013.1).  In  the  meanwhile,  these  data  were 
provided  and  the  additional  FUM  was  considered  solved  (conclusions  adopted  at  the  May  2008 
CHMP). 
4.  Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as stated by the MAH. 
The MAH has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the Community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two  bioequivalence  studies  were  submitted.  Study  C167  showed  that  particle  size  of  the  active 
substance may be critical with regard to bioequivalence with the marketed tablet. However, it should 
be taken into consideration that this study was carried out under fasting conditions. Although in study 
C162  fed  and fasting  conditions  were  studied,  the Test tablet  used in  this  study  also  had a  different 
particle size of the API. 
Study  C162  showed  that  Test  tablet  F032  with  a  certain  particle  size  was  bioequivalent  with  the 
marketed  tablet  F016,  under  fed  and  fasting  conditions.  The  proposed  400  mg  tablet  was  dose 
proportional with the 600 mg F032 tablet used in study C162 for which bioequivalence was proven.  
As the pharmacokinetics of darunavir under boosted conditions was considered linear over at least the 
400 – 1200 mg dose range, this requirement is fulfilled. The 600 mg tablet was manufactured at the 
same site as the 400 mg tablet. The 400 tablet has the same particle size of the API as the one in the 
600 mg tablet.  Furthermore, the extrapolation was supported by dissolution tests over the pH range of 
1 – 6.8 (see also Quality part). 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
The  recommended  dose  was  based  on  findings  of  the  studies  TMC114-C202  and  TMC114-C213. 
These  two  studies  were  assessed  in  the  context  of  the  original  MAA  for  highly  ARV  therapy 
experienced  patients. The proposed  dosage  of  800  mg  darunavir  (DRV)  with  100  mg  ritonavir (rtv) 
q.d. was considered appropriate, since superior efficacy of DRV/rtv 800/100 q.d. in combination with 
an optimised background regimen (OBR) to other available PIs was found and also pharmacokinetic 
results of the present trial and above mentioned trials indicated that adequate exposures were obtained 
with  the  once-daily  DRV/rtv  dose  regimen.  Based  upon  the  effect  on  the  plasma  viral  load  of  the 
800/100 mg q.d. dose, and the above mentioned exposure data, it was hypothesised to be sufficient for 
efficacy testing in the ART-naïve patient population. This rationale for the choice of a DRV/rtv dose 
regimen in treatment naïve patients is considered to be relatively weak; however, results of study C211 
overcome these concerns.  
In addition, the MAH has evaluated whether this regimen could be useful (and so more convenient) 
for the ART-experienced. As a consequence, the MAH has started a randomised, open label, phase III 
study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the 800/100 mg q.d. compared to the 600/100 mg b.i.d. in 
treatment experienced patients.  
Page 8 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Main clinical study 
The  48  week  results  from  one  efficacy  study,  TMC114-211,  have  been  submitted  in  support  of  the 
proposed indication for the new 400mg strength tablet. For bioequivalence issues see above.  
METHODS 
Study TMC114-C211  (ARTEMIS)  was  an  open label,  multi-centre, randomised controlled  phase  III 
trial.  
The primary objective of this study was to establish non-inferiority in virologic response of DRV/rtv 
to lopinavir (LPV)/rtv. Non-inferiority would be established if the lower bound of the 95% confidence 
interval (CI) for the difference between % response in the DRV/rtv group and the LPV/rtv group was 
no larger than -12%.  
Secondary  objectives  were,  amongst  others,  to  evaluate  safety  and  tolerability  over  192  weeks,  to 
evaluate the durability of virologic response over 192 weeks, to compare the immunologic response, to 
evaluate the PK/PD relationships, to evaluate the superiority for virologic response in case DRV was 
non-inferior, to evaluate the resistance characteristics, and to assess the population pharmacokinetics 
of DRV in this treatment-naïve population. 
Subjects  were  randomised  at  baseline  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  DRV/rtv  or  LPV/rtv  according  to  two 
stratification factors: screening plasma viral load (< 100000, ≥ 100000 copies/ml) and screening CD4+ 
cell  count  (<  200,  ≥  200  cells/µl).  The  trial  was  open  label;  the  treatment  given  to  the  patient  was 
known to investigator and patients due to operational and logistic reasons. 
Many  of  the  secondary  objectives  were  difficult  to  measure  in  this  trial  set  up  due  to  the  lack  of 
blinding and the small effect of treatment expected on several endpoints, making the study population 
too small to measure these effects. Especially the results of the “patient reported outcomes”, i.e. results 
from the quality of life questionnaires were considered to be of little value by the CHMP. Also, not 
blinding  investigator  or  patient  could  still  have  introduced  some  bias  in  the  primary  endpoints; 
however,  the  MAH  adequately  demonstrated  that  the  open  label  did  not  affect  any  of  the  major 
outcomes of the trial, including conclusions on efficacy and safety. 
The  study  population  consisted  of  HIV-1  infected,  antiretroviral  treatment  naïve,  male  and  female 
adults  with  a  baseline  viral  load  ≥  5000  HIV-1  RNA  copies/ml.  The  cut-off  date  for  the  primary 
efficacy  analysis  was  set  on  13  June  2007,  at  which  patients  in  the  trial  had  reached  48  weeks  of 
treatment.  
In  total,  691  subjects  were  randomised  to  receive  either  800  mg  DRV  q.d.  with  100  mg  rtv  (345 
subjects)  or  800  mg  LPV  with  200  mg  rtv  (346  subjects)  in  combination  with  a  fixed  background 
treatment of 300 mg tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) q.d. and 200 mg emtricitabine (FTC) q.d. 
Of  note,  approximately  25%  of  the  subjects  in  the  control  group  used  a  non-validated  LPV/rtv 
800/200mg q.d. dose regimen whereas the majority used the approved LPV/rtv 400/100mg b.i.d. dose 
regimen in Europe. This should be taken into account in the critical assessment of the results. 
For  the  present  application,  the  48  week  results  of  this  trial  have  been  assessed.  The  analyses  of 
subjects and treatment information were conducted on the ITT population, unless otherwise specified. 
The  OP  (on-protocol)  population,  defined  as  the  set  of  all  randomised  subjects  who  took  trial 
medication and did not take any disallowed ARV medication for more than one week, was similar to 
the  ITT  (intent-to-treat)  population;  there  were  only  3  subjects  less  in  the  DRV/rtv  arm  in  the  OP 
population. Therefore, results from both the ITT and OP populations are very similar.  
Page 9 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Baseline data 
The  two  treatment  groups  were  comparable  concerning  demographic  and  baseline  disease 
characteristics,  and  genotyping.  Some  differences  were  observed  in  the  presence  of  concomitant 
disease; these were not considered to have a relevant effect on the trial outcomes. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint  results:  Virologic  response  defined  as  a  confirmed  plasma  viral  load  of 
< 50 copies/ml was similar up to Week 12 in the DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv treatment groups. Thereafter a 
greater  percentage  of  subjects  in  the  DRV/rtv  exhibited  viral  suppression,  with  the  difference 
seemingly increasing over time.  
At Week 48, virologic response in the ITT population was 83.7% for the DRV/rtv group and 78.3% 
for the LPV/rtv group. The difference in virologic response between the treatment groups was 5.3% 
(95% CI: -0.5% - 11.2%): 
DRV/rtv 
LPV/rtv 
DRV/rtv - LPV/rtv 
N1  N2  % 
N1  N2  % 
% 
lower 
CI 
upper CI 
287 
343  83.7  271 
346  78.3 
5.3 
-0.5 
11.2 
Primary Outcome: 
Confirmed response (<50) 
Secondary outcomes: 
Confirmed response (2LOG)  
Confirmed response (<400) 
N1 = number of responders N2 = number of subjects with data  
343  85.7  293 
343  87.8  295 
294 
301 
346  84.7 
346  85.3 
1.0 
2.5 
-4.3 
-2.6 
6.3 
7.6 
Similar results were obtained for the OP population: the Week 48 virologic response was 83.8% for 
the DRV/rtv group and 78.3% for the LPV/rtv group; the difference between the treatment groups was 
5.5% (95% CI: -0.4 - 11.4).  
Since the lower bound of the 95% CI for the difference in % response between the DRV/rtv and the 
LPV/rtv group at week 48 was well above the determined ∆ of -12%, non-inferiority of the virologic 
response  to  DRV/rtv  compared  with  the  virologic  response  of  LPV/rtv  48  weeks  after  initiating 
treatment in HIV-1 infected treatment naïve patients was established.  
Sensitivity  analyses  demonstrated  that  the  findings  were  robust  and  consistent  across  different 
populations and imputation methods. Study TMC114-C211 provides sufficient evidence to support the 
proposed indication by demonstrating similar efficacy of DRV/rtv to LPV/rtv in the target population 
of treatment naïve HIV infected patients.  
Superiority of DRV/rtv versus LPV/rtv in virologic response at 48 weeks was not found. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoint  results  (ITT):  Virologic  response  expressed  as  the  percentage  subjects 
with confirmed plasma viral load < 400 copies/ml was similar in the two treatment groups at all time 
points.  At  week  48  non-inferiority  of  DRV/rtv  (87.8%) to  LPV/rtv  (85.3%)  was  demonstrated,  with 
the difference between the two groups being 2.5% (95% CI: -2.6% - 7.6%).  
Similar  results  were  obtained  for  virologic  response  expressed  as  the  percentage  subjects  with 
confirmed  decrease  in  plasma  viral  load  ≥2  log10  copies/ml.  The  difference  in  virologic  response 
between the DRV/rtv (85.7%) and LPV/rtv group (84.7%) at week 48 was 1.0 % (95% CI:  -4.3%  - 
6.3%), demonstrating non-inferiority of DRV/rtv to LPV/rtv.  
Page 10 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At 48 weeks the mean change in log10 viral load from baseline was -2.77 and -2.65 log10 copies/ml for 
the  DRV/rtv  and  LPV/rtv  treatment  groups  respectively.  The  estimated  difference  (ANCOVA) 
between the groups at week 48 was -0.09 log10 copies/ml (95% CI: -0.26 - 0.07). Similar results were 
found in the OP population. 
The  “time  to  virologic  response”,  with  response  expressed  as  the  percentage  of  subjects  with 
confirmed  plasma  viral  load  <50  copies/ml,  is  similar  between  the  two  groups  up  to  week  36  after 
which a higher virologic response rate was seen in the DRV/rtv group than in the LPV/rtv group. The 
proportion  of  subjects  not  achieving  a  plasma  viral  load  <  50  copies/ml  was  lower  in  the  DRV/rtv 
group  than  in  the  LPV/rtv  group,  and  loss  of  virologic  response  over  time  occurred  slightly  less 
frequently  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  than  in  the  LPV/rtv  group.  At  week  48  DAVG  (time  averaged 
difference) of log plasma viral load was similar for the DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv treatment groups, being -
2.65 and -2.56 log10 copies/ml, respectively. 
The mean change relative to baseline in CD4+ cell count at Week 48 was 154 x 106/L and 161 x 106/L 
for the DRV/rtv and the LPV/rtv group respectively. There was no evidence that the mean change for 
both groups was different (difference in means at week 48 = -7, 95% CI: -27 - 13). The level of CD8 
cells decreased similarly to the increase in CD4+ and consequently the CD4+/CD8 ratio increased. 
One  subject  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  with  2  DRV  resistance  associated  mutations  (RAMs)  and  one 
subject in the LPV/rtv groups with 3 LPV RAMs at baseline both demonstrated a virologic response at 
week  48.  No  outcomes  were  reported  for  the  individuals  with  either  1  DRV  RAM  or  1  or  2  LPV 
RAMs at baseline. The percentage of virologic failures was lower in the DRV/rtv group compared to 
the  LPV/rtv  group.  The  development  of  mutations  was  studied  in  these  virologic  failures.    In  the 
DRV/rtv  group  10  subjects  who  demonstrated  virologic  failure  had  matching  baseline/endpoint 
genotypes,  18  in  the  LPV/rtv  group  did  so.  In  none  of  the  virologic  failures  in  the  DRV/rtv  group 
developing PI-RAMS were identified. In the LPV/rtv group one subject had two additional PI RAMS 
at endpoint, which were not associated with loss in susceptibility to LPV. In the virologic failures of 
the  DRV/rtv  group  one  developing  NRTI  RAM  was  identified,  associated  with  a  decreased 
susceptibility to FTC. In the LPV/rtv group, two virologic failures with developing NRTI RAMs, and 
one subject with 2 additional developing PI RAMs at endpoint were identified. No other clear causes 
for  virologic  failure  were  identified;  however,  long  term  data  are  required  to  evaluate  the  further 
evolution of development of resistance in the ART naïve patient population. 
Treatment  compliance  was  similar  in  both  groups  as  based  on  pharmacokinetic  sampling.  The 
proportion of subjects with DRV plasma concentrations below the detection limit was ≤ 3% at all time 
points, and the proportion of subjects with LPV plasma concentrations below the detection limit was 
≤ 6%  at  all  time  points.  When  considering  the  Medication  Adherence  Self-Report  Survey  (MASRI) 
questionnaire outcome, adherence was slightly higher in the DRV/rtv group (84%) than in the LPV/rtv 
group (79%) at week 48. 
Ancillary  analyses:  There  was  some  variation  in  response  to  DRV/rtv  and  LPV/rtv  according  to 
region.  In  Europe  there  was  less  response  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  compared  with  the  LPV/rtv  group 
(diff = -4.3; 95% CI: -15.5 - 6.9), whilst in other regions the response in the DRV/rtv group appears to 
be somewhat improved compared with the LPV/rtv group. A likely explanation for this difference is 
that  in  Europe  the  discontinuation  rate  for  DRV/rtv  (13.0%)  is  higher  than  for  LPV/rtv  (10.0%) 
whereas for the other regions the discontinuation rate for DRV/rtv is lower than for LPV/rtv. It should 
be noted that the numbers in these groups were small and the differences between treatment arms not 
significant.  Finally,  for  a  part  the  regional  differences  can  be  explained  by  the  use  of  non-validated 
once daily dosing of the comparator (Kaletra), see below. 
Both baseline plasma viral load (VL) and baseline CD4+ cell count were considered as covariates; the 
randomisation was done accordingly as was the analysis. Patients with a higher baseline viral load (≥ 
100000 copies/ml), constituting approximately 1/3 of the trial population, seemed to respond better to 
treatment  with  DRV/rtv  compared  with  LPV/rtv.  The  same  observation  was  not  confirmed  by 
stratification  according  to  baseline  CD4+  cells,  although  a  similar  tendency  was  observed  as  well. 
These  results  should  be  interpreted  with  caution  because  of  the  observed  impact  of  the  used  non-
Page 11 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
validated  Kaletra  regimen  (once  daily).  This  could  lead  to  under-exposure  to  active  drug 
concentrations  in  subjects  taking  the  latter  regimen.  As  the  sub-group  of  once  daily  dosing  in  this 
stratification was high (>25%), the influence of sub-optimal exposure could be the underlying reason 
for the observed difference (and not, in fact, the better response to DRV/rtv). This is particularly true 
for patients with a high viral load (and very low CD4 cell counts), as they can be hypothesised to be 
more susceptible to periods of sub-optimal ARV treatment exposure. However, this did not influence 
the  primary  outcome  of  the  trial  since  non-inferiority  of  DRV/rtv  (800  mg/100  mg)  q.d.  to  the 
approved LPV/rtv 400/100 mg b.i.d regimen in virological response was demonstrated. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  presented  study  with a  recommended  dose of  800/100  mg  DRV/rtv  q.d. using  the new  400  mg 
Prezista tablets demonstrated non-inferiority of DRV/rtv to LPV/rtv at the predefined non-inferiority 
margin of 12% in treatment naïve patients.  
Virologic response at 48 weeks in the DRV/rtv treatment group was 83.7% and 78.3% in the LPV/rtv 
group.  The  difference  in  virologic  response  (defined  as  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  confirmed 
plasma viral load < 50 copies/ml) between DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv at 48 weeks was 5.3% (95% CI: -
0.5% - 11.2%). This finding was supported by the results of different virological and immunological 
secondary endpoints. Also, sensitivity analyses demonstrated that this finding is robust and consistent 
for different populations and imputation methods. 
In the DRV/rtv treatment group a lower percentage of virologic failures was observed compared with 
the  LPV/rtv  treatment  group  (9.9%  vs.  14.2% respectively). This  should be interpreted  with  caution 
because of the observed impact of the used non-validated Kaletra regimen (once daily), see above. 
No development of PI resistance was observed during the 48 weeks under evaluation; in the virologic 
failures of the DRV/rtv group one developing NRTI RAM was identified, associated with a decreased 
susceptibility to FTC. In the LPV/rtv group two virologic failures with developing NRTI RAMs, and 
one subject with 2 additional developing PI RAMs at endpoint were identified. 
These findings originate from the 48 week analyses from one open label randomised controlled trial in 
689  HIV-1  infected,  treatment  naïve  patients.  The  bias  introduced  by  not  blinding  patients  or 
investigators is not expected to have influenced the main outcome of the study. The findings of this 
trial are consistent with what was seen in treatment experienced patients in earlier studies. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In the current trial, TMC114-C211, 343 persons have been exposed to DRV, of which all received the 
recommended dose of 800 mg DRV q.d. combined with 100 mg rtv q.d. By the cut-off date 13 June 
2007  total  patient  years  of  exposure  was  361.5  years;  306  subjects  were  followed  for  the  full  48 
weeks.  The  safety  and  tolerability  findings  from  this  trial,  combined  from  what  was  already  known 
from  trials  and  experience  in  treatment-experienced  patients,  demonstrate  a  safety  profile  similar  to 
that seen with other boosted PIs. 
•  Adverse events  
In  the  DRV/rtv  group  90.1%  of subjects  experienced ≥  1  adverse  event  (AE).  AEs  at least possibly 
related  to  DRV/rtv,  i.e.  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  as  assessed  by  the  investigator,  occurred  in 
50.1% of the  subjects.  In  the  LPV/rtv  group  94.8% of  subjects  experienced  at least  1  AE,  of  which 
69.7% were considered at least possibly related.  
The most common ADR was diarrhoea, which was reported in 23.0% of the subjects on DRV/rtv and 
in 46.5% of the subjects on LPV/rtv treatment. Other commonly reported ADRs were nausea (13.7% 
Page 12 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in DRV/rtv, 25.1% in LPV/rtv), headache (6.1% in DRV/rtv, 7.8% in LPV/rtv), abdominal pain (3.5% 
and 6.6% respectively) and vomiting (3.2% and 7.8% respectively).  
Treatment  related  events  that  were  reported  with  a  higher  frequency  on  the  DRV/rtv  than  LPV/rtv 
regimen  were  cardiac  disorders  and  rash.  Overall,  the  safety  results  of  the  present  trial  indicate 
favourable  safety  of  DRV/rtv  in  treatment-naïve  patients  at  the  recommended  dosage  compared  to 
LPV/rtv. 
The  frequencies  of  ADRs  known  to  be  associated  with  PIs  (e.g.  cardiac-related,  rash,  liver-related, 
lipid-related  and  glucose-related  ADRs)  were  mostly  comparable  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  and  the 
LPV/rtv group, with the exception of GI-related ADRs. A higher incidence of GI-related ADRs were 
observed  in  the  LPV/rtv  group  (59.8%)  compared  with  the  DRV/rtv  group  (35.6%).  Incidences  of 
lipid-related  and  of  liver-related  ADRs  were  seen  with  a  slightly  higher  frequency  in  the  LPV/rtv 
group (9.8% and 4.3% respectively) compared with the DRV/rtv group (3.8% and 2.3% respectively). 
The overall incidence of rash related ADRs was not quite similar in both groups (5.5% in the DRV/rtv 
group  vs.  2.9%  in  the  LPV/rtv  group).  Slightly  different  incidences  for  the  DRV/rtv  and  LPV/rtv 
groups were observed for cardiac-related (1.2% versus 0.3% respectively). The incidences of glucose-
related ADRs were identical (0.6% versus 0.6% respectively). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Grade 3 or 4 AEs were reported in 18.7% and 21.7% of subjects in the DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv groups, 
respectively. The most common grade 3 or 4 AEs (preferred term) were hypertriglyceridaemia (0.9% 
and 2.3% with DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv, respectively), ALT increased (1.5% and 1.7%), AST increased 
(1.7% and 1.2%), blood amylase increased (1.2% and 0.9%), hypercholesterolemia (0.3% and 1.4%), 
and  abdominal  pain  (0%  and  1.2%).  There  was  one  report  of  Stevens  Johnson  syndrome  in  the 
DRV/rtv group, which was considered a very likely related serious adverse event (SAE) and reason for 
discontinuation of trial medication. 
There was one death recorded in the DRV/rtv treatment group (diffuse large B-cell lymphoma) and 3 
in  the  LPV/rtv  treatment  group  (cardiorespiratory  arrest,  cerebrovascular  accident,  and  disseminated 
tuberculosis). None were considered related to the treatment. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Overall, the incidence of laboratory abnormalities was considered to be low. There were no relevant 
differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  incidence  of  grade  2-4  abnormalities  for  amylase 
(6.7%  versus  5.0%),  lipase  (1.8%  versus  1.7%),  or  creatinine  (0.3%  versus  0.6%).  Grade  2-4  ALT 
abnormalities were observed in 8.5% of DRV/rtv subjects and 10.2% of LPV/rtv subjects, and Grade 
2-4 AST abnormalities in 9.4% and 9.1% of subjects, respectively. Grade 2-4 increases in triglycerides 
were  observed  less  frequently  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  (2.9%)  than  in  the  LPV/rtv  group  (11.1%),  as 
were grade 2-4 increases in total cholesterol (DRV/rtv: 12.9%, LPV/rtv: 22.7%). 
The mean changes in Haematocrit, RBC and lymphocyte counts were comparable for the DRV/rtv and 
LPV/rtv  treatment  groups.  A  small  mean  increase  in  haemoglobin  was  observed  for  both  treatment 
groups.  For  platelet  count,  a  mean  increase  was  observed  for  both  treatment  groups,  which  was 
slightly more pronounced for the LPV/rtv group than for the DRV/rtv group. 
Graded  haematology  abnormalities  of  interest  were  related  to  neutrophil  count:  -  14.5%  in  the 
DRV/rtv group vs. 9.5% in the LPV/rtv group - and decreases in white blood cell (WBC) count - 7% 
in the DRV/rtv group vs. 3% in the LPV/rtv group. Haematocrit, RBC and lymphocyte counts below 
normal  were  observed  in  both  treatment  groups,  with  a  higher  incidence  in  the  LPV/rtv  group  for 
haematocrit and RBC count (haematocrit: 10.3% and 19.8% with DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv, respectively; 
RBC,  20.3%  and  26.5%)  and  a  slightly  higher  incidence  of  lymphocyte  count  abnormalities  in  the 
DRV/rtv group (7.1% and 5.5% for DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv, respectively). 
Page 13 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety in special populations 
There  was  a  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  the  incidence  of  elevated  liver  enzymes  in 
subjects co-infected with Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C. Grade 2-4 ALT elevations in subjects co-infected 
with  Hepatitis  B  or  Hepatitis  C  was  32.6%  with  DRV/rtv  and  56.3%  with  LPV/rtv.  A  similar 
difference  between  the  treatment  groups  was  seen  in  the  incidence  of  grade  2-4  AST  elevations  in 
these subjects; 23.3% with DRV/rtv and 45.8% with LPV/rtv. 
•  Cardiovascular safety & other safety parameters 
There  was  no  difference  between  the  DRV/rtv  treatment  group  and  the  LPV/rtv  treatment  group 
regarding change in vital signs parameters. A majority of patients experienced at least one vital sign 
abnormality,  70%  of  subjects  in  the  DRV/rtv  group  and  69%  in  the  LPV/rtv  group.  Common 
abnormalities relating to vital signs were abnormally high blood pressure values. AEs related to vital 
signs abnormalities were observed in 4.4% of the DRV/rtv and 4.1% of the LPV/rtv treated subjects. 
Most common was hypertension (3.5% and 2.3% respectively).  
The change in ECG versus baseline was similarly small for both the DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv group. Both 
change versus baseline in PR interval as QRS were significantly different between the two treatment 
groups  (Mann-Whitney  U-test,  p<0.001)  respectively.  A  mean  decrease  in  heart  rate  was  observed, 
this was slightly larger for the LPV/rtv group (up to –5.4 bpm) than for the DRV/rtv group (up to -4.3 
bpm). None of the differences relating to cardiovascular safety between the two treatment groups were 
considered to be clinically relevant. 
The incidence of QTc abnormalities was comparable for the two treatment groups. In two subjects of 
the DRV/rtv group, increases in QTcF of >60 ms were seen. Increases of >60 ms in QTcB were seen 
in  four  subjects  in  the  DRV/rtv  group and  2  subjects  in the  LPV/rtv  group  respectively.  No  clinical 
events  related  to  QTc  prolongation  were  reported.  Abnormally  high  values  for  PR  interval  were 
observed  in  2.4%  and  3.5%,  and  for  QRS  width  in  0.6%  and  0.3%  of  subjects  in  the  DRV/rtv  and 
LPV/rtv groups, respectively. Abnormally low heart rate values were observed in 4.8% and 5.9% of 
subjects in the DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv groups, respectively. 
There were no clinically relevant changes over time in physical examination findings. Mean changes 
is anthropometric measurements were detected in both treatment groups. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The percentage of subjects who permanently discontinued treatment due to ≥ 1 AEs was lower in the 
DRV/rtv group (4.7%) than in the LPV/rtv group (7.8%). 
•  Safety data from other sources/trials 
A pooled analysis of available safety data for PREZISTA was assessed in the context of pending type 
II  variation  procedure  (EMEA/H/C/707/II/0015).  This  pooled  analysis  provided  data  on  a  larger 
population  of  HIV-1  infected  subjects,  including  both  ARV  treatment-experienced  and  treatment-
naïve  subjects  ranging  from  PI-  and  NNRT-experienced  to  PI-  and  NNRT-naïve.  From  this  pooled 
safety analysis the following frequencies for the main ADR were detected: diarrhoea in 10.4%, nausea 
in 5.2%, headache in 5.2%, abdominal pain in 4.4% and rash in 4.1% of subjects. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Identified risks for DRV/rtv so far have included hepatotoxicity, hyperglycaemia, lipid abnormalities, 
viral resistance and drug interactions. The patient exposure is comparable to products of the same class 
at the same stage. The limited safety information after longer-term exposure is a point of concern that 
needs to be addressed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP). No new safety signals were identified in 
this treatment-naïve population. 
Page 14 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  the  safety  and  tolerability  findings  from  this  trial,  combined  with  the  knowledge  already 
gained  from  trials  and  experience  in  treatment-experienced  patients  demonstrate  a  safety  profile 
similar to that seen with other boosted PIs. 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The current version of the DDPS (3.0), dated 28 June 2007, was assessed during the first renewal of 
the  conditional  MA  for  the  300  mg  strength  (EMEA/H/C/707/R/08).  As  it  was  found  to  be 
appropriate,  no  issues  needed  to  be  followed  up.  Consequently,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
Pharmacovigilance system as described by the MAH fulfils the legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The risk-management system currently in place for Prezista is described in the EU-RMP revision 7.0 
issued 31 July 2008, submitted on 26 August 2008 together with PSUR 3. 
The safety data of darunavir/ritonavir treatment in treatment naïve patients is still fairly limited. In the 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) there are several ongoing trials and more data will become available. 
Based  on  this  limited  data  the  incidence  and  severity  of  the  adverse  events  do  not  give  cause  for 
changes in the RMP, except for the rash-related adverse events. 
Rash-related adverse events, including Stevens Johnson syndrome (SJS), are already an identified risk 
in the RMP. In the complete database there have been 4 case reports of SJS, of which 1 ‘very likely 
related’, 1 ‘doubtfully related’, and 2 ‘not or doubtfully related’. In study TMC114-C211, there was 
one additional report of SJS which was assessed as ‘very likely related’.  
The MAH was consequently within this procedure requested to amend the RMP of DRV/rtv, section 
2.2.1’ Important Identified Risks’ for all rash-related events that have occurred with DRV/rtv. It was 
to  be  recorded  whether  the  patients  concerned  were  naïve,  highly  pre-treated  or  less  pre-treated.  
Cardiac events were already sufficiently included in the RMP.   
The MAH amended the RMP according to the question of the CHMP to stratify the rash-related events 
by treatment experience of the patient. 
Further updates in version 7.0 of the RMP: 
New exposure data available from trials TMC114-C202, TMC114-C213 and TMC114-C215 (cut-off 
Week 144 analysis) and trials TMC125-C206 and TMC125-C216 (cut-off Week 48 analysis), led to 
the update of the exposures for adults. 
Regarding the identified risk “hepatotoxicity no new data became available. 
Section  3.1  of  the  RMP  was  updated  to  mention  the  addition  of  lipodystrophy  (encompassing 
lipohypertrophy, lipoatrophy and lipodystrophy) as an ADR to the CCDS of May 2008. 
Regarding  the  identified  risks  for  drug  interactions:  this  section  was  updated  with  the  data  on  the 
interaction trial on maraviroc with DRV/rtv. Regarding the risks for drug-drug interaction, this section 
was updated with the updated class labelling wording on the interaction with rifampicin. 
No  specific  Risk  Minimisation  Program  was  ongoing  at  the  start  of  the  period  under  review.  Only 
routine risk minimisation activities were in place. Apart for the updates on the new paediatric data no 
changes were made to the existing Risk Minimisation Plan for both routine and specific activities. 
Page 15 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The Quality data presented within this extension application is considered satisfactory and support the 
addition of the 400 mg strength. 
Efficacy 
The  presented  study  with a  recommended  dose of  800/100  mg  DRV/rtv  q.d. using  the new  400  mg 
Prezista tablets demonstrated non-inferiority of DRV/rtv to LPV/rtv at the predefined non-inferiority 
margin of 12% in treatment naïve HIV infected patients.  
Virologic response at 48 weeks in the DRV/rtv treatment group was 83.7% and 78.3% in the LPV/rtv 
group.  The  difference  in  virologic  response  (defined  as  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  confirmed 
plasma viral load < 50 copies/ml) between DRV/rtv and LPV/rtv at 48 weeks was 5.3% (95% CI: -
0.5% - 11.2%). This finding was supported by the results of different virological and immunological 
secondary endpoints. Also, sensitivity analyses demonstrated that this finding is robust and consistent 
for different populations and imputation methods. 
In the DRV/rtv treatment group a lower percentage of virologic failures was observed compared with 
the  LPV/rtv  treatment  group  (9.9%  vs.  14.2% respectively). This  should be interpreted  with  caution 
because of the observed impact of the used non-validated Kaletra regimen (once daily). The influence 
of sub-optimal exposure could be the underlying reason for the observed difference in response and 
failure (and not, in fact, the better response to DRV/rtv). This is particularly true for patients with a 
high viral load (and very low CD4 cell counts), as they can be hypothesised to be more susceptible to 
periods of sub-optimal ARV treatment exposure. However, this did not influence the primary outcome 
of  the  trial  since  non-inferiority  of  DRV/rtv  (800  mg/100  mg)  q.d.  to  the  approved  LPV/rtv 
400/100mg b.i.d regimen in virological response was demonstrated. 
No development of PI resistance was observed during the 48 weeks under evaluation; in the virologic 
failures of the DRV/rtv group one developing NRTI RAM was identified, associated with a decreased 
susceptibility to FTC. In the LPV/rtv group two virologic failures with developing NRTI RAMs, and 
one subject with 2 additional developing PI RAMs at endpoint were identified. 
These findings originate from the 48 week analyses from one open label randomised controlled trial in 
689  HIV-1  infected,  treatment  naïve  patients.  The  bias  introduced  by  not  blinding  patients  or 
investigators is not expected to have influenced the main outcome of the study. The findings of this 
trial are consistent with what was seen in treatment experienced patients in earlier studies. 
Safety 
Identified risks for DRV/rtv so far have included hepatotoxicity, hyperglycaemia, lipid abnormalities, 
viral resistance and drug interactions. The patient exposure is comparable to products of the same class 
at the same stage. The limited safety information after longer-term exposure is a point of concern that 
needs to be addressed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP). No new safety signals were identified in 
this treatment-naïve population. 
Overall,  the  safety  and  tolerability  findings  from  this  trial,  combined  with  the  knowledge  already 
gained  from  trials  and  experience  in  treatment-experienced  patients  demonstrate  a  safety  profile 
similar to that seen with other boosted PIs. 
Benefit Risk assessment 
Currently there is 48 week data available on efficacy, safety and tolerability of 800/100 mg DRV/rtv 
q.d. in treatment naïve patients. The virologic response of DRV/rtv has been demonstrated to be non-
inferior compared with LPV/rtv at 48 weeks in the treatment of ART naïve HIV-1 infected patients, 
Page 16 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which  is  considered  to  be  a  sufficient  demonstration  of  efficacy  for  use  in  this  patient  group.  The 
safety profile of DRV/rtv is favourable and consistent with data from the renewal application for the 
ART-experienced  patients.  In  the  presented  data  no  concerns  have  been  identified  regarding  the 
development  of  resistance  at  the  recommended  dosage  of  Prezista  in  the  ART-naïve  patient 
population. To assess the long term safety and resistance profile of DRV/rtv in ART naïve patients 96 
week data will be provided. As committed, the company will submit the 96-week clinical study report 
in compliance with follow up measure FU2 024.1. 
However, as the addition of the new treatment population of naïve patients is limited to only the 400 
mg  strength,  the  CHMP  does  not  consider  the  broad  indication  of  “HIV-infected  adults”  to  be 
adequate,  as  the  population  of  treatment  experienced  patients  falls  within  another  dosing  regimen 
(DRV/rtv 600/100 mg b.i.d.) that cannot be made up with the applied for strength of 400 mg.  
The final agreed wording for the indication is as follows: 
“Prezista  400  mg,  co  administered  with  low-dose  ritonavir  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV 1) infection 
in Anti Retroviral (ARV) treatment -naïve adults.” 
In conclusion, the overall benefit-risk balance is considered to be positive for the 400 mg new tablets 
of PREZISTA at the recommended dosage for the limited indication of ART treatment naïve HIV-1 
infected patients. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Prezista 400 mg, co administered with 100 mg ritonavir in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products in the treatment of human immunodeficiency 
virus  (HIV-1)  infection  in  antiretroviral  treatment  naïve  adults  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the data submitted by the MAH taking into account the provisions 
of  Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004,  taking  into  account  the  provisions  of  the 
“Guidance on elements required to support the significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing 
therapies  of  a  new  therapeutic  indication  in  order  to  benefit  from  an  extended  (11-year)  marketing 
protection period (November 2007)”, and did not consider that the new therapeutic indication brings 
significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies (see Attachment).  
Page 17 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT 
CHMP AR on the novelty of the indication/significant clinical benefit in comparison 
with existing therapies dated 20 November 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
The MAH Janssen-Cilag International NV submitted on 6 March 2008 an extension application for a 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Prezista 400 mg Film-coated 
tablet, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 2(a) and Annex II (point 2, intend 
iii) of the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1085/2003. 
With the new strength the MAH also applied for a new indication adding treatment naïve patients to 
the  existing  population  of  antiretroviral  experienced  HIV-infected  adults, 
treated  with  a 
darunavir/ritonavir  600/100mg  twice  daily  regimen.  The  regimen  for  treatment  naïve  patients  is 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100mg once daily, therefore specific to the new strength of 400mg only.  
The new indication was based on Week 48 analyses of plasma HIV RNA levels and CD4+ cell counts 
from  one  open-label  controlled  trial  (TMC114-211,  “ARTEMIS”)  in  treatment  naïve  patients.  Trial 
TMC114-C211  was  a  confirmatory  trial  that  aimed  at  a  comparison  between  darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily and lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily or 800/200 mg once daily, both 
in combination with a fixed background regimen of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine. 
Lopinavir/ritonavir was chosen as comparator because it represents a recommended treatment option 
for the initial therapy of established HIV infection. 
The  data  from  this  trial  demonstrated  robust  and  sustained  virologic  and  immunologic  benefits  of 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily together with the fixed background regimen over 48 weeks 
in treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients. In addition, darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 
proven  non-inferior  to  both  dose  regimens  of  lopinavir/ritonavir.  The  proof  of  the  efficacy  and  an 
overview  of  the  safety/tolerability  profile  of  darunavir/ritonavir  in  treatment-naïve  subjects  was 
derived  from  the  48-week  data  from  689  subjects  (343  on  darunavir/ritonavir  and  346  on 
lopinavir/ritonavir,  who  reached  all  48  weeks  of  treatment  or  discontinued  earlier)  enrolled  in  trial 
TMC114-C211.  Comprehensive  data  on  virologic  failure  and  resistance  patterns  were  available. 
According  to  the  CPMP/EWP/633/02  guideline,  the  primary  endpoint  to  establish  non-inferiority  of 
darunavir/ritonavir versus lopinavir/ritonavir in trial TMC114-C211 was 48 weeks. Long-term safety 
data (96 week) were not included in this application.  
With submission of this line extension application of the new strength together with its new indication 
in  treatment  naïve  patients  the  MAH  also  applied  for  an  additional  one  year  marketing  protection 
period  in  accordance  with  Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  MAH  claimed  that 
taken together, the efficacy data observed with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 q.d. support that darunavir 
brings a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing standard of care in the HIV-1-infected 
treatment-naïve patient population.  
2.   Justification of significant clinical benefit as presented by the MAH 
Significant clinical benefit based on improved efficacy  
The Week-48 primary efficacy analysis of trial TMC114-C211 demonstrated that darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg q.d. in combination with a fixed background regimen of tenofovir and emtricitabine is an 
effective  therapy  in  treatment-naïve,  HIV-1-infected  subjects.  Non-inferiority  in  virologic  response 
compared to treatment with a standard of care (lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg daily) was shown. The 
efficacy of once-daily darunavir/ritonavir was not compromised, even in subjects who are considered 
the most difficult to treat, such as those with a high baseline viral load or low CD4+ cell count, and 
those  with  suboptimal  levels  of  adherence  to  antiretroviral  treatment.  In  contrast,  lopinavir/ritonavir 
subjects  with  high  baseline  viral  loads  had  significantly  lower  responses  than  those  observed  with 
darunavir/ritonavir and there was a trend towards lower response in those with low CD4+ cell counts 
and suboptimal adherence. 
The greater virologic response with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg q.d. versus a standard of care in 
subjects  with  high  viral  loads  or the  higher  degree  of  virologic  efficacy  observed  in  those  with  low 
CD4+ cell counts (< 200 CD4+ cells/mm3) is particularly relevant, given the face of the HIV/AIDS 
1/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
epidemic  in  the  industrialised  world  nowadays.  A  significant  proportion  (up  to  40%  in  certain 
countries) of treatment-naïve HIV-infected subjects currently living in the Western World only seek 
care  when  they  have  already  reached  a  more  advanced  virologic  and/or  immunological  stage  of  the 
disease. As well as being at higher risk of developing clinical HIV disease progression and short-term 
HIV-related death and therefore putting higher demands on clinical resources, these “late presenters” 
also  appear  to  be  less  likely  to  have  a  sustained  virologic  response  with  the  currently  available 
antiretroviral therapies compared to those seeking care sooner in the course of HIV infection, although 
this seems to have improved somewhat in recent years. 
Long-term  adherence  to  antiretroviral  treatment  is  a  well-acknowledged  challenge.  The  forgiving 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir as well as the MASRI results from trial TMC114-C211 suggests that 
darunavir  is  likely  to  provide  benefits  in  this  respect.  Finally,  genotyping  and  viral  subtype 
determination  establish  the  broad  activity  of  darunavir/ritonavir  q.d.  against  HIV-1,  whereas  the 
absence of development of PI resistance upon virologic failure with darunavir/ritonavir is consistent 
with what has previously been described with other boosted PI regimens in treatment-naïve subjects. 
Taken together, the efficacy data observed with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 q.d. support that darunavir 
brings  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  the  existing  standard  of  care  in  the  HIV-1-
infected treatment-naïve patient population. The once-daily dose regimen of darunavir is likely to help 
curtail  the  challenges  of  long-term  adherence  and,  therefore,  in  addition  may  lead  to  improved 
durability of first-line therapy. 
Significant clinical benefit based on improved safety  
The  safety  observations  for  the  Week-48  analysis  of  trial  TMC114-C211  are  consistent  with  the 
known  overall  safety  profile  for  darunavir/ritonavir  and  confirm  its  good  safety  and  tolerability  in 
treatment-naïve  subjects.  No  new  safety  signals  were  observed  in  this  trial  versus  previous  data. 
Darunavir/ritonavir  800/100  mg  q.d.  is  generally  well  tolerated  with  a  more  favourable  overall 
tolerability profile compared with a standard of care (lopinavir/ritonavir, 800/200 mg total daily dose) 
in  treatment  naïve  HIV-1-infected  subjects.  Discontinuations  due  to  AEs  are  lower  with 
darunavir/ritonavir (4.7%) than with lopinavir/ritonavir (7.8%). 
Darunavir/ritonavir  q.d.  is  associated  with  a  lower  incidence  of  gastrointestinal  symptoms,  most 
notable for diarrhoea and vomiting, compared to lopinavir/ritonavir. Gastrointestinal symptoms can be 
very  disturbing  for  patients.  Yet,  these  symptoms  are  among  the  most  frequent  AEs  reported  with 
antiretroviral  therapy  and  are  a  particular  problem  with  most  of  the  currently  available  PIs. 
Gastrointestinal  symptoms  are  also  the  most  common  driver  of  tolerability-related  premature 
discontinuation of current (PI-based) HAART regimens and are a major barrier to optimal treatment 
adherence  and  thus,  the  long-term  outcome  of  HAART.  Although  gastrointestinal  AEs  often  abate 
over 4 to 6 weeks of therapy, some patients continue to experience symptoms over time. Controlled 
trials  in  treatment-experienced  HIV-infected  subjects  have  indicated  that  darunavir/ritonavir  has 
improved gastrointestinal tolerability compared to other PIs,  mainly as a result of a lower incidence 
and  duration  of  diarrhoea.  As  diarrhoea  can  occur  in  up  to  50%  of  subjects  treated  with  PIs  and 
significantly  affects  patients’  emotional  and  physical  well-being  and  quality  of  life,  this  lower 
incidence of diarrhoea represents a significant benefit. 
Darunavir/ritonavir q.d. is also associated with a lower incidence of lipid abnormalities compared to 
lopinavir/ritonavir. Although lipid abnormalities can often be successfully treated with lipid-lowering 
agents, reducing the risk for lipid abnormalities by prescribing agents with a better tolerability profile 
in  this  respect  may  potentially  reduce  long-term  cardiovascular  risk,  save  concomitant  medication 
cost,  and  prevent  patients  from  being  exposed  to  potential  drug-drug  interactions  and  resulting 
toxicities. 
Moreover, daily use of 100 mg instead of 200 mg of ritonavir – a drug that appears to be associated 
with a higher probability of developing lipid abnormalities – constitutes an improvement of the q.d. 
dosing  regimen  of  darunavir  over  the  current  PI  standard  of  care,  with  a  reduced  frequency  and 
severity of metabolic abnormalities.  
2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finally,  a  recent  comparative  trial  of  lopinavir  versus  efavirenz  (the  most  preferred  first-line 
antiretroviral treatment) showed that body changes occurred less frequently with lopinavir than with 
efavirenz. Darunavir/ritonavir appears to have limited impact with regard to body changes, as to date 
no  early  signal  for  such  changes  has  been  observed  from  anthropometric  measures in  clinical  trials. 
Also  in  trial  TMC114-C211,  no  clinically  relevant  differences  between  darunavir/ritonavir  and 
lopinavir/ritonavir were seen for anthropometric measurements. 
Significant clinical benefit based on major contribution to patient care 
There has been a general trend for HIV treatment simplification through a decrease of pill burden and 
a  lowering  of  dosing  frequency.  In  this  application,  darunavir/ritonavir  800/100  mg  q.d.,  in 
combination with an optimised background antiretroviral regimen, was proposed as the recommended 
dosing regimen for PI treatment-naïve (including antiretroviral treatment-naïve) adult HIV-1-infected 
subjects. 
In addition to once-daily administration, darunavir/ritonavir has a low pill burden (2 x 400 mg tablet + 
1 x 100 mg ritonavir per day). Based on the recommended doses as per Product Information, this is the 
lowest pill burden compared to the PI regimens that are currently approved for use in treatment-naïve 
subjects.  
Therapies  with  once-daily  dosing  and  a  minimal  number  of  pills  are  important  for  treatment  naïve 
HIV-infected subjects, as these subjects are being introduced to chronic, lifelong therapy. Moreover, 
drug-related factors such as pill burden, dosing frequency, and acute tolerability and safety, have been 
identified as important predictors of treatment adherence in HIV-1-infected subjects. Better adherence 
may  also  prevent  virologic  failure,  ensuing  mutations  and  development  of  resistance.  Data  from  a 
recent randomised trial in treatment-naïve subjects indicated that differential adherence – defined as 
any difference in self-reported level of adherence to individual antiretroviral agents at the same time 
point  –  was  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  initial  virologic  failure  and  initial  virologic  failure 
with antiretroviral resistance. In addition, it has been suggested that interventions to improve treatment 
adherence are a highly cost-effective use of resources. 
Since  medication  regimens  for  HIV-infected  subjects  are  frequently  complex  and  rigorous,  any 
improvement in dosing convenience and in safety and tolerability would be a welcome addition to the 
armamentarium  of  antiretroviral  therapies.  The  once-daily  dosing,  the  low  pill  burden  and  the 
forgiving  pharmacokinetics  of  darunavir/ritonavir  800/100  mg  q.d.  bring  more  convenience  to  the 
patient  and  may  help  curtail  the  challenges  of  long-term  adherence.  The  favourable  tolerability  and 
safety profile compared to the standard of care may lead to improved quality of life. 
3.   Assessment of the MAH’s justification of significant clinical benefit   
Significant clinical benefit based on improved efficacy 
Regarding the argumentation from the MAH in relation to the efficacy claim, the CHMP concluded 
that  the  current  data  provided  have  shown  that  a  regimen  of  darunavir/ritonavir  is  as  effective  as 
lopinavir/ritonavir in treatment naïve patients. However, the CHMP found that the clinical efficacy is 
not significantly improved when compared to the latter. This was clearly established in the outcome on 
the primary endpoint of the study comparing darunavir/ritonavir with lopinavir/ritonavir (ARTEMIS), 
in  which  non-inferiority  was  proven.  Superiority,  however,  was  not  shown.  Therefore,  the  CHMP 
concluded that whilst the benefit risk balance in the new indication for the new strength of Prezista is 
positive (therefore concluding in a positive opinion of the Committee for the extension application), 
the  lack  of  proof  of  superiority  in  the  submitted  trial  does  not  support  the  claim  for  a  significant 
clinical benefit based on improved efficacy.  
Regarding the claimed benefit in the subgroup of patients with a high viral load at baseline, the CHMP 
did not consider it proven that the observed higher response in those patients (approximately 1/3 of the 
total  study  population)  was  transferable  into  a  clinical  benefit:  it  is  debatable  whether  the  trial  was 
robust enough  to  make  such  claims. The  same  applies  for the  observed trend in  patients  with  a  low 
CD4+ cell count at baseline. Furthermore, the CHMP was of the opinion that these differences might 
3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be driven by the use of a non-validated once-daily lopinavir/ritonavir regimen. The influence of sub-
optimal exposure could be the underlying reason for the observed differences in response and failure 
(and not, in fact, the better response to darunavir/ritonavir treatment). Finally, the CHMP was of the 
opinion that the influence of regional differences in response rates remains unclear with respect to the 
observed difference in these subgroups.  
Additionally,  comparative  data  versus  other  treatments  were  not  provided  by  the  MAH  therefore 
hampering  the  CHMP’s  conclusions  to  be  drawn  in  relation  to  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in 
comparison with other existing therapies. 
Finally, regarding the MAH’s argumentation towards a better long-term adherence, the CHMP was of 
the opinion that such a conclusion is mainly theoretical and indeed premature as it is based only on 
MASRI  questionnaires  in  a  single  trial  at  Week  48.  In  addition  to  the  relatively  short  observation 
period as presented within the ARTEMIS trial, the CHMP also considered that the number of patients 
enrolled is rather small, not allowing such a generalised conclusion. As a matter of fact, any claimed 
efficacy benefit based on long term adherence would need to be put into perspective with long term 
comparisons against the whole available treatment arsenal in the target population.  
Significant clinical benefit based on improved safety 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the claimed clinical relevant advantage regarding safety in the new 
target  indication  has  not  been  conclusively  shown  with  the  provided  ARTEMIS  data.  Whilst  it  is 
acknowledged  that  in  comparison  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  certain  complications  like  GI  side  effects 
and  lipid  abnormalities  were  less  frequently  observed  (at  least  in  severity),  the  described  effects  on 
patients,  e.g.  treatment  discontinuation,  are  not  convincingly  demonstrated  since  it  can  be  debated 
whether the relatively small clinical trial is suitable to draw such conclusions on the clinical benefit in 
regards to safety.  
Generally,  the  CHMP  considered  that  a  comparison  against  a  single  medication  with  respect  to  a 
specific  type  of  adverse  event  as  presented  by  the  MAH  is  inconclusive.  In  order  to  understand 
whether the safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in the target population is more benign than existing 
therapies,  a  full  comparison  with  the  whole  repertoire  for  treatment  of  naïve  patients  would  be 
necessary.  
Significant clinical benefit based on major contribution to patient care 
Finally, the argument of patient advantage based on the once-daily dosing regimen was not supported 
by  the  CHMP  as  there  are  other  antiretroviral  therapies  in  the  target  population  of  treatment  naïve 
patients, which are dosed once daily. In addition, a comparison to lopinavir/ritonavir shows that the 
pill burden per day for darunavir/ritonavir is in fact higher (3 instead of 2 tablets per day) in treatment 
naïve patients. 
4.   CHMP Conclusion 
Generally,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  development  of  the  Prezista  dossier  is  not  different  from 
what would be expected for this type of product: initial authorisation for a limited patient population 
followed by a step wise approach for inclusion of a broader population.  
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  efficacy  and  safety  results  of  the  ARTEMIS  trial,  together  with  the 
quality  data  provided,  supported  a  positive  benefit  risk  balance  for  the  extension  application  for 
Prezista 400mg in treatment naïve patients. However, the lack of proof of superior efficacy results in 
the submitted trial did not support the claim for a significant efficacy benefit. Furthermore, the CHMP 
considered the safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir not to be significantly better. Finally, the CHMP 
judged the provided justification on improved patient care to not be sufficiently substantiated.  
Overall,  in  the  absence  of  significant  clinical  benefit  based  on  improved  efficacy,  safety  and 
contribution to patient care, in comparison both to the comparator lopinavir/ritonavir as well as other 
antiretroviral  medicines  indicated  for  treatment  naïve  patients,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
justification for an additional year of marketing protection was insufficient. Therefore, the CHMP did 
not support the MAH’s justification for an additional year of marketing protection based on the new 
therapeutic indication for Prezista in treatment naïve patients. 
5.  Outcome 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAH  taking  into  account  the  provisions  of  Article 
14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004,  taking  into  account  the  provisions  of  the  “Guidance  on 
elements required to support the significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies of a 
new therapeutic indication in order to benefit from an extended (11-year) marketing protection period 
(November 2007)”, and did not consider that the new therapeutic indication brings significant clinical 
benefit in comparison with existing therapies. 
5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
