1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Prialt  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  severe,  chronic  pain  in  patients  who  require  intrathecal  (IT) 
analgesia. Dosing of ziconotide should be initiated at 2.4 µg/day and titrated on an individual patient 
basis  with  a  minimal  interval  between  dose  increases  of  24  hours  and  a  recommended  interval,  for 
safety reasons of 48 hours or more, up to a maximum dose of 21.6 µg/day. 
Treatment of protracted and resistant severe pain  remains a difficult challenge for the physician. For 
example,  the  administration  of  strong  opiates  can  lead  to  respiratory  depression,  in  particular  in 
patients  with  COPD  or  other  respiratory  diseases.  Spinal/intrathecal  (IT)  opioid  administration 
(neuraxial analgesia) has been used with the assumption that it was possible to dissociate the desirable 
analgesic  effects  of  opioids  from  their  adverse  effects.  Morphine  is  traditionally  viewed  as  the  gold 
standard  neuraxial  analgesic.  It  is  the  IT  analgesic  most  frequently  for  the  management  of  severe 
chronic pain. While there are no safety or efficacy data available from randomised, controlled clinical 
trials of IT morphine, numerous case reports, retrospective studies and a smaller number of prospective 
studies  nonetheless  suggest  the  potential  for  considerable  pain  relief  with  IT  morphine.  However, 
reported failure rates with IT morphine alone range from 23% to 80% and after long-term IT morphine 
injection, the incidence of side effects is relatively high  (e.g. constipation, urinary retention, nausea, 
impotence, vomiting, nightmares, pruritus). 
Ziconotide is a synthetic analogue of a 25-amino acid ω-conopeptide, MVIIA, found in the venom of 
the  Conus  magus  marine  snail.  It  is  a  N-type  calcium  channel  blocker  (NCCB).  Voltage-sensitive 
calcium  channel  (VSCC)  conduction  plays  a  major  role  in  the  transmission  of  pain.  The  N-type 
VSCC’s  are  found  in  high  concentrations  in  the  dorsal  root  ganglion  cells  responsible  for  the  spinal 
processing  of  pain.  Ziconotide  selectively  and  reversibly  binds  to  and  blocks  these  channels without 
interacting  with  other  ion  channels  or  cholinergic,  monoaminergic  or  µ-  and  δ-opioid  receptors. 
Ziconotide thus inhibits the spinal signalling of pain. 
Ziconitide has been developed for use as an intrathecal analgesic for the treatment of chronic pain in 
patients requiring IT analgesia. The product is formulated as a solution for infusion (100 µg/ml) and 
must  be  administered  as  a  continuous  infusion  via  an  intrathecal  catheter,  using  an  external  or 
internally implemented mechanical infusion pump. 
Treatment  with  ziconotide  should  only  be  undertaken  by  physicians  experienced  in  intrathecal  (IT) 
administration of medicinal products.  
Prialt  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  9  July  2001  in  the  following  indication:  
treatment of chronic pain requiring intraspinal analgesia.  
This is a stand alone application for a Marketing Authorisation (MA) according to Article 8.3 (i) of the 
Council Regulation EC No. 2309/93.  
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Prialt is a sterile, preservative-free and isotonic solution for intrathecal infusion, which is presented as 
1ml, 2ml and 5 ml single dose vials containing 100 µg/ml of ziconotide (as acetate salt) corresponding 
to  100  µg,  200  µg  and  500  µg  of  ziconotide  (as  acetate  salt)  per  vial,  which  can  be  diluted  prior  to 
administration using normal saline infusion (0.9% sodium choride), if required. 
Excipients  are  water  for  injections,  methionine,  sodium  chloride  and  hydrochloric  acid  or  sodium 
hydroxide. 
The primary container consists in a single use Type I glass vials with butyl rubber stoppers coated with 
fluorinated polymer. 
Prialt is intended for intrathecal delivery using either an external or an implanted pump. 
1/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance  
Ziconotide is the synthetic analogue of an ω-conopeptide, MVIIA, found in the venom of the Conus 
magus marine snail. It consists of a 25-amino acid peptide with 3 cysteine disulphide bridges. 
The soluble acetate form is used in the product of this application. Information on ziconotide acetate 
has been supplied in the form of an EDMF. 
The peptide ziconotide is a single optical isomer of known absolute configuration. Ziconotide contains 
21 chiral carbon atoms. The drug substance, however, is synthesised from protected amino acids with 
known  Levo  configurations  and  the  synthetic  methods  are  chosen  to  preserve  the  stereochemistry of 
the starting materials and intermediates. 
Ziconotide  is  a  highly  hygroscopic,  anhydrous  material,  which  appears  to  pick  up  moisture 
continuously under increasing relative humidity conditions. It is a pH, heat and moisture sensitive and 
subject  to  oxidative  degradation.  The  drug  substance  is  therefore  stored  at  –20°C  in  the  presence  of 
desiccant,  and  all  manipulations  during  manufacturing  are  controlled  under  nitrogen  atmosphere  to 
help to minimise oxidative degradation. The stability of ziconotide in aqueous solution was found to be 
pH dependant. 
• 
Manufacture 
The  substance  is  prepared  by  Solid  Phase  Peptide  Synthesis  (SPPS),  followed  by  cleavage  from  the 
resin, conversion to the acetate salt and purification. 
Adequate In-Process  Controls  are  applied during the synthesis  of ziconotide drug substance. Control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have been presented. 
Batch analysis data of three batches from the manufacturer are presented and confirm consistency and 
uniformity of the manufacturing process. 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specifications for ziconotide are relevant for a substance to be used in intrathecal 
as  a  route  of  administration  and  include  tests  for  appearance,  identification  tests(specific  rotation, 
solubility, amino acid analysis, molecular weight), purity (peptide purity, related substances, residual 
solvents, heavy metals, endotoxins), assay (peptide content, acetate, water, mass balance and binding 
assay). 
Batch analysis data confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification.  
• 
Stability 
All  the  active  substance  stability  studies  were  carried  out  on  batches  made  at  the  proposed  site  of 
manufacture,  using  the  proposed  manufacturing  process  and  stored  in  packs  representative  of  the 
proposed marketing pack. The shelf-life specification is the same as at release and samples were tested 
for all parameters liable to change during storage. 
Stability studies under long term and accelerate conditions were performed on a number of batches of 
ziconotide drug substance . Samples were filled under a nitrogen atmosphere and were stored for 36 
months at -20°C, 3 months at 5±3°C and 3 months at 25°C/60%RH. 
2/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results justify a retest period of 36 months when stored at –20°C in the proposed packaging. 
Finished Product  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  product  development  has  taken  into  consideration  the  physicochemical  properties  of  the 
formulation (active substance, excipients, tonicity), compatibility of product with infusion pumps and 
administration catheters, and suitability of shelf life. 
The dosage form selected is justified by the properties of the peptide active substance. All components 
of the formulation have a justifiable pharmaceutical function and are used at concentrations that have 
been  optimised  for  the  dosage  form  (particularly  with  regard  to  the  intrathecal  route),  its  dilution  if 
required and its method of administration. 
The  stability  of  ziconotide  in  aqueous  solution  was  found  to  be  pH  dependant,  as  a  consequence, 
formulation studies were carried out in the pH range of 3 - 5. Hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide 
have been used as pH adjusters. 
The diluent of choice is normal saline infusion (0.9% sodium choride). 
The  choice  of  sterilisation  by  filtration  was  dictated  by  the  peptidic  nature  of  ziconotide,  which  is 
sensitive to heat. 
The container (Type I glass vials) and closure system are standard for this kind of products and comply 
with  the  Ph  Eur  requirements.  Clear  glass  was  selected  to  facilitate  inspection  for  visible  particulate 
matter. Stability results demonstrate that the product has sufficient stability to light to allow this. The 
vials  are  treated  with  ammonium  sulphate  to  minimise  leaching  from  the  glass  and  so  facilitate  pH 
stability in the formulation.  
All formulation excipients and nitrogen processing aid comply with Ph. Eur. specifications. 
Intrathecal delivery is by means of CE marked external or implantable delivery pumps. Compatibility 
studies of the product with pumps and catheters are performed and the compatibility is demonstrated. 
The clinical formulation used in the clinical trials is identical with one proposed for marketing. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturing  consists  of  preparation  of  the  bulk  solution,  followed  by  double  sterile  filtration  and 
filling in the vials. 
Validation  studies  have  been  carried  out  on  the  sterilisation/depyrogenation  of  the  vials  and  steam 
sterilisation  of  stoppers,  filters  and  aseptic  equipment  in  three  production-scale  batches  and  is 
satisfactory. The in process controls are adequate for this pharmaceutical form. 
• 
Product Specification 
The drug product specifications include appropriatetests for appearance, assay of the drug substance, 
(RP-HPLC)and  antioxidant,  identity  (RP-HPLC,  UV),  purity(RP-HPLC),  pH,  sterility  (Eur  Ph), 
bacterial endotoxins, particulate matter and fill volume. 
Batch analysis results from 3 batchesconfirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate 
that the process is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies 
3/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  are  provided  on  6  full-scale  batches  of  product  manufactured  at  the  proposed 
manufacturing  site.  Samples  were  stored  in  the  proposed  marketing  packs  at  2-8°C,  25°C/160%RH, 
30°C and 40°C/75%RH. 
Samples were tested for all parameters liable to change during storage. Tests and assays methods used 
are satisfactorily described and validated. 
The  photostability  of  Prialt  has  also  been  investigated.  The  results  show  minimal  degradation  under 
light exposure conditions, and in practice will be adequately protected by the carton. 
In  use  stability  studies  of  the  product  are  performed  in  the  pump  delivery  system  (either  external  or 
implantable  pump)  and  catheters.  Chemical  and  biological  stability  is  established  for  the  product 
during its use. 
As  a  conclusion  from  the  stability  studies,  the  results  indicate  satisfactory  stability  and  support  the 
shelf life and conditions of used stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The intrathecal route poses restrictions on the formulation, which should be minimal, that is to say no 
extraneous excipients should be present. In this case, the presence of methionine as a stabilising agent 
is necessary, and since it is naturally-occurring amino acid this has no safety impact intrathecally. 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of  important product quality characteristics, and  these  in turn lead to the 
conclusion  that  the product should have a satisfactory  and uniform performance  in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Calcium  entry  into  presynaptic  termini  is  a  prerequisite  for  neurotransmitter  release  in  vertebrate 
nervous systems. The ω-conotoxins have been found to selectively antagonise N-type voltage sensitive 
calcium  channels  (N-VSCCs),  which  are  primarily  found  in  neural  tissue.  N-VSCCs  facilitate  the 
calcium influx necessary for neurotransmitter release. The therapeutic potential of ziconotide is related 
to  its  ability  to  block  N-type  VSCCs.  In  the  spinal  cord,  N-VSCC  blockade  inhibits  the  release  of 
neurotransmitters involved in pain signalling. 
Nonclinical  studies  with  ziconotide  were  conducted  inmultiple  species.  Long-term  studies  presented 
special technical difficulties related to the intrathrecal mode of delivery, the dog was found to be the 
best  model  for  IT  administration,  and  a  42-day  study  was  the  longest  conducted  by  this  proposed 
clinical route. 
Most, but not all, of the toxicology studies contained in this application were performed in accordance 
with GLP (see below). 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
4/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary analgesic effects of spinally administered ziconotide involves blockade of depolarisation-
induced  calcium  influx  and  consequent  reduction  of  neurotransmitter  release  from  nociceptive 
afferents terminating in the superficial lamina of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. 
Ziconotide  has  been  shown  to  have  a  high  specificity  for  N-type  voltage  sensitive  calcium  channels 
(VSCCs),  which  are  distributed  throughout  the  nervous  system  where,  from  125I-ziconotide 
visualisation studies, they are seen to be at highest density in the spinal cord (especially Rexed laminae 
I  and  II  of  the  dorsal  horn).  N-type  VSCCc  are  highly  associated  with  primary  afferent  fibres  that 
contain  substance  P,  indicating  that  the  major  spinal  nociceptive  signaling  pathway  is  involved. 
Ziconotide is a reversible blocker of neuronal N-type VSCCs. 
Conventional rodent pain models have been used to demonstrate that ziconotide is an effective, non-
tolerance  forming  analgesic  when  administered  either  intravenously  (IV),  intrathecally  (IT)  or 
epidurally.  Continuous  IT  infusion  doses  in  the  range  0.003  to  0.6µg/kg/hr  produced  significant 
analgesia in models of acute, chronic, inflammatory, postoperative and neuropathic pain. The highest 
dose is above the proposed human maximum of 0.034µg/kg/hr for a 70kg adult. 
Continuous IT infusion of ziconotide did not lead to tolerance nor did it alter opioid-induced analgesia. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Ziconotide reduces inflammation induced by a number of agents in rat models when administered i.v. 
or by local s.c. or intra-articular injection but not following IT administration. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Safety pharmacology studies were not performed according to GLP principles. Nevertheless, the safety 
pharmacology investigations not performed in accordance with GLP were incorporated into 
toxicological studies that were performed according to GLP and toxicity studies supported the findings 
of non-GLP safety pharmacology studies. 
Ziconotide had little or no adverse effect on the CNS or cardiovascular and respiratory systems or on 
the gastro-intestinal tract at the proposed clinical dosage. 
Ziconotide elicits complex but mild and reversible motor disturbances, the most distinctive of which is 
dose-related shaking or tremor. However, when ziconotide is administered by IT infusion, the tremor 
abates as treatment progresses. Analgesia has been shown to occur in the absence of the tremorigenic 
effect associated with higher IT doses. 
A continuous 24-hr i.v. infusion (toxicity) study of ziconotide  in rats was performed that resulted in a 
significant decrease in mean arterial blood pressure. The blood pressure decrease was not prevented by 
pre-treatment with the H1 and H2 receptor antagonists, chlorpheniramine and famotidine, suggesting 
that ziconotide-induced mast cell degranulation was not the causative pharmacological mechanism 
inducing hypotension. In addition, concentrations of product required to stimulate histamine release 
and mast cell degranulation (as observed in-vitro) are in excess of what was used in the study. 
Ziconotide probably reduces systemic blood pressure in rats by blocking sympathetic efferent activity. 
IT administration at supra-therapeutic levels has no appreciable effect on blood pressure or heart rate. 
Therapeutic IT administration of ziconotide is unlikely to elicit hypotension. Also, there is no clinical 
relevance of mast cell degranulation because the dose used in patients would be far lower. 
The assessment of potential QT prolongation of ziconotide, has been evaluated in an in vitro 
electrophysiological study and in vivo in non-rodents (IV, IT and epidural)  toxicology studies. Both 
bolus doses and continuous infusions were used and no significant effects on QT prolongation were 
noted, except in 1-2 animals at very high doses. Based on these non-clinical data and available clinical 
data, ziconotide is unlikely to cause QTc prolongation. 
No animal studies on renal function have been conducted but no adverse effects were observed in the 
repeated dose toxicity studies at high dosage in relation to the clinical dose. 
5/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In drug interaction studies, concomitant administration of ziconotide and morphine had synergistic or 
additive effects depending on the pain model; no such effects occurred on cardiovascular and 
behavioural parameters. The clinical significance of the additive analgesic effects when ziconotide was 
co-administered with baclofen and clonidine is unclear.  
Pharmacokinetics 
A sensitive and specific RIA method has been used for quantification of ziconotide in plasma, CSF and 
brain. 
The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of ziconotide in plasma and CSF have been determined after 
parenteral dosage in rats and non rodents,. In view of the proposed clinical use of the product by IT 
administration, the emphasis was on studies by this route and on the behaviour of the compound in the 
CSF. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Ziconotide exhibits dose-proportional pharmacokinetics over the range of doses tested when 
administered by the i.v. route to rats and monkeys and by the IT and i.v. route to dogs. In the dog IT 
study, following bolus administration, ziconotide diffuses into the plasma at a slow rate with high 
CSF:plasma ratios (20,000:1 at 3 min, 600:1 at 8 hours). During the infusion study ziconotide was 
rapidly distributed through the CSF and plasma. After 48 hours the ratios of Lumbar CSF : Cisternal 
CSF : Plasma at steady state were1:0.01:0.001 at 1 ng/hr and 1:0.02:0.002 at 5 ng/hr. The low CSF 
bioavailability of i.v. administered ziconotide demonstrates the pharmacokinetic advantage of the IT 
route of administration. 
• 
Distribution and metabolism 
Ziconotide is rapidly distributed and/or metabolised in spinal CSF after IT administration, followed by 
relatively rapid mass transport of the product from the CSF into the plasma.  The relative contributions 
of mass transport, within and outside the spinal cord, and metabolism within it, are unclear.  There is 
certainly evidence for rapid transport into the blood and metabolism within the spinal cord is likely to 
have a significant role.  Following entry into the blood, the compound is quickly metabolised by 
normal proteolytic mechanisms, eventually to its constituent amino acids; it can be assumed that these 
will be further metabolised or incorporated into proteins by normal processes. 
In rats, dogs, monkeys and humans, the percentage of protein-bound ziconotide ranged from about 40–
70% over the concentration range of 1–10,000 ng/ml.  The extent of plasma protein binding of 
ziconotide was relatively low and not saturable over the concentration range likely to be encountered 
clinically. The partitioning of ziconotide into the cellular components of blood was found to be largely 
independent of drug concentration and was consistent among the species studied. The whole blood 
partitioning of ziconotide shows only marginal variation between rat, dog, monkey and humanwith Kd 
values ranging from 0.23–0.42.Excretion 
No classical excretion data were provided.  However, since after extensive proteolysis of ziconotide, 
the predominant products will be the free amino acids, these will be taken up by cellular carrier 
systems and will be subjected to normal intermediary metabolism or used as substrates for constitutive 
biosynthetic processes.  Depending on the degree of resistance to proteolytic cleavage, one or more 
longer-lived fragments of the general structure could exist.  These fragments would be expected to 
eventually be degraded to individual constituent amino acids that would be indistinguishable from 
other free amino acids in the amino acid pool. 
Toxicology 
The toxicity profile of ziconotide has been evaluated in single dose, repeated dose, reproduction 
toxicity, genotoxicity and immunogenicity studies. Investigations of local reactions at the IT injection 
6/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
site and comparisons of effects of different formulations of the drug have also been conducted.  
Carcinogenic potential was initially based on a short-term in vivo cell transformation study. 
Early studies indicated that the i.v. route did not deliver sufficient ziconotide to the CNS to be 
effective and thus the IT and epidural routes were explored in the majority of studies. 
All the pivotal studies were stated to be performed in accordance with international standards and in 
compliance with GLP the main exceptions being dose-ranging studies and the majority of the 
pharmacokinetic analyses and the analyses of dose preparations. The assay methods themselves were 
satisfactorily validated. 
The maximum human recommended dose (MHRD) of 0.034 µg/kg/hr (based on 2.4 µg/hr and 70 kg 
body weight) is used here for estimation of safety factors. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Acute toxicology studies in rats and non-rodents  have shown that ziconotide is well tolerated at high 
i.v. doses and that adverse effects are attributable to exaggerated pharmacological actions of the 
compound (e.g. tremors and reduction in activity). 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The toxicity profile of ziconotide was evaluated in studies by i.v. infusion of up to 14 days duration in 
the rat and monkey, by continuous IT infusion in the rat up to 28 days and in the dog up to 42 days 
duration, and by epidural infusion in the dog for up to 28 days. The proposed clinical usage of 
ziconotide as a chronic therapy would normally be supported by repeated dose studies of 6 months 
duration in a rodent and non-rodent.  However, continuous IT dosage was not considered feasible by 
the applicant for such a duration because of the effects of inflammatory changes, consequent to the use 
of the indwelling spinal catheters. 
High levels of systemic exposure were achieved in the i.v. studies compared with exposure in patients 
following IT infusion. 
The principal finding in the repeated dose studies in all species was reversible CNS disturbances 
affecting the motor system and manifested mainly as tremors, incoordination and ataxia, which are 
expected from the pharmacological action of ziconotide.  At the highest dose levels in studies by IT 
infusion in the dog, which were comparable - based upon the maximum therapeutic equivalent dose for 
dogs - to or up to 2.6-fold higher than the maximum human recommended dose (MHRD), these effects 
led to early sacrifice.  The only other common finding in these studies was reduced plasma glucose; 
the effects were relatively minor and values generally remained within the physiological range.  A 
similar pattern has not been observed in clinical use via the intended IT route of administration. 
Whole-body fixation in the pivotal repeated dose studies has allowed good preservation of the brain 
and spinal cord in which there was no microscopic evidence of changes due to ziconotide.  This 
observation supports the pharmacological basis for the clinical neurological effects. 
Prolonged intraspinal catheter implantation was always associated with compression of the spinal cord 
and acute and chronic inflammatory changes within the spinal cord. Neurological effects produced by 
these lesions, in controls as well as treated animals, included altered gait in rats; decreased activity and 
occasional instances of mild motor effects were also observed in control animals. While the nature and 
extent of the catheter-induced pathological lesions and their neurological sequelae have not interfered 
with an accurate assessment of the toxicity potential of ziconotide, the practicality of conducting 
successful studies of longer duration is open to question. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo 
Ziconotide  was  not  mutagenic  in  bacterial  reverse  mutation  assays  (Ames  test)  with  S.  typhimurium 
strains  and  in  mouse  lymphoma  forward  mutation  assays  in  the  presence  and  absence  of  metabolic 
7/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activation.  Ziconotide  was  negative  in  the  in  vivo  mouse  bone  marrow  micronucleus  assay.  These 
results sufficiently demonstrate ziconotide ’s lack of genotoxic potential. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Standard carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with ziconotide. Ziconotide was tested in 
the Syrian Hamster Embryo (SHE) cell transformation assay in the absence of S9 for seven days. 
There were no statistically significant increases in transformation frequency at any ziconotide 
concentration. 
Owing to the potential for long-term treatment of patients with Prialt, such standard carcinogenicity 
studies would be expected in accordance with the ICH S1A Guideline on the need for carcinogenicity 
studies of pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/140/95). In addition, according to ICH S1B guideline on 
carcinogenicity (CPMP/ICH/299/95), whereas a short-term carcinogenicity assay can be taken into 
account as replacement assays for the 2-year mouse carcinogenicity assay, a 2-year rat carcinogenicity 
assay nevertheless needs to be performed as long as there is chronic systemic exposure at the clinical 
level. 
Nevertheless, the absence of 2-year rat carcinogenicity study was accepted taking into account that: 
-  Ziconotide is a peptide containing amino acids that are naturally occurring in humans; 
-  Ziconotide was negative for genotoxic potential; 
-  Ziconotide was negative in the SHE cell transformation assay; 
-  Absence of carcinogenic potential in subchronic intrathecal exposure studies in dogs (no 
- 
induction of apoptosis or cell proliferation, no potential pre-neoplasic lesions); 
It is not feasible to place and maintain IT catheters in rodents for sufficiently long periods of 
time; 
-  Clinical data show that there is almost no systemic exposure after IT administration due to fast  
metabolism. 
Therefore, the risk of a carcinogenic potential for ziconotide is extremely low and classical 
carcinogenicity studies are not warranted. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
In rat fertility studies, there were no effects in males while reductions in corpora lutea, implantation 
sites and number of live embryos were observed in females. In a rat pre-and post-natal development 
study, slightly lower body weights in the F1 offspring of dams were observed.  No adverse effects on 
female reproduction and post-natal development in rats were seen at systemic exposures up to 2,300 
times human exposures at the maximum recommended intrathecal dose. 
Ziconotide was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits.  Reduced foetal weights were associated with 
maternal toxicity at exposures > 100 times human plasma levels, with signs of transient, delayed 
ossification observed in rats at approximately 9,000 times human systemic exposures.  Embryolethality 
due to post-implantation early resorptions was significantly increased in rats, but was not observed at 
exposures approximately 400 times human plasma levels. 
• 
Local tolerance 
In an exploratory study in rats, histopathological changes in spinal cord tissue were present in rats 
from all groups (vehicle control, 1, 3 and 10 µg) following daily IT bolus injections of ziconotide for 4 
days. These changes, e.g., spinal cord compression, localised inflammation and periaxonal dilatation, 
appeared to be induced by the presence of the IT catheter. Ziconotide appeared to exert a slight effect 
on the inflammatory reaction, as suggested by the findings of modest differences in incidence and 
magnitude of histopathological changes occurring over the ten-fold dose range. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
8/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The antigenic potential of ziconotide for delayed type hypersensitivity and immediate hypersensitivity 
were assessed by skin reaction, systemic anaphylaxis (SA) and passive cutaneous anaphylactic (PCA) 
reaction in guinea pigs, mice or rats. Ziconotide has the potential to induce acute anaphylaxis in the 
guinea pig. No serum antibodies to ziconotide were detected in mice and rats injected with or without 
adjuvant, after repeated administration. A response in a single guinea pig in a PCA test is unlikely to 
indicate an antigenic potential in humans. In the guinea pig test using human serum samples, the 
negative result is of little relevance given the long period between analysis and the single IV dose. In 
addition, no elevations in ziconotide-specific IgE or IgG were observed in 58 patients following IV 
dosage of ziconotide for 72 hours and sampled 3 months later or in 41 patients who received IT doses 
for at least 3 months most of whom had an off-dose period before further challenge. The risk of 
immunological reactions in patients is likely to be very low. 
The physical dependence potential and abuse liability of ziconotide were evaluated in a battery of in 
vitro and in vivo studies, in mouse and monkey. In the in vivo studies, the compound (administered IV) 
did not attenuate the discrimination of morphine withdrawal and monkeys did not maintain IV self-
administration. 
Some impurities are present at a level > 0.1% in drug substance or drug product. A mixture of these   
impurities was prepared based on the highest amount of each impurity that appears in the drug 
substance or product and a definitive toxicity study was conducted in Beagle dogs to qualify the safety 
of ziconotide impurities when administered by continuous IT infusion for 28 days. The continuous IT 
infusion of total ziconotide impurities produced no test article-related clinical signs.  There were no 
treatment-related adverse changes in body weight, food consumption or clinical pathology, nor were 
there any gross or microscopic alterations that were attributed to treatment with ziconotide or 
impurities. Total impurities were qualified at a safety factor 174 times the maximum predicted human 
dose, demonstrating the relative inactivity of ziconotide impurities. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Ziconotide, as recommended, will not pose a risk to the environment because, according to the 
applicant, the predicted annual usage of the product is very low, ziconotide is a peptide which is fully 
metabolised by normal proteolytic processes, there is negligible excretion of intact ziconotide, the 
crude predicted concentration of ziconotide in surface water is in the order of magnitude below the 
action limit of 0.01 µg/l and the product does not contain any excipients which may constitute an 
environmental risk. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Ziconotide is a high-affinity, reversible blocker of neuronal N-type voltage sensitive calcium channels 
(N-VSCCs)  which  are  found  in  high  density  in  the  brain  and  dorsal  horn  of the spinal cord  in areas 
receiving pain signals from the periphery. In models of chronic pain, the proposed clinical indication, 
significant  analgesia  was  produced  by  continuous  IT  infusion  doses  in  the  range  of  the  proposed 
clinical  dose.  IT  ziconotide  was  shown  to  be  effective  in  neuropathic  and  nociceptive  pain  models. 
Continuous IT infusion of ziconotide did not lead to tolerance nor did it alter opioid-induced analgesia. 
Ziconotide  elicits  mild  and  reversible  motor  disturbances..  Ziconotide  passes  up  the  spinal  cord  and 
into the systemic circulation but only to a limited extent. Following entry into the blood, the compound 
is quickly metabolised by normal proteolytic mechanisms. 
Ziconotide was well tolerated following i.v. administration at dose levels, based on body weight, at 
least 1750-fold higher than a maximum clinical IT infusion dose of 0.034 µg/kg/hr. In common with 
studies by the IT and epidural routes, ziconotide produced stimulation of motor activity in the CNS, as 
expected from the pharmacology of the compound. These effects occurred at dosages in the region of 
the maximum clinical dose and quickly regressed after cessation of dosing. There were no signs of 
target organ toxicity and the changes seen can be attributed to the pharmacological effects of the 
compound. A fairly consistent finding was a slight reduction in plasma glucose even at ziconotide 
plasma levels as low as 2 ng/ml; a likely reason is the stress associated with the neurological effects.  
Hypoglycaemia due to ziconotide has not been reported in clinical trials. 
9/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due  to  the  limited  toxicity  studies  (with  non  GLP  toxicokinetics),  the  absence  of  formal 
carcinogenicity  study,  the  intended  long-term  use  and  clinical  concerns  with  regard  to  safety 
(particularly lack of local safety data: neuronal function but also effects on more distant tissues), the 
applicant was requested to consider the feasibility of a new non-clinical stepwise strategy designed to 
perform subchronic toxicity studies in a relevant animal model using the intrathecal route with an as 
long as possible duration, including toxicokinetics and in compliance with GLP. The following aspects 
were to be given special consideration when designing the studies: local histopathology, apoptosis, cell 
proliferation markers, potential changes in CSF composition and consequences of long-term shutdown 
of  N-channels  on  normal  neuronal  function.    The  Applicant  provided  the  results  of  a  new  28-day 
continuous  intrathecal  infusion  study  of  ziconotide  and  ziconotide  impurities  in  Beagle  dogsT  The 
study  showed  that  there  were  no  drug  related  microscopic  changes  in  the  brain,  peripheral  nervous 
system  or  non-nervous  system  tissues.  No  effects  were  seen  on  apoptosis  or  cell  proliferation  in  the 
brain or spinal cord. CSF collected predose and just prior to necropsy showed no changes in cell count 
or clinical chemistry parameters. 
Considering the possible difficulties in conducting IT studies with longer duration, the lack of evidence 
of a potential for target organ toxicity at very high multiples of the human dose and the lack of toxic 
effects  on  the  CNS,  again  at  high  multiples  of  the  CSF  concentration  of  ziconotide  in  humans; 
additional information relevant to clinical safety conducting (sub-) chronic toxicity studies in animals 
according to GLP principles would probably limited. 
Ziconotide was negative in a battery of genotoxicity assays. 
Ziconotide is not teratogenic in rats or rabbits. Embryolethality observed in reproductive and 
developmental studies is directly attributable to parental toxicity brought on by the very high IV doses. 
Since there are no clinical data on exposed pregnancies and limited data on CNS long-term exposure, 
ziconotide should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary.  
1.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Prialt  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  severe,  chronic  pain  in  patients  who  require  intrathecal  (IT) 
analgesia. Prialt is for intrathecal use only. Dosing should be initiated at 2.4 µg/day and titrated on an 
individual patient up to a maximum dose of 21.6 µg/day. 
Ziconotide selectively blocks the neuronal N-type voltage sensitive calcium channels (N-VSCC), 
which are responsible for the spinal processing of pain.  
Clinical studies with ziconotide are summarised in the following table, starting with IT studies. The 
three first studies are pivotal studies. 
Intrathecal Studies 
Study 
Number  
N 
(treated) 
Controlled Intrathecal Studies 
Study Design 
Route 
 Dose 
95-001 
112  Phase II/III  Placebo-controlled, safety and efficacy 
IT 
0.1 - 21 µg/hr 
(chronic malignant pain) 
96-002 
257  Phase II/III  Placebo-controlled, safety and efficacy 
IT 
0.1 - 7.0 µg/hr 
(chronic non-malignant pain) 
301 
220  Phase II/III  Placebo-controlled, safety and efficacy 
IT 
0.1– 0.9 µg/h 
C96-003 
30 
Phase II 
(Adults with severe chronic pain) 
Pilot, placebo-controlled,                      (acute 
post-op pain) 
IT 
0.7 - 7.0 µg/hr 
10/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncontrolled Intrathecal Studies  
94-004 
95-002 
31 
Phase I/II 
155  Phase III 
Pilot, open-label (chronic pain) 
Long-term, open-label, safety (chronic pain) 
IT 
IT 
0.3 - 300 ng/kg/hr 
0.1 - 2.4 µg/hr 
C96-010 
1 
Phase II 
C97-013 
22 
Phase II 
Open-label, safety and efficacy (chronic 
non-malignant pain) 
Open-label, PK (chronic pain) 
C97-015 
1 
Phase III 
C98-022 
644  Phase III 
Long-term, open-label, safety and efficacy 
(chronic non-malignant pain) 
Long-term, open-label, safety (chronic pain) 
IT 
0.2 - 3.4 µg/hr 
IT 
IT 
IT 
1, 5, 7.5, 10 µg 
single 1 hr infusion 
0.04 - 0.1 µg/hr 
0.1 µg/hr, titration to patient 
response 
Intravenous  Studies 
93-001 
40 
Phase I 
93-002 
56 
Phase I 
93-003 
8 
Phase I 
Low dose, placebo-controlled safety 
(healthy male volunteers) 
High dose, placebo-controlled safety 
(healthy male volunteers) 
Haemodynamic, pilot (hypertensive and 
normotensive male volunteers) 
94-001 
68 
Phase II 
Pilot (severe head injury) 
IV 
0.3, 1, 3.3, 10 µg/kg/24hr 
IV 
IV 
IV 
10, 30, 60, 125, 250, 500, 1000 
µg/kg/24hr 
0, 1, 3.33, 10 µg/kg/24hr               
6 dose levels as 1 hour ramped 
infusion for 6 hrs 
62.5-250 or 250-1000 µg/kg/hr  
70mg/d x 3d 
94-002 
16 
Phase II 
Placebo-controlled, safety (Coronary Artery 
Bypass surgery) 
IV  Load/Maintenance        62.5/15, 
125/30, 250/60, 500/0 µg/kg/24hr
95-004 
1009-
002/003 
Epidural Studies 
15 
Phase II 
Placebo-controlled, safety (Coronary Artery 
Bypass surgery) 
232  Phase II/III  Placebo-controlled, safety and efficacy 
(severe head injury) 
IV  Load/Maintenance                15/5, 
30/10, 45/15 µg/kg/hr 
60 mg/24hrs 
IV 
96-012 
25 
Phase II 
98-021 
42 
Phase II 
Placebo-controlled, pilot (acute, post-op 
pain) 
PK (chronic, severe pain patients and 
healthy volunteers) 
EPI  0.7 or 7 µg/hr 
EPI  2, 5, 10, 20 µg  single 1hr 
infusion 
98-023 
180  Phase II/III  Placebo-controlled, dose response (surgical 
EPI  0, 2, 7 and 20 µg/hr 
98-029 
5 
Phase II 
pain) 
Open-label safety (chronic, severe pain) 
EPI  0.2 µg/hr titration to patient 
response  
The primary objectives of the clinical development programme were:  
• 
• 
to evaluate the safety and efficacy of IT ziconotide in randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled trials; 
to evaluate the safety and efficacy of long-term use of ziconotide in open-label studies. 
It is stated that all studies performed were conducted in compliance with US GCP. This is assumed to 
reflect  ICH  GCP  requirements.  A  number  of  trial  sites  have  already  been  inspected  by  the  FDAand 
problems  relating  to  blinding  were  noted  at  one  site.The  analysis  excluding  this  centre  still 
demonstrated statistically significant efficacy of ziconotide. 
The applicant also later provided some data: 
- 
on ongoing combination and open label extension studies and an open-label compassionate use 
study. 
Pharmacokinetics 
11/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ziconotide pharmacokinetics (PK) have been studied after administration through the IV, IT, and 
epidural routes. The difficulties associated with doing studies in products for IT administration include 
a risk of infection. As insertion of two catheters would disturb kinetics and for ethical desire to limit 
dural puncture, only one catheter has been used in the PK studies and this has associated limitations. 
Ziconotide has been measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and in plasma in numerous studies 
during the development program. The most relevant to this application is study 97-013, where 
ziconotide was used intrathecally. 
Ziconotide CSF and plasma concentrations were determined using a radioimmunoassay (RIA). The 
lower limit of quantification was 0.0391 ng/ml 
• 
Absorption  
The proposed route of administration is for intrathecal use and the product will therefore be delivered 
directly through a specified delivery system. The bioavailability of ziconotide in CSF following IT 
infusion was not assessed, but would be expected to be approaching 100%. 
• 
Distribution, Metabolism and Elimination 
In Study 97-013, CSF concentrations were measured after a single 1-hour IT infusion of ziconotide (1, 
5, 7.5 or 10 µg) to 22 subjects. Cmax ranged from 16 to 130 ng/mL in the CSF, but plasma zicontide 
concentrationswere low and almost always undetectable . This means that the drug targeting index in 
the CSF is very high, although it is impossible to calculate with the current data since plasma AUC is 
not measurable. Vd (∼100 mL) is close to the total volume of CSF. CSF clearance is around 0.3 
ml/min, which is close to human CSF bulk flow (0.3 to 0.4 ml/min). Clearance was generally 
independent of dose. Spinal uptake contributes to clearance to some extent, and certainly is required 
for efficacy, but is not considered to be the dominant clearance pathway due to the size and charge of 
ziconotide. The mean half-life of zicotonide in CSF (monoexponential decline) is 4.6 hr, which is long 
for a 25-amino acid peptide. It appears to be independent of dose. Ultimately, ziconotide will be 
eliminated through ubiquitous proteolytic enzymes. The current stage of knowledge does not allow for 
the precise elucidation of the proteolytic pathways of ziconotide in humans, however, ziconotide is not 
expected to enter hepatocytes and be metabolised by enzyme systems.  
The other PK studies following IT administration used various protocols. Overall, there were only 
minimal plasma concentrations measured after IT administration of ziconotide, i.e. little or no plasma 
exposure at recommended infusion rates (0.1 – 0.9 µg/h). 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
After 1-hour IT infusions (study 97-013), the PK of ziconotide is roughly linear over the 1- to 10-µg 
dose range.  However in study 97-013 saturation in AUC and Cmax seemed to have occurred at doses 
>7.5 µg. Nevertheless, the recommended dosage is much lower (0.1 to maximum 0.9 µg/hr). Therefore 
the highest dosages tested in this study will generally not be used. 
The interindividual variability in intrathecal concentrations appears quite high. Noting also the large 
inter-individual variability in CSF volume (Hogan, Anesthesiology, 1996) and the lack of a well-
defined dose-concentration-response relationship, ziconotide should be titrated on an individual basis 
to a desired level of response to ensure efficacy and safety. 
• 
Special populations 
Patients with liver or renal impairment were not studied in a specific way and this isstated in the 
summary of product characteristics due to very limited experience in such population, even if, based 
on its metabolism, it is not expected that liver or renal impairment will influence plasma ziconotide 
concentrations. 
The PK parameters in elderly patients and females did not appear to differ from those of young and 
male controls, respectively. 
12/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The data were also examined to see if there were any changes associated with weight. Based on limited 
data, there did not appear to be any effect of weight on CSF parameters following either epidural or IT 
dosing. In any case, ziconotide is to be individually titrated. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No PK interaction studies have been submitted. Nevertheless, clinical interaction studies between IT 
ziconotide and IT morphine or baclofenare ongoing or planned (see pharmacodynamic and clinical 
safety sections). 
• 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Ziconotide was modestly bound (53%) to human plasma proteins and the binding was independent of 
concentration. 
• 
Other routes of administration 
Following IV administration reaching steady-state plasma concentrations of 0.6 to 1.9 ng/mL, there 
were unacceptably high rates of hypotension, somnolence, dizziness, dry mouth and rhinitis. This 
pattern was explained by a strong sympathicolytic effect of ziconotide. Plasma half-life of ziconotide 
(1.3–1.5 h) was much shorter than in the CSF. Less than 1% of ziconotide is recovered intact in human 
urine following IV infusion. 
Epidural administration sometimes gave high plasma levels of ziconotide; furthermore, epidural 
injections were clinically ineffective and this form of administration is not sought. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Ziconotide is a N-type of Voltage Sensitive Calcium Channel blocker. It inhibits the voltage sensitive 
calcium current into primary nociceptive afferents terminating in the superficial layers of the dorsal 
horn of the spinal cord. In turn this inhibits their release of neurotransmitters (including Substance P) 
and hence the spinal signalling of pain. 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In Study 97-013 (IT), ziconotide exhibited a dose-response effect in analgesic terms, although the 
analgesic response was lower in the 10 µg dose group than in the 7.5 µg dose group, as were also the 
AUC and Cmax. CSF concentrations of ziconotide were moderately correlated with efficacy with IT 
administration. CSF pharmacokinetic parameters, AUC∞ and Cmax, were moderately well correlated 
with a number of analgesic parameters and overall an increasing strength of correlation was noted over 
the 48 hour study period. The occurrence of adverse effects also tended to show a dose-response 
relationship, with 3 severe adverse effects being reported in the 10 µg dose group. CSF ziconotide 
concentrations were highly correlated with the incidence of nervous system adverse effects. Dizziness, 
nausea and abnormal gait demonstrated the strongest relationships with CSF exposure. 
In Study 98-021 (EPI), minimal efficacy was observed, presumably related to a median CSF 
bioavailability of less than 1% with a bolus dose of 2-20 µg administered epidurally over 1 hour. 
In Studies 93-001 and 93-002, in which ziconotide was administered intravenously, correlations were 
observed between plasma ziconotide concentrations and non-nervous system adverse effects, all 
adverse effects, cardiovascular system adverse effects and reductions in blood pressure. Postural 
hypotension was consistently observed in Study 93-001 at a mean plasma concentration of ziconotide 
of 0.64 ng/ml, a relatively high plasma level that is nearly never reached by an IT injection. 
13/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system adverse effects were not correlated with plasma exposure following any route of 
administration. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
It is noted that potential interactions with morphine, fentanyl and buprenorphine have not been 
examined, whereas these drugs are quite likely to be co-administered with ziconotide to control 
intractable pain. Almost all patients involved in the clinical trials received concomitant treatment with 
IT ziconotide and non-IT opioids. No major respiratory or cardiovascular adverse events occurred.  
IT interaction studies with morphine and baclofen are either planned or ongoing. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response study 
A rising dose, open label study, 94-004, to determine safety and effectiveness in chronic pain, was 
performed in 20 patients with chronic malignant and 11 with non malignant pain. Dosing was started at 
0.3 ng/kg/hr and could be tripled at intervals of 24 to 48 hrs for up to 7 days depending on analgesic or 
adverse effects.  The maximum dose was 300ng/kg/hr.. Whilst the mean maximal analgesic effect was 
a 42.7% decrease in the Visual Analogue Scale of Pain Intensity (VASPI), 94% patients experienced at 
least one adverse event and 32% discontinued due to an adverse event. 10 of 26 samples had detectable 
drug plasma levels and 7 of the 10 patients with detectable levels were experiencing adverse events 
when the samples were obtained. Three patients experienced postural hypotension. Some of the levels 
attained following the higher intrathecal doses corresponded to levels seen following intravenous 
administration and found to be associated with postural hypotension. Dose response analyses did not 
suggest that greater doses were asssociated with greater efficacy. The starting dose, dose increments 
and titration rate in the pilot dose finding study mean that the lowest effective dose would not have 
been identified. Onset of adverse effects or neurological effects such as nystagmus was used to 
determine attainment of maximal dose and could be considered to represent overdose rather than 
adequate dose. 
Dose response was also considered in the main clinical studies 95-001 and 96-002. Nevertheless, it is 
unclear how the starting dose, dose range and up-titration interval were chosen. 
See discussion on clinical efficacy. 
•  Main studies  
Three pivotal placebo-controlled clinical trials were performed: 
(cid:131)  Study 95-001: patients with chronic malignant pain (associated with cancer or AIDS) – 112 
patients (72 ziconotide and 40 placebo). 
(cid:131)  Study 96-002: patients with chronic non-malignant pain, especially neuropathic pain – 257 
patients (170 ziconotide and 87 placebo). 
(cid:131)  Another randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of intrathecal ziconotide in adults 
with severe chronic pain was submitted during the evaluation process (study 301). 
The first two studies were prolonged into a long-term open-label study (95-002). 
• 
Analysis of studies 95-001 and 96-002 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
For both studies, the following key eligibility criteria were required:  
o
o
necessity of an intrathecal administration as the next pain management step; 
average pain score > 50 mm on a Visual Analogue Scale of Pain Intensity (VASPI). 
14/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who demonstrated an unsatisfactory response to systemic opioid therapy or suffered from 
intolerable side effects induced by morphine were eligible.  
Patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to ziconotide or placebo and received 5 or 6 days of treatment 
in an initial titration phase. At the end of initial titration phase, some patients crossed over according to 
the following pattern: in study 95-001 non-responders crossed-over to the alternate blinded treatment. 
In study 96-002 non-responders to ziconotide terminated from the study, while placebo non-responders 
crossed over to open-label ziconotide. 
Treatments 
In study 95-001, overall hourly infusion doses of ziconotide ranged from 0.1-21µg/hr. A number of 
amendments to the titration regimen were made during the study. Initially, the dose range was 5-300 
ng/kg/hr with a forced up-titration until intolerable related adverse events and a 12 hourly up-titration 
interval. Because of PK data, the body weight-dependent dosing was first discontinued and dose range 
converted to 0.4-21 µg/hr. Then, upper dose limit was reduced and up-titration interval extended to 24 
hours. Finally, dose range was reduced to 0.1 – 2.4 µg/hr with an up-titration until satisfactory 
analgesia or change in lateral gaze nystagmus or related adverse event, with possibility to extend the 
up-titration interval of an additional 24 hours in case onset of analgesia. 
In study 96-002, overall hourly infusion doses of ziconotide ranged from 0.1-7.0 µg/hr. A number of 
amendments to the titration were made during the study. Initially, the dose range was 0.4-7 µg/hr with 
up-titration until intolerable related adverse events or satisfactory analgesia and a 24 hourly up-
titration interval. The upper dose limit was then reduced to 0.4 – 3.9 µg/hr. Finally, dose range was 
reduced to 0.1 – 2.4 µg/hr with an up-titration until satisfactory analgesia or change in lateral gaze 
nystagmus or related adverse event, with possibility to extend the up-titration interval of an additional 
24 hours in case onset of analgesia. 
Ziconotide was formulated in an aqueous isotonic vehicle containing 100 micrograms/mL of 
ziconotide free base with L methionine, sodium chloride, and water USP as excipents. Placebo was 
identical to the active drug product except for the absence of the active substance. 
Intrathecal catheters were placed in a clinically indicated position. If placement of a catheter was 
necessary it was placed between the intravertebral spaces L1-2, L2-3 or L3-4 and the tip was advanced 
to the area below the conus medullaris but was not to be advanced beyond vertebral T10 level. 
15/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The objectives of the studies were to compare the effect of increasing intrathecally administered dose 
levels of ziconotide to those of placebo on chronic malignant (95-001) and non-malignant (96-002) 
pain and to assess the safety of increasing dose levels of ziconotide in this patient population.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the percent change in VASPI (Visual Analogue Scale of Pain 
Intensity) score from baseline to the end of the titration phase. The VASPI scores can range from 0 to 
100 mm along a horizontal line representing the intensity of pain. 
Secondary endpoints were: 
(cid:131)  Percent change in VASPI score from baseline to the end of crossover phase. 
(cid:131)  Categorical Pain Relief Scale (CPRS) score at the end of initial titration phase. 
(cid:131)  Change in Wisconsin Brief Pain Inventory (WBPI) subsets from baseline to the end of the 
initial titration phase. 
(cid:131)  Change in opioid use from baseline to the end of the initial titration phase. 
(cid:131)  Proportion of responders at the end of the initial titration phase. 
(cid:131)  Incidence of adverse events.  
The response rate was defined as a ≥ 30 % reduction in VASPI without an increase in dose or change 
in type of concomitant opioid therapy. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to ziconotide or placebo. 
Statistical methods 
In the original protocols, the primary efficacy patient cohort was defined as the evaluable population 
(having received at least 4 days of treatment). However primary analysis was then amended from 
evaluable patients to a modified intention to treat population. A modified ITT (mITT) population was 
defined as randomised patients who had received any amount of study medication, had a baseline 
VASPI score and had at least one follow up VASPI during the initial titration phase. 
RESULTS 
Study 95-001  (Chronic malignant pain) 
Participant flow 
At randomisation, 71 patients received ziconotide and 40 received placebo. One additional patient 
enrolled after randomisation and was included in the safety evaluation. 
Of the 72 patients initially treated with ziconitide, 11 discontinued during initial titration, 9 during 
maintenance phase receiving ziconotide and 5 during crossover to placebo. 
Of the 40 patients initially treated with placebo, 3 discontinued during initial titration, none during 
maintenance phase and 8 during crossover to ziconotide. 
Baseline data 
Baseline and demographic variables were comparable between treatment groups: mean age was 55.5 
years, 87% of patients had cancer and 13% AIDS. Mean baseline VASPI was 75 mm. Mean baseline 
16/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
opioid use was very high at 5.4 g/day oral morphine equivalents and 32% of patients had received 
prior IT morphine. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The table below provide results of the primary efficacy criterion (change in VASPI at the end of the 
initial titration phase) and the proportions of responders in both the “Evaluable” and the mITT 
population. 
Endpoint 
Mean % change (SE) from baseline 
VASPI at the end of the initial titration 
phase 
Treatment responders at the end of the 
initial titration phase 
Population 
Evaluable 
(n) 
Ziconotide 
53.1% (4.63) 
(68) 
mITT 
(n) 
Evaluable 
(n) 
mITT 
(n) 
51.4% (4.59) 
(71) 
50.0% 
(68) 
47.9% 
(71) 
Placebo 
18.1% (6.77) 
(40) 
18.1% (6.77) 
(40) 
17.5% 
(40) 
17.5% 
(40) 
p-value 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.001 
The treatment effect remained statistically significant with the use of an ANCOVA model including 
percent change in opioid use (p=0.0001). 
The table below provide mean VASPI scores at baseline and at the end of the titration, as well as the 
mean dose at the end of titration (mITT population). 
Parameter 
Mean VASPI score at baseline in 
mm (SD) 
Mean VASPI score at end of 
initial titration in mm (SD) 
Dose at end of titration (µg/hr) 
Ziconotide (n = 71) 
74.1 (± 13.82) 
Placebo (n = 40) 
77.9 (± 13.60) 
35.7 (± 33.27) 
61.0 (± 22.91) 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
0.91 
0.60 
0.074 – 9.36 
Secondary efficacy analyses:  
CPRS results (Categorical Pain Relief Scale): the response rate was 47.9% in the ziconotide group and 
17.5% in the placebo group (p=0.001). 
WBPI subsets (Wisconsin Brief Pain Inventory): there were no statistically significant differences 
between ziconotide and placebo in terms of WBPI subsets. 
No significant linear correlation was observed between the percent change in VASPI and percent 
change in opioid use at the end of the initial titration period. 
Non-responders to initial therapy were crossed over to the alternate blinded treatment at the end of the 
initial titration phase. Amongst these “initial non-responders”, the mean percent improvement in 
VASPI from baseline at the end of the crossover phase was 44.9% and 4.2% in ziconotide and placebo 
treated patients respectively (p=0.005). 
Post-hoc analyses performed by the applicant 
Subgroup analysis of the primary efficacy parameter revealed similar mean VASPI improvements in 
ziconotide-treated patients who were IT morphine-naïve and experienced. 
17/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Using a more stringent responder definition of ≥ 50% decrease in VASPI, an exploratory posthoc 
response rate analysis demonstrated a 42.3% response in rate in the ziconotide group compared to 
17.5% in the placebo group (p=0.008). 
Study 96-002  (Chronic non-malignant pain) 
Participant flow 
At randomisation, 169 patients received ziconotide and 86 received placebo. 
Of the 169 receiving initial ziconotide, 40 patients discontinued during initial titration and 8 withdrew 
during the maintenance phase with ziconotide. 48 patients (28.2%) completed initial titration and did 
not enter second phase and 82 patients (48.2%) entered the second phase. In the placebo group, 7 
patients discontinued during initial titration and none discontinued during maintenance phase; 18 
patients discontinued during the crossover phase with ziconotide. 
Baseline data 
The two groups were comparable with regard to demographic and baseline characteristics. However, 
the mean baseline VASPI score was higher for the ziconotide group (80.2 mm) than for the placebo 
group (76.9 mm). Mean age was 52 years. Mean baseline opioid use was 528 mg/day oral morphine 
equivalents. 
58% of the patients had previously been treated with IT morphine.  
76 % of the patients suffered from neuropathic pain.  
98% of the patients had pain of greater than one year’s duration. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The table below provides results of the primary efficacy criterion (change in VASPI at the end of the 
initial titration phase) and the proportions of responders, for both in the “Evaluable” and modified ITT 
(mITT) populations. 
Endpoint 
Mean % change (SE) from baseline 
VASPI at the end of the Initial titration 
phase 
Treatment responders at the end of the 
initial titration phase 
Population 
Evaluable 
(n) 
Ziconotide 
30.7% (3.47) 
(159) 
mITT 
(n) 
Evaluable 
(n) 
mITT 
(n) 
31.2% (3.41) 
(164) 
33.3% 
(162) 
33.7% 
(169) 
Placebo 
6.2% (3.24) 
(79) 
6.0% (3.05) 
(86) 
13.9% 
(79) 
12.8% 
(86) 
p-value 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.002 
<0.001 
The treatment effect remained statistically significant with the use of an ANCOVA model including 
baseline VASPI score and percent change in opioid use (p=0.0005). 
18/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below provide mean VASPI scores at baseline and at the end of the titration, as well as the 
mean dose at the end of titration (mITT population). 
Parameter 
Mean VASPI score at baseline in 
mm (SE) 
Mean VASPI score at end of 
initial titration in mm (SE) 
Dose at end of titration (µg/hr) 
Ziconotide (n = 169) 
80.1 (± 15.10 
Placebo (n = 86) 
76.9 (± 14.58) 
54.4 (± 29.30) 
71.9 (± 30.93) 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
1.02 
0.50 
0.019 - 9.60 
Secondary efficacy analyses: 
CPRS results: the response rate was 33.7% in the ziconotide group and 12.8% in the placebo group (p 
< 0.001). 
WBPI subset scores: there were statistically significant differences between treatment groups in favour 
of ziconotide in mood, walking ability, sleep and enjoyement of life WBPI subset scores at the end of 
the initial titration period. 
Global Mc Gill Pain Score: the mean percent reduction in this score from baseline to the end of the 
initial titration phase was 23.6% in the ziconotide group compared to 9.2% in the placebo group 
(p=0.028). 
In terms of change in opioid use, there were no statistically significant differences between ziconotide 
and placebo. No significant linear correlation was observed between the percent change in VASPI and 
percent change in opioid use at the end of the initial titration period. 
Post-hoc efficacy analyses performed by the applicant 
The mean VASPI improvements in ziconotide-treated patients were similar in the IT-morphine naïve 
and experienced patients, 29.6% and 33.2%, respectively. 
Using a response rate analysis with a ≥ 50% decrease in VASPI, an exploratory posthoc analysis 
demonstrated a 28.4% response rate in the ziconotide group compared to 7.0% in the placebo group 
(p<0.001). 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
As the two pivotal studies 95-001 and 96-002 were similar in design and conduct, a pooled analysis 
was provided. 
For the pooled mITT (all dosing regimens) population, the mean VASPI score at the end of the initial 
titration period was 48.8 mm for the ziconotide group and 68.4 mm for the placebo group.  The mean 
percent improvement of 37.3% in VASPI score for ziconotide patients was significantly greater than 
the 9.8% for placebo patients (p < 0.001, ANOVA).  The 95% confidence interval for the treatment 
difference was 19.4 to 35.6. 
The difference in the mean percent improvement in VASPI score between ziconotide patients and 
placebo-treated patients was somewhat greater for malignant pain patients in Study 95-001 compared 
to non-malignant pain patients in Study 96-002 (33.3% vs. 25.2%).   
For the pooled ITT (all dosing regimens) population, the cumulative proportion of responders by dose 
level at end of initial titration period shows that 92% of patients, who responded to treatment, did so by 
a dose of 1.2 µg/hr of ziconotide. 
19/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the pooled ITT (0.1-2.4 µg/hr dosing regimen) population, the cumulative proportion of responders 
by dose level at end of initial titration period for the pooled population suggests that 90% of patients, 
who responded to treatment, did so with a dose of 1.2 µg/hr of ziconotide. 
Study 301 
301 was the third randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of intrathecal ziconotide in 
adults with severe chronic pain. 
The primary objective was to confirm the efficacy results observed in the two pivotal short-term 
clinical trials (five to six days – studies 95-001 and 96-002) on a longer period (three weeks), and with 
a slower dose titration schedule. 
220 patients with severe chronic pain (VASPI score >50 mm) that was not adequately controlled by 
and/or who were intolerant to systemic opioids were included. Neuropathic pain was the most common 
pain mechanism and accounted for 75.9% and 71.3 % of patients in the ziconotide and placebo groups, 
respectively. Failed back surgery was the most common pain aetiology, reported for 60.7% of patients 
in the ziconotide group and 55.6% of patients in the placebo group. In both treatment groups, the mean 
VASPI score was 80.7 mm at baseline. 
This additional controlled study was designed to assess a slower titration schedule at a lower 
ziconotide dose with a longer blinded observation (3 weeks, which was sometimes extended up to 9 
months under open conditions): 
Starting dose 
(per day) 
Maximum dose 
(per day) 
Titration interval 
0.1 µg/h 
(2.4 µg) 
0.9 µg/h 
(21.6 µg) 
24 hours 
Efficacy results from study 301 
Parameter 
Mean VASPI score at baseline in 
mm (SD) 
Mean VASPI score at end of initial 
titration in mm (SD) 
% improvement in VASPI score at 
end of initial titration  (SD) 
Respondera n (%) 
Dose at end of titration (µg/hr) 
Ziconotide (n = 112) 
80.7 (± 14.98) 
Placebo (n = 108) 
80.7 (± 14.91) 
67.9 (± 22.89) 
74.1 (± 21.28) 
14.7 (± 27.71) 
7.2 (± 24.98) 
18 (16.1%) 
13 (12.0%) 
p-value 
- 
_ 
0.0360 
0.390 
0.29 
0.25 
0.0 - 0.80 
aResponders were defined as those who experienced a ≥ 30% drop in VASPI score compared to baseline. 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
Secondary endpoints: 
-  Mean weekly opioid use: There was a 23.7% mean decrease in weekly opioid use from the 
pre-treatment stabilization period at week 3 for the ziconotide group compared to a 17.3% 
decrease in the placebo group (p = 0.4371). Therefore, the improvement in VASPI score was 
not due to an increase in opioid use. 
-  For both “satisfaction with therapy” and “overall pain control”, the CGI evaluation showed a 
statistically significant improvement in patients treated with ziconotide compared with 
placebo.  
-  The mean change in the Global McGill Pain Total Score from baseline to termination was 3.2 
in the ziconotide group and 0.6 in the placebo group, showing a statistically significant 
improvement in the ziconotide group over the placebo group (p = 0.0259; two-sample t-test). 
20/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Brief Pain Inventory (BPI): Patients in the ziconotide group in comparison to the placebo 
group experienced an improvement in all BPI subset scores; however, the changes from 
baseline to termination did not reach statistical significance.  
-  Sleep pattern and quality of sleep: At termination, there were statistically significant 
improvements in the number of hours of uninterrupted sleep and overall sleep quality in the 
ziconotide group, and evidence of fewer awakenings due to pain in the ziconotide group. 
-  Categorical Pain Relief Scale (CPRS): The difference between the two treatment groups 
approached statistical difference (p=0.0596; Mantel-Haenszel chi-square test). 
• 
None 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Supportive studies : Open-label studies 
Study 95-002 was an extension study enrolling patients who had demonstrated an analgesic response 
to ziconotide in the controlled studies (Studies 95-001 and 96-002). After an initial 30-day fixed-dose 
period, dose increases were limited to a maximal two-fold increase 12 hourly.  Safety and efficacy 
(VASPI) assessments were performed monthly.  One hundred and fifty-five patients were enrolled; 48 
with malignant pain and 107 with non-malignant pain. The mean and median number of days in the 
study was 288 and 86 respectively. 34 patients were treated for at least 360 days. The mean percentage 
improvement in VASPI score compared to the pre-treatment baseline was 37.2% (N=139), 32.5% 
(N=57), 40.6% (N=37), 45.8% (N=31) and 36.9% (N=144) at Week 4, Months 3, 6, 12 and the last 
available observation, respectively. The apparent increase in efficacy is considered to reflect selection 
bias as the number of patients decreased with time. 
Study 98-022 was designed to assess long-term safety and tolerability of ziconotide administered 
zicotide intrathecally to patients with chronic pain. Titration began at 0.1 µg/hr and could increase by 
≤0.1 µg/hr every 24 hours.  After the titration/stabilisation period safety assessments were performed 
monthly.  Six hundred and forty four patients, with chronic nociceptive and/or neuropathic pain 
requiring intraspinal analgesia received treatment. Unlike the pivotal studies, there was no minimum 
baseline VASPI eligibility criterion.  97% of patients had pain of non-malignant origin, and 79% of 
patients had a neuropathic component to their pain. Patients were treated as outpatients but were seen 
monthly for filling of infusion pump. The mean and median number of days on ziconotide was 199 and 
67 respectively.  One hundred and nineteen patients were treated for at least 360 days. The mean % 
VASPI change at 1 month for all patients (N = 453) was a reduction of only 7.2% (p<0.0104). A post 
hoc subgroup analysis revealed that the mean % VASPI change at 1 Month for patients (N=394/453) 
with VASPI scores ≥50 mm (i.e., a comparable population to the pivotal trials) was a reduction of 
18.3% (p<0.0001). Thirty-one percent (138/453) of patients fulfilled the protocol definition of 
response defined as: > 30% reduction in VASPI at 1 month. 
Data on other ongoing open-label studies were also provided: 
−  Study  302  –  Open-label,  3-week,  with  optional  long-term  extension  phase,  multicenter 
outpatient study to enrol 150 IT naïve patients with chronic, severe pain of either malignant or 
non-malignant  origin  and  with  a  baseline  VASPI  score  of  ≥40  mm.  The  study  includes  a 
treatment phase when Prialt (external pump) is uptitrated at dose increments of ≤ 0.1 µg/hr no 
more than once in every 24 hours over a 3-week period. Patients with pain of malignant origin 
may be eligible to continue with the external system for a further 6 months of treatment with 
Prialt. Patients with pain of non-malignant origin and suitable for an implanted pump should 
terminate this study and be enrolled in 352, a long-term follow-up study. 
−  Study  352  -  Open-label,  long-term  extension  study  of  301  or  302.  Safety  assessments  and 
VASPI pain measurements are performed once every 60 days. 
−  Study 351 - Open-label,  long-term extension study of patients who had completed the open-
label,  long-term  studies  95-002  and  98-022.  Patients  in  this  study  have  had  the  longest 
exposure to ziconotide and approximately 50 patients have been treated for over 3 years. 
−  Study  501  –  The  ZEST  study  is  an  open-label,  long-term,  compassionate  multicentric  study 
started in January 2004 in the US under a treatment IND. The dosing regimen is as follows: 
21/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
starting dose is 0.1 µg/hr with dose changes every 48 hours. Dose increment is ≤0.1 µg/hr with 
a maximum dose of 0.9 µg/hr. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Two placebo-controlled trials, similar in design and conduct, were performed involving 366 patients: 
111 with malignant pain mainly due to cancer (with 13% due to AIDS) and 255 with a non-malignant 
pain with a demonstrable neurological basis, 76% of whom had neuropathic pain The use of placebo 
rather than a comparator such as IT morphine is considered appropriate as IT morphine lacks 
controlled clinical trial data to justify its use as a gold standard and also because patients would be 
likely to have been treated with morphine previously. The reasons for keeping the duration of the 
pivotal trials brief (the primary endpoint was set at the end of a 5- to 6-day titration period) can be 
accepted in view of the proposed severe chronic pain indication (mean baseline VASPI score ∼80 mm) 
and in an attempt to minimise the incidence of meningitis. 
The efficacy of IT ziconotide during 5 to 6 days in patients with severe, chronic pain of malignant and 
non-malignant origin was demonstrated. In the pooled analysis, the mean percent improvement of 
37.3% in VASPI score for ziconotide patients was significantly greater than the 9.8% for placebo 
patients (p < 0.001). Secondary endpoints (verbal Category Pain Relief Scale, Global McGill Pain 
scores and responder analyses also support the efficacy. 
The studies were characterised by a very high withdrawal rate: in Study 95-001, 20/72 patients on 
ziconotide withdrew before the end of the titration phase and 8/29 patients on placebo crossed over to 
ziconotide; in Study 96-002, 88/170 ziconotide patients did not enter the second phase and 18/80 
patients on placebo crossed to ziconotide. In response, the applicant showed that the effect of early 
dropouts and the use of the last observed carried forward (LOCF) approach during the initial titration 
phase did not confound the efficacy data from the two placebo-controlled studies. 
It was questioned whether the high rate of confusion and other related adverse events in the ziconotide 
patients may have obscured the interpretation of the pain scales. Post-hoc analyses conducted by the 
Applicant revealed a consistently greater reduction in mean VASPI in the confusion-affected cohort 
treated with ziconotide compared to the unaffected cohort across the three studies. On the other hand, a 
treatment difference between unaffected ziconotide- and unaffected placebo-treated patients was 
consistently observed in favour of ziconotide in all three studies. So the VASPI scores appear suitable 
despite a possible influence of confusion or related adverse events on the evaluation of efficacy. 
Long-term data from 31 patients who remained in the study 95-002 shows that sustained analgesic 
effect in these patients was accompanied by relatively stable mean doses (0.4–0.6 µg/h) over a 12-
month period: median dose (0.3 µg/h) requirements were also constant over this period. No increment 
in mean dose was noted between 5 and 12 months of treatment.  
The lack of tolerance has been demonstrated in only 31 patients of the long-term study 95-002 needs 
confirmation in further studies. 
The main topic for discussion were the following:  
-  The optimal dosage and dose increment strategy for the safe and efficient use of ziconotide have 
not been clearly established, especially in view of the narrow therapeutic index of the product. 
-  The benefit of the product on the different types of pain. 
-  The long-term maintenance of efficacy.  
22/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose recommendation 
The Applicant provided a detailed explanation of the rationale underlying the dosing regimen mainly 
based on analyses of the results of studies study 98-022 and study 301in which dose increments were 
smaller in those studies than the two key studies 95-001 and 96-002, and suggested an amendment to 
the original dosing recommendation. 
In study 98-022, therapeutic doses in responders ranged from 0.02 – 0.83 µg/h. Only 1.5% of the total 
population required a dose ≤0.1 µg/h and only 2.0% of the total population required a dose ≥0.9 µg/h. 
In study 301, the range of therapeutic doses (0.05 – 0.60 µg/h) is not far from that in Study 98-022.  
As a consequence, 0.1 µg/hour was considered a safe initial dose as only 1% of patients had serious 
adverse events at this dose or at a lesser dose and approximately 30% of patients experienced related 
adverse events at doses ≤ 0.1 µg/hour. 
The estimated median time to CSF steady state following infusion is 22.5 hours (based of a median 
CSF half-life of 4.5 hours). The Applicant has analysed the time interval between dose changes for the 
three placebo-controlled trials as well as for the long-term open-label safety trial, to support that a 
dosing interval of 48 hours or more. In the first two placebo-controlled trials (95-001, 96-002), patients 
were hospitalized for the initial titration, and rapid titration over 5 or 6 days was thought to be 
necessary. The dose was increased at 24-hour intervals until analgesia was obtained or adverse events 
were encountered. The third placebo-controlled trial (301) used a 21-day titration period and specified 
that the dose could not be increased more than once in a 24-hour period. Longer time intervals between 
dose increases were permitted by the protocol. The long-term open-label safety trial 98-022 also 
specified a 24-hour minimum titration time interval and titrated the dose over a 4-week period. The 
table below summarises the statistics for all dose interval by trial. 
Summary Statistics for Dose Interval by Trial1 
Statistic 
N2 
Mean 
Median 
95-001 
346 
22.2 hrs 
21.9 hrs 
96-002 
780 
27.6 hrs 
24.0 hrs 
301 
285 
3.9 days 
4.0 days 
98-022 (long-term) 
2300 
94.9 hrs 
74.3 hrs 
1All dose increases (any dose decrease is ignored). 
2N = the total number of dose increases in the ziconotide group 
The Applicant also provided analysis showing that in the first two trials (95-001 and 96-002), only 5% 
and  20%  of  the  dose  increases  were  “safe”,  i.e.  not  associated  with  a  subsequent  dose  decrease, 
whereas in the later trials (301 and 98-022), 59% and 46% of dose increases were not associated with 
subsequent dose decreases. 
Although  a  correlation  of  the  individual  dose  intervals  with  outcome  variables  such  as  VASPI  and 
adverse  events  were  not  provided,  a  dose  interval  of  at  least  48  hours  is  recommended  to  optimise 
safety. 
In summary, because of the narrow therapeutic index, it is prudent to start with a relatively low dose 
(2.4  µg/day),  to  limit  the  dose  increments  to  2.4  µg/day,  and  to  uptitrate  with  a  minimal  interval 
between  dose  increases  of  24  hours  and  a  recommended  interval,  for  safety  reasons  of  48  hours  or 
more.  
23/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy depending on the type of pain  
The efficacy appeared somewhat greater for malignant pain patients in Study 95-001 compared to non-
malignant pain patients in Study 96-002 (improvement in VASPI score: 51.4% versus 31.2%; response 
rate: 47.9% versus 33.7%) and in Study 301 (see below). 
On the other hand, subgroup analysis of the primary efficacy parameter revealed similar mean VASPI 
improvements in ziconotide-treated patients who were IT morphine-naïve and in those who had 
previously received IT morphine. These results, and the limited benefit of intraspinal morphine when 
pain is unresponsive to other routes of morphine administration, provide a strong argument against the 
mandatory use of morphine as first line IT therapy in all situations. 
In study (301), neuropathic pain was the most common pain mechanism and accounted for more than 
70 % of the patients. Failed back surgery was the most common pain aetiology. The primary and 
secondary results of Study 301 support the analgesic activity of ziconotide in patients suffering from 
severe chronic pain of neurological origin necessitating intrathecal administration of analgesics. 
However, the overall efficacy was limited: the primary endpoint, i.e. the mean percent change in 
VASPI score from baseline to week 3 (LOCF), was 14.7% in the ziconotide group vs 7.2% for the 
placebo group (p=0.0360). In addition, the number of responders was rather low and not significantly 
different: only 16.1% in the ziconotide group vs 12% in the placebo group. One should note that the 
selection of patients in study 301 was more stringent, and that it is also possible that the efficacy of 
ziconotide is lower in patients who do not respond to, or are intolerant to, systemic morphine.. In 
Study 301, incidences of adverse effects, namely neurological adverse reactions, in particular 
confusion, and rate of discontinuation due to adverse effects were lower than in the previous two 
controlled studies. This seems to confirm that a better control of the posology, from the initial starting 
dose to the dose increments to the interval between doses, allows a better tolerance of ziconotide. 
The recruitment of malignant pain patients for long-term treatment via intrathecal route appears very 
difficult and only 20 % of patients in the clinical studies had exclusively non-neuropathic pain 
There are differences in the therapeutic effect (i.e. ziconotide – placebo efficacy) observed in the three 
placebo-controlled studies (95-001, 96-002, and 301), with the malignant pain study (95-001) having 
the greatest effect and 301 having the smallest effectIt is likely that the differences in therapeutic effect 
are due to differences in patient populations, dose regimens, and study design. 
-  The cancer patients in 95-001 suffered from severe pain for a shorter duration and were exposed to 
less  therapeutic  procedures  than  nonmalignant  patients  in  96-002;  perhaps  they  were  more 
responsive  to  analgesia.  This  is  reflected  by  the  difference  in  placebo  response  between  the  two 
populations  (6%  in  the  non-malignant  patients  in  96-002  compared  to  the  18%  in  the  malignant 
pain patients in 95-001).  
-  The patients enrolled in the 301 study were the most refractory population of patients studied in 
the  ziconotide  program;  all  already  had  implanted  pumps  and  most  had  failed  IT  therapy  with 
combination  analgesics.  The  treating  physicians  considered  that  97%  of  the  patients  were 
refractory to currently available treatments.  
-  Studies  95-001  and  96-002  were  of  short  duration  and  used  a  more  rapid  dose  escalation  using 
higher doses compared to study 301.  
In addition, a meta-analysis of the efficacy data from the three controlled trials (95-001, 96-002, and 
301) by pain mechanism shows that ziconotide has a therapeutic effect in both neuropathic and non-
neuropathic pain subgroups. 
24/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent change in VASPI score by pain mechanism 
Ziconotide 
N=268 
Placebo 
N=189 
Pain Mechanism  
Classification 
Neuropathic 
N 
Mean 
Median 
N 
Mean 
Median 
185 
23.6 
14.9 
42 
15.5 
6.8 
Non-neuropathic 
Long-term efficacy 
129 
6.8 
1.4 
40 
7.6 
3.0 
The  long-term  effects  of  ziconotide  (beyond  3  weeks)  has  been  insufficiently  demonstrated  in 
controlled studies, especially in patients with malignant pain where these malignant pain patients were 
end  of  stage  or  terminal  and  so  the  high  death  rate  precluded  determination  of long-term experience 
with ziconotide.  
Data from these two ongoing long-term, open-label studies have been provided to show that a total of 
172  patients  have  been  treated  for  one  year  or  longer.  Almost  all  patients  have  non-malignant  pain. 
The  mean  and  median  dosage  in  both  long-term  studies  is  within  the  maximum  recommended  dose 
(21.6 µg/day).  
Long-term efficacy of ziconotide needs further demonstration despite anecdotal evidence and accruing 
safety data. Furthermore, there is little experience with long-term ziconotide treatment in patients with 
malignant pain. This concern is reflected in the Warning/Precautions section 4.4 of the SmPC 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
At the time of the submission of the application, ziconotide had been administered to 1048 patients by 
the IT route, including 353 treated for at least three months and 153 treated for at least 360 days.  The 
total exposure to IT ziconotide was 477 patient-years. A number of safety populations were identified 
including the Controlled Study Population (patients from placebo-controlled Studies 95-001and 96-
002) and the Combined IT Study Population (patients from all IT studies; 94-004, 95-001, 95-002, 96-
002, 96-003, 96-010, 97-013, 97-015 and 98-022). Patients received IT doses of ziconotide in  the 
range of 0.05 to 38 µg/hr.  
Safety data of study 301, which dose titration was close to the one recommended in the SPC were 
provided at a later stage and are described after the above mentioned initial populations. 
• 
Adverse events  
The analyses of the Combined IT Study Population presented below compare the ziconotide-treated 
and placebo-treated populations.  It is important to point out that there is a large imbalance in 
ziconotide versus placebo exposure with 477 versus 2.5 patient-years exposure in these respective 
populations. 
Adverse Events Occurring in ≥ 5% of Patients – Combined IT Studies 
25/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events 
Any Adverse Event 
Dizziness 
Nausea 
Headache 
Confusion 
Nystagmus 
Somnolence 
Pain 
Memory Impairment 
Abnormal Gait 
Fever 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Asthenia 
Myasthenia 
Diarrhoea 
Urinary Retention 
Peripheral Oedema 
Anxiety  
Blurred Vision 
Insomnia 
Depression 
Accidental Injury 
Hypertonia 
Speech Disorder 
Hallucinations 
Ataxia 
Nervousness 
Back Pain 
Dysaesthesia 
Urination Impaired 
Anorexia 
Hypaesthesia 
Infection  
Postural Hypotension 
Pruritos 
Paraesthesia 
Tremor 
Arthralgia 
While Receiving Ziconotide 
While Receiving Placebo 
(n = 1048) 
% Patients 
(n = 151) 
% Patients 
98.4 
53.2 
51.2 
34.6 
33.8 
30.1 
27.4 
26.4 
21.7 
21.3 
20.0 
19.3 
18.9 
17.4 
15.6 
15.5 
14.7 
14.0 
13.9 
13.9 
13.5 
13.0 
12.5 
12.5 
12.1 
11.9 
11.7 
11.3 
11.1 
10.8 
10.8 
10.5 
10.5 
10.5 
9.7 
9.7 
9.6 
9.3 
9.0 
76.2 
13.2 
20.5 
20.5 
6.6 
11.3 
6.6 
4.0 
0 
2.0 
6.0 
7.3 
10.6 
3.3 
2.0 
4.0 
1.3 
1.3 
5.3 
2.0 
2.0 
0.7 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
0 
1.3 
3.3 
0.7 
0 
1.3 
0.7 
2.0 
1.3 
7.9 
6.6 
2.0 
2.6 
0 
26/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
Impaired Verbal Expression 
Abdominal Pain 
Creatine Kinase Increased 
Sweating 
Catheter Complication 
Chest Pain 
Dyspnoea 
Taste Perversion 
Dry Mouth 
Mental Slowing 
Agitation 
Cerebrospinal Fluid Abnormal 
Abnormal Vision 
Myalgia 
Chills 
Nausea And Vomiting 
Pump Complication 
Vertigo 
Diplopia 
Hypotension 
Pump Site Oedema 
Reflexes Decreased 
9.0 
8.9 
8.9 
8.9 
8.7 
8.6 
8.6 
8.5 
8.4 
8.3 
7.5 
7.4 
7.3 
6.9 
6.7 
6.1 
5.8 
5.8 
5.4 
5.2 
5.2 
5.0 
0 
2.0 
0 
3.3 
0 
1.3 
2.6 
0 
1.3 
0.7 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
2.0 
2.0 
0 
0.7 
0 
7.3 
0 
1.3 
Studies include: 94-004, 95-001, 95-002, 96-002, 96-003, 96-010, 97-013, 97-015, 98-022 
A comparison of the AE profiles for ziconotide (all dosing regimens), ziconotide (0.1-2.4 µg/hr 
regimen) and all placebo patients for the initial titration period is shown in the following table which 
suggests that there may be a reduced number of adverse events with the lower doses. 
Incidence of Adverse Events in Ziconotide and Placebo-Treated Patients 
During the Initial Titration Period - Controlled Studies. 
Ziconotide Patients Final 
Dosing Regimen  
(0.1-2.4 µg/hr)  
Ziconotide Patients All 
Dosing Regimens  
(0.1-21 µg/hr) 
All Placebo 
Patients  
Adverse events 
All Aes 
Severe Aes 
Serious Aes 
(n=242) 
% patients 
95.5 
23.6 
20.2 
(n=170) 
% patients 
94.1 
19.4 
15.9 
(n=126) 
% patients 
72.2 
9.5 
4.8 
The commonest individual AEs in the ziconotide-treated population that were statistically significantly 
more frequent than in the placebo group are presented in the following table. 
Incidence Individual Adverse Events Occurring in ≥ 10% of Ziconotide-Treated Patients 
 Statistically Significantly More Frequent Than in Placebo-Treated Patients 
 During The Initial Titration Period - Controlled Studies 
27/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ziconotide Patients 
All Dosing 
Regimens 
(0.1–21 µg/hr) 
(n=242) 
% Patients 
Final Dosing 
Regimen 
(0.1–2.4 µg/hr) 
(n=170) 
All Placebo 
Patients 
(n=126) 
% Patients 
% Patients 
52.5 
43.0 
41.7 
22.7 
16.1 
15.7 
15.3 
15.3 
14.5 
13.2 
11.2 
50.6 
42.4 
41.2 
22.4 
13.5 
12.9 
13.5 
13.5 
11.8 
9.4 
12.4 
13.5 
19.0 
11.9 
2.4 
1.6 
5.6 
5.6 
5.6 
5.6 
4.0 
3.2 
p-valuea 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0042 
0.0063 
0.0063 
0.0097 
0.0055 
0.0092 
Adverse Events 
Dizziness 
Nausea  
Nystagmus 
Abnormal gait 
Urinary retention 
Somnolence 
Postural hypotension 
Vomiting 
Confusion 
Fever 
Pain 
  a  comparison between ziconotide (all dosing regimens) and all placebo patients is presented. 
Regarding study 301, the incidence of adverse events is summarised in the following table. 
Summary of treatment-emergent adverse events and serious adverse events (Study 301) 
Ziconotide  
(N=112) 
Adverse events 
Any AE 
Nervous system AE 
104 (92.9%) 
91 (81.3%) 
Serious adverse events 
Any SAE 
Nervous system SAE 
13 (11.6%) 
5 (4.5%) 
Drug-related serious adverse events 
Any drug-related SAE 
Nervous system drug-related SAE 
2 (1.8%) 
2 (1.8%) 
Placebo  
(N=108) 
89 (82.4%) 
55 (50.9%) 
10 (9.3%) 
2 (1.9%) 
2 (1.9%) 
1 (0.9%) 
dizziness : 47.3% versus 13.0% 
nystagmus : 8.0% versus 0.0% 
abnormal gait : 15.2% versus 1.9% 
confusion : 17.9% versus 4.6% 
ataxia : 16.1% versus 1.9% 
hallucinations : 7.1% versus 0.0% 
The following adverse events are more frequently reported in patients treated with ziconotide than in 
patients treated with placebo:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  memory impairment : 11.6% versus 0.9% 
- 
Most of these adverse events occurred for the first time during the first treatment week. 
vertigo : 7.1 % versus 0.0% 
Adverse events considered to be severe were reported for 42.0% of patients in the ziconotide group 
and 26.9% of patients in the placebo group. In the ziconotide group, severe adverse events were 
28/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dizziness (10.7% of patients), diarrhoea (5.4%), nausea (10.7%), abnormal gait (3.6%) and confusion 
(2.7%). In the placebo group, no serious case of dizziness or abnormal gait occurred, and one case of 
confusion was reported. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
SAE and deaths 
In  the  initial  safety  database,  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  38.1%  of  all  patients  although 
many of these were associated with the comorbid disease. Serious adverse events considered related to 
treatment occurred in 14% of all patients, with confusion (3.5%) and dizziness (1.1%) the commonest 
individual related events. Among IT ziconotide-treated patients there have been 76 deaths. The great 
majority of these patients had cancer and death was clearly attributed do the underlying disease. In 3 
cases (all patients with malignant pain), investigators could not exclude a contribution of ziconotide to 
the events leading to death. For two of these patients aspiration pneumonia was the cause of death and 
the  investigators  could  not  rule  out  an  effect  of  ziconotide  (oropharyngeal  dyskinesia  and  altered 
mental  status  with  delirium,  respectively)  as  a  contributory/causative  factor.  The  third  patient 
committed suicide a day after completing Study 95-001.  Five further patients have committed suicide, 
during  or  within  a  month  of  discontinuing  ziconotide  therapy.  The  rate  of  suicide  in  the  ziconotide 
trials  is  lower  than  that  reported  in  a  cohort  of  chronic  pain  patients  treated  with  IT  opiates  and/or 
bupivacaine (3.3%).  
In  study  301, serious adverse events were reported in  11.6% of  the  patients in the ziconotide group 
and in 9.3 % in the placebo group. Serious nervous system adverse events were not common and their 
incidence was similar in the ziconotide and placebo groups. There was one death reported in a patient 
randomised to placebo. 
Other significant AEs 
CNS events 
Dizziness  occurred  in  53.3%  of  patients  in  the  combined  IT  group  (versus  13.3%  in  the  placebo 
group), but caused serious adverse events in only 1.2% of patients in this group and was the reason for 
discontinuation in 6.7% of patients. Nystagmus (30.1% of patients versus 11.3% in the placebo group) 
as well as speech and gait disorders also occurred more frequently in the ziconotide population. 
Confusion is a particular cause for concern. It occurred in 33.8% of patients in the combined IT group 
(versus 6.6% in  the  placebo group) and caused serious AE’s in  4.1% of  patients. Confusion was the 
reason for discontinuation in 11.7% patients. Mean duration of confusion was 15.3 days with a range 
of  1  to  292  days.  Also  notable  were  memory  impairment  (8.3%  in  the  IT  group),  hallucination 
(11.9%),  mental  slowing  (33.8%),  and  somnolence  (27.4%).  Confusion  is  certainly  the  “most 
undesirable” AE for patients suffering from severe chronic pain, because they can loose the control of 
their pain and because the need for hospitalisation is mandatory. This issue was part of the Applicant’s 
decision to recommend a dose interval of 48 h in order to minimise all adverse events. 
The  cognitive  AE’s  (median  time  to  onset  22–31  days)  raised  the  fear  that  some  persistent  or  even 
irreversible injury to the CNS may have occurred. However, pre-clinical data did not support such a 
toxic phenomenon. 
In  the  combined  IT  group  the  neurological  AE’s  of  particular  interest  occurred  at  a  median  dose  at 
onset ranging from 0.2 – 0.3 µg/hr. 
Meningitis:  In  the  initial  total  safety  population,  42  events  of  meningitis  occurred  (ziconotide  40, 
placebo 2). Compared with placebo, the ziconotide group had a much larger number of patients (1048 
versus 151) and a substantially higher mean number of days on treatment (177.4 versus 6.6 days). The 
number of events per patient-year was lower in the ziconotide group than in the placebo group (0.0839 
versus 0.8 events per patient-year). In the literature, the rates for meningitis following IT administered 
morphine  either  alone  or  in combination with other analgesics  by externalised catheter were similar: 
4/90 patients (4%) in Nitescu et al., (Clin  J Pain, 1998) and between 0/15 patients and 3/33 patients 
29/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(9%) in a review of studies (Du Pen, Techniques in regional anaesthesia and pain management, 1998). 
Thirty eight events involved an external pump system and 4 events involved an internal system. The 
risk of meningitis is thought to be greater with external infusion systems (Dahm, Clin J Pain, 1998). 
This is reflected in the recommendation in the SPC to use internal pump systems rather than external 
pumps over prolonged periods.  
Urinary impairment/retention occurred in 10.8% of patients in the Combined IT group (versus 1.36% 
in the placebo  group), caused serious adverse events in  2.9% of patients in the controlled group and 
1.2%  of  patients  in  the  combined  IT  group.  Mean  duration  was  15.3  days  with  a  range  of  1  to  292 
days. 
Greater incidence of pain reported as an adverse event (“pain exacerbation”) in the ziconotide group 
compared  with  placebo  in  Studies  95-001  and  96-002.  In  Study  301,  the  incidence  of  pain  as  an 
adverse  event  during  the  3-week  placebo-controlled  phase  was  not  significantly  different  in  the 
ziconotide group. It is unlikely that ziconotide directly induces pain. However, the development of a 
paradoxical hyperalgesia is not excluded and should be further evaluated. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Drug-related elevations in creatine kinase (CK) have been observed amongst patients on IT ziconotide. 
Isoenzyme analysis revealed the origin to be almost entirely skeletal muscle (MM fraction). Elevations 
are typically modest and CK elevations were asymptomatic.  
Three cases of rhabdomyolysis in conjunction with acute renal injury were reported in patients 
receiving IT ziconotide but in all 3 cases other significant medical factors were present which may 
have been implicated in the muscle injury. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
No specific studies were performed in special populations. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Formal interaction studies between ziconotide and other analgesic drugs have not been performed. For 
morphine,  this  may  be  acceptable  as  most  patients  used  systemic  morphine  concomitantly  in  the 
clinical studies and clinical IT morphine and ziconotide studies are ongoing.  
An  increased  incidence  of  somnolence  has  been  observed  when  ziconotide  is  administered 
concomitantly  with  systemic  baclofen,  clonidine,  bupivacaine  or  propofol.  Nevertheless,  there  is  no 
indication that the incidence of more serious CNS adverse effects such as stupor and coma is increased 
by with these products. The increased incidence of somnolence will be stated in the SPC. 
There  was  no  increased  incidence  of  confusion  and  other  CNS  AE  in  ziconotide  patients  taking 
anticonvulsants.  The  risk  of  additive  CNS  adverse  effects  when  CNS-active  products  are  co-
administered with IT ziconotide cannot be excluded and will be further assessed post-marketing. 
The potential interaction between ziconotide and diuretics was assessed as diuretics have been reported 
to reduce CSF turnover. No consistent evidence was observed to suggest an increase in the incidence 
of adverse events amongst patients receiving diuretics in conjunction with ziconotide. 
Ziconotide is contraindicated in combination with IT chemotherapy because multiple instrumentation 
of the subarachnoid space to administer IT ziconotide and IT chemotherapy increases the potential risk 
of  infectious  complications  and  co-administration  of  chemotherapy  with  an  indwelling  intrathecal 
catheter is likely to alter the dynamics of CSF flow, so rendering the spread and response to ziconotide 
unpredictable. 
30/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  following  table  depicts  the  adverse  events  most  commonly  resulting  in  temporary  or  permanent 
discontinuation  of  ziconotide.  As  expected,  neurological  adverse  events  are  predominant  and 
complications commonly associated with IT infusion systems are also noted. 
Incidence of adverse effects (%) leading to temporary or permanent drug discontinuation in ≥ 2% 
ziconotide-treated patients – Combined IT studies 
Adverse events 
Any adverse event 
Confusion 
Dizziness 
Nausea 
Abnormal gait 
Headache 
Memory impairment 
Catheter complication 
Somnolence 
Hallucinations 
Nystagmus  
Mental slowing 
Pain 
Fever 
Cerebrospinal fluid abnormal 
Vomiting 
Ziconotide patients (n=1048) 
All placebo patients (n=151) 
% PATIENTS EXPERIENCING 
EVENT 
% PATIENTS EXPERIENCING 
EVENT 
50.6 
11.7 
6.7 
5.3 
3.5 
3.3 
3.3 
3.1 
2.9 
2.9 
2.9 
2.8 
2.6 
2.3 
2.1 
2.0 
6.6 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
0.7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1.3 
0.7 
0 
0 
The median time to recovery for adverse events usually ranged from 3-15 days.  
In study 301, the most commonly reported primary adverse event leading to study drug 
discontinuation was dizziness (2/112). Nausea, agitation and tremor led to withdrawal for one patient 
each. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
Not applicable. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Adverse events (AE’s), particularly affecting the nervous system, were much more common in 
ziconotide-treated than placebo-treated patients during the initial titration period in studies using the 
higher doses. Some non-nervous system AE’s that were more common in ziconotide-treated patients, 
such as nausea and urinary retention, are probably also neurologically mediated.  Although most AE’s 
to ziconotide were mild to moderate, ziconotide administration seemed to be associated with a range of 
AE’s that were frequent, severe, persistent and often leading to patient withdrawal or discontinuation. 
Ziconotide-related AE’s were one of the main reasons for temporary or permanent patient withdrawal 
from studies (50.6% of patients). Serious AE’s occurred in 38.1% of patients versus 11.9% for 
placebo. Some of the adverse events such as confusion, memory impairment, somnolence, dizziness 
were not only severe, but in some cases also persistent. 
Dizziness, nystagmus and gait abnormalities are considered to reflect vestibular effects as N-type 
channels are abundant in the granule cell layers of the cerebellum, the site of vestibular afferent input, 
and also influence pathways between brainstem vestibular nuclei and the cerebellum. Ataxia and 
abnormal gait may be associated with blockade in the spinocerebellar tracts and/or basal ganglia, and 
nausea, vomiting, urinary impairment/retention (10.8% of patients versus 1.4% in the placebo group), 
amblyopia and hypotension may be associated with blockage in central autonomic pathways. 
31/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The more recent study (301) confirmed that ziconotide administered at a lower dose or with slower 
titration provided a better safety profile. In that study, the mean initial dose level was 0.1 µg/h and the 
mean dose level at termination was 0.26 µg/h. The mean duration of days on study drug was 29.4 days 
for the 112 patients who received ziconotide. The withdrawal rate in study 301 was low. The adverse 
events that were more frequent on ziconotide than on placebo included abnormal gait, ataxia, 
confusion, dizziness, hallucinations, memory impairment, nystagmus and vertigo. Most of these 
adverse events occurred for the first time during the first treatment week. This study showed that with 
a better control of posology, the frequency of confusion decreases dramatically. For confusion, the 
median dose of onset and the median cumulative dose at onset are higher than for the other 
neurological adverse events.  
Non-neurological AE’s were less of concern. The changes in CPK are unexplained and of unknown 
consequence. It should be stressed that ziconotide induces no respiratory depression and few vomiting, 
which are important advantages over morphine derivatives. The absence of cardiac toxicity and of 
endocrine long-term effects, which would be another advantage of ziconotide over opioids, remains to 
be confirmed in longer term studies. 
1.5  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. At the time 
of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve 
these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The mechanism of the analgesic action of ziconotide has been well characterised. Ziconotide is a 
blocker of the N-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel; it inhibits the voltage-sensitive calcium 
current into primary nociceptive afferents terminating in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the 
spinal cord. In turn this inhibits the release of neurotransmitters (including Substance P) and hence the 
spinal signalling of pain. Efficacy has been shown in appropriate animal pain model. 
Toxicology studies showed that there were no signs of target organ toxicity and the changes seen can 
be attributed to the pharmacological effects of the compound. Ziconotide was negative in a battery of 
genotoxicity assays. 
The lack of carcinogenicity study and the limited data on chronic toxicity are acceptable in view of the 
difficulties in conducting IT studies with long duration, the lack of evidence of a potential for target 
organ  toxicity  at  very  high  multiples  of  the  human  dose  and  the lack of toxic effects on the CNS at 
high multiples of the CSF concentration of ziconotide in humans. 
Ziconotide is not teratogenic in rats or rabbits. Embryolethality observed in reproductive and 
developmental studies is directly attributable to parental toxicity. 
32/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Prialt is for intrathecal use only and must be administered as a continuous infusion. Low plasma 
exposure occurs during IT infusion due to the low recommended IT infusion rates and relatively rapid 
plasma clearance. 
In three placebo-controlled studies in patients with severe and chronic pain requiring intrathecal 
analgesia, IT ziconotide produced a clinically significant efficacy, as measured by improvements in 
Visual Analog Scale of Pain Intensity (VASPI) scores and supported by the secondary endpoints. The 
requirement for IT analgesic therapy relies on a clinical decision after all other available resources 
have been exhausted. The available data shows efficacy in patients with severe and chronic malignant 
and non-malignant pain, both in the short-term studies 95-001 and 96-002 and in the middle-term study 
301, although the effect size appeared samller in this latter study which included patients refractory to 
other IT therapies. The indication “Ziconotide is indicated for the treatment of severe, chronic pain in 
patients who require intrathecal analgesia” reflects the representative ziconotide study population. 
However, the definitions of neuropathic pain used in the three placebo-controlled studies may not be 
accurate enough to ensure distinction between pain mechanisms. Therefore, in order to gain a better 
insight into this issue, a specifically designed post-marketing study is suggested. 
Ziconotide should be titrated on an individual patient basis according to the patient’s analgesic 
response and adverse reactions. The median dose at response is approximately 6.0 µg/day and 
approximately 75% of responsive patients require ≤ 9.6 µg/day. 
Long-term efficacy data (beyond 3 weeks) are limited especially in patients with malignant pain and 
should be expanded post-marketing. 
Data on IT combination studies with morphine and baclofen will be provided post-marketing 
Safety 
All results suggest that ziconotide has a narrow therapeutic window.  
Dizziness, nystagmus, gait abnormalities, ataxia, nausea, vomiting, urinary impairment/retention, 
amblyopia and hypotension were common and may be associated with the pharmacological 
mechanism of the product. 
Adverse reactions, particularly affecting the nervous system were more common in ziconotide-treated 
during the initial titration period in studies using the higher doses. 
Dose increments should be of ≤2.4 µg/day and the recommended interval between dose increases is 48 
hours or more, for safety reasons. To limit the occurrence of serious adverse drug reactions, a 
maximum dose of 21.6 µg/day is recommended. 
The most commonly reported adverse drug reaction reported in long-term clinical trials were dizziness 
(45%), nausea (35%), nystagmus (27%), confusional state (25%), gait abnormal (18%), memory 
impairment (13%), vision blurred (14%) headache (13%),  asthenia (13%), and vomiting (13%). Most 
ADRs were mild to moderate in severity and resolved over time. 
Cognitive and neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, particularly confusion, are common in patients 
treated with ziconotide.  Cognitive impairment typically appears after several weeks of treatment.  The 
ziconotide dose should be reduced or discontinued if signs or symptoms of cognitive impairment or 
neuropsychiatric adverse reactions develop, but other contributing causes should also be considered. 
The administration of medicinal products by the intrathecal (IT) route carries the risk of meningitis. 
33/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential interaction with other product, in particular CNS products will be futher investigated post-
marketing. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The benefit/risk ratio of Prialt in the treatment of severe, chronic pain in patients who require 
intrathecal (IT) analgesia is considered positive based on the following elements: 
- 
IT  ziconotide  is  a  novel  and  interesting  alternative  to  IT  morphine  for  patients  who  need 
intrathecal therapy.  
-  Although  no  carcinogenic  study  has  been  performed  and  elements  of  some  of  the  long-term 
toxicological studies were not GLP compliant, a well-designed, GLP-compliant, 1-month toxico-
kinetic  study  with  IT  administrations  of  ziconotide  in  Beagle  dogs  showed  no  sign  of  histo-
pathological lesions. 
In three placebo-controlled studies involving patients with severe, chronic pain of malignant and 
non-malignant  (including  neuropathic  pain)  origin,  ziconotide  produced  a  clinically  significant 
efficacy, as measured by improvements in VASPI scores.  
- 
-  The  requirement  for  intrathecal  analgesic  therapy,  whether  in  cancer  or  non-cancer  pain,  is  a 
clinically valid parameter to define the target population. 
-  Follow-up long-term studies and ongoing studies have allowed to delineate the optimal dosage and 
dose  increment  strategy  for  the  safe  and  efficient  use  of  ziconotide.  Because  of  the  narrow 
therapeutic  index,  it  is  prudent  to  start  with a relatively low dose  (2.4 µg/day), to limit the dose 
increments to 2.4 µg/day, and to uptitrate after a minimum of 24, but preferably 48 hours or more. 
-  The safety profile and safety database of IT ziconotide are acceptable. Neurological adverse events 
were  frequent  and  often  led  to  treatment  discontinuation  in  the  earlier  studies,  but  when  lower 
doses and safer uptitration procedures were used, the adverse events were acceptable and included 
mostly dizziness and nausea, then diarrhea, abnormal gait, and confusion. 
-  As  ziconotide  does  not  induce  respiratory  depression,  it  could  be  used  first  line  in  patients 
presenting a risk for acute respiratory depression. 
-  Ziconotide  could  potentially  be  used  in  association  with  other  IT  drugs,  such  as  morphine, 
clonidine, fentanyl, baclofen, and bupivacaine, which are often needed in patients with intractable 
pain.  However,  the  benefits,  and  especially  the  risks  of  potential  associations  (respiratory 
depression,  sedation,  other  CNS  adverse  events)  are  still  unclear  and  require  planned  follow-up 
studies, two of which (morphine and baclofen) are ongoing or planned. 
-  The long-term maintenance of efficacy is not currently proven, especially in patients with pain of 
malignant origin, although preliminary data are available. 
Treatment with ziconotide should only be undertaken by physicians experienced in intrathecal (IT) 
administration of medicinal products (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 4.2.). In line 
with the SOP on “Legal status on the supply to the patients of centrally approved medicinal products”, 
it should be emphasised that any kind of restriction envisaged by the CHMP will be translated into the 
legal status in Annex II of the CHMP Opinion by the introduction of the word "restricted". In such 
case a cross-reference will be made to the section 4.2 of the SPC where the restriction will be reflected.  
This would guide national authorities when using any subcategory at national level. 
Nevertheless, the CHMP considers that the marketing authorisation should be granted under 
exceptional circumstances since the indication for which ziconotide is intended are encountered so 
rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to provide comprehensive evidence/data on the 
safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. In particular, the Applicant should perform a Post-
Marketing Observational study designed to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of ziconotide 
given for malignant and non-malignant severe, chronic pain. 
34/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Prialt in the treatment of severe, chronic pain in patients who 
require  intrathecal  (IT)  analgesia  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
35/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
