EMA/80652/2014 
EMEA/H/C/00551 
EPAR summary for the public 
Prialt 
ziconotide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Prialt. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Prialt. 
What is Prialt? 
Prialt is a solution for infusion that contains the active substance ziconotide. 
What is Prialt used for? 
Prialt is used to treat severe, long-term pain in adults who need a painkiller by intrathecal injection 
(injection into the space that surrounds the spinal cord and the brain). 
Because the number of patients who have long-term pain that requires painkillers to be injected 
directly into the spine is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Prialt was designated an ‘orphan 
medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 9 July 2001. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Prialt used? 
Treatment with Prialt should only be carried out by a doctor who has experience in the intrathecal 
dosing of medicines. 
Prialt must be given as a very slow continuous infusion through an intrathecal catheter (a tube inserted 
into the spinal canal) using an infusion pump capable of delivering an accurate amount of the 
medicine. Prialt may need to be diluted before use, especially with the lower doses needed at the start 
of treatment. The starting dose of Prialt is 2.4 micrograms per day. The dose should be gradually 
increased, preferably every two days or more, to obtain the best balance between pain relief and 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
possible side effects. The dose must not be increased more than once in any 24 hour period. Most 
patients need doses lower than 9.6 micrograms per day. The maximum dose is 21.6 micrograms per 
day. 
How does Prialt work? 
The active substance in Prialt, ziconotide, is a copy of a natural substance called omega-conopeptide, 
which is found in the venom of a type of sea snail. Ziconotide acts by blocking special pores called 
calcium channels on the surface of the nerve cells that transmit the pain signals. By blocking the flow 
of calcium into the nerve cells, ziconotide interferes with the transmission of pain signals within the 
spine. This helps to bring relief from pain. 
How has Prialt been studied? 
Prialt has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 589 patients with severe long-term 
pain in three main studies. Two of the studies were short-term, lasting five or six days: one in pain due 
to cancer or AIDS, and one in pain due to other causes such as nerve damage. The third study looked 
at the use of the medicine over three weeks. In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness 
was the change in the Visual Analog Scale of Pain Intensity (VASPI). This is a score given by the 
patients of their pain on a scale from 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (maximum pain). 
What benefit has Prialt shown during the studies? 
Prialt was more effective than placebo in the first two studies. Before treatment, patients with cancer 
or AIDS pain had an average VASPI score of 74 mm, and those with other types of pain had a score of 
80 mm. After treatment, the scores in patients receiving Prialt decreased to 35 and 54 mm, 
respectively, while scores in patients receiving placebo were 61 and 72 mm. 
In the third study, there was a trend for Prialt to be more effective than placebo, with the VASPI score 
changing from 81 mm before treatment to 68 mm in patients receiving Prialt and to 74 mm in patients 
receiving placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Prialt? 
The most common side effects with Prialt (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are confusion, dizziness, 
nystagmus (uncontrolled eye movement), impaired memory (forgetfulness), headache, somnolence 
(sleepiness), blurred vision, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, abnormal gait (difficulty walking) and 
asthenia (weakness).  
Prialt must not be used in patients at the same time as intrathecal chemotherapy (medicines to treat 
cancer that are injected into the spinal canal). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with 
Prialt, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Prialt been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Prialt provides an 
alternative to other intrathecal painkillers, such as opioids. It decided that Prialt’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Prialt was originally authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’, because, as the disease is rare, 
limited information was available at the time of approval. As the company had supplied the additional 
information requested, the ‘exceptional circumstances’ ended on 17 January 2014. 
Prialt  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What information is still awaited for Prialt? 
The company that makes Prialt is carrying out a study looking at the long-term use of the medicine, 
looking in particular at the possibility of development of tolerance to treatment (when doses of a 
medicine that used to be effective become less effective over time). 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Prialt? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Prialt is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Prialt, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Prialt 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Prialt on 21 February 2005.. 
The full EPAR for Prialt can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Prialt, read 
the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Prialt can be found on 
the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2014. 
Prialt  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
