EMA/562195/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000210 
EPAR summary for the public 
Pritor 
telmisartan 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Pritor. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Pritor. 
What is Pritor? 
Pritor is a medicine that contains the active substance telmisartan. It is available as tablets (20, 40 and 
80 mg). 
What is Pritor used for? 
Pritor is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. ‘Essential’ means that the 
hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Pritor is also used to prevent cardiovascular problems (problems with the heart and blood vessels) 
such as heart attacks or strokes. It is used in patients who have had problems due to blood clots in the 
past (such as heart disease, a stroke or artery disease) or who have type 2 diabetes that has damaged 
an organ (such as the eyes, heart or kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Pritor used? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, the usual recommended dose of Pritor is 40 mg once a 
day, but some patients may benefit from using 20 mg once a day. If the target blood pressure is not 
reached, the dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for hypertension can be added, 
such as hydrochlorothiazide. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, the recommended dose is 80 mg once a day. The 
doctor should monitor the patient’s blood pressure closely when starting Pritor, and may decide to 
adjust the patient’s blood pressure-lowering medication. Patients with severely reduced kidney function 
should receive a lower starting dose of 20 mg once a day. Patients with mild or moderately reduced 
liver function should not receive doses higher than 40 mg a day. 
How does Pritor work? 
The active substance in Pritor, telmisartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that 
it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful 
vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which 
angiotensin II normally attaches, telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood 
pressure to drop, reducing the risks associated with high blood pressure, such as having a heart attack 
or stroke. It also allows the heart to pump blood more easily, which can help to reduce the risk of 
future cardiovascular problems. 
How has Pritor been studied? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, Pritor has been studied in 2,647 patients who took Pritor 
either alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Various doses of Pritor were compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) and with other medicines for hypertension (atenolol, lisinopril, enalapril 
and amlodipine). The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in diastolic blood pressure (the 
blood pressure measured between two heartbeats). 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, 80 mg Pritor once a day has been studied in one main 
study involving almost 26,000 patients aged 55 years or over who had heart or artery disease, had 
had a stroke, or had diabetes and were at high risk of cardiovascular problems. Pritor was compared 
with ramipril (another medicine to prevent cardiovascular problems), and with the combination of both 
medicines. The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in the number of patients who died or 
were admitted to hospital, or who had a heart attack or stroke. The patients were followed up for an 
average of four and a half years. 
What benefit has Pritor shown during the studies? 
In the treatment of essential hypertension, Pritor was more effective than placebo at reducing diastolic 
blood pressure and had similar effects to the other medicines for hypertension. 
In the prevention of cardiovascular problems, Pritor had a similar effect to ramipril, with around 17% 
of patients dying, being admitted to hospital because of cardiovascular problems, or having a heart 
attack or stroke. The combination of the two medicines was no more effective than either medicine 
taken alone and was linked to an increased risk of side effects. 
What is the risk associated with Pritor? 
Side effects with Pritor are not common. However, the following side effects are seen in between 1 and 
10 patients in 1,000: upper respiratory tract infection (colds) including inflammation of the throat and 
sinuses, urinary tract infection (infection of the structures that carry urine) including bladder infection, 
anaemia (low red blood cell counts), hyperkalaemia (high blood potassium levels), depression, 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping), syncope (fainting), vertigo (a spinning sensation), bradycardia (slow 
heart rate), hypotension (low blood pressure), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), cough, abdominal pain 
(stomach ache), diarrhoea, dyspepsia (heartburn), flatulence (gas), vomiting, hyperhidrosis (excessive 
sweating), pruritus (itching), rash, myalgia (muscle pain), back pain, muscle spasms, renal impairment 
(reduced kidney function) including sudden kidney failure, chest pain, asthenia (weakness) and 
increased blood levels of creatinine (a marker of muscle breakdown). Hypotension may be more 
common in patients receiving Pritor to prevent cardiovascular problems. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Pritor, see the package leaflet. 
Pritor must not be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the first 
three months of pregnancy is not recommended. Pritor must not be used in people who have severe 
liver problems or bile problems. In patients with type 2 diabetes or in patients with moderate or severe 
kidney impairment, Pritor must also not be used in combination with aliskiren-containing medicines 
(also used to treat essential hypertension). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Pritor been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Pritor’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of Pritor? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Pritor is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Pritor, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Pritor 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Pritor on 11 December 1998. 
The full EPAR for Pritor can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Pritor, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
