ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Privigen 100 mg/ml solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg)*
One ml contains:
Human normal immunoglobulin
(purity of at least 98% IgG)
100 mg
Each vial of 25 ml solution contains: 2.5 g human normal immunoglobulin
Each vial of 50 ml solution contains: 5 g human normal immunoglobulin
Each vial of 100 ml solution contains: 10 g human normal immunoglobulin
Each vial of 200 ml solution contains: 20 g human normal immunoglobulin
Each vial of 400 ml solution contains: 40 g human normal immunoglobulin
Distribution of the IgG subclasses (approx. values):
IgG1 .......................69 %
IgG2 .......................26 %
IgG3 ........................ 3 %
IgG4 ........................ 2 %
The maximum IgA content is 25 micrograms/ml.
*Produced from the plasma of human donors.
Excipients with known effects:
Privigen contains approximately 250 mmol/L (range: 210 to 290) of L-proline.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for infusion.
The solution is clear or slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow.
Privigen is isotonic, with an approximate osmolality of 320 mOsmol/kg.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Replacement therapy in adults, and children and adolescents (0-18 years) in:
– Primary immunodeficiency syndromes (PID) with impaired antibody production (see 
section 4.4).
– Secondary immunodeficiencies (SID) in patients who suffer from severe or recurrent infections, 
ineffective antimicrobial treatment and either proven specific antibody failure (PSAF)* or 
serum IgG level of <4 g/l.
* PSAF = failure to mount at least a 2-fold rise in IgG antibody titre to pneumococcal polysaccharide 
and polypeptide antigen vaccines.
2
Immunomodulation in adults, and children and adolescents (0-18 years) in:
– Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), in patients at high risk of bleeding or prior to surgery 
to correct the platelet count.
– Guillain-Barré syndrome.
– Kawasaki disease (in conjunction with acetylsalicylic acid; see section 4.2.).
– Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Only limited experience is 
available of use of intravenous immunoglobulins in children with CIDP.
– Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN)
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Replacement therapy should be commenced and monitored under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the treatment of immunodeficiency.
Posology
The dose and dose regimen is dependent on the indication.
In replacement therapy the dose may need to be individualised for each patient depending on the 
clinical response. Dose based on bodyweight may require adjustment in underweight or overweight 
patients.
The following dose regimens are given as a guideline.
Replacement therapy in primary immunodeficiency (PID) syndromes
The dose regimen should achieve a trough IgG level (measured before the next infusion) of at least 
6 g/l or within the normal reference range for the population age. Three to six months are required 
after the initiation of therapy for equilibration to occur. The recommended starting dose is 0.4 to
0.8 g/kg body weight (bw) given once, followed by at least 0.2 g/kg bw every 3 to 4 weeks.
The dose required to achieve a trough level of IgG of 6 g/l is of the order of 0.2 to 0.8 g/kg bw/month. 
The dosage interval when steady state has been reached varies from 3 to 4 weeks.
IgG trough levels should be measured and assessed in conjunction with the incidence of infection. To 
reduce the rate of bacterial infections, it may be necessary to increase the dosage and aim for higher 
trough levels.
Secondary immunodeficiencies (as defined in 4.1)
The dose regimen should achieve a trough IgG level (measured before the next infusion) of at least
6 g/l or within the normal reference range for the population age. The recommended dose is 
0.2 – 0.4 g/kg bw every three to four weeks.
IgG trough levels should be measured and assessed in conjunction with the incidence of infection. 
Dose should be adjusted as necessary to achieve optimal protection against infections, an increase may 
be necessary in patients with persisting infection; a dose decrease can be considered when the patient 
remains infection free.
Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
There are two alternative treatment schedules:


The treatment can be repeated if relapse occurs.
0.8 to 1g/kg bw given on day 1; this dose may be repeated once within 3 days
0.4 g/kg bw given daily for 2 to 5 days.
Guillain-Barré syndrome
0.4 g/kg bw/day over 5 days (possible repeat of dosing in case of relapse).
Kawasaki disease
2.0 g/kg bw should be administered as a single dose. Patients should receive concomitant treatment 
with acetylsalicylic acid.
3
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP)*
The recommended starting dose is 2 g/kg bw divided over 2 to 5 consecutive days followed by 
maintenance doses of 1 g/kg bw over 1 to 2 consecutive days every 3 weeks.
The treatment effect should be evaluated after each cycle; if no treatment effect is seen after 6 months, 
the treatment should be discontinued.
If the treatment is effective long term treatment should be subject to the physicians discretion based 
upon the patient response and maintenance response. The dosing and intervals may have to be adapted 
according to the individual course of the disease.
Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)
Starting dose: 2 g/kg given over 2-5 consecutive days.
Maintenance dose: 1 g/kg every 2 to 4 weeks or 2 g/kg every 4 to 8 weeks.
The treatment effect should be evaluated after each cycle. If insufficient treatment effect is seen after 
6 months, the treatment should be discontinued.
If the treatment is effective, long term treatment should be subject to the physician’s discretion based 
upon the patient response. The dosing and intervals may have to be adapted according to the 
individual course of the disease.
The dosage recommendations are summarised in the following table:
4
Indication
Replacement therapy
Dose
Frequency of injections
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
(PID)
starting dose:
0.4 - 0.8 g/kg bw
maintenance dose:
0.2 - 0.8 g/kg bw
every 3 to 4 weeks to obtain IgG 
trough levels of at least 6 g/l
Secondary immunodeficiencies (as 
defined in 4.1)
0.2 - 0.4 g/kg bw every 3 to 4 weeks to obtain IgG 
trough levels of at least 6 g/l
Immunomodulation
Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
0.8 - 1 g/kg bw
or
on day 1, possibly repeated once 
within 3 days
0.4 g/kg bw/d
for 2 to 5 days
Guillain-Barré syndrome
0.4 g/kg bw/d
for 5 days
Kawasaki disease
2 g/kg bw
in one dose in association with 
acetylsalicylic acid
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating 
polyneuropathy (CIDP)*
starting dose:
2 g/kg bw
in divided doses over 2 to 5 days
Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)
every 3 weeks over 1 to 2 days
over 2 to 5 consecutive days
maintenance dose: 
1 g/kg bw
starting dose : 
2 g/kg bw
maintenance dose:
1 g/kg bw
every 2 to 4 weeks
or
or
2 g/kg bw
every 4 to 8 weeks over 2 to 5 days
*The dose is based on the dose used in the clinical studies conducted with Privigen. The duration of 
treatment beyond 25 weeks should be subject to the physician’s discretion based upon the patient 
response and maintenance response in the long-term. The dosing and intervals may have to be adapted 
according to the individual course of the disease.
Paediatric population
The posology in children and adolescents (0-18 years) is not different from that of adults as the 
posology for each indication is given by body weight and adjusted to the clinical outcome of the above 
mentioned conditions.
Hepatic impairment
No evidence is available to require a dose adjustment.
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment unless clinically warranted, see section 4.4.
Elderly
No dose adjustment unless clinically warranted, see section 4.4.
Method of administration
5
For intravenous use.
Privigen should be infused intravenously at an initial infusion rate of 0.3 ml/kg bw/hr for
approximately 30 min. If well tolerated (see section 4.4), the rate of administration may gradually be 
increased to 4.8 ml/kg bw/hr.
In PID patients who have tolerated the infusion rate of 4.8 ml/kg bw/hr well, the rate may be further 
gradually increased to a maximum of 7.2 ml/kg bw/hr.
If dilution prior to infusion is desired, Privigen may be diluted with 5% glucose solution to a final 
concentration of 50 mg/ml (5%). For instruction, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance (human immunoglobulins) or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1 (see also section 4.4).
Patients with selective IgA deficiency who developed antibodies to IgA as administering an IgA-
containing product can result in anaphylaxis.
Patients with hyperprolinaemia type I or II.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.
Certain severe adverse reactions may be related to the rate of infusion. The recommended infusion rate 
given under section 4.2 must be closely followed. Patients must be closely monitored and carefully 
observed for any symptoms throughout the infusion period.
Certain adverse reactions may occur more frequently:
–
–
in case of high rate of infusion,
in patients with hypogammaglobulinaemia or agammaglobulinaemia, with or without IgA 
deficiency,
in patients who receive human normal immunoglobulin for the first time or, in rare cases, when 
the human normal immunoglobulin product is switched or when there has been a long interval 
since the previous infusion.
–
–
Potential complications can often be avoided by ensuring that patients:
–
are not sensitive to human normal immunoglobulin by initially infusing the product slowly 
(0.3 ml/kg bw/hr);
are carefully monitored for any symptoms throughout the infusion period. In particular, patients 
naive to human normal immunoglobulin, patients switched from an alternative IVIg product or 
when there has been a long interval since the previous infusion should be monitored during the 
first infusion and for the first hour after the first infusion, in order to detect potential adverse 
signs. All other patients should be observed for at least 20 minutes after administration.
In case of adverse reaction, either the rate of administration must be reduced or the infusion stopped. 
The treatment required depends on the nature and severity of the adverse reaction.
In all patients, IVIg administration requires:
–
–
–
–
adequate hydration prior to the initiation of the infusion of IVIg
monitoring of urine output
monitoring of serum creatinine levels
avoidance of concomitant use of loop diuretics (see section 4.5.).
6
For patients suffering from diabetes mellitus and requiring dilution of Privigen to lower 
concentrations, the presence of glucose in the recommended diluent should be taken into account.
Hypersensitivity
True hypersensitivity reactions are rare. They can occur in patients with anti-IgA antibodies.
IVIg is not indicated in patients with selective IgA deficiency where the IgA deficiency is the only 
abnormality of concern.
Rarely, human normal immunoglobulin can induce a fall in blood pressure with anaphylactoid 
reaction, even in patients who had tolerated previous treatment with human normal immunoglobulin.
In case of shock, standard medical treatment for shock should be implemented.
Haemolytic anaemia
IVIg products can contain blood group antibodies which may act as haemolysins and induce in vivo 
coating of red blood cells (RBC) with immunoglobulin, causing a positive direct antiglobulin reaction 
(Coombs’ test) and, rarely, haemolysis. Haemolytic anaemia can develop subsequent to IVIg therapy 
due to enhanced RBC sequestration. The Privigen manufacturing process includes an immunoaffinity 
chromatography (IAC) step that specifically reduces blood group A and B antibodies (isoagglutinins A 
and B). Clinical data with Privigen manufactured with the IAC step show statistically significant 
reductions of haemolytic anaemia (see section 4.8, section 5).
Isolated cases of haemolysis-related renal dysfunction/renal failure or disseminated intravascular 
coagulation and death have occurred.
The following risk factors are associated with the development of haemolysis: high doses, whether 
given as a single administration or divided over several days; non-O blood group; and underlying 
inflammatory state. As this event was commonly reported in non-O blood group patients receiving 
high doses for non-PID indications, increased vigilance is recommended. Haemolysis has rarely been 
reported in patients given replacement therapy for PID.
IVIg recipients should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of haemolysis. If signs and/or 
symptoms of haemolysis develop during or after an IVIg infusion, discontinuation of the IVIg 
treatment should be considered by the treating physician (see also section 4.8).
Aseptic meningitis syndrome (AMS)
Aseptic meningitis syndrome has been reported to occur in association with IVIg treatment. The 
syndrome usually begins within several hours to 2 days following IVIg treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid 
studies are frequently positive with pleocytosis up to several thousand cells per mm3, predominantly 
from the granulocytic series, and elevated protein levels up to several hundred mg/dl.
AMS may occur more frequently in association with high-dose (2 g/kg bw) IVIg treatment.
Patients exhibiting such signs and symptoms should receive a thorough neurological examination, 
including CSF studies, to rule out other causes of meningitis.
Discontinuation of IVIg treatment has resulted in remission of AMS within several days without 
sequelae.
Thromboembolism
There is clinical evidence of an association between IVIg administration and thromboembolic events 
such as myocardial infarction, cerebral vascular accident (including stroke), pulmonary embolism and 
deep vein thromboses which is assumed to be related to a relative increase in blood viscosity through 
the high influx of immunoglobulin in at-risk patients. Caution should be exercised in prescribing and 
infusing IVIg in obese patients and in patients with pre-existing risk factors for thrombotic events 
7
(such as advanced age, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and a history of vascular disease or thrombotic 
episodes, patients with acquired or inherited thrombophilic disorders, patients with prolonged periods 
of immobilisation, severely hypovolaemic patients, patients with diseases which increase blood 
viscosity).
In patients at risk for thromboembolic adverse reactions, IVIg products should be administered at the 
minimum rate of infusion and dose practicable based on clinical judgement.
Acute renal failure
Cases of acute renal failure have been reported in patients receiving IVIg therapy. In most cases risk 
factors have been identified, such as pre-existing renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, hypovolaemia, 
overweight, concomitant nephrotoxic medicinal products or age over 65.
Renal parameters should be assessed prior to infusion of IVIg, particularly in patients judged to have a 
potential increased risk for developing acute renal failure, and again at appropriate intervals.
In case of renal impairment, IVIg discontinuation should be considered. While these reports of renal 
dysfunction and acute renal failure have been associated with the use of many of the licensed IVIg 
products containing various excipients such as sucrose, glucose and maltose, those containing sucrose 
as a stabiliser accounted for a disproportionate share of the total number. In patients at risk, the use of 
IVIg products that do not contain sucrose should therefore be considered. Privigen does not contain 
sucrose, maltose or glucose.
In patients at risk of acute renal failure, IVIg products should be administered at the minimum rate of 
infusion and dose practicable based on clinical judgement.
Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI)
In patients receiving IVIg, there have been some reports of acute non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema 
[Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI)]. TRALI is characterised by severe hypoxia, 
dyspnoea, tachypnoea, cyanosis, fever and hypotension. Symptoms of TRALI typically develop 
during or within 6 hours of a transfusion, often within 1-2 hours. Therefore, IVIg recipients must be 
monitored for and IVIg infusion must be immediately stopped in case of pulmonary adverse reactions. 
TRALI is a potentially life-threatening condition requiring immediate intensive-care-unit 
management.
Interference with serological testing
After injection of immunoglobulin, the transitory rise of the various passively transferred antibodies in 
the patient's blood may result in misleading positive results in serological testing.
Passive transmission of antibodies to erythrocyte antigens, e.g. A, B, D, may interfere with some
serological tests for red cell antibodies, for example the direct antiglobulin test (DAT, direct Coombs’ 
test).
Transmissible agents
Privigen is made from human plasma. Standard measures to prevent infections resulting from the use 
of medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma include selection of donors, screening of 
individual donations and plasma pools for specific markers of infection and the inclusion of effective 
manufacturing steps for the inactivation/removal of viruses. Despite this, when medicinal products 
prepared from human blood or plasma are administered, the possibility of transmitting infective agents 
cannot be totally excluded. This also applies to unknown or emerging viruses and other pathogens.
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) and for the non-enveloped viruses 
such as hepatitis A virus (HAV) and parvovirus B19.
8
There is reassuring clinical experience regarding the lack of hepatitis A or parvovirus B19 
transmission with immunoglobulins and it is also assumed that the antibody content makes an 
important contribution to the viral safety.
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains less than 2.3 mg sodium per 100 ml, equivalent to 0.12% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
Paediatric population
Although limited data is available, it is expected that the same warnings, precautions and risk factors
apply to the paediatric population. In post marketing reports it is observed that IVIg high-dose 
indications in children, particularly Kawasaki disease, are associated with an increased reporting rate 
of haemolytic reactions compared to other IVIg indications in children.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Live attenuated virus vaccines
Immunoglobulin administration may impair for a period of at least 6 weeks and up to 3 months the 
efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as measles, rubella, mumps, and varicella. After 
administration of this medicinal product, an interval of 3 months should elapse before vaccination with 
live attenuated virus vaccines. In the case of measles, this impairment may persist for up to 1 year. 
Therefore, patients receiving measles vaccine should have their antibody status checked.
Loop diuretics
Avoidance of concomitant use of loop diuretics.
Paediatric population
Although limited data is available, it is expected that the same interactions may occur in the paediatric 
population.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
The safety of this medicinal product for use in human pregnancy has not been established in controlled 
clinical trials and therefore should only be given with caution to pregnant women and breast-feeding 
mothers. IVIg products have been shown to cross the placenta, increasingly during the third trimester.
Clinical experience with immunoglobulins suggests that no harmful effects on the course of 
pregnancy, or on the foetus and the neonate are to be expected.
Experimental studies of the excipient L-proline carried out in animals found no direct or indirect 
toxicity affecting pregnancy, embryonal or foetal development.
Breast-feeding
Immunoglobulins are excreted into the milk and may contribute to protecting the neonate from 
pathogens which have a mucosal portal of entry.
Fertility
Clinical experience with immunoglobulins suggests that no harmful effects on fertility are to be 
expected.
9
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Privigen has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines, e.g. dizziness (see section 4.8).
Patients who experience adverse reactions during treatment should wait for these to resolve before 
driving or operating machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adverse reactions such as chills, headache, dizziness, fever, vomiting, allergic reactions, nausea, 
arthralgia, low blood pressure and moderate low back pain may occur occasionally in connection with 
intravenous administration of human immunoglobulin.
Rarely human normal immunoglobulins may cause a sudden fall in blood pressure and, in isolated 
cases, anaphylactic shock, even when the patient has shown no hypersensitivity to previous 
administration.
Cases of reversible aseptic meningitis and rare cases of transient cutaneous reactions (including 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus – frequency unknown) have been observed with human normal 
immunoglobulin.
Reversible haemolytic reactions have been observed in patients, especially those with blood groups A, 
B, and AB in immunomodulatory treatment. Rarely, haemolytic anaemia requiring transfusion may 
develop after high dose IVIg treatment (see section 4.4).
Increase in serum creatinine level and/or acute renal failure have been observed.
Very rarely: Transfusion related acute lung injury (TRALI) and thromboembolic reactions such as 
myocardial infarction, stroke, pulmonary embolism and deep vein thromboses.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Seven clinical studies were performed with Privigen, which included patients with PID, ITP and 
CIDP. In the pivotal PID study, 80 patients were enrolled and treated with Privigen. Of these, 
72 completed the 12 months of treatment. In the PID extension study, 55 patients were enrolled and 
treated with Privigen. Another clinical study included 11 PID patients in Japan. Two ITP studies were 
performed with 57 patients each. Two CIDP studies were performed with 28 and 207 patients, 
respectively.
Most adverse drug reactions (ADRs) observed in the seven clinical studies were mild to moderate in 
nature.
The following table shows an overview of the ADRs observed in the seven clinical studies categorized 
according the MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), Preferred Term Level (PT) and frequency.
Frequencies were evaluated according to the following conventions: Very common (1/10), Common 
(1/100 to <1/10), Uncommon (1/1,000 to <1/100), Rare (1/10,000 to <1/1,000), Very rare 
(<1/10,000). For spontaneous post-marketing ADRs, the reporting frequency is categorized as 
unknown.
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing frequency.
MedDRA System 
Organ Class (SOC)
Infections and 
infestations
Adverse Reaction
Aseptic meningitis
Frequency per 
patient
Frequency per 
infusion
Uncommon
Rare
10
MedDRA System 
Organ Class (SOC)
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders
Renal and urinary 
disorders
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions
Investigations
Adverse Reaction
Anaemia, haemolysis (including 
haemolytic anaemia) β, leukopenia
Anisocytosis (including microcytosis)
Thrombocytosis
Decreased neutrophil count
Hypersensitivity
Anaphylactic shock
Headache (including sinus headache, 
migraine, head discomfort, tension 
headache)
Dizziness (including vertigo)
Somnolence
Tremor
Palpitations, tachycardia
Hypertension, flushing (including hot 
flush, hyperaemia)
Hypotension
Thromboembolic events, vasculitis 
(including peripheral vascular 
disorder)
Transfusion related acute lung injury
Dyspnoea (including chest pain, chest 
discomfort, painful respiration)
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea
Abdominal pain
Hyperbilirubinaemia
Skin disorder (including rash, 
pruritus, urticaria, maculo-papular 
rash, erythema, skin exfoliation)
Myalgia (including muscle spasms, 
musculoskeletal stiffness, 
musculoskeletal pain)
Proteinuria, increased blood 
creatinine
Acute renal failure
Pain (including back pain, pain in 
extremity, arthralgia, neck pain, facial 
pain) pyrexia (including chills),
influenza like illness (including 
nasopharyngitis, pharyngolaryngeal
pain, oropharyngeal blistering, throat 
tightness)
Fatigue
Asthenia (including muscular 
weakness)
Injection site pain (including infusion 
site discomfort)
Decreased haemoglobin (including 
decreased red blood cell count, 
decreased haematocrit), Coombs`
11
Frequency per 
patient
Frequency per 
infusion
Common
Uncommon
Unknown
Common
Unknown
Uncommon
Uncommon
Rare
Unknown
Uncommon
Unknown
Very common
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Uncommon
Common
Uncommon
Uncommon
Uncommon
Rare
Rare
Uncommon
Rare
Rare
Unknown
Unknown
Common
Uncommon
Common
Common
Uncommon
Common
Rare
Common
Common
Common
Uncommon
Uncommon
Rare
Unknown
Unknown
Very common
Common
Common
Common
Uncommon
Uncommon
Rare
Common
Uncommon
MedDRA System 
Organ Class (SOC)
Adverse Reaction
Frequency per 
patient
Frequency per 
infusion
(direct) test positive, increased alanine 
aminotransferase, increased aspartate 
aminotransferase, increased blood 
lactate dehydrogenase
β The frequency is calculated based on studies completed prior to implementation of the 
Immunoaffinity Chromatography isoagglutinin reduction step (IAC) into Privigen production. In a 
Post-Authorization Safety Study (PASS): “Privigen Use and Haemolytic Anaemia in Adults and 
Children and the Privigen Safety Profile in Children with CIDP – An Observational Hospital-Based 
Cohort Study in the US”, assessing data of 7,759 patients who received Privigen identifying 
4 haemolytic anaemia cases after IAC versus 9,439 patients who received Privigen identifying 
47 haemolytic anaemia cases prior to IAC (baseline), an 89% statistically significant reduction in the 
overall rate of probable haemolytic anaemia was demonstrated based on an incidence rate ratio of 
0.11 adjusted for in-/outpatient setting, age, sex, Privigen dose and indication for Privigen use (one-
sided p-value <0.01). Probable cases of haemolytic anaemia were defined by an International 
Classification of Disease (ICD)-9 or ICD-10 hospital discharge code specific for haemolytic anaemia.
Possible cases of haemolytic anaemia consisted of an unspecified transfusion reaction identified via 
ICD-9 or ICD-10 discharge codes or via review of hospital charge descriptions in temporal association 
with a haptoglobin, a direct antiglobulin test or indirect antiglobulin performed in the workup of 
haemolytic anaemia.
For safety with respect to transmissible agents and additional details on risk factors, see section 4.4.
Paediatric Population
In Privigen clinical studies with paediatric patients, the frequency, nature and severity of adverse 
reactions did not differ between children and adults. In post marketing reports it is observed that the 
proportion of haemolysis cases to all case reports occurring in children is slightly higher than in adults.
Please refer to section 4.4 for details on risk factors and monitoring recommendations.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Overdose may lead to fluid overload and hyperviscosity, particularly in patients at risk, including 
elderly patients or patients with cardiac or renal impairment.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immune sera and immunoglobulins: immunoglobulins, normal human, 
for intravascular administration, ATC code: J06BA02.
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a broad spectrum of 
antibodies against infectious agents.
Human normal immunoglobulin contains the IgG antibodies present in the normal population. It is 
usually prepared from pooled plasma from not fewer than 1,000 donors. It has a distribution of 
immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma. Adequate doses of 
12
this medicinal product may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin G levels to the normal range and 
thus help against infections.
The mechanism of action in indications other than replacement therapy is not fully elucidated, but 
includes immunomodulatory effects.
The safety and efficacy of Privigen was evaluated in 7 prospective, open-label, single-arm, multicenter 
studies performed in Europe (ITP, PID and CIDP studies), Japan (PID and CIDP studies), and the US 
(PID and CIDP studies).
Additional safety data were collected in a Post-Authorization Safety Study (PASS), an observational 
multicentre trial in patients with various immunological conditions performed in the US.
PID
The PID pivotal study included a total of 80 patients aged between 3 and 69 years old. 19 children (3 
to 11 years), 12 adolescents (12 to 16 years) and 49 adults were treated with Privigen over 12 months. 
1038 infusions were administered, 272 (in 16 patients) in the 3-week schedule and 766 (in 64 patients) 
in the 4-week schedule. The median doses administered for the 3-week and 4-week treatment 
schedules were almost identical to each other (428.3 vs. 440.6 mg IgG/ kg bw).The PID extension 
study included a total of 55 patients aged between 4 and 81 years old. 13 children (3 to 11 years), 
8 adolescents (12 to 15 years) and 34 adults were treated with Privigen over 29 months. 771 infusions 
were administered and the median dose administered was 492.3 mg IgG/kg bw.
ITP
In the ITP pivotal study, in total 57 patients aged between 15 and 69 years old were treated with 
2 infusions of Privigen for a total of 114 infusions. The scheduled dose of 1 g/kg bw per infusion was 
closely adhered to in all patients (median 2 g IgG/kg bw).
In the second ITP study, 57 patients with ITP (baseline platelet counts ≤ 30×109/l) aged between 18 
and 65 years were treated with Privigen at 1 g/kg bw. On day 3 patients could receive a second dose of 
1 g/kg bw, for patients with a platelet count of < 50×109/l on day 3 this second dose was mandatory. 
Overall, in 42 subjects (74%) the platelet count increased at least once to ≥ 50×109/l within 6 days 
after the first infusion, which was well within the expected range. A second dose in subjects with 
platelet counts ≥ 50×109/l after the first dose provided a relevant additional benefit in terms of higher 
and longer-lasting increases in platelet counts compared to a single dose. In subjects with platelet 
counts < 50×109/l after the first dose, 30% showed a platelet response of ≥ 50×109/l after the 
mandatory second dose.
CIDP
In the first CIDP study, a prospective multicenter open label trial (Privigen impact on mobility and 
autonomy PRIMA study), 28 patients (13 subjects who have previously received IVIG and 15 subjects
not) were treated with a Privigen loading dose of 2g/kg bw given over 2-5 days followed by 
6 maintenance doses of 1g/kg bw over 1-2 days every three weeks. Previously treated patients were 
withdrawn from IVIG until confirmed deterioration before start of Privigen. On the adjusted 10 point 
INCAT (Inflammatory Neuropathy Cause and Treatment) scale a clinically meaningful improvement 
of at least 1-point from baseline to treatment week 25 was observed in 17 out of 28 patients. The 
INCAT responder rate was 60.7% (95% confidence interval [42.41, 76.4]). 9 patients responded after 
receiving the initial induction dose by week 4, 16 patients responded by week 10.
Muscle strength as measured by the MRC (Medical Research Council) Score improved in all patients 
by 6.9 points (95% confidence interval [4.11, 9.75], in previously treated patients by 6.1 points (95% 
confidence interval [2.72, 9.44]) and in untreated patients by 7.7 points (95% confidence interval 
[2.89, 12.44]). The MRC responder rate, an increase of at least 3 points, was 84.8% which was similar 
in previously treated (81.5% [58.95, 100.00]) and untreated (86.7% [69.46, 100.00]) patients.
13
In patients defined as INCAT non-responders, muscle strength improved by 5.5 points (95% 
confidence interval [0.6, 10.2]) as compared to INCAT responders (7.4 points (95% confidence 
interval [4.0, 11.7])
In a second prospective, multicenter randomized, placebo-controlled clinical study (Polyneuropathy 
and Treatment with Hizentra, PATH trial), 207 subjects with CIDP were treated with Privigen in the 
prerandomization phase of the study. Subjects all with IVIg pretreatment of at least 8 weeks and with
an IVIg-dependence confirmed by clinically evident deterioration during an IVIg withdrawal phase of 
up to 12 weeks, received a Privigen loading dose of 2 g/kg bw followed by up to 4 Privigen 
maintenance doses of 1 g/kg bw every 3 weeks for up to 13 weeks.
Following clinical deterioration during IVIg withdrawal, clinical improvement of CIDP was primarily 
defined by a decrease of ≥ 1 point at the adjusted INCAT score. Additional measures of CIDP 
improvement were an increase in R-ODS (Rasch-built Overall Disability Scale) score of ≥ 4 points, a 
mean grip strength increase of ≥ 8 kPa, or an MRC sum score increase of ≥ 3 points. Overall, 91 % of 
subjects (188 patients) showed improvement in at least one of the criteria above by week 13.
By adjusted INCAT score, the responder rate by week 13 was 72.9 % (151/207 patients), with 
149 patients responding already by week 10. A total of 43 of the 207 patients achieved a better CIDP 
status as assessed by the adjusted INCAT score compared to their CIDP status at study entry.
The mean improvement at the end of the treatment period compared to reference visit was 1.4 points 
in the PRIMA (1.8 points in IVIg pretreated subjects) and 1.2 points in PATH study.
In PRIMA, the percentage of responders in the overall Medical Research Council (MRC) score 
(defined as an increase by ≥ 3 points) was 85 % (87 % in the IVIg-untreated and 82 % in IVIg-
pretreated) and 57 % in PATH. The overall median time to first MRC sum score response in PRIMA 
was 6 weeks (6 weeks in the IVIg-untreated and 3 weeks in the IVIg-pretreated) and 9.3 weeks in 
PATH. MRC sum score in PRIMA improved by 6.9 points (7.7 points for IVIg-untreated and 
6.1 points for IVIg-pretreated) and by 3.6 points in PATH.
The grip strength of the dominant hand improved by 14.1 kPa (17.0 kPa in IVIg-untreated and 
10.8 kPa in IVIg pretreated subjects) in the PRIMA study, while in PATH the grip strength of the 
dominant hand improved by 12.2 kPa. For the non dominant hand similar results were observed in 
both PRIMA and PATH trials.
The efficacy and safety profile in the PRIMA and the PATH study in CIDP patients were overall 
comparable.
Post-Authorisation Safety Study (PASS)
In an observational hospital-based cohort Post-Authorisation Safety Study (PASS), the risk of 
haemolytic anaemia following Privigen therapy was evaluated in patients with various immunological 
conditions from 1 January 2008 to 30 April 2019. The risk of haemolytic anaemia was assessed prior 
(baseline) and after the implementation of a risk minimisation measure, the introduction of the 
Immunoaffinity Chromatography (IAC) step in the Privigen manufacturing process. Probable cases of 
haemolytic anaemia were defined by an ICD-9 or ICD-10 hospital discharge code specific for 
haemolytic anaemia. (Possible cases of haemolytic anaemia consisted of an unspecified transfusion 
reaction identified via ICD-9 or ICD-10 discharge codes or via review of hospital charge descriptions 
in temporal association with a haptoglobin, a direct antiglobulin test or indirect antiglobulin performed 
in the workup of haemolytic anaemia).
A statistically significant rate reduction of 89% of haemolytic anaemia (based on an incidence rate 
ratio of 0.11; adjusted for in-/outpatient setting, age, sex, Privigen dose and indication for Privigen 
use; one-sided p-value <0.01) was observed after implementation of the IAC step compared to 
baseline:
14
Periodɸ
Median anti-A titers£
Median anti-B titers£
Probable haemolytic anaemiaα cases
Baseline
IAC
1. January 2008-
31. December 2012
1. October 2016-
30. April 2019
1:32
1:16
47
1:8
1:4
4
Patient number (n)
n=9439
n=7759
Crude incidence rate of probable haemolytic 
anaemia α per 10.000 patient-days at risk
Incidence rate reduction of probable 
haemolytic anaemia α versus baseline
Adjusted  incidence rate ratio for haemolytic 
anaemia versus baseline
0.74
95% CI&: 0.54-0.98
-
0.08
95% CI: 0.02-0.20
89%
-
0.11
95% CI: 0.04-0.31,
one-sided p-value: <0.01
ɸ The exclusion of human blood plasma donors with high anti-A titres performed between 1. October 2013 and 
31. December 2015 as the initial risk minimisation measure for haemolytic anaemia indicated a 38% reduction in probable 
haemolytic anaemia incidence versus baseline and was subsequently replaced by the IAC step in the Privigen manufacturing 
process, as provided above.
£ Median isoagglutinin titers measured by direct testing method according to Ph.Eur
α Probable haemolytic anaemia case: defined by an ICD-9 or ICD-10 hospital discharge code specific for haemolytic anaemia 
and the occurrence during the time interval from the first infusion up to 30 days after the last infusion, if >1 Privigen 
infusions were administered.
& Confidence interval
  Adjusted for: in-/outpatient setting, age, sex, Privigen dose and indication for Privigen use
The reduction in probable haemolytic anaemia incidence rate after IAC implementation versus 
baseline was especially pronounced in patients treated with Privigen doses ≥0.75 g/kg bw.
Additionally, 28 paediatric patients with CIDP <18 years of age were identified throughout the entire 
study period from 1 January 2008 to 30 April 2019. No paediatric patients with CIDP given a total of 
486 Privigen administrations experienced haemolytic anaemia, AMS, acute renal failure, severe 
anaphylactic reaction or a thromboembolic event. Two patients experienced a moderate anaphylactic 
reaction, equating to 0.4% of all Privigen administrations.
Paediatric population
No differences were observed in the pharmacodynamic properties and safety profile between adult and 
paediatric study patients.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
Human normal immunoglobulin is immediately and completely bioavailable in the recipient's 
circulation after intravenous administration.
Distribution
It is distributed relatively rapidly between plasma and extravascular fluid, after approximately 3-
5 days equilibrium is reached between the intra- and extravascular compartments.
Elimination
15
IgG and IgG complexes are broken down in the cells of the reticuloendothelial system. The half-life 
may vary from patient to patient. The pharmacokinetic parameters for Privigen were determined in a 
clinical study in PID patients (see section 5.1). 25 patients (aged 13-69 years) participated in the 
pharmacokinetic (PK) assessment. In this study, the median half-life of Privigen in PID patients was 
36.6 days. In an extension of this study, 13 PID patients (aged 3-65 years) participated in a PK sub-
study. The results of this study show the median half-life of Privigen to be 31.1 days (see table below).
Pharmacokinetic parameters of Privigen in PID patients
Parameter
Cmax (peak, g/l)
Cmin (trough, g/l)
Pivotal Study (N=25)
ZLB03_002CR
Median (Range)
23.4 (10.4-34.6)
10.2 (5.8-14.7)
Extension Study (N=13) 
ZLB05_006CR
Median (Range)
26.3 (20.9-32.9)
12.3 (10.4-18.8) (3-week schedule)
9.4 (7.3-13.2) (4-week schedule)
31.1 (14.6-43.6)
36.6 (20.6-96.6)
Cmax, maximum serum concentration; Cmin, trough (minimum level) serum concentration; t½, 
elimination half-life
t½ (days)
Paediatric population
No differences were seen in the pharmacokinetic parameters between adult and paediatric study 
patients with PID. There are no data on pharmacokinetic properties in paediatric patients with CIDP.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Immunoglobulins are a normal constituent of the human body. L-proline is a physiological, non-
essential amino acid.
The safety of Privigen has been assessed in several preclinical studies, with particular reference to the 
excipient L-proline. Some published studies pertaining to hyperprolinaemia have shown that long-
term, high doses of L-proline have effects on brain development in very young rats. However, in 
studies where the dosing was designed to reflect the clinical indications for Privigen, no effects on 
brain development were observed. Non-clinical data reveal no special risk for humans based on safety 
pharmacology and toxicity studies.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
L-proline
Water for injections
Hydrochloric acid (for pH-adjustment)
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products, diluents, or solvents except 
those mentioned in section 6.6.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
Stability after first opening:
16
Once the vial has been broached, its contents should be used promptly. Because the solution contains 
no preservative, Privigen should be infused immediately.
Stability after dilution:
If the product is diluted to lower concentrations (see section 6.6), immediate use after dilution is 
recommended. The in-use stability of Privigen after dilution with a 5% glucose solution to a final 
concentration of 50 mg/ml (5%) has been demonstrated for 10 days at 30°C; however, the microbial 
contamination aspect was not studied.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 25 °C.
Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product and after dilution, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
25 ml of solution in a single vial (type I glass), with a stopper (elastomeric), a cap (aluminium crimp), 
a flip off disc (plastic), label with integrated hanger.
50 or 100 ml of solution in a single vial (type I or II glass), with a stopper (elastomeric), a cap 
(aluminium crimp), a flip off disc (plastic), label with integrated hanger.
200 or 400 ml of solution in a single vial (type II glass), with a stopper (elastomeric), a cap 
(aluminium crimp), a flip off disc (plastic), label with integrated hanger.
Pack sizes
1 vial (2.5 g/25 ml, 5 g/50 ml, 10 g/100 ml, 20 g/200 ml or 40 g/400 ml),
3 vials (10 g/100 ml or 20 g/200 ml).
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Privigen comes as a ready-to-use solution in single-use vials. The product should be brought to room 
temperature (25 °C) before use. A vented infusion line should be used for the administration of 
Privigen. Flushing of the infusion tubes with physiological saline or 5% glucose solution is permitted. 
Always pierce the stopper at its centre, within the marked area.
The solution should be clear or slightly opalescent and colourless or pale yellow. Solutions that are 
cloudy or have deposits should not be used.
If dilution is desired, 5% glucose solution should be used. For obtaining an immunoglobulin solution 
of 50 mg/ml (5%), Privigen 100 mg/ml (10%) should be diluted with an equal volume of the 5% 
glucose solution. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed during the dilution of Privigen.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
CSL Behring GmbH
Emil-von-Behring-Strasse 76
17
D-35041 Marburg
Germany
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS
EU/1/08/446/001
EU/1/08/446/002
EU/1/08/446/003
EU/1/08/446/004
EU/1/08/446/005
EU/1/08/446/006
EU/1/08/446/007
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 April 2008
Date of latest renewal: 28 November 2017
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu
18
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
19
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)
CSL Behring AG
Wankdorfstrasse 10, 3000 Bern 22
Switzerland
or
CSL Behring (Australia) Pty Ltd
189-209 Camp Road
Broadmeadows, Vic 3047, Australia
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
CSL Behring GmbH
Emil-von-Behring-Strasse 76
D-35041 Marburg
Germany
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).

Official batch release
In accordance with Article 114 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken 
by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
20
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time.

21
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
A. LABELLING
23
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER BOX
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Privigen 100 mg/ml solution for infusion
human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg)
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
1 ml contains:
Human normal immunoglobulin 100 mg
IgG purity ................................ ≥ 98%
IgA .......................... ≤ 25 micrograms
2.5 g/25 ml
5 g/50 ml
10 g/100 ml
20 g/200 ml
40 g/400 ml
Will be placed in the upper right corner of the main face of the box to give total content and volume of 
the container
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: L-proline, water for injections, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide.
See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for infusion (10%)
Contains 1 vial.
Contains 3 vials.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For intravenous use only.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
24
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 °C.
Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Marketing authorisation holder:
CSL Behring GmbH
D-35041 Marburg
Germany
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/08/446/001 5 g/50 ml
EU/1/08/446/002 10 g/100 ml
EU/1/08/446/003 20 g/200 ml
EU/1/08/446/004 2.5 g/25 ml
EU/1/08/446/005 10 g/100 ml (3 vial pack size)
EU/1/08/446/006 20 g/200 ml (3 vial pack size)
EU/1/08/446/007 40 g/400 ml
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
25
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
26
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
VIAL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Privigen 100 mg/ml solution for infusion
human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg)
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
1 ml contains:
Human normal immunoglobulin 100 mg. IgG purity ≥ 98%. IgA ≤ 25 micrograms.
2.5 g/25 ml
5 g/50 ml
10 g/100 ml
20 g/200 ml
40 g/400 ml
Will be placed in the upper right corner of the label to give total content and volume of the container
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
L-proline, water for injections, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for infusion (10%)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For intravenous use only.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
27
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 °C. Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
CSL Behring GmbH, D-35041 Marburg, Germany
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/08/446/001 5 g/50 ml
EU/1/08/446/002 10 g/100 ml
EU/1/08/446/003 20 g/200 ml
EU/1/08/446/004 2.5 g/25 ml
EU/1/08/446/005 10 g/100 ml (3 vial pack size)
EU/1/08/446/006 20 g/200 ml (3 vial pack size)
EU/1/08/446/007 40 g/400 ml
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
28
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
29
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Privigen 100 mg/ml (10%) solution for infusion
human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg)
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or healthcare professional.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or healthcare professional. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet.
What is in this leaflet:
1. What Privigen is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you are given Privigen
3. How to use Privigen
4.
Possible side effects
5. How to store Privigen
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Privigen is and what it is used for
What Privigen is
Privigen belongs to the class of medicines called human normal immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins 
are also known as antibodies and are blood proteins that help your body to fight infections.
How Privigen works
Privigen contains immunoglobulins that have been prepared from the blood of healthy people. The 
medicine works in exactly the same way as the immunoglobulins naturally present in human blood of 
healthy people.
What Privigen is used for
Privigen is used for the treatment of adults and children (0-18 years) in the following situations:
A)
To increase abnormally low immunoglobulin levels in your blood to normal levels 
(replacement therapy):
1.
2.
Patients who are born with a reduced ability or inability to produce immunoglobulins
(primary immunodeficiencies (PID)).
Patients with an acquired immunodeficiency (SID) who suffer from severe or recurrent 
infections, ineffective antimicrobial treatment and either proven specific antibody failure 
or serum IgG level of <4 g/l.
B)
To treat certain inflammatory disorders (immunomodulation). There are 5 groups:
1.
2.
Patients who do not have enough blood platelets (primary immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP) and who are at high risk of bleeding or will have surgery in the near future.
Patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome. This is an acute disease that is characterised by 
inflammation of the peripheral nerves that causes severe muscle weakness mainly in the 
legs and upper limbs.
30
3.
4.
Patients with Kawasaki disease. This is an acute disease that primarily affects young 
children. It is characterised by inflammation of blood vessels throughout the body.
Patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). This is a 
chronic disease that is characterised by inflammation of the peripheral nerves that causes
muscle weakness and/or numbness mainly in the legs and upper limbs.
5. Patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). This is a slowly progressive disease of 
the motor nerves with weakness of arms and legs.
2. What you need to know before you are given Privigen
 Read this section carefully. The information given should be taken into consideration by you 
and your doctor before you are given Privigen.
Do NOT take Privigen



if you are allergic to human immunoglobulins or to proline.
if you have developed antibodies against immunoglobulins of the type IgA in your blood.
if you suffer from hyperprolinaemia type I or II (a genetic disorder causing high levels of the 
amino acid proline in the blood). This is an extremely rare disorder. Only a few families with 
this disease are known worldwide.
Warnings and precautions
Which circumstances increase the risk of having side effects?
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional prior to treatment if any of the circumstances listed 




below applies to you:
You receive this medicine in high doses either on 1 day or over several days and you have a 
blood group A, B or AB and/or you have an underlying inflammatory condition. In these 
circumstances, it has been commonly reported that immunoglobulins increase the risk of 
breakdown of red blood cells (haemolysis).
You are overweight, are elderly, have diabetes, have been bedridden for a long time, have high 
blood pressure, have low blood volume (hypovolaemia), have problems with your blood vessels 
(vascular diseases), have an increased tendency for blood clotting (thrombophilia or thrombotic 
episodes) or have a disease or a condition which causes your blood to thicken (hyperviscous 
blood). In these circumstances, immunoglobulins may increase the risk of heart attack (cardiac 
infarction), stroke, blood clots in the lung (lung embolism), or blockage of a blood vessel in the 
leg, although only very rarely.
You are diabetic. Although Privigen does not contain sugar, it may be diluted with a special 
sugar solution (5% glucose), which could affect your blood sugar level.
You have or had previously problems with your kidneys or take medicinal products that may 
harm your kidneys (nephrotoxic medicinal products). In these circumstances, immunoglobulins 
may increase the risk of serious rapid loss of kidney function (acute renal failure) although only 
very rarely. Loss of kidney function with fatal outcome has occurred in isolated haemolysis-
related cases.
What kind of monitoring is required during the infusion?
For your personal safety, treatment with Privigen will take place under the supervision of your doctor 
or healthcare professional. You will usually be observed during the whole infusion and for at least 
20 minutes thereafter. In certain circumstances, special precautions may be necessary. Examples of 
such circumstances are:


you are receiving Privigen at a high infusion rate or
you are receiving Privigen for the first time or after a long break in treatment (e.g. several 
months).
In these cases you will be closely observed during the whole infusion and for at least 1 hour 
afterwards.
31
When may slowing or stopping the infusion be required?


You may be allergic (hypersensitive) to immunoglobulins without knowing it.
However, true allergic reactions are rare. They may occur even if you have previously received 
human immunoglobulins and had tolerated them well. It may happen particularly if you have 
developed antibodies against immunoglobulins of the type IgA. In these rare cases allergic 
reactions such as a sudden fall in blood pressure or shock may occur (see also section 4 
“Possible side effects”).
In very rare cases transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) can occur after receiving 
immunoglobulins. This will lead to non-heart related accumulation of fluid in the air spaces of 
the lungs (non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema). You will recognize TRALI by severe difficulty 
in breathing (respiratory distress), bluish skin (cyanosis), abnormally low level of oxygen in the 
blood (hypoxia), decrease in blood pressure (hypotension) and increased body temperature 
(fever). Symptoms typically appear during or within 6 hours after receiving treatment.
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional immediately if you notice such reactions 
during the infusion of Privigen. He or she will decide whether to decrease the infusion 
rate or to stop the infusion completely.
Blood tests
 Tell your doctor about your treatment with Privigen prior to having any blood tests.
After receiving Privigen, the results of certain blood tests (serological tests) may be impaired for a 
certain time.
Information on safety with respect to infections
Privigen is made from human blood plasma (this is the liquid part of the blood).
When medicines are made from human blood or plasma, certain measures are put in place to prevent 
infections being passed on to patients. These include:

careful selection of blood and plasma donors to make sure those at risk of carrying infections 
are excluded,
the testing of each donation and pools of plasma for signs of virus/infections,
the inclusion of steps in the processing of the blood or plasma that can inactivate or remove 
viruses.


Despite these measures, when medicines prepared from human blood or plasma are administered, the 
possibility of passing on infection cannot be totally excluded. This also applies to any unknown or 
emerging viruses and other types of infections.
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus, and for the non-enveloped hepatitis A virus and 
parvovirus B19.
Immunoglobulins have not been associated with hepatitis A or parvovirus B19 infections, possibly 
because antibodies against these infections, which are contained in the product, are protective.

It is strongly recommended that every time you are given a dose of Privigen the name and batch 
number of the product are recorded in order to maintain a record of the batches used.
Other medicines and Privigen
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional if you are using, have recently used or might use any 
other medicines.
The concomitant use of medicines that increase the excretion of water from your body (loop diuretics) 
should be avoided during treatment with Privigen. Your doctor will decide whether you should use or 
continue treatment with loop diuretics.
32
Vaccinations
 Tell your vaccinating doctor prior to a vaccination about your treatment with Privigen.
After receiving Privigen, the efficacy of certain vaccinations may be impaired. Affected are 
vaccinations with live attenuated virus vaccines such as vaccinations against measles, mumps, rubella 
and varicella. Such vaccinations should be postponed for at least 3 months after the last infusion of 
Privigen. In the case of measles vaccinations the impairment may persist for up to 1 year. Therefore,
your vaccinating doctor should check the effectiveness of the measles vaccination.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant or are
breast-feeding. Your doctor will decide whether you can receive Privigen during your 
pregnancy or while you are breast-feeding.
Medicines containing antibodies have been used in pregnant and breast-feeding women. Long-term
experience has shown that no harmful effects during the course of the pregnancy or to the newborn are 
to be expected.
If you receive Privigen while you are breast-feeding the antibodies in this medicine will also be found 
in the breast milk. Thus, also your baby can receive the protective antibodies.
Driving and using machines
Patients may experience effects, such as dizziness or nausea, during treatment with Privigen that might 
affect the ability to drive and use machines. If this happens, you should not drive or use machines until
these effects have disappeared.
Privigen contains proline
You must not take it if you suffer from hyperprolinaemia (see also section 2 “What you need to know 
before you are given Privigen”).
 Tell your doctor prior to treatment.
Sodium content
This medicine contains less than 2.3 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in 100 ml. 
This is equivalent to 0.12% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.
3.
How to use Privigen
Privigen is intended solely for the infusion into a vein (intravenous infusion). It is usually administered 
by your doctor or healthcare professional. Your doctor will calculate the correct dose for you taking 
into account your weight, the specific circumstances listed under section 2 “Warnings and 
precautions” and response to treatment. The dose calculation for children and young patients is not 
different from that for adults. At the beginning of the infusion you will receive Privigen at a slow 
infusion rate. If you tolerate this well, your doctor can gradually increase the infusion rate.
If you receive more Privigen than you should
Overdose is very unlikely to occur because Privigen is usually administered under medical 
supervision. If, in spite of this, you receive more Privigen than you should, your blood may become 
too thick (hyperviscous) which might increase the risk of developing blood clots. This may happen 
particularly if you are a patient at risk, for example if you are elderly or if you suffer from a heart or
kidney disease. Tell your doctor if you are known to have medical problems.
33
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Possible 
side effects may be reduced or even avoided by infusing Privigen at a slow infusion rate. Such side 
effects may occur even if you have previously received human immunoglobulins and tolerated them 
well.
In rare and isolated cases, the following side effects have been reported with immunoglobulin 
preparations:

severe hypersensitivity reactions such as a sudden fall in blood pressure or anaphylactic shock 
(e.g. you may feel light-headed, dizzy, faint on standing, cold in the hands and feet, sense an 
abnormal heart beat or chest pain, or have blurred vision) even when you have shown no 
hypersensitivity on previous infusions,
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional immediately if you notice such signs during 
the infusion of Privigen. He or she will decide whether to decrease the infusion rate or to 
stop the infusion completely.
formation of blood clots which may be carried off in the blood circulation (thromboembolic 
reactions) and which may result e.g. in myocardial infarction (e.g. when you have sudden chest 
pain or shortness of breath), stroke (e.g. when you have a sudden onset of muscle weakness, 
have loss of sensation and/or balance, decreased alertness or difficulty in speaking), blood clots 
in the arteries of the lungs (e.g. when you have chest pain, difficulty in breathing or are 
coughing up blood), deep vein thrombosis (e.g. when you have redness, feel warmth, pain, 
tenderness, or have a swelling of one or both legs),
chest pain, chest discomfort, painful respiration due to transfusion related lung injury (TRALI)
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional immediately if you have any of the above 
symptoms. Anyone experiencing such symptoms should immediately be transported to a 
hospital emergency room for evaluation and treatment.
temporary non-infectious meningitis (reversible aseptic meningitis),
 Tell your doctor or healthcare professional immediately if you have a stiff neck together 
with one or more of the following symptoms: fever, nausea, vomiting, headache, 
abnormal sensitivity to light, mental disturbances.
increase in blood creatinine level,
proteinuria,
acute renal failure,
transient decrease in red blood cells (reversible haemolytic anaemia/haemolysis), anaemia, 
leukopenia, anisocytosis (including microcytosis).







Side effects observed in controlled clinical studies and in post-marketing experience are presented in o
rder of decreasing frequency:
Very Common (may occur with more than 1 in 10 patients):
Headache (including sinus headache, migraine, head discomfort, tension headache), pain (including ba
ck pain, pain in extremity, pain in joints and bones (arthralgia), neck pain, facial pain), fever (includin
g chills), flu-like illness (including runny nose (nasopharyngitis), sore throat (pharyngolaryngeal pain), 
blisters in mouth and throat (oropharyngeal blistering), throat tightness.
Common (may occur with up to 1 in 10 patients):
Temporary lowering of red blood cell count (anaemia), breakdown of red blood cells (haemolysis
including haemolytic anaemia) β, decreased number of white blood cells (leukopenia), hypersensitivity, 
dizziness (including vertigo), high blood pressure (hypertension), flushing (including hot flush, 
hyperaemia), hypotension (including decreased blood pressure), breathlessness (dyspnoea including 
chest pain, chest discomfort, painful breathing), upset stomach (nausea), vomiting, loose stools 
(diarrhea), stomach pain, skin disorder (including rash, itching (pruritus), hives (urticaria), 
maculopapular rash, redness of the skin (erythema), peeling of the skin (skin exfoliation)), pain in the 
34
muscles (including muscle cramps and rigidity), tiredness (fatigue), physical weakness (asthenia), 
weakness in the muscles.
Routine laboratory tests may commonly reveal changes to liver functions (hyperbilirubinaemia) as 
well as changes in blood count (e.g. Coombs’ (direct) test positive), increased alanine 
aminotransferase, increased aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood lactate dehydrogenase).
Uncommon (may occur with up to 1 in 100 patients):
Temporary non-infectious meningitis (reversible aseptic meningitis), irregularity of red blood cell 
shape (microscopic finding), presence of high platelet counts in the blood (thrombocytosis), 
sleepiness, shiver (tremor), palpitations, tachycardia, thromboembolic events, lack of blood supply to 
the lower extremities causing e.g. pain when walking (peripheral vascular disorder), presence of an 
excess of serum proteins in the urine (proteinuria including increased blood creatinine), injection site 
pain (including infusion site discomfort).
In isolated cases (post-marketing experience), the following have been observed in patients treated 
with Privigen: abnormally low level of specific white blood cells called neutrophils (decreased 
neutrophils counts), anaphylactic shock, painful respiration due to transfusion related lung injury 
(TRALI) and acute renal failure.
β The haemolytic anaemia cases after controlled clinical study completion were observed at 
significantly reduced frequency due to enhancements in the Privigen manufacturing process.
 If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or healthcare professional. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet.
Please also refer to section 2 “What you need to know before you are given Privigen” for additional 
details on circumstances which increase the risk of side effects.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or healthcare professional. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Privigen







Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the vial 
label after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Because the solution contains no preservative, your healthcare professional must infuse it 
immediately after opening the vial.
Do not store above 25 °C.
Do not freeze.
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the solution is cloudy or contains particles floating 
within the solution.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Privigen contains
35


The active substance is human normal immunoglobulin (antibodies of the type IgG). Privigen 
contains 100 mg/ml (10%) human protein of which at least 98% is IgG.
The approximate percentage of IgG subclasses is as follows:
IgG1 ...................... 69 %
IgG2 ...................... 26 %
IgG3 ........................ 3 %
IgG4 ........................ 2 %
This medicine contains trace amounts of IgA (not more than 25 micrograms/ml).
The other ingredients (excipients) are the amino acid proline, water for injections, and 
hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment).
What Privigen looks like and contents of the pack
Privigen is presented as a solution for infusion.
The solution is clear or slightly opalescent and colourless to pale-yellow.
Pack sizes:
1 vial (2.5 g/25 ml, 5 g/50 ml, 10 g/100 ml, 20 g/200 ml or 40 g/400 ml),
3 vials (10 g/100 ml or 20 g/200 ml).
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
CSL Behring GmbH
Emil-von-Behring-Strasse 76
D-35041 Marburg
Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
CSL Behring NV
Tél/Tel: +32 15 28 89 20
България
МагнаФарм България ЕАД
Тел: +359 2 810 3949
Česká republika
CSL Behring s.r.o.
Tel: +420 702 137 233
Danmark
CSL Behring ApS
Tlf: +45 4520 1420
Deutschland
CSL Behring GmbH
Tel: +49 69 30584437
Eesti
CentralPharma Communications OÜ
Tel: +3726015540
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
CSL Behring NV
Tél/Tel: +32 15 28 89 20
Magyarország
CSL Behring Kft.
Tel: +36 1 213 4290
Malta
AM Mangion Ltd.
Tel: +356 2397 6333
Nederland
CSL Behring BV
Tel: +31 85 111 96 00
Norge
CSL Behring AB
Tlf: +46 8 544 966 70
Österreich
CSL Behring GmbH
Tel: +43 1 80101 2463
36
Polska
CSL Behring Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 213 22 65
Portugal
CSL Behring Lda
Tel: +351 21 782 62 30
România
Prisum Healthcare S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 322 01 71
Slovenija
EMMES BIOPHARMA GLOBAL s.r.o. -
podružnica v Sloveniji
Tel: +386 41 42 0002
Slovenská republika
CSL Behring s.r.o.
Tel: +421 911 653 862
Suomi/Finland
CSL Behring AB
Puh/Tel: +46 8 544 966 70
Sverige
CSL Behring AB
Tel: +46 8 544 966 70
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
CSL Behring GmbH
Tel: +49 69 305 17254
Ελλάδα
CSL Behring ΕΠΕ
Τηλ: +30 210 7255 660
España
CSL Behring S.A.
Tel: +34 933 67 1870
France
CSL Behring SA
Tél: +33 1 53 58 54 00
Hrvatska
Marti Farm d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 5588297
Ireland
CSL Behring GmbH
Tel: +49 69 305 17254
Ísland
CSL Behring AB
Sími: +46 8 544 966 70
Italia
CSL Behring S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 34964 200
Κύπρος
CSL Behring ΕΠΕ
Τηλ: +30 210 7255 660
Latvija
CentralPharma Communications SIA
Tel: +371 6 7450497
Lietuva
CentralPharma Communications UAB
Tel: +370 5 243 0444
This leaflet was last revised in.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Posology and method of administration
The dosage recommendations are summarised in the following table:
37
Indication
Replacement therapy
Dose
Frequency of injections
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
(PID)
starting dose:
0.4 - 0.8 g/kg bw
maintenance dose:
0.2 - 0.8 g/kg bw
every 3 to 4 weeks to obtain IgG 
trough levels of at least 6 g/l
Secondary immunodeficiencies (as 
defined in 4.1)
0.2 - 0.4 g/kg bw every 3 to 4 weeks to obtain IgG 
trough levels of at least 6 g/l
Immunomodulation
Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
0.8 - 1 g/kg bw
or
on day 1, possibly repeated once 
within 3 days
0.4 g/kg bw/d
for 2 to 5 days
Guillain-Barré syndrome
0.4 g/kg bw/d
for 5 days
Kawasaki disease
2 g/kg bw
in one dose in association with 
acetylsalicylic acid
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating 
polyneuropathy (CIDP)*
starting dose:
2 g/kg bw
in divided doses over 2 to 5 days
Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN)
every 3 weeks over 1 to 2 days
over 2 to 5 consecutive days
maintenance dose: 
1 g/kg bw
starting dose : 
2 g/kg bw
maintenance dose:
1 g/kg bw
every 2 to 4 weeks
or
or
2 g/kg bw
every 4 to 8 weeks over 2 to 5 days
Method of administration
For intravenous use.
Human normal immunoglobulin should be infused intravenously at an initial infusion rate of 0.3 ml/kg 
bw/hr for approximately 30 min. If well tolerated, the rate of administration may gradually be 
increased to 4.8 ml/kg bw/hr.
In PID patients who have tolerated the infusion rate of 4.8 ml/kg bw/hr well, the rate may be further 
increased gradually to a maximum of 7.2 ml/kg bw/hr.
If dilution prior to infusion is desired, Privigen may be diluted with 5% glucose solution to a final 
concentration of 50 mg/ml (5%).
Special precautions
In case of adverse reaction, either the rate of administration must be reduced or the infusion stopped.
It is strongly recommended that every time Privigen is administered to a patient, the name and batch 
number of the product are recorded in order to maintain a link between the patient and the batch of the 
product.
Incompatibilities
38
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
the section below.
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
The product should be brought to room or body temperature before use. A vented infusion line should 
be used for the administration of Privigen. Always pierce the stopper at its centre, within the marked 
area.
The solution should be clear or slightly opalescent and colourless or pale yellow. Solutions that are 
cloudy or have deposits should not be used.
If dilution is desired, 5% glucose solution is recommended. For obtaining an immunoglobulin solution 
of 50 mg/ml (5%), Privigen 100 mg/ml (10%) should be diluted with an equal volume of the glucose 
solution. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed during the dilution of Privigen.
Once the vial has been entered under aseptic conditions, its contents should be used promptly. Because 
the solution contains no preservative, Privigen should be infused as soon as possible.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
39
