European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/228233/2008  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
PRIVIGEN 
International Nonproprietary Name:  
human normal immunoglobulin  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000831 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
2. 
1.1 
1.2 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE.................................................................. 3 
SUBMISSION OF THE DOSSIER ................................................................................................................. 3 
STEPS TAKEN FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF THE PRODUCT ........................................................................... 3 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ....................................................................................................................... 5 
INTRODUCTION....................................................................................................................................... 5 
QUALITY ASPECTS.................................................................................................................................. 6 
NON-CLINICAL ASPECTS ....................................................................................................................... 13 
CLINICAL ASPECTS ............................................................................................................................... 19 
PHARMACOVIGILANCE ......................................................................................................................... 23 
OVERALL CONCLUSIONS, RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 26 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Page 2 of 29 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  CSL  Behring  GmbH  submitted  on  31  January  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Privigen,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 24 April 2006. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of  
significant technical innovation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) 
or study(ies). 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Replacement therapy in 
• 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
−  
−  
−  
−   Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections 
• 
• 
Immunomodulation 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children and adults at high risk of bleeding or prior to 
surgery to correct the platelet count 
• 
Guillain-Barré syndrome 
• 
Kawasaki disease 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation  
Licensing status: 
Privigen has been given a Marketing Authorisation in US on 26 July 2007, and in Canada 9 January 
2008. 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Switzerland (26.02.07) and Australia 
(29.06.07). 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Christian K. Schneider  Co-Rapporteur: Pasqualino Rossi 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 31 January 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 February 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  14  May 
2007  The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 
May 2007.  
Page 3 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  June  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 22 June 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  5 
October 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 27 November 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 10-13 December 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
On 21, 30 January 2008 and 7 February 2008, outstanding issues were addressed in writing by 
the applicant. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 4 February 2008, and an updated version on 12 
February 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  February  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Privigen  on  21  February  2008.  The  applicant  provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  20 
February. 
The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union,  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 25 April 2008. 
Page 4 of 29 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Problem statement 
Clinical indications of intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) 
Privigen is applied for in the indications listed in the core SPC for IVIg. These include the indications 
based  on  the  principle  of  the  replacement  of  lacking  immunoglobulins  in  patients  with  primary 
immunodeficiency  syndromes,  in  patients  with  certain  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinaemia 
and  recurrent  infections  such  as  myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  (CLL)  and  in  children 
with HIV infection and recurrent serious bacterial infections. 
Another part of the mode of action of IVIg is related to the so-called immunomodulative action which 
refers  to  the  indications  Idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP),  Guillain-Barré  syndrome, 
Kawasaki disease and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. 
Since the early 1980s, highly purified preparations of IgG for intravenous administration (IVIg) were 
developed  by  a  number  of  manufacturers  whereas  the  first  products  consisted  of  so-called  modified 
products (modification of the Fc-part of the IgG to allow intravenous administration). Nowadays non-
modified, native IVIgs are the standard of care for the replacement therapy of patients with primary 
immunodeficiency and they are part of the therapy regimen of the other indications mentioned before. 
About the product 
Privigen  is  a  newly  developed  plasma-derived  IVIg  preparation  manufactured  by  CSL  Behring, 
Switzerland. CSL Behring AG. 
The intermediates were manufactured in the US (intermediate fraction II+III precipitate (II+III PPT), 
obtained  by  fractionation  of  human  plasma  according  to  Cohn)  and  in  Switzerland  (intermediate 
Precipitate A (NA PPT), obtained by fractionation of human plasma according to Kistler-Nitschmann) 
Privigen is a concentrated (100 g/L) liquid immunoglobulin product for intravenous use (IVIg). The 
product  is  formulated  with  250  mmol/L  L-proline  at  pH  4.8.  The  IgA  content  is  typically  below  25 
mg/L. Other serum proteins are present in trace amounts.  
Privigen is prepared from large donor pools and represents the antibody spectrum present in the donor 
population.  IgG  functionality  is  fully  retained  (Fc  function  and  Fab  mediated  activity)  and  the  IgG 
subclass  distribution  is  similar  to  that  found  in  normal  human  plasma.  More  than  90%  of  the  IgG 
consists of monomers and dimers. 
The  sodium  concentration  of  Privigen  is  low  and  the  osmolality  is  about  320  mOsmol/kg.  Privigen 
does not contain any preservatives. Privigen complies with the Ph. Eur. monograph for human normal 
immunoglobulin for intravenous administration. 
Pharmacological classification 
Human Normal Immunoglobulin G 
ATC code: J06B A02 
The following indications are applied for: 
Replacement therapy in 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as:  
- Congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia  
- Common variable immunodeficiency 
- Severe combined immunodeficiency 
- Wiskott Aldrich syndrome  
Page 5 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  (CLL)  with  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections  
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections  
Immunomodulation  
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults  at high risk of bleeding or prior to 
surgery to correct the platelet count.  
Guillain Barré syndrome   
Kawasaki disease  
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
The posology is applied for as described in the core SPC for IVIg (CPMP/BWG/859/95 rev.1) and is 
individualised according to the clinical condition to be treated. 
No  separate  paediatric  development  has  been  described  by  the  applicant  as  it  is  not  specifically 
required according to the relevant Note for Guidance on the Clinical Investigation of Human Normal 
Immunoglobulin for Intravenous Administration (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev.2). However, children are 
included in the PID study. 
No formal scientific advice was obtained from CHMP.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Active Substance  
• 
General Information  
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  is  a  highly  concentrated  liquid  formulation  of  polyvalent  human 
immunoglobulin  G  (IgG)  for  intravenous  administration  (IVIg).    The  ATC  Code  is  J06BA02.  The 
concentration is 100 g/L (10% w/v) and the product is formulated with 250 mmol/L L-proline as the 
only  stabilizer  at  pH  4.8.  The  IgA  content  is  normally  below  25  mg/L.  Other  serum  proteins  are 
present in trace amounts. 
Polyvalent  human  immunoglobulin  G  is  manufactured  from  human  plasma  and  is  therefore  a 
biological product. Privigen is prepared from large donor pools and represents the antibody spectrum 
present  in  the  donor  population.  IgG  functionality  is  fully  retained  (Fc  function  and  Fab  mediated 
activity) and the IgG subclass distribution is similar to that found in normal human plasma. More than 
90% of the IgG consists of monomers and dimers. The sodium concentration of Privigen is low and 
the osmolality is about 320 mOsmol/kg. Privigen does not contain any preservatives.  
Privigen  complies  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph  for  human  normal  immunoglobulin  for  intravenous 
administration.  The  manufacturing  and  control  procedures  for  Privigen  complies  with  the  current 
version  of  the  CPMP/BWP/269/95  Note  for  Guidance  on  Plasma  Derived  Medicinal  Products.  The 
company  has  selected  when  possible  specifications  and  analytical  methods  in  compliance  with  both 
the USP and the Ph. Eur. 
•  Manufacture 
the  Drug  Substance  (IgPro10-SOL) 
Manufacturers 
The  production  Site  of 
is  CSL  Behring  AG,  Bern 
(Wankdorfstrasse)  and  the  production  Site  of  the  intermediates  is  either  CSL  Behring  AG,  Bern 
(Wankdorfstrasse)  (manufacturer  of  the  intermediate  Precipitate  A  (NA  PPT),  obtained  by 
fractionation  of  human  plasma  according  to  Kistler-Nitschmann)  or  CSL  Behring  L.L.C,  Kankakee 
(USA)  (manufacturer  of  the  intermediate  fraction  II+III  precipitate  (II+III  PPT),  obtained  by 
fractionation  of  human  plasma  according  to  Cohn).  The  manufacturers  responsible  for  in-process 
controls  and  testing  of  drug  substance  are  CSL  Behring  AG,  Bern  (Wankdorfstrasse)  (in-process 
Page 6 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
controls,  testing  of  drug  substance  IgPro10-SOL)  and  CSL  Behring  L.L.C,  Kankakee  (USA)  (in-
process  controls.  For  the  manufacturing  site  CSL  Behring  LLC,  Kankakee,  a  National  Competent 
Authority of Germany (Regierungspräsidium Darmstadt) issued a GMP certificate. For the Bern site a 
valid    authorization  to  manufacture  medicinal  products,  to  import  medicinal  products,  for  the 
wholesale  trade  in  medicinal  products,  to  export  medicinal  products,  to  trade  in  medicinal  products 
abroad issued by the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products, SwissMedic, is provided. 
Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls 
Pooled  human  plasma  undergoes  cold  ethanol  fractionation  into  either  Precipitate  A  (NA  PPT) 
according to the Kistler-Nitschmann procedure or Fraction II+III Precipitate (II/III PPT) according to 
the Cohn-Oncley procedure in facilities in Bern, Switzerland and in Kankakee, Illinois, respectively. 
These  precipitates  are  the  only  intermediates  between  plasma  pooling  and  drug  substance  solution 
(IgPro10-SOL) isolation. Therefore the drug substance is neither isolated, characterised nor stored but 
continuously processed to the bulk product. 
The  intermediates  (Precipitate  A  or  Fraction  II+III  Precipitate)  are  re-suspended  in  a  buffer  and 
fractionated  with  octanoic  acid  (=  caprylic  acid)  to  selectively  remove  certain  proteins  and  plasma 
derived lipids. A following pH shift step removes IgM and aggregates, whereas the subsequent anion 
exchange  chromatography  removes  almost  all  IgA  and  remaining  IgM  molecules  leading  to  an  IgG 
purity  of  greater  than  98  %.  The  manufacturing  process  also  includes  four  virus  reduction  steps:  (i) 
octanoic  acid  fractionation  followed  by  liquid/solid  separation,  (ii)  low  pH  inactivation,  (iii)  depth 
filtration, and (iv) virus filtration. 
The  drug  substance,  IgPro10-SOL,  is  immediately  further  processed  and  formulated  to  the  drug 
product (IgPro10-Bulk), which can be stored up to 8 days prior to aseptic filling into infusion bottles 
(final finished drug product, Privigen). Filling sizes include 50 ml, 100 ml and 200 ml. The primary 
packaging material is Type I and Type II glass infusion vials.  
The following is a list of manufacturing process steps leading to the drug substance IgPro10-SOL. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
cold ethanol fractionation 
octanoic acid (OA) fractionation, 
ultra- diafiltration 1  
low pH treatment 
pH shift and filtration 
anion exchange (AIEX) chromatography 
virus filtration 
ultra- diafiltration 2 
Description of manufacturing process and controls 
The single manufacturing steps have been described in detail and precisely. 
Conditions of use and reuse of materials/ Reprocessing / Reworking 
No materials are reused during the fractionation process to yield Fraction II+III Precipitate. Materials 
reused in the method of isolation for Precipitate A have been summarised. For the manufacture of the 
Privigen drug substance reprocessing and reworking are not foreseen. 
• 
Control of Materials 
Starting Material  
The  starting  material  containing  the  active  ingredient  is  human  plasma  which  complies  with  the 
requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph  Plasma  Humanum  ad  Separationem  and  with  the  Note  for 
Guidance on  Plasma-Derived Medicinal products CPMP/BWP/269/95 rev.3. The starting  material is 
registered in a Plasma Master File via the Centralised Procedure and is updated annually in accordance 
with  Commission  Directive  2003/63/EC.  Human  plasma  collected  in  the  USA  is  used  for  the 
production  of  the  alternative  starting  paste  (fraction  II+III  precipitate  at  the  CSL  Behring  site, 
Kankakee, USA.  
Page 7 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ingredients used for processing meet the requirements of Ph. Eur. Caprylic acid and polysorbate 80 are 
both of plant origin. Filter aid meets compendial requirements, whereas other auxiliary materials and 
filter materials meets in-house requirements. 
Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Critical process steps have been identified and suitable in-process controls as well as critical quality 
attributes suitable for controlling the manufacturing steps were established. 
The critical process modules are (i) the OA fractionation step , (ii) the low pH-treatment step, (iii) the 
pH shift step, (iv) the chromatography step (only pH adjustment), and (v) the virus filtration step. The 
only identified critical process modules for the following production of the drug product is the filling 
step. 
Process Validation and Evaluation 
Validation of intermediate Precipitate A manufacturing  
The  manufacturing  process  from  plasma  to  Precipitate  A  according  to  the  method  of  Kistler  and 
Nitschmann  has  been  comprehensively  validated.  This  retrospective  process  validation  included  the 
evaluation of data from 30 consecutive manufacturing batches.  
Validation of intermediate Fraction II+III Precipitate manufacturing  
The  Performance  Qualification  for  the  Process  Validation  of  Fraction  I  and  Fraction  II+III 
Precipitation Process was executed and has successfully demonstrated conformance to the acceptance 
criteria specified in the protocol provided in the dossier. 
Validation of Fraction II+III Precipitate Manufacturing: Transport validation 
The  Fraction  II+III  Precipitate  is  manufactured  in  Kankakee,  USA  and  its  transport  to  Bern, 
Switzerland via air freight and land/sea freight has been validated by two transport validation studies. 
Validation of drug substance (IgPro10-SOL) manufacturing from intermediates 
As  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  substance  IgPro10-SOL  is  a  continuous  process  from 
Precipitate  A  or  Fraction  II+III  Precipitate  to  the  bulk  drug  product  IgPro10-Bulk,  the  process 
validation has been documented in the part of the dossier. regarding the drug product. 
Manufacturing Process Development 
In the development of Privigen, the goal was to establish a purification process of the drug substance 
for Privigen, IgPro10 – SOL, which is designed to be robust, reliable, gentle and high yielding. This 
process  was  designed  to  start  with  two  different  intermediates  from  Precipitate  A  manufactured 
according  to  Kistler  &  Nitschmann  at  CSL  Behring  AG,  Berne,  Switzerland,  and  Fraction  II  +  III 
Precipitate manufactured according to Cohn at CSL Behring Kankakee. 
Transfers and scale up were accompanied by an extensive program to ensure constant quality of the 
isolated  drug  substance  and  to  understand  the  behaviour  of  the  drug  substance  and  the  process 
requirements.  
For manufacturing process development, the following procedural steps were pre-defined and tested: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Development of the octanoic acid (OA) fractionation, 
Ultra- diafiltration 1 - low pH treatment 
pH shift and filtration 
anion exchange (AIEX) chromatography 
virus filtration and ultra- diafiltration 2 
anion Exchange (AIEX) Chromatography:  introduction of gradients for buffer changes 
anion Exchange (AIEX) Chromatography: change of chromatography column diameter 
• 
Characterisation 
The drug substance is an aqueous solution of human immunoglobulins (90 – 110 g/L) isolated from 
human plasma. Protein composition determined by cellulose acetate membrane electrophoresis reveals 
a  principle  band  with  an  electrophoretic  mobility  of  gamma  globulins.  Human  IgG  is  the  major 
compound  (≥  98.0%).  IgM  and  IgA  are  present  in  minor  amounts  (≤  25mg/L  each),  IgE  and  other 
human  plasma  proteins  in  trace  amounts.  All  IgG-subclasses  were  determined  by  nephelometry 
Page 8 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
against a reference preparation ultimately based on the WHO 67/97 reference material. The resulting 
IgG  sub  class  distribution  shows  that  all  IgG-subclasses  are  not  present  with  a  typical  subclass 
distribution  because  during  manufacture  of  Privigen,    the  subclasses  IgG3  and  IgG4  are  partially 
depleted  leading  to  a  final  product  with  a  different  IgG  subclass  distribution  as  compared  to  the 
starting materials. 
The drug substance is prepared from the pooled plasma of not less than 1000 but not more than 
60000 donors and contains the IgG antibodies of normal subjects. The functional integrity of the 
IgG molecule is demonstrated by the Fc-function test. 
• 
Control of Drug Substance 
The drug substance, human normal immunoglobulin, is neither isolated, characterised nor stored but 
continuously processed to the bulk product. The manufacturing process from Precipitate A (NA PPT) 
or  Fraction  II+III  Precipitate  (II+III  PPT)  to  the  formulated  bulk  is  considered  as  one  continuous 
process  and is not divided into sub-processes.  As  a  consequence  no specifications could be fixed or 
justified and no batches of drug substance could be analysed.  
• 
Reference Materials 
The different in house-materials used for drug product testing were described.  
• 
Container Closure System 
The drug substance, IgPro10-SOL, is not stored but continuously processed to the bulk product.  
• 
Stability 
The drug substance, immunoglobulin G solution (IgPro10-SOL), is not isolated and analyzed because 
the manufacturing process from Precipitate A or Fraction II+III Precipitate to the formulated bulk is a 
continuous process and is not divided into sub-processes with stored intermediates.- 
Drug Product 
• 
Formulation development: 
Liquid  IVIg  products  have  limited  stability  mainly  due  to  the  potential  of  IgG  to  form  excessive 
idiotype/anti-idiotype dimers and to become degraded and aggregated.  Oxidative reactions induced by 
the  oxygen  dissolved  in  the  solution  are  thought  to  be  the  primary  cause  of  discoloration  in  protein 
solutions. It is known that liquid IVIg solutions have the tendency to acquire a yellowish to brownish 
tint during storage. 
During evaluation and development of the formulation of Privigen these issues have been addressed 
resulting in a 10% IgG formulation, stabilized with 250 mmol/L L-proline at pH 4.8. 
Low  pH  and  the  choice  of  the  excipient  L-proline  ,  significantly  reduce  IgG-dimer  formation.    A 
comparison  of  IVIg  preparations  formulated  with  either  L-proline  or  glycine  shows  that,  under  the 
conditions  analyzed,  the  presence  of  L-proline  resulted  in  a  30%  reduction  in  dimer  content  as 
compared to the corresponding glycine formulation. 
Overages:  
Overages  in  Privigen  are  used  only  to  compensate  for  volume  that  is  unable  to  be  withdrawn.  The 
overages are within pharmacopoeia recommendations. 
Physicochemical and biological properties: 
The  distribution  of  IgG  subclasses  is  similar  to  that  found  in  normal  human  plasma  (approximate 
values  are  IgG1,  67.8%;  IgG2,  28.7%;  IgG3,  2.3%;  and  IgG4,  1.2%).  The  reactivity  to  a  variety  of 
investigated antigens relevant for the efficacy of Privigen has been retained in the final product.  
Fc-function  of  Privigen  was  evaluated  in  stability  studies  under  real  temperature,  accelerated  and 
stress conditions. 
Page 9 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Test  parameters  for  the  final  product  include  a  large  number  of  physicochemical,  biological  and 
immunological  assays.These  batch  data  are  clearly  inside  the  specification-range  and  demonstrate 
uniformity of the product and show consistency of the manufacturing process. 
Manufacturing Process Development 
The  manufacturing  steps  0.2µm  Filtration,  Sterile  Filtration,  Aseptic  Filling,  Visual  Inspection  and 
Labelling & Packaging were not part of the development activities for the Privigen drug product as the 
production  methodology  of  other  immunoglobulin  preparations  could  be  applied  directly.  The 
formulation development for Privigen was based on small scale experimental work and was completed 
before the process transfer from a small production facility to the commercial  production plant. 
In  the  early  development  phase  Privigen  was  filled  manually  (e.g.  for  formulation  development 
including  preliminary  stability  studies).  Privigen  produced  in  the  commercial    plant  for  clinical  and 
stability studies was filled on an aseptic filling line which is used for commercial filling. Twelve bulk 
lots manufactured so far as well as their associated 29 filling lots have been manufactured from both, 
Precipitate A and Fraction II+III Precipitate for the purposes of clinical testing, process validation and 
stability  testing.  IPCs  of  all  batches  manufactured  demonstrate  acceptable  lot-to-lot  consistency  for 
microbiological attributes and for protein content. 
Container Closure System 
The  Container  Closure  System  is  described  in  the  dossier.  In  general,  the  selected  containers  and 
closures meet the requirements and quality standards.  
Microbiological Attributes 
Privigen does not contain any antimicrobial preservatives and is tested for sterility and for exogenous 
pyrogens  on  a  lot-by-lot  basis  prior  to  batch  release.  To  ensure  the  product  stability  throughout  the 
shelf-life  of  the  drug  product,  container  closure  integrity  has  been  validated  through  a  program  of 
microbial container closure integrity tests (microbial CCIT) during the development phase of Privigen. 
Container  closure  integrity  has  further  been  confirmed  by  the  sterility  tests  performed  within  the 
ongoing stability programs after 12 months storage time.  
•  Manufacture 
Manufacturer 
The manufacturing process of the final product is performed at CSL Behring AG, Bern Switzerland.  
Batch Formula 
The  average  batch  size  of  IgPro10-SOL    is  200  kg  resulting  from  variable  amounts  of  either 
Precipitate A or Fraction II+III Precipitate..   
Description of the Manufacturing Process and Controls 
It  is  well  demonstrated  that  the  process  is  carried  out  under  aseptic  conditions  and  under 
pharmaceutical  control  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  Good  Manufacturing  Practice.  The 
manufacturing  and  control  procedures  for  Privigen  complies  with  the  current  version  of  the 
CPMP/BWP/269/95: Note for Guidance on Plasma Derived Medicinal Products.   
The drug substance IgPro10–SOL is neither isolated nor stored at any time. IgPro10–SOL is directly 
formulated to IgPro10-Bulk.  
The  manufacturing  process  from  the  drug  substance,  IgPro10-SOL  through  formulation 
(IgPro10-Bulk), including subsequent aseptic filling and packaging is listed below: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
formulation 
sterile filtration 
aseptic filling 
visual inspection 
packaging 
Page 10 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Controls of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
  The identification of critical parameters (PCPs) and quality attributes (QATs) has been performed by 
the  review  of  the  manufacturing  procedure,  process  validation  data,  adventitious  agents  safety 
evaluation reports, sterile filter validation, and other developmental data with regard to safety, quality, 
identity, purity, potency, and robustness of the product.  
Process Validation and/or Evaluation 
Scope  of  the  studies  for  Privigen  are  bulk  manufacturing  (IgPro10-Bulk)  and  filling  of  the  final 
product.  Bulk  manufacturing  comprised  production  of  the  drug  substance  (IgPro10-SOL)  including 
final formulation (IgPro10-Bulk). Filling comprised the process of sterile filtration, aseptic filling and 
visual inspection of the drug product.  The critical process parameters and critical quality attributes for 
process validation were evaluated and defined in risk analyses. All validation studies revealed that the 
entire  production  process  of  Privigen  has  been  acceptably  validated.  It  can  be  concluded  that  the 
production  conditions  and  filling  equipment  are  proficient  to  achieve  a  final  product  that  meets  the 
specifications.  
• 
Control of Excipients 
The  control  of  excipients  was  found  to  be  adequate  with  reliable  analytical  procedures  and  well 
justified  specifications.  The  excipients  used  are  L-Proline,  which  is  of  plant  origin  and  Water  for 
Injection  (WFI),  which  is  generated  on  siteSpecifications  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  and  USP.  No 
excipients of animal or human origin are used.  
• 
Control of Drug Product 
Proposed specifications for the drug product are in compliance with the requirements laid down in the 
Ph. Eur. Monograph “Human normal immunoglobulin for intravenous administration”. For additional 
tests separate specifications have been fixed. The specifications for some of the parameters are even 
tighter than those required. 
Results  of  the  analysis  for  29  filling  lots,  manufactured  from  12  different  bulk  lots  demonstrate 
uniformity of the product and show consistency of the manufacturing process. 
• 
Reference Standards or Materials 
Reference standards used for drug product testing were described.  
• 
Container Closure System 
Protection of the dosage form, prevention of microbial contamination, compatibility of drug product 
with container and closure, and product safety were key considerations during the selection of primary 
and secondary packaging materials. The selected glass containers and rubber stoppers fulfill Ph. Eur. 
requirements. A cardboard outer box designed for the final market presentation will protect Privigen 
from light.  The bottle sizes offered are 50 ml, 100 ml and 200 ml. 
• 
Stability 
The  stability  data  of  Privigen  has  been  derived  from  lots  that  were  manufactured  from  the 
intermediates Precipitate  A (NA PPT) or Fraction II+III Precipitate (II+III PPT) from different sites 
and different glass types (I & II) in the intended future commercial facilities. Two types of stability 
studies  have  been  performed:  long-term    and  accelerated  stability  studies.  The  stability  studies, 
including  the  selection  of  test  parameters  and  test  intervals,  were  performed  according  to  ICH 
guidelines Q1A (R2) and Q5C.  
The study bracketing design complies with the comparability approaches for intermediates and bottle 
sizes make use of a bracketing design according to ICH Guideline Q1D.   
Page 11 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The submitted stability data for the drug product filled in 50 or 100 ml glass type I vials justify the 
acceptance of a shelf life of 36 months (at ≤ 25°C). However, the submitted stability data (bracketing 
study design) for the drug product filled in 50 or 200 ml glass type II vials currently justify only a 
shelf  life  of  24  months  (at  ≤  25°C)in  accordance  with  ICH  Guideline  Q1E  (Evaluation  for  Stability 
Data). 
Therefore, a shelf life of 24 months (at ≤ 25°C) for the drug product,  independently from the type of 
glass vial, has been accepted.  
Based on the results of the ongoing stability studies, this shelf life might be extended to the applied 
shelf life of 36 months. 
APPENDIX 
1. Facilities and Equipment 
The Privigen production process begins with the fractionation of human plasma at CSL Behring AG 
Berne,  Switzerland  and  CSL  Behring  LLC,  Kankakee  (Illinois)  USA  to  yield  intermediate  Privigen 
starting materials, Precipitate A and Fraction II+III Precipitate, respectively. These intermediates are 
further processed at CSL Behring AG Berne to yield Privigen final product.  
The  CSL  Behring  LLC  Kankakee  site  is  regularly  inspected  by  a  European  health  authority.  The 
Fraction  II+III  Precipitate  production  areas,  amongst  others,  were  GMP  certified  by  the  German 
Health Authority RP Darmstadt/PEI upon successful inspection. 
All  Privigen  production  operations  at  CSL  Behring  are  performed  in  already  licensed  and  inspected 
facilities with the exception of intermediate subfractionation and IgPro10-bulk purification. These two 
manufacturing  steps  take  place  in  an  entirely  new  production  plant,  at  the  CSL  Behring  AG  Berne 
facility.  The  CSL  Behring  AG  Berne  production  site  is  regularly  inspected  by  the  Swiss  health 
authorities Swissmedic.   
All  methods,  procedures,  and  operations  used  for  the  manufacture  and  distribution  of  CSL  Behring 
human  plasma  derived  medicinal  products  comply  with  current  Good  Manufacturing  Practices 
(cGMP).  Furthermore,  all  activities  conducted  at  CSL  Behring  Bern  and  Kankakee  sites  are  in 
compliance with local laws and regulations.  
A description of all the facilities for the commercial manufacture, the product flow, material flow and 
personnel  flow  are  provided.  The  preparation,  cleaning  and  sterilisation  of  the  equipment  are 
described.  The  prevention  of  cross  contamination  is  illustrated.  Floor  plans  for  all  facilities  are 
provided.  
Overall the information is very detailed and fully complies with current requirements. 
2. Adventitious agents safety   
Risk on contamination with animal TSE 
No  material  used  in  the  manufacturing  of  Human  normal  immunoglobulin  Privigen  is  of  risk  that 
could  be  affected  by  the  “Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal 
Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products”. 
In  the  manufacturing  process  of  Human  normal  immunoglobulin  Privigen,  no  material  of  human 
origin, other that human plasma is used. 
Adventitious viruses 
Normal  human  immunoglobulin  Privigen  is  manufactured  from  human  plasma.  The  overall  viral 
safety  strategy  includes  selection  of  qualified  donors  and  testing  of  plasma  donations.  Plasma  is 
collected in Austria, Denmark, Switzerland, Germany and the USA and single donations are screened 
by  an  adequate  testing  program  for  viral  infections  (anti-HIV-1  and  2  antibodies,  HBs  antigen  and 
anti-HCV antibodies).  
Manufacturing pools are tested for HIV-1 and 2 antibodies, HBs antigen and HCV RNA. Furthermore, 
testing of the manufacturing pools is performed by NAT for HIV-1 RNA, HBV DNA and parvovirus 
B19  DNA.  Donors  with  an  increased  risk  for  sporadic  or  variant  Creutzfeldt-Jakob-Disease  are 
excluded.  The  donor  selection  and  plasma  donation  testing  strategy  for  viral  markers  is  considered 
adequate. The immunoglobulins are purified from two alternative starting pastes (precipitate A from 
Page 12 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kistler-Nitschmann or fraction II+III precipitate from Cold-Ethanol Fractionation). No animal-derived 
TSE risk material is used during production.  
Effective reduction of prion protein during octanoic acid fractionation, CH9/Z+-filtration and filtration 
using Pall DV20 has been demonstrated. In addition, several steps for virus inactivation/removal have 
been  introduced  into  the  manufacturing  process:  (1)  octanoic  acid  fractionation  followed  by 
liquid/solid separation, (2) low pH treatment, (3) CH9/Z+ clarifying depth filtration, and (4) Pall DV20 
filtration. Effective inactivation/removal of enveloped viruses has been demonstrated for three out of 
four  validated  production  steps  (octanoic  acid  fractionation  followed  by  liquid/solid  separation,  low 
pH treatment, Pall DV20 filtration). The 20 nm-filter has been demonstrated to remove effectively the 
small  non  enveloped  model  virus  MMV.  Therefore,  it  is  reasonable  to  postulate  a  similar  or  higher 
reduction  capacity  for  the  larger  enveloped  viruses  such  as  HIV,  HBV,  HCV  and  most  enveloped 
viruses including also the non enveloped Hepatitis A virus. The combination of four production steps 
with  different  mechanisms  for  virus  inactivation  or  virus  removal  (octanoic  acid  treatment,  low  pH, 
precipitation and depth filtration, Pall DV20 filtration), results in a high overall reduction capacity for 
enveloped viruses and an acceptable reduction capacity for the non enveloped Hepatitis A virus and 
parvovirus B19. In summary, virus safety has been convincingly demonstrated. 
General comments on compliance with GMP  
The manufacturing of the Active Ingredient takes place at two different sites. Manufacturing site 1 is 
CSL Behring AG, Wankdorfstrasse 10, 3000 Bern 22, Switzerland and manufacturing site 2 is: CSL 
Behring LLC, PO Box 511, Kankakee, IL, 60901, USA. 
Manufacturing  site  1  (CSL  Behring  AG,  Bern)  has  been  last  inspected  by  Swiss  Medic  on  21  –  23 
June  2005  and  was  found  to  be  in  GMP  compliance.  Therefore  an  inspection  of  this  site  was  not 
requested during the procedure. 
For  the  manufacturing  site  2  (CSL  Behring  LLC,  Kankakee)  a  National  Competent  Authority  of 
Germany (Regierungspräsidium Darmstadt) issued a GMP certificate for this site valid till 30/09/2008. 
Therefore an inspection of this site is not requested. 
The  manufacturing  of  the  finished  drug  product  is  performed  also  at  CSL  Behring  AG, 
Wankdorfstrasse 10, 3000 Bern 22, Switzerland (see above).  
Since  Privigen  is  a  plasma-derived  product,  it  is  subject  to  OMCL  batch  release.  During  the 
assessment  phase  a  pre-licensing  experimental  testing  of  the  drug  product  was  performed.  For  that 
reason samples of three commercial batches were submitted to the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, where it was 
analyzed with respect to the marketing authorisation application. Each batch complies with the product 
specification. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Based on the submitted data, the marketing authorisation application for Privigen is recommended for 
approval based on quality grounds.  
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
There is a history of safe use and proven efficacy of IgG formulations in humans. Privigen belongs to 
a well known and characterized biological product family and it complies with all the Pharmacopoeial 
requirements (Ph. Eur. monograph 01/2006:0918)  
Considering this and due to the xenoreactivity of human IgG, Privigen was not examined in the full 
battery  of  pharmaco-toxicology  studies,  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  preclinical  safety 
evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95).  
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
Page 13 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active ingredient of Privigen is human polyvalent normal immunoglobulin G (IgG); ATC code: 
J06BA02.  The  structural  and  functional  integrity  of  the  IgG  molecules  are  maintained  during  the 
manufacturing process of Privigen. Primary pharmacodynamic evaluation with in vitro assays showed 
proper Fab and Fc function of Privigen. Fab function was assessed with ELISA type assays (anti HBs, 
anti  parvo  B19),  or  with  haemagglutination  (anti  measles),  nephelometry  (anti  streptolysin)  or 
biological  assays  (anti-polio,  anti-diphtheria  toxin). With  in  vitro  tests  the  main  two  Fc  functions  of 
IgG  the  complement  activation  (by  complexed  IgG  by  an  erythrocyte  lysis  assay  according  to  Ph. 
Eur.) and the interaction with Fcγ-receptor (with purified human neutrophils in a chemiluminescence 
assay) were measured.  
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  contains  the  IgG  antibodies  present  in  the  normal  population.  The 
mechanism  of  action  in  indications  other  than  replacement  is  not  fully  elucidated,  but  includes 
immunomodulatory effects. (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1) 
• 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Privigen belongs to a well known and characterized biological product family and it complies with all 
the Pharmacopeial requirements (European Pharmacopoeia monograph 01/2006:0918)  
For this reason, the studies examining general pharmacodynamic effects are focused on the excipient 
L-proline. This is acceptable also according to the note for guidance on preclinical safety evaluation of 
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
L–proline is a nonessential neutral amino acid and a component of nutritional proteins; the daily intake 
with food is about 5.2 g. The normal L–proline plasma level is in the range of 266 ± 35 μmol/L. L–
proline is formed from and metabolized to glutamate. L–proline belongs to a group of amino acid with 
low excitatory potential.  Some neurological effects of L–proline are described in the literature: 
For  L-proline,  no  literature  data  were  available  in  which  the  application  route  or  duration  was 
comparable  to  an  i.v.  infusion  of  the  amino  acid  with  Privigen,  therefore,  two  non-clinical  studies 
(1657/ZLB/02 and PSR 08/06) were performed  
study No. 1657/ZLB/02: 
A  safety  pharmacology  study  (Irwin  test)  in  rats  was  conducted  under  conditions  relevant  for  the 
clinical situation, i.e. a 7 hrs/day infusion, which simulates a high dose infusion of Privigen to patients. 
In  this  study L–proline  was  compared  to  glycine,  a  broadly  used  excipient  in  IVIG  solutions  that  is 
neurologically active. Groups of ten male rats were intravenously infused with two doses of L–proline 
(579 and 1449 mg/kg bw/day) or glycine (378 and 945 mg/kg bw/day) for 7 hours during the first 4 
days and during approximately 3 hours on day 5. The lower dose of L–proline corresponds to twice 
the  maximum  daily  dose  applied  in  the  clinical  studies  with  Privigen.    A  control  group was  infused 
with  physiological  saline  and  a  second  control  group  consisted  of  non-treated  animals.  Behavioral 
measurements  (autonomic,  sensorimotor  functions,  convulsive  behaviour  and  excitability)  were 
performed  on  Day  1  (during  infusion)  and  Day  5  (during  infusion  and  10  min  after  the  end  of  the 
infusion)  according  to  Irwin  and  Moser.  Rectal  temperature  was  measured  individually  on  Day  1 
before and during infusion and on Day 5 before, during and 10 min after infusion.  
L–proline did not significantly affect the behavior of animals during and after infusion at both doses 
tested.  
study No. PSR 08/06: 
This study in rats was designed to assess acute neurotoxicty of L-proline at very high L-proline serum 
concentrations,  measuring  clinical  signs  and  L-proline  serum  concentrations  after  s.c.  or  i.p.  bolus 
injections. 
Groups of six female rats were subcutaneously injected with 2 g L-proline/kg bw or intraperitoneally 
with 2 and 4 g L-proline/kg bw, respectively. Animals of two control groups were subcutaneously and 
intraperitoneally  injected  with  sodium  chloride  solution  of  the  same  osmolarity  as  the  high-dose  L-
proline solution used. Clinical signs with special reference to neurotoxicity were assessed during 24 
hours. Blood samples for measurement of L-proline serum concentrations were also collected. 
After  subcutanous  injection  of  2.0  g  L-proline/kg  bw  which  resulted  in  maximum  serum 
concentrations  of  12  mmol/L,  no  clinical  signs  were  found.  All  other  groups  of  animals  including 
Page 14 of 29 
 
 
 
control  group  animals  showed  comparable  clinical  signs  primarily  shortly  after  test  article 
administration. 
Following i.p. injection, a high variation in L-proline serum concentrations between animals within the 
same  test  article  group  was  observed.  Conclusions  as  to  the  toxicity  of  L-proline  are  therefore  only 
drawn from results obtained after s.c. administration of L-proline. 
No significant effects on behaviour (Irwin test) at doses of L-proline up to 5 times the maximum dose 
administered with Privigen in clinical studies were found except for a slight rise of body temperature 
after 5 days of treatment.   
After single s.c. application of 2 g L-proline/kg bw/day to female rats, leading to much higher serum 
concentrations  than  achieved  with  an  i.v.  infusion  scheme,  no  clinical  signs  of  neurotoxicity, 
especially no signs of seizures, were observed. Thus, no neurological effects of L-proline as excipient 
of  Privigen  are  therefore  expected  in  patients  at  the  recommended  dosage  regimen.  This  was  in 
agreement  with  the  two  clinical  trials  with  Privigen  supporting  this  application  (ZLB03_002CR  and 
ZLB03_003CR) where no unexpected neurological adverse events were found.  
According to the proposed labeling, Privigen is also indicated to be used in children.  
In order to address literature data on putative effects of high doses of L-proline on brain development 
CSLB  performed  a  Morris  water  maze  task-  study  in  newborn  rats  with  subcutaneous 
administration  of  L-proline  with  daily  L-proline  doses  up  to  4  g/kg  and  an  application  scheme 
reflecting  the  clinical  situation  of  ITP  (daily  dose  on  2-5  consecutive  days)  and  PID  patients  (once 
every  2-4  weeks).  Privigen  administration  under  the  PID  treatment  schedule  can  be  considered  as  a 
single  dose  (t1/2  of  L-proline  approx.  5  hours).  The  daily  animal  doses  were  more  than  10-12  times 
higher than the human dose used in ITP (1g/kg IVIg; corresponding to 287.5 mg/kg L-proline), more 
than  13-17  times  higher  than  the  human  dose  in  PID  (up  to  800mg/kg  IVIg;  corresponding  to  230 
mg/kg bw L-proline) and more than 5-6 times higher than the human dose in Kawasaki disease (single 
dose  of  2g/kg  IVIg;  corresponding  to  575  mg/kg  L-proline).  Morris  water  maze  performance  was 
tested at postnatal days 54 to 71, and the treated rats showed no change in spatial memory acquisition 
or retention as compared to the control rats, which themselves showed good learning and reproducible 
performance. Previous published studies used L-proline subcutaneous injection twice a day from day 6 
to day 28 of age in a row, but this does not reflect the application scheme of Privigen. The different 
application scheme is the reason for the different observations obtained in previous published studies.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies  investigating  the  pharmacokinetics,  metabolism  and  elimination  of  the  IgGs  contained  in 
Privigen were not performed. This can be considered in line with the note for guidance on preclinical 
safety  evaluation  of  biotechnology-derived  pharmaceuticals  (CPMP/ICH/302/95).  Pharmacokinetic 
data  of  Privigen  were  assessed  in  clinical  studies  and  found  to  be  as  expected  for  a  native  IgG  and 
comparable to the pharmacokinetics of other IVIG products.  
For the excipient L-proline toxicokinetic parameters were mainly investigated using satellite groups in 
toxicity  studies.  The  dosing  regimen  in  animals  was  the  intravenous  route  with  a  dosing  time  of  7 
hours/day thus simulating a human high-dose IVIG infusion.  Toxicokinetics was assessed in rats up to 
daily doses of 1449 mg/kg bw/day which is 5 times the maximum daily dose investigated in clinical 
trials with Privigen and represents the maximum L-proline dose that can be administered to animals by 
the i.v. route.  
Pharmacokinetic  data  of  L-proline  were  collected  during  toxicology  studies  in  rats  intravenously 
administered with L-proline for 5 and 28 days, respectively, and from an embryo toxicity study with 
dosing from Day 6 to Day 17 of gestation.   
• 
In a 5-day repeat-dose intravenous dose finding study (Study No. 925/034), groups of male rats 
were  administered  daily  for  7  hours  with  low  and  high  dose  L–proline  (579  and  1449  mg/kg 
bw/day). There was a dose-dependent increase in the peak serum concentration of L–proline up 
to  13  –  14  times  baseline  levels,  equivalent  to  approximately  4.0  mmol/L  for  the  high  dose 
group.  Three  hours  after  the  start  of  the  infusion  83  and  71%  of  peak  concentrations  were 
reached at low and high dose L–proline, respectively. There was no indication of accumulation 
of L–proline in serum in both the doses tested.  
Page 15 of 29 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
In a 28-day repeated dose intravenous study (Study No. 925/035), groups of female and male 
rats were administered daily for 7 hours with low and high dose L–proline (579 and 1449 mg L–
proline/kg  bw/day)  as  in  the  study  before.  There  was  a  dose–dependent  increase  in  the  peak 
serum concentrations of L–proline, up to 14 and 9 times baseline levels for males and females, 
respectively.  Maximal serum levels of 3.1 - 4.1 mmol/L and 2.2 - 2.8 mmol/L L–proline were 
found at termination of the infusion on days of measurements at the high dose level for males 
and females, respectively, without a trend to an increase or decrease during the 4 weeks of the 
study.    No  accumulation  of  L–proline  occurred  at  both  doses  as  serum  concentrations  of  L–
proline  were  similar  to  baseline  levels  during  the  treatment  period  before  daily  infusions.   As 
expected, total daily excretion of L–proline in urine was low. 
In  a  single  dose  pharmacokinetic  study  (Study  No.  PSR  08/06)  groups  of  female  rats  were 
injected  s.c.  with  2.0  g  L-proline/kg  bw,  or  i.p.  with  2.0  or  4.0  g  L-proline/kg  bw.  Control 
groups received i.p. or s.c. injections of sodium chloride solution of the same osmolarity as the 
high-dose L-proline solution. Peak serum concentrations of 12 mmol/L (mean; 70 fold baseline) 
for s.c. treated animals and up to 18 and 43 mmol/L after i.p. administration were reached 15 
min  after  injection.  L-proline  was  eliminated  quickly  from  the  serum  with  baseline  levels 
reached  at  8  hrs  after  injection  for  all  animals  except  one  high-dose  i.p  administered  animal. 
Following  i.p.  injection,  a  high  variation  in  L-proline  serum  concentrations  between  animals 
within the same test article group was observed.  
In  an  intravenous  teratogenicity  study  (Study  No.  AA30034)  L–proline  and  glycine  were 
compared.    Groups  of  pregnant  rats  were  administered  from  Days  6  –  17  of  gestation  over  7 
hours/day with 300 mmol/L L–proline (42 mL/kg bw/day equivalent to 1449 mg/kg bw/day) or 
300  mmol/L  glycine  (42  mL/kg  bw/day  equivalent  to  945  mg/kg  bw/day)  or,  as  a  control, 
physiological saline (42 mL/kg bw/day).  Serum concentrations of L–proline and glycine were 
assessed  on  Days  6  and  17  of  gestation  before  and  at  the  end  of  the  infusion.  Mean  maximal 
serum levels on Days G6 and G17 were 3.53 mmol/L and 2.57 mmol/ L–proline in the animals 
infused with L–proline, and 1.67 mmol/L and 1.23 mmol/L glycine in the animals infused with 
glycine,  respectively.  No  accumulation  of  L–proline  and  glycine  occurred. 
  Serum 
concentrations  of  glycine  were  only  marginally  influenced  by  L–proline  infusions  and  vice 
versa. 
The mean Cmax obtained at the highest dose tested in these rat studies are summarized and compared to 
Cmax obtained in humans in the clinical studies including the ITP study where a daily human dose of 1 
g IgG/kg bw was infused (data from studies ZLB03_002CR and ZLB03_003CR). 
Mean Cmax of L-proline serum concentrations in animal studies compared to clinical studies 
Rat Study Duration 
L-proline:  mean Cmax at 
highest dose tested 
Ratio of mean Cmax 
obtained in rats and 
PID/ITP patients* 
Safety Pharmacology and 
Pharmacokinetics; exploratory 
study -  Single dose, s.c.  
Study No. PSR 08/06,  
Repeat dose toxicity - 5 days 
Study No. 925/034,  
Repeat dose toxicity - 28 days  
Study No. 925/035 
Reproduction Toxicity (segment 
II) 
Study No. AA30034,  
12 mmol/L 
4.0 mmol/L 
6.3/3.8 
2.1/1.3 
3.1 – 4.1 mmol/L (males); 
2.2 – 2.8 mmol/L (females) 
1.6-2.2/1.0-1.3 
1.2-1.5/0.7-0.9 
2.6 – 3.5 mmol/L 
1.4-1.8/0.8-1.1 
•  Mean Cmax of L-proline obtained transiently in clinical PID Study (ZLB03_002CR): 1.9 mmol/L.  
•  Mean Cmax of L-proline obtained transiently in clinical ITP Study (ZLB03_003CR): 3.2 mmol/L.  
Page 16 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
• 
Human  immunoglobulins  are  naturally  occurring  proteins  with  a  well-known  safety  and  tolerability 
record.  Constituents  used  during  manufacturing  are  well  known,  widely  used  in  marketed  plasma 
derived products and controlled in Privigen. Because of the slightly acidic pH of the product (pH 4.8), 
toxicity assessment of Privigen focused on local tolerance: a local tolerance study with Privigen was 
conducted  to  assess  putative  local  reactions  in  rabbits  after  i.v.,  i.a.  and  p.v.  application  (Study  No. 
143.143.482). In addition a local tolerance study in rabbits was conducted with s.c. administration of 
Privigen  (Study  No.  143.143.552).  The  results  of  the  studies  are  described  in  the  “Local  tolerance” 
section.  This  approach  is  acceptable,  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  preclinical  safety 
evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
• 
No  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  with  Privigen,  since  human  immunoglobulins 
administered to animals can be expected to initiate the immunological response, which would interfere 
with the toxicity evaluation (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
Two repeat dose toxicity studies with L-Proline were conducted in rats by continuous i.v. infusion: 
-Study No. 925/034: In a 5-day repeat-dose intravenous dose finding study, groups of male rats were 
administered daily for 7 hours with low and high dose L–proline (579 and 1449 mg/kg bw/day). Other 
groups of rats were infused with low and high dose glycine (378 and 945 mg glycine/kg bw/day) or 
with  physiological  saline.  Serum  concentrations  of  L–proline  and  glycine  were  assessed  on  Day  1 
(before  infusion,  3  hrs  after  the  start  of  the  infusion  and  at  the  end  of  infusion),  on  Day  2  (before 
infusion) and on Day 5 (before infusion, 3 hrs after the start of the infusion and at the end of infusion).  
The  high dose  level  represented  the  maximal  daily dose  that  could  be  infused in  the  animals.  There 
were no signs of toxicity in either dose group with glycine or L-proline.  The No Observed Adverse 
Effect Level (NOAEL) was therefore the high dose level, i.e. 1449 mg L–proline/kg bw/day and 945 
mg glycine/kg bw/day, respectively.  The high dose was considered appropriate as upper dose in the 
final 28-day toxicity study. 
-Study  No.  925/035:  In  a  28-day  repeated  dose  intravenous  study,  groups  of  female  and  male  rats 
were administered daily for 7 hours with low and high dose L–proline (579 and 1449 mg L–proline/kg 
bw/day) as in the study before.  Other groups of rats were infused with low and high doses of glycine 
(378 and 945 mg glycine/kg bw/day) or with physiological saline.  Serum concentrations of L–proline 
and glycine were assessed on Days 1, 7, 14 and 28 before and at the end of the infusion.  Urine was 
collected at termination during 24 hours. 
The high dose group represented the maximal daily dose that could be infused in the animals and was 
well  tolerated  and  not  associated  with  any  marked  changes  indicative  of  toxicity.  There  were  no 
unscheduled  deaths  throughout  the  study.    No  treatment-related  clinical  signs  were  observed  in  any 
group and there were no treatment-related eye lesions.  There was no obvious influence of treatment 
on the hematology and serum clinical chemistry parameters.  There were no treatment-related effects 
on the urine parameters.  No obvious effects of treatment with L–proline and glycine were observed in 
organ weights, or after macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the tissues. The only treatment-
related  changes  were  slight  (not  statistically  significant)  reductions  in  body  weight  gain  and  food 
consumption during the first two weeks of treatment, especially in males.  These affected principally 
the animals treated with both doses L–proline, and glycine at 945 mg/kg/day, whereas glycine at 378 
mg/kg/day  was  not  affected.      NOAELs  of  1449  mg/kg/day  for  L–proline  and  945 mg/kg/day  for 
glycine could be established under the defined experimental conditions. 
Genotoxicity 
• 
Human IgGs cannot interact directly with DNA or chromosomes in intact human cells. Genotoxicity 
testing of Privigen is therefore not appropriate, according to the note for guidance on preclinical safety 
evaluation  of  biotechnology-derived  pharmaceuticals  (CPMP/ICH/302/95).  The  absence  of  direct 
genotoxicity has been demonstrated for L-proline in combination with nicotinamide and L-isoleucine 
using a variety of assays such as the Ames test, in vitro cytogenicity assay, a bacterial stress gene (Pro-
Page 17 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
Tox) assay and a bone marrow micronucleus assay in mice. Published literature substantiates that L-
proline is not mutagenic in the Ames test, a microsomal mutagenesis assay or a host-mediated assay. 
Carcinogenicity 
• 
Both Privigen and the excipient L-proline, are endogenously available. Carcinogenicity studies are not 
appropriate  for  human  IgG,  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  preclinical  safety  evaluation  of 
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95).  
Reproduction Toxicity 
• 
No  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  Privigen.  For  a  human 
immunoglobulin preparation with its various non-relevant interactions within the animal models this 
approach  is  considered  as  acceptable,  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  preclinical  safety 
evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
A teratogenicity (segment II) study with L-proline was performed in rats. No indications of maternal- 
or embryo-toxicity or teratogenicity at the daily dose of 1449mg/kg bw tested were observed. 
In the SPC section 4.6 Pregnancy and lactation, a wording in line with the EU Core SPC for Human 
Normal  Immunoglobulin  For  Intravenous  Administration  (IVIg)  (CPMP/BPWG/859/95  rev.2)  has 
been included as proposed. 
Local tolerance  
• 
Privigen  is  formulated  at  a  slightly  acidic  pH  (pH  4.8).  To  evaluate  whether  this  property  of  the 
product would affect tolerability upon s.c. infusion, a local tolerance study in rabbits was performed 
with Privigen in comparison to products of higher protein concentration and higher pH. A second local 
tolerance  study  in  the  rabbit  was  conducted  to  assess  putative  local  reactions  after  i.v.,  i.a.  and  p.v. 
application of Privigen.  
In  the  local  tolerance  study  investigating  s.c.  application  of  various  IG  products  (Study  No. 
143.143.552) female and male rabbits were s.c. treated with 0.5 mL Privigen (by injection) on one side 
and 2.5 mL/kg bw Privigen (by infusion) on the opposite side of the animals.  The dose of 2.5 ml/kg 
corresponds  to  about  three  times  the  maximum  human  dose  per  infusion  site  when  calculated 
according  to  body  weight.  Physiological  saline  served  as  a  control  and  was  applied  to  the  same 
animals.  Other groups of animals received IgPro20, IgPro16, IgPro18, three products with the same 
formulation as Privigen, but at 20%, 16% and 18% protein concentrations, respectively.  Yet another 
group  received  the  marketed  SCIG  Beriglobin  P,  a  product  of  nearly  physiological  pH  and  16% 
protein concentration. Finally the excipient solution without protein, i.e. a solution of L-proline (250 
mmol/L  L-proline,  pH  4.8),  was  evaluated  in  another  group  of  rabbits.    Clinical  observations  were 
performed twice daily on the day of application and daily until 96 hrs after test article applications. No 
notable  differences  between  s.c.  bolus  injection  and  s.c.  infusion  were  found.  The  frequency  and 
intensity  of  edema  formation  correlated  with  the  protein  concentration  of  the  test  articles  and 
suggested a protein-dose dependent effect. Pain assessment did not reveal major differences between 
test  articles  and  saline  and  no  abnormalities  were  obtained  upon  histological  examination  of  the 
application sites. 
In the second local tolerance study (Study No. 143.143.482) i.v., p.v. and i.a. application of Privigen 
was investigated. Privigen (0.5 mL per injection) was shown not to cause any significantly increased 
(quantitative  and  qualitative)  local  reactions  at  the  i.v.  and  i.a.  application  sites  of  the  right  ears  of 
rabbits, in comparison with the left “control” ears treated similarly with saline.  Effects were slightly 
pronounced after test article injection compared to saline in the p.v. group. After 8 days, there were no 
treatment-related  pathology  findings.    It  was  concluded  that  a  single  administration  of  Privigen  i.v., 
p.v. and i.a will be locally tolerated. p.v. administration of Privigen may cause slight irritations within 
the first 24 hours. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Each of the components of Privigen is a naturally occurring substance in humans, animals and plant 
species,  which  can  be  degraded 
the  Guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human 
the  environment.  According 
to 
in 
Page 18 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use, the lack of an ERA is acceptable for this product. This product is not considered to be a risk for 
the environment. 
Discussion on main safety non-clinical aspects 
There is a history of safe use and proven efficacy of IgG formulations in humans. Considering this and 
due to the xenoreactivity of human IgG, Privigen was not examined in the full battery of pharmaco-
toxicology  studies.  This  is  acceptable,  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  preclinical  safety 
evaluation of biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95)   
Privigen  is  formulated  at  a  slightly  acidic  pH  (4.8)  in  the  presence  of  250  mmol/L  L-proline  as  the 
unique stabilizer for the IgG in solution. L–proline is known to be well tolerated in humans, and there 
is a long history of safe parenteral administration of high doses as medicinal products for parenteral 
nutrition, also indicated for premature and/or newborn babies. 
Nevertheless,  pharmacological  studies  have  shown  that  very  high  concentrations  of  L-proline  can 
produce excitotoxicity after direct injection into the brain. The effects of acute administration of large 
doses  of  L-proline  sufficient  to  produce  higher  mean  plasma  L-proline  concentrations  of  up  to  12 
mmol/L were evaluated. No agent-specific adverse signs were observed. 
Moreover, a number of other published studies have indicated that neonatal rats can develop transient 
acute  signs  of  poisoning  and  slight  lasting  neurobehavioral  and  neurochemical  effects  after  repeated 
subcutaneous  administration  of  L-proline  at  doses  that  produce  mean  peak  plasma  concentrations  of 
14  mmol/L.  This  may  reflect  a  special  sensitivity  of  the  neonate  to  repeated  very  high  plasma  L-
proline 
To further investigate the influence of high doses of L-proline on the CNS and the developing brain, 
CSLB performed a Morris water maze task- study in newborn rats, using different application schemes 
from  the  published  studies,  and    reflecting  the  application  scheme  of  L-Pro  in  Privigen.  The  treated 
rats  showed  no  change  in  spatial  memory  acquisition  or  retention  as  compared  to  the  control  rats, 
which  themselves  showed  good  learning  and  reproducible  performance.  The  results  were  thus  
reassuring  and  suggested  a  non-neurotoxic  potential  of  L-Proline,  administered  as  an  excipient  with 
Privigen, on  the developing brain. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The single-arm open-label, prospective, multi-centre Phase III studies submitted were performed to 
support the following indications: 
Replacement therapy in 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as:  
- Congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia  
- Common variable immunodeficiency 
- Severe combined immunodeficiency 
- Wiskott Aldrich syndrome  
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections  
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections  
Immunomodulation  
- Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of bleeding or prior to 
surgery to correct the platelet count.  
- Guillain Barré syndrome   
- Kawasaki disease  
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
Page 19 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The posology is applied for as described in the core SPC for IVIg (CPMP/BWG/859/95 rev.1) and is 
individualised according to the clinical condition to be treated. 
The studies are in line with the current Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1) and encompass the 
following trials. 
• 
Study ZLB03_002CR to assess safety and efficacy in 80 subjects with Primary 
Immunodeficiency Disease – PID 
Study ZLB03_003CR to assess safety and efficacy in 57 subjects with Idiopathic 
Thrombocytopenic Purpura – ITP.  
• 
In Study ZLB03_002CR a subset of 25 patients was evaluated for pharmacokinetics. Trough levels 
were determined in the entire population.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
PK properties of Privigen were determined in the study ZLB03_002CR performed in PID patients. All 
subjects had been receiving stable IVIg replacement therapy for at least 6 months prior to study start. 
Trough  IgG  levels  were  assessed  for  all  subjects  (N=80)  before  and  during  the  12-month  study 
additional PK parameters were studied in a subset of 25 subjects using blood samples taken after the 
7th  infusion  of  the  3-week  treatment  schedule  or  after  the  5th  infusion  of  the  4-week  treatment 
schedule. These parameters included serum concentrations of total IgG, IgG subclasses, and specific 
IgG.  Based  on  serum  concentrations  of  total  IgG,  the  following  PK  parameters  were  determined: 
Cmax, Cmin (trough level), Tmax, AUC0-t, CLtot and t½.  
The median steady state trough level of total IgG in 79 patients achieved after the administration of 
Privigen was 9.18 g/L and thus clinically adequate. These levels are above those required in the SPC 
CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.2 of 4-6 g/L and fulfil the current clinical requirements. The median trough 
levels observed with a 3 and 4 week dosing schedule do not differ noticeably. 
The median terminal half-life of Privigen for total IgG was 36.6 days (min: 20.6; max: 96.6 days. This 
result  is  in  keeping  with  the  data  from  other  IVIG  products  and  from  the  literature.  The  half-life  is 
known  to be fairly  long  in  PID  patients  with  a  wide inter-patient variability,  thus  the  large  range  of 
20.6 – 96.6 days and the deviation of the mean (43 days) from the median (36.6.days). 
The median AUC levels for total IgG were 298.6 day x g/L for the 3 week dosing schedule and 366.7 
day x g/L for the 4 week dosing schedule 
The median Cmax was 23.4 g/L (min 10.4, max: 34.6) and the median Tmax 2.3 hours after the start 
of the infusion (min1.3 and max 26.3h). 
The results obtained in this study are in keeping with those reported in the literature and  with other 
studies using similar products, also complying with the current standards requested by the Guideline 
CPMP/BPWG/388/95-rev.1 for PID patients. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Not applicable. PD studies are not requested by the Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1). The text 
of  the  core  SPC  (CPMP/BPWG/859/95  rev.1)  under  5.1  Pharmacodynamic  properties  has  been 
adopted: 
Pharmacotherapeutic  group:  immune  sera  and  immunoglobulins:  immunoglobulins,  normal  human, 
for intravascular administration, ATC code: J06BA02 
Page 20 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a broad spectrum of 
antibodies against infectious agents. 
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  contains  the  IgG  antibodies  present  in  the  normal  population.  It  is 
usually  prepared  from  pooled  plasma  from  not  fewer  than  1000  donations.  It  has  a  distribution  of 
immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma.  
Adequate doses of this medicinal product may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin G levels to the 
normal range. 
The mechanism of action in indications other than replacement therapy is not fully elucidated, but 
includes immunomodulatory effects 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Main studies 
Study ZLB03_002CR  -  Primary Immunodeficiency (PID)  
The study was a single-arm open-label, prospective, multi-centre Phase III study to assess safety and 
efficacy of Privigen in PID patients.  
METHODS 
Study participants and treatments 
The  ITT  (and  safety)  population  consisted  of  80  patients,  while  the  PP  data  set  consisted  of  70 
patients. Privigen was administered as an intravenous infusion, every 3 or 4 weeks for a period of 12 
months, using an individualized dose regimen of 200 to 800 mg IgG per kg of body weight 
The patients received a total of 1038 infusions,  
 Outcomes/Endpoints and Results 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  to  achieve  an  annual  rate  of  acute  serious  bacterial  infections 
(aSBIs)  (pneumonia,  bacteremia/septicemia,  osteomyelitis/septic  arthritis,  bacterial  meningitis, 
visceral abscess) per subject (ITT population) of less than 1.  
A total of 6 aSBIs in 80 patients over the course of a year resulted in an annual infection rate of 0.08 
(the upper 1-sided 97.5% limit of the confidence interval was 0.182). Thus the goal set by the protocol 
was achieved and is clinically relevant.  
The  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  encompassed  days  off  work/school,  days  in  hospital,  antibiotic 
use, infectious episodes and general well-being.  
In the ITT population 53/80 patients missed 570 days resulting in an annual rate of 7.94 days (7.65 for 
PP). The mean number of days the patients were hospitalised was 2 (SD 10 days for ITT), the median 
was  0  (range  0  –  84  days).  The  monthly  average  was  0.16  days.  Of  the  166  reported  days  of 
hospitalization 116 were attributed to only two subjects. These rates are comparable to other IVIgs in 
the same population. The median number of days with antibiotic use was 25 in the ITT and 32 in the 
PP  population  (range:  0  –  361),  the  mean  was  78  and  81  days,  respectively  (SD  112  and  115).  The 
majority  of  patients  received  antibiotics  for  AEs  via  the  oral  route;  only  3.5%  received  antibiotics 
prophylactically. 
Other infections (mainly sino-pulmonary) resulted in an annual infection rate of 3.55; 66 patients had 
255  episodes  of  infection.  This  annual  rate  is  comparable  to  data  from  the  literature.  Although  the 
methods used to evaluate “other infections”, in the literature are heterogeneous, the data with regard to 
the proportion of subjects with any infection was 82.5% in the current study and 80.4% in equivalent 
studies.  
In a subjective rating score approximately 70-80% of the patients felt “fair, well or very well” for each 
infusion regardless of dosing schedule. 
Study ZLB03_003CR – Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)  
The study was a single-arm open-label, prospective, multi-centre Phase III study to assess safety and 
efficacy of Privigen in ITP patients.  
Page 21 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study participants and treatments 
Privigen was administered to the patients (n= 57, ITT and safety population; n=56, PP population) on 
two consecutive days, at a total treatment dose of 2 g/kg. 
The patients received a total of 114 infusions. 
Outcomes/Endpoints and Results 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the therapy response rate, defined as the percentage of subjects 
with an elevation of platelet count to > 50 x 109/L within 7 days. The endpoint is consistent with the 
requirements of the current CPMP Guideline on IVIg (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev.1) 
The primary endpoint (70% with platelets ≥ 50 x 109/L within 7 days) was met: out of the 57 patients 
included in the study, the proportion of responders was 80.7% (46/57) in the ITT population; this is in 
keeping with the rates from the literature and for similar products.  
The platelet response rate was higher in males than in females (95.7 vs 70.6%), this difference seems 
to be coincidental; both genders reach the required level of 70% response rate 
The main secondary efficacy end points were: 
- time to a platelet count > 50 x 109/L and duration of response: 
The  median  maximum  platelet  count  achieved  was  154  x  109/L.  The  median  time  to  reach  this 
maximum  level  was  6  days.  The  median  time  to  reach  response  was  2.5  days  after  start  of  study 
medication,  43%  of  the  subjects  reached  response  after  1  day  and  75%  of  the  subjects  reached 
response after 5 days. The median interpolated duration of platelet response was 15.4 days.  
- regression of haemorrhages:  
The overall haemorrhage regression rate was 86.1%; out of the 15 patients who responded but had a 
worsening of bleeding status, 2/15 had not yet reached “response” at the time of worsening and 11/15 
had  values  below  55  x  109/L  at  the  time  of  the  bleeding  event,  2/15  had  bleeding  despite  adequate 
platelet levels which were mild in character and of short duration. Given these explanations and the 
overall response rate of 80.7%, these isolated bleeding events in responders are acceptable. 
According  to  the  current  NfG  (CPMP/BPWG/859/95  rev.1)  indications  for  use  in  Guillain  Barre’ 
syndrome,  Kawasaki  disease  and  allogeneic  bone  marrow  transplantation  can  be  accepted  without 
specific  clinical  trial  data  provided  that  efficacy  in  patients  with  primary  immunodeficiency 
syndromes and in patients with ITP is established. 
Clinical safety 
In both efficacy clinical studies (PID Study  ZLB03_002CR and ITP  Study ZLB03_003CR) safety 
analyses  were  carried  out  on  the  safety  data  set  (SDS),  which  was  identical  to  the  intention-to-treat 
(ITT) data set.  
Patients exposure 
• 
A  total  of  137  patients  (80  PID,  57  ITP)  were  exposed  to  1152  Privigen  infusions  (1038  PID,  114 
ITP). The extent of exposure for PID patients varied from a single administration up to 17 infusions 
administered over a 12-month period; all 57 ITP patients received 2 infusions over 2 consecutive days. 
Data  from  all  centres  that  participated  in  this  study  were  pooled  to  provide  an  adequate  number  of 
subjects  available  for  analysis;  this  more  than  fulfils  the  Guideline  (CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.1) 
which requires 30 patients or 180 infusions. 
Adverse events 
• 
Safety variables comprised the rate, severity and relatedness of AEs (including treatment emergent = 
TEAE  and  temporally  associated  adverse  events  =  TempAssocAEs),  changes  to  baseline  in  routine 
laboratory  parameters  (chemistry,  haematology,  urinalysis),  in  viral  safety  markers,  in  physical 
Page 22 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
examination results, in vital sign during each infusion and also in serum concentrations of L-proline 
(excipient) before and after the first two infusions and prior to infusion 4 or 5. 
The majority of subjects in both studies experienced at least one TEAE: 78 of 80 subjects (97.5%) in 
the  PID  study;  52  of  57  subjects  (91.2%)  in  the  ITP  study.  Headache  was  by  far  the  most  frequent 
TEAE  in  both  studies  (67.5%  PID  and  66.7%  ITP).  Pyrexia/hyperthermia  was  reported  in  35%    of 
subjects in the ITP study and in 28.8 % of subjects in the PID study. Other TEAEs occurring in more 
than  20%  of  subjects  (PID  study  only)  included  cough  (33.8),  sinusitis  (31.3),  vomiting  (26.3), 
diarrhoea (26.3), pain (23.8), nasopharyngitis (22.5), and back pain (21.3). 
TEAEs by causal relationship (adverse drug reactions, ADRs) 
Thirty-three (41.3%) PID patients and 46 (80.7%) ITP patients experienced a TEAE that was at least 
possibly related to study medication (equivalent to adverse drug reactions (ADRs)). Headache was the 
most frequent ADR reported for subjects in both studies (30.0% PID and 64.9% ITP). Pyrexia was the 
only other ADR reported in more than 20% of subjects (14 [24.6%] subjects, ITP study). 
In the PID study, the overall rate of ADRs per infusion was 0.21. As expected due to the higher dose, 
the ADR rate per infusion was higher (1.53) in the ITP study; 70.7% of these ADRs were assessed as 
mild. The corresponding rate for serious ADRs was < 0.01 per infusion in both studies. 
TempAssocAEs 
In the PID study approx. 9% of the infusions were associated with a related AE occurring either within 
48 or 72 hours after administration. This has also been described for other IVIG products in the same 
population. The nature of the TempAssocAE was mainly headache, chills, fatigue and nausea i.e. side 
effects that are commonly related to IVIG treatment. As would be expected rates for TempAssocAEs 
were  highest  within  the  first  3  infusions  and  reached  a  lower  plateau  after  the  fourth  infusion. 
TempAssocAEs did not show any distinct pattern of being related to infusion rate, thus the statement 
in the SPC under Method of administration “If well tolerated, the rate of administration may gradually 
be increased to 4.8 ml/kg bw/hr. In a clinical study in PID patients, the maximum infusion rate was 7.2 
ml/kg bw/hr.” is considered adequate. 
In  the  ITP  study  50  (87.7%)  subjects  experienced  at  least  one  TempAssocAE  and  46  (80.7%) 
experienced  at  least  one  at  least  possibly  related  TempAssocAE.  Twenty-seven  (84.4%)  of  the  32 
subjects  who  received  pre-medication  and  23  (92.0%)  of  the  25  subjects  who  did  not  receive  pre-
medication experienced at least one TempAssocAE. The overall incidences of TempAssocAEs were 
comparable to those of all TEAEs, with headache being the most common.  
Laboratory findings 
For both studies viral testing and laboratory values did not reveal any new safety concerns. However, 
in the PID study the direct Coombs’ test changed from negative at baseline to positive in 36 (46.8%) 
of 77 subjects during the course of the study.  In the ITP  study this occurred  at a rate of 21%. It is 
likely that the difference in the timing of the blood sampling in the PID and ITP studies explain the 
difference  in  the  rate  of  positive  Coomb’s  testing.  In  the  PID  study,  blood  samples  were  taken 
immediately post-infusion, whereas in the ITP study the sampling was performed later to evaluate the 
course of the platelet response. Differences in blood groups or batches administered did not seem to 
play  a  role.  It  has  previously  been  described  that  IVIG  can  cause  transiently  positive  Coombs’  test 
results  at  rates  comparable  to  the  current  study.  For  both  studies  no  evidence  of  haemolysis  was 
observed. 
Overall, no new safety signals could be discerned from the submitted data.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considers that the Pharmacovigilance System as described by the applicant mainly fulfils 
the  requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified 
Page 23 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any 
adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan.  
With regard to the issue of possible neurotoxicity of L-Proline arising from the pre-clinical studies a 
combination of intensified routine Pharmacovigilance activities and an appropriate wording of section 
5.3  of  the  SPC  were  proposed.  The  outline  of  the  intensified  Pharmacovigilance  activities  was 
submitted by the applicant and a final protocol is to be submitted 1 month after Commission approval 
of the MAA. 
To broaden the safety data base on the paediatric population, a special intensified Pharmacovigilance 
protocol has been proposed to uncover signals on relevant neurological effects. This dedicated Signal 
Detection  will  focus  on  spontaneous  ADR  reports,  including  cases  from  the  scientific  literature, 
concerning  Kawasaki  disease,  the  paediatric  population  and  neurologic  disorders  after  Privigen 
administration. Results of this dedicated signal detection will be documented internally and reported to 
the Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance on a monthly basis. Any confirmed signal will be reported 
immediately  according  to  all  applicable  rules  (especially  Notice  to  Applicants,  Vol.  9A).  Finally 
results will be filed regularly with each PSUR. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Undesirable effects (by decreasing 
frequency): 
Routine activities: 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including ongoing signal 
detection and PSUR analysis. 
Routine activities: 
labelling in SPC section 4.8  
•  Headache (very common); 
•  Nausea, vomiting, chills, 
fatigue, and pyrexia/fever 
(common). 
. 
Routine activities: 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including ongoing signal 
detection and PSUR analysis. 
Routine activities: 
labelling in SPC section 4.8  
. 
Important potential risks 
Undesirable effects with frequency 
"uncommon", which are regarded 
signals, whose causal association to 
Privigen has not been confirmed: 
•  Anaemia, anisocytosis; 
•  Dizziness, head discomfort, 
somnolence, tremor; 
•  Dyspnoea; 
•  Diarrhoea; 
•  Hyperbilirubinaemia; 
•  Pruritus, skin disorder; 
•  Back pain, neck pain, pain in 
extremity, musculoskeletal 
stiffness; 
•  Proteinuria; 
•  Chest pain, general symptom, 
asthenia, influenza like illness, 
hyperthermia, pain; 
•  A number of terms (PTs) from 
Page 24 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
the MedDRA SOC 
"Investigations" 
(Bilirubin conjugated increased, 
blood bilirubin unconjugated 
increased, Coombs direct test 
positive, Coombs test positive, 
blood lactate dehydrogenase 
increased, haematocrit 
decreased, alanine 
aminotransferase increased, 
aspartate aminotransferase 
increased, blood creatinine 
increased, blood pressure 
decreased, blood pressure 
increased, body temperature 
increased, haemoglobin 
decreased). 
•  Other potential risk 
•  Neurotoxicity of L proline in the 
paediatric population when used 
at high dose  
See below (missing information) 
Routine minimisation activities  
Labelling in section 5.3 
“Some published studies 
pertaining to hyperprolinaemia 
have shown that long-term, 
high doses of L-proline have 
effects on brain development in 
very young rats. However, in 
studies where the dosing was 
designed to reflect the clinical 
indications for Privigen, no 
effects on brain development 
were observed.” 
Page 25 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
Routine activities: 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including ongoing signal 
detection and PSUR analysis. 
Dedicated Signal Detection 
(monthly) on spontaneous ADR 
reports, including cases from the 
scientific literature, concerning 
Kawasaki disease, the paediatric 
population and neurological 
disorders after Privigen 
administration, according to a 
separate 'Pharmacovigilance 
Protocol'. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Important missing information 
Need to:  
 (1) Extend available safety 
database with a focus on 
neurological effects in the 
paediatric population, especially on 
the population where the highest 
single dose of Privigen is used (i.e. 
Kawasaki disease). 
(2) Identify and characterise more 
specific safety data on the use of 
Privigen in the following 
indications: 
•  Myeloma or chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia with 
severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and 
recurrent infections; 
•  Children with congenital AIDS 
and recurrent infections; 
•  Guillain-Barré syndrome; 
•  Kawasaki disease; 
•  Allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Based on the submitted data, the marketing authorisation application for Privigen is recommended for 
approval based on quality grounds.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  is  a  highly  purified,  unmodified  human  IgG  product  intended  for 
intravenous  administration  (IVIG).  Due  to  the  xenoreactivity  of  human  IgG,  the  normal  intravenous 
immunoglobulin Privigen was subjected to a limited programme to determine its pharmacological and 
toxicological characteristics. Privigen contains a broad range of antibodies specificities and is able to 
support  immune-functions  which  need  an  intact  antibody  molecule.  The  two  repeated  dose  toxicity 
studies for L-proline in the rat gave no indications for negative effects and revealed that the excipient 
L-Proline  has  no  evidence  of  bioaccumulation.  The  NOAEL  of  L-proline  was  the  high  dose  tested 
(1449mg/kg). The pharmacokinetics of L-proline was qualitatively and quantitatively similar in the rat 
and humans. The rat can be considered to be a suitable animal model.  
Page 26 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No repeat dose toxicity studies were performed with Privigen. This is acceptable since administration 
of Human normal immunoglobulin to animals can be expected to initiate the immunological response, 
which would interfere with the toxicity evaluation.  
Two repeat dose toxicity studies (5-day and 28-day) with high doses of L-Proline were conducted in 
rats by continuous i.v. infusion. There were no unscheduled deaths or treatment related clinical signs. 
For L-proline, a NOAEL of 1449 mg/kg bw/day, the highest dose assessed, was defined. 
Privigen  is  formulated  at  a  slightly  acidic  pH  (4.8)  in  the  presence  of  250  mmol/L  L-proline  as 
stabilizer  for  IgG  in  solution.  In  a  study  in  rabbits  Privigen  was  locally  well  tolerated  after 
subcutaneous application and the local tolerance was similar to saline and higher when compared to 
other IVIG preparations at higher protein concentrations formulated at nearly physiological pH (6.8).. 
In addition, Privigen showed acceptable local tolerance after intravenous (i.v.), paravenous (p.v.) and 
intra-arterial (i.a.) application in a second local tolerance study. 
The  absence  of  direct  genotoxicity  has  been  demonstrated  for  L-proline  in  combination  with 
nicotinamide  and  L-isoleucine  using  a  variety  of  assays.  A  rat  teratogenicity  study  using  L-proline 
alone  revealed  no  evidence  of  embryotoxicity  or  teratogenicity  at  the  tested  dose  of  1449  mg  L-
proline/kg/day. Privigen did not cause significant local tolerance reactions. The questions of residual 
solvents were sufficiently addressed and gave no reasons for concern from the preclinical experience. 
Due to the vast experience with immunoglobulin products, the protein nature of the product and the 
results  of  the  submitted  data,  the  limited  programme  to  characterise  Privigen  is  considered  as 
acceptable.  
Efficacy 
Two  studies  were  performed  for  the  evaluation  of  clinical  efficacy  (one  PID  Study  ZLB03_002CR, 
one ITP Study ZLB03_003CR). For the PID study the infection rates were examined and in the ITP 
study numbers of responders and thrombocyte levels were investigated. 
The data were well presented and the study reports were of good quality. The study designs comply 
with the current standards requested by the Guideline (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 2). 
Safety 
In general, the safety profile of the product is in keeping with other IVIgs and no new safety could be 
discerned  from  the  submitted  data;  the  adverse  reactions  to  IVIgs  are  well  known  and  have  been 
described in the SPC. With respect to viral safety, viral and prion clearance have been demonstrated. 
The discussion on the possible neurotoxicity of L-Proline has been addressed in the Section 5.3. of the 
SPC and has led to the proposal of intensified Pharmacovigilance activities. 
The  proposed  PIL  complies  with  the  Directive  2001/83/EC  as  amended  by  Council  Directive 
2004/27/EC and adhere to the current EMEA QRD template and to the Notice to Applicants Volume 
2C (“Guideline on the Readability of the Label and Package Leaflet of Medicinal Products for Human 
Use”). None of the questions resulted in a legibility or comprehensibility of lower than 90%. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Clinical context 
Privigen is a concentrated (100 g/L) liquid immunoglobulin product for intravenous use (IVIg). The 
product  is  formulated  with  250  mmol/L  L-proline  at  pH  4.8.  The  IgA  content  is  typically  below  25 
mg/L. Other serum proteins are present in trace amounts. 
The  claimed  indications  are:  a)  Replacement  therapy  in  primary  immunodeficiency  syndromes, 
myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  with  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinaemia  and 
recurrent 
infections;  and  b) 
Immunomodulation in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of 
bleeding or prior to surgery to correct the platelet count, Guillain Barré syndrome, Kawasaki disease 
and c) Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. These are currently considered established indications 
and are listed in the core SPC for IVIg (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1). 
infections,  and  children  with  congenital  AIDS  and  recurrent 
Page 27 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit 
With  respect  to  clinical  efficacy,  two  clinical  trials  were  performed,  one  (ZLB03_002CR)  for 
replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  Primary  Immunodeficiency  Disease  (PID)  and  another 
(ZLB03_003CR) for immuomodulation in patients with Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP). 
The  correct  patient  population  (primary  immunodeficiency  syndromes  (PID),  and  patients  with 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)) was included in the studies; the doses administered to the 
PID  and  ITP  patients  were  adequate  to  maintain  protective  IgG  trough  levels  and  platelet  counts 
respectively. In the PID population relevant, serious bacterial infections were kept under the ≥1 year 
level. 
According  to  the  NfG  for  the  clinical  investigation  of  IVIg  (CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.1), 
demonstration  of  efficacy  in  PID  would  apply  to  all  types  of  primary  immunodeficiencies  due  to 
deficiency of functional IgG.  
Furthermore, according to the current NfG (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1): 
o 
indications for replacement therapy in myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with severe 
secondary  hypogammaglobulinaemia  and  recurrent  infections,  and  replacement  therapy  in 
children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections can be accepted without specific clinical 
trial data provided that efficacy in patients with primary immunodeficiency syndromes has been 
established. 
indications for use in Guillain Barré syndrome, Kawasaki disease and allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation  can  be  accepted  without  specific  clinical  trial  data  provided  that  efficacy  in 
patients with primary immunodeficiency syndromes and in patients with ITP is established. 
o 
In general, the results for the clinical pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety obtained from the clinical 
studies are in keeping with those reported in the literature and in other studies with similar products. 
They also fully comply with the current standards requested by the European Note for Guidance for 
the clinical investigation of IVIg (CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1). 
Risks 
No  new  safety  could  be  discerned  from  the  submitted  data;  the  adverse  reactions  to  IVIgs  are  well 
known and have been described in the SPC. The discussion on the possible neurotoxicity of L-Proline 
has led to a rewording in Section 5.3. of the SPC and the proposal of intensified Pharmacovigilance 
activities. With respect to viral safety, viral and prion clearance have been demonstrated.  
Balance 
The overall benefit/risk assessment of Privigen is positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Privigen in the treatment of  
Replacement therapy in 
• 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
−  
−  
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
Page 28 of 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
−  
−   Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections 
• 
• 
Immunomodulation 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children and adults at high risk of bleeding or prior to 
surgery to correct the platelet count 
• 
Guillain-Barré syndrome 
• 
Kawasaki disease 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Page 29 of 29 
 
 
 
 
