06 November 2014 
EMA/734305/2014 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004,  
Invented name(s): Corlentor and Procoralan 
INN: ivabradine 
Procedure numbers: 
Corlentor EMEA/H/A20/1404/C/000598/0031 
Procoralan EMEA/H/A20/1404/C/000597/0032 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all information of a 
commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1. The SIGNIFY study ............................................................................................ 4 
2.1.2. Discussion of the SIGNIFY study results ............................................................... 7 
2.2. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................. 10 
2.3. Product Information ............................................................................................ 11 
3. Consultation with the Scientific Advisory Group .................................... 11 
4. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment .................................... 13 
5. Action Plan ............................................................................................ 14 
6. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................. 14 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
On 30 April 2014, the EMA received from the MAH a communication on the preliminary results of the 
SIGNIFY1 study. The SIGNIFY is a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-
controlled, event-driven study which was designed to test the hypothesis that heart rate lowering with 
ivabradine reduces cardiovascular (CV) event rates in patients with stable coronary artery disease 
(CAD) without clinical heart failure. This study used doses of ivabradine higher than the currently 
recommended in the product information (starting dose in SIGNIFY: 7.5 mg twice daily [5 mg twice 
daily if age≥75 years], that could be increased up to 10 mg twice daily). 
In the whole population (n=19102), ivabradine did not significantly affect the primary composite 
endpoint (PCE) or its individual components (CV death and non-fatal myocardial infarction). However, 
in the pre-specified subgroup of symptomatic angina patients (CCS class II or higher) (n=12049), a 
statistically significant increase in PCE was observed (HR=1.18; 95%CI [1.03-1.35]). Although not 
reaching statistical significance, similar trends were observed for the individual components of CV 
death and non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI). These findings appear contradictory with findings from 
previous ivabradine studies in patients with CAD. 
Given that the subgroup of symptomatic angina patients may correspond to the population of patients 
for whom one of the therapeutic indications for ivabradine is currently approved, the European 
Commission initiated on 8 May 2014 a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and 
requested the Agency to assess the above concerns and their impact on the benefit-risk balance of the 
centrally authorised medicinal products Procoralan and Corlentor (both containing ivabradine). The 
European Commission requested the Agency to give its opinion on whether the marketing authorisation 
for these products should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Ivabradine is a heart rate lowering agent with specific effect on the sinus node with no effects on intra-
atrial, atrioventricular or intraventricular conduction times, myocardial contractility or ventricular 
repolarisation. 
Ivabradine selectively blocks the f-channel in the pacemaker cells of the sinus node by entering and 
binding to a site in the channel pore. By inhibiting ion flow through the f-channel, ivabradine reduces 
the f-current (If) thus reducing the slope of the slow diastolic depolarisation phase of the action 
potential in the sinus node cells, thereby increasing the time required to reach the voltage threshold 
for action potential initiation. This in turn slows the spontaneous firing of sino-atrial node cells and 
therefore the heart rate. Electrophysiological studies in sino-atrial node cells have demonstrated that, 
at therapeutic doses, ivabradine does not act on any other cardiac ion currents (IK, ICaL or ICaT). 
Ivabradine exerts a pure heart rate lowering effect without any direct effect on myocardial contractility 
and relaxation, cardiac output, coronary haemodynamics, blood pressure and peripheral resistance. 
Since the Marketing Authorisation for both medicinal products was granted and up until 25 October 
2013, the estimated exposure to ivabradine in EU countries is 1,194,720 patient-years and 
approximately 0.4 million patient-years outside the EU. The product is authorised as 5 mg and 7.5 mg 
tablets. 
1   Study assessInG the morbi-mortality beNefits of the If inhibitor ivabradine in patients with coronary arterY disease. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Regulatory history  
Ivabradine was granted a marketing authorisation in October 2005 for the indication “symptomatic 
treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in patients with normal sinus rhythm, who have a 
contraindication or intolerance for beta-blockers”.  
On the basis of efficacy and safety data from studies that became available after the initial marketing 
authorisation including the BEAUTIFUL2 study, the indication was extended in October 2009 to include 
combination with beta-blockers in patients whose angina is inadequately controlled with an optimal 
beta-blocker dose and whose heart rate is >60 bpm. In angina, the usual recommended starting dose 
of ivabradine is 5 mg twice daily (b.i.d) and 2.5 mg b.i.d. for patients over 75 years of age. After three 
to four weeks of treatment, the dose may be increased to 7.5 mg twice daily depending on the 
therapeutic response.  
In February 2012, ivabradine was approved for the treatment of heart failure in the European Union 
based on the results of the SHIFT3 study. This indication concerns use in chronic heart failure New York 
Heart Association (NYHA) class II to IV with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus rhythm with heart 
rate ≥75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-
blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated.  
Ivabradine is approved for use in 102 countries worldwide for the treatment of chronic stable angina 
and 88 countries for the treatment of chronic heart failure. 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
This review was triggered on the basis of the preliminary results of the SIGNIFY study. The full clinical 
study report was provided during the current review and the study results were published4 while the 
review was ongoing.  
2.1.1.  The SIGNIFY study 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to demonstrate the superiority of ivabradine compared to placebo in the 
reduction of CV mortality or non-fatal MI (composite endpoint). 
The secondary objectives were to assess the effect of ivabradine compared to placebo in the reduction 
of the non-composite endpoints, including all-cause mortality, CV mortality, coronary death, non-fatal 
MI, coronary revascularisation (elective or not), elective coronary revascularisation, new onset or 
worsening heart failure; as well as on other composite endpoints. 
Other objectives included the change in angina symptoms using the classification of the Canadian 
Cardiovascular Society (CCS) in patients with angina symptoms at baseline; change in heart rate; and 
the assessment of safety. 
Methodology 
The target population was adult patients with stable CAD without clinical heart failure, receiving all 
treatments appropriate to their CV condition. 
2   MorBidity-mortality EvAlUaTion of the If inhibitor ivabradine in patients with coronary disease and left ventricULar 
dysfunction. 
3   Systolic Heart failure treatment with the If inhibitor ivabradine Trial. 
4   Fox K, et al. Ivabradine in stable coronary artery disease without clinical failure. N Engl J Med 2014;371:1091-9.   
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 4 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, international, event-driven, 
morbidity-mortality study, with two parallel and balanced treatment arms conducted at 1139 centres in 
51 countries. The randomisation was stratified by centre and on whether or not the patients were in 
CCS class II or higher at selection and inclusion visits. The study has been designed to continue until at 
least 1070 primary events had occurred and the last patients included had been followed-up for 18 
months. 
Diagnosis and main criteria for inclusion 
The main selection and inclusion criteria were: male or female aged ≥ 55 years, evidence of CAD, 
sinus rhythm and resting heart rate ≥ 70 bpm on 2 consecutive resting 12-lead ECGs performed at 
least 5 minutes apart, preserved left ventricular systolic function, ambulatory and in stable condition 
with respect to angina and on appropriate and stable doses of conventional CV medications, presence 
of at least one major CV risk factor or at least two minor CV risk factors and written informed consent 
obtained. 
The main exclusion criteria were: unstable CV condition and clinical signs and/or symptoms of heart 
failure in NYHA class II or higher, or hospitalisation for heart failure as a primary diagnosis within the 
last 12 months. 
Study drug 
At inclusion, patients received ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. or placebo, except for patients aged ≥ 75 years 
at selection (who were initiated at 5 mg b.i.d.). Follow-up visits occurred at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months and 
every 6 months thereafter. This study drug could be adjusted to 5, 7.5 or 10 mg b.i.d. according to the 
heart rate as measured by electrocardiography at every visit (target heart rate 55 to 60 beats per 
minute) and symptoms of bradycardia. If a patient was already on 5 mg b.i.d., study treatment was 
stopped if the heart rate was less than 45 bpm or if there were symptoms of bradycardia, or if they 
had a heart rate of less than 50 bpm that persisted at a newly scheduled control visit 1 week later. 
Following a run-in period of 14 to 30 days during which placebo was dispensed to patients in a single-
blind way, the active double-blind treatment period lasted from 18 months to 48 months. 
Disposition of patients 
The disposition of patients is shown in table 1. 
Table 1 - Disposition of patients in the SIGNIFY study 
The two groups were well balanced with respect to baseline characteristics. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of efficacy results 
There was no significant difference in the incidence of the primary endpoint between the ivabradine 
group and the placebo group (6.8% and 6.4%, respectively; HR=1.08, 95% CI [0.96 -1.20]; p=0.2). 
There were also no significant differences between the two groups in the incidences of the components 
of the primary composite endpoint (death from CV causes and nonfatal MI). No significant differences 
were also observed in any of the secondary endpoints. 
Several pre-specified subgroup analyses were performed and the only significant interaction identified 
was in the incidence of the primary composite endpoint in the angina CCS class ≥ II patients (RSANG) 
(table 2). 
Table 2 - Incidence of the primary composite endpoint and its components in RSANG 
Summary of safety results 
The summary of incidence of emergent adverse events (EAEs) by category and seriousness is 
presented in table 3.  
Table 3 - Overall summary of safety results in the safety set of SIGNIFY 
The safety profile was dominated by adverse reactions already described for the product, notably all 
forms of bradycardia (17.9% ivabradine vs 2.1% placebo) and phosphenes (5.3% ivabradine vs 0.5% 
placebo). Atrial fibrillation (AF) occurred in 5.3% of patients on ivabradine vs. 3.8% of patients on 
placebo during the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1.2.  Discussion of the SIGNIFY study results 
Efficacy of treatment with ivabradine has previously been shown in terms of symptomatic improvement 
in CAD patients with angina. 
An overall beneficial effect on CV outcomes could not however be demonstrated. In patients with CAD 
without clinical heart failure and baseline HR ≥70 bpm (SIGNIFY study (n=19102)), using higher doses 
than currently approved, the primary composite of CV death and non-fatal MI showed no significant 
difference between-groups.  
In the pre-specified subgroup of angina patients in SIGNIFY (defined as patients with CCS class II or 
higher), ivabradine increased the incidence of the primary composite of CV death or non-fatal MI 
(7.6% versus 6.5% with placebo, HR=1.18, 95% CI: 1.03-1.35, p=0.018) (table 2), a small absolute 
difference of 69 events was observed, mainly MI. Due to this small absolute risk, subgroup analyses 
are complicated. Nevertheless, several analyses were performed in an attempt to explore and explain 
the results observed.  
In SIGNIFY, the rate of CCS class improvement in patients with angina symptoms at baseline was 
significantly higher in the ivabradine group with 1589/6900 improved patients (23.0%) versus 
1256/6909 (18.2%) for placebo at the 3rd visit and was maintained at the last visit (36.8% in the 
ivabradine group versus 34.1% in the placebo group). 
Dose profile, influence on heart rate and PCE risk 
The randomised angina set (n=12049) consisted of 90% younger patients (<75 years) and 10% older 
patients (≥75 years) (figure 1).  
Figure 1 - Main dose profiles in patients aged < 75 years - randomised set angina 
patients 
The mean dose administered to patients aged <75 years in the ivabradine group was 8.3 ± 1.7 mg 
(median: 8.9). In the placebo group, the mean “dose” was 9.6 ± 0.8 mg (median: 9.9).  
In patients aged ≥75 years in the ivabradine group, the mean dose was 7.3 ± 1.9 mg (median: 7.3). 
In the placebo group, the mean “dose” was 8.9 ± 1.5 mg (median: 9.6). 
The  highest  reduction  of  heart  rate  was  shown  with  the  lowest  dose  of  ivabradine  and  the  lowest 
reduction with the highest dose (table 4).  
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 - 12  lead ECG heart rate achieved and heart  rate change  during the study 
according to the dose prescribed for the longest period 
From 40 bpm onwards, the lowest risk of PCE was observed with the lowest heart rate achieved (40-50 
bpm) and PCE risk increased with higher heart rate. Similarly, the greater the reduction in heart rate, 
the lower was the PCE risk.  
Table 5 - Primary endpoint in the ivabradine group according to the lowest heart 
rate achieved on treatment 
The absolute risk between ivabradine and placebo on the primary endpoint was 1% (7.6% in 
ivabradine versus 6.5% in placebo) in the angina subset (see table 2). Furthermore, in a dosage at 
time of event evaluation, most primary endpoints occurred at the highest dose (57.7%) compared to 
the 7.5 mg (26.4%) and 5 mg (15.9%), with similar results for the individual endpoints. In addition, 
the use of a nested structural accelerated failure time model seems to show an increased risk for 
“exposed to 10 mg” versus “not exposed to 10 mg” on CV endpoints (1.24 [0.88-2.10]), driven by the 
results in patients <75 years starting with the 7.5 mg dose (1.50 [0.93-2.40]), although results were 
not significant.  
Baseline heart rate 
Data from SIGNIFY seems to indicate that if patients were divided in tertiles of baseline HR, ivabradine 
is less beneficial in the patients with <75 bpm compared to patients with a higher baseline heart rate 
(i.e. >80 bpm) for the PCE. However, this analysis should be interpreted with caution as the p for 
trend is not significant and the same trend is not observed for the individual components of the PCE. 
When patients were divided in five groups according to baseline HR, such a trend could not be 
observed, however this analysis is hampered by the limited number per group.  
In the BEAUTIFUL study, in a pre-specified subgroup of patients with heart rate ≥70 bpm (N=5392) 
(interaction statistically significant p=0.030), it was demonstrated that the increase of baseline heart 
rate from 60 bpm to 70 bpm provides additional safety in terms of CV outcomes and particularly for 
PCE and MI (fatal or not) when comparing patients with baseline heart rate <70 bpm versus baseline 
heart rate >70 bpm: PCE: HR 1.13, 95% CI: 0.98-1.31 versus 0.91 [0.81-1.04], respectively, and for 
MI (fatal or not): 1.19 [0.91-1.56] versus 0.64 [0.49-0.84], respectively. Similar results were 
observed in the subgroup of patients with limiting angina symptoms at baseline (N=1507); PCE: 0.85 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[0.57-1.26] versus 0.69 [0.47-1.01], respectively, and MI (fatal or not): 0.86 [0.49-1.50] versus 0.27 
[0.11-0.66], respectively. 
Heart rate achieved on treatment 
In SIGNIFY, patients who achieved a heart rate <50 bpm during treatment with ivabradine had a non-
significant increased risk of CV outcomes when compared to placebo, although this finding was based 
on a limited number of patients. The majority of the patients with a primary composite endpoint had 
their lowest heart rate (<50) more than 6 months before the occurrence of the event. No difference in 
the reduction in mean heart rate was observed when matching patients treated with ivabradine with MI 
compared to patients treated with ivabradine without MI. In addition, no clear trend is observed for 
this mean heart rate in relation to the treatment effect for the primary composite endpoint, with 
inconsistent results for the individual components of the primary composite endpoint. In a time-
varying Cox model, a trend for a higher risk for patients achieving a low heart rate could not be 
observed.  
Interaction with CYP 3A4 inhibitors with heart rate reducing properties 
The metabolism of ivabradine occurs via CYP 3A4 only. Ivabradine is a competitive but very weak 
inhibitor of CYP 3A4 and as such it does not influence the pharmacokinetics of other substrates of CYP 
3A4 (mild, moderate or strong inhibitors). However, the pharmacokinetics of ivabradine is modified by 
strong and moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitors. Strong inhibitors like ketoconazole or macrolide antibiotics 
may increase the exposure of ivabradine by 7- to 8-fold for the AUC and by 3- to 4-fold for the Cmax 
and are contra-indicated with ivabradine. Moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitors with heart rate lowering 
properties (diltiazem and verapamil) may increase ivabradine exposure by a factor of 3.  
The concomitant administration of moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitors with heart rate lowering properties 
(diltiazem and verapamil) was allowed in SIGNIFY and there were no specific instructions regarding 
ivabradine dose regimen in the concerned patients. A substantial number of patients (7.3% in 
ivabradine group and 6.9% in the placebo group) were receiving diltiazem or verapamil or strong CYP 
3A4 inhibitors at inclusion, or during the study. 
In patients having taken at least diltiazem, verapamil or other CYP 3A4 inhibitors during the study, 
ivabradine was associated with a significantly worse outcome for the primary endpoint (risk increased 
by 43%, interaction p-value=0.062) and non-fatal MI (risk increased by 64%, interaction p-
value=0.006). In the angina subset, the outcome was significantly worse for the primary endpoint (risk 
increased by 62%, interaction p-value=0.088) and non-fatal MI (risk increased by 88%, interaction p-
value=0.026). 
Despite starting with a higher heart rate, the incidence of bradycardia in the group of patients taking 
diltiazem, verapamil or strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors was higher than in the overall population: 20.4% vs. 
17.9%, respectively. 
Other potential statistical interactions 
In the SIGNIFY study, the effect of ivabradine on the PCE and its components for different angina 
classes remains uncertain. For the composite of fatal or non-fatal MI, there was a significant 
interaction between the effect of ivabradine and the angina symptoms at baseline for subgroups CCS 
class ≥ II versus CCS class < II. However, this was no longer significant for angina symptoms at 
baseline (i.e. in CCS class ≥ I) vs no angina symptoms at baseline (p-value for interaction p=0.78) and 
no trend was observed across the individual angina classes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
A low diastolic blood pressure (DBP) <60 mm Hg, reported at any time during the study showed a 
significant increased risk for MI (and also the primary endpoint) compared to the 70-80 mmHg 
category (2.09 [1.30-3.37]). However, from another analysis it seems unlikely that the PCE result 
could have been caused by a DBP <60 mm Hg as the majority of the patients with a PCE had their 
lowest DBP more than 6 months before the occurrence of the event.  
A low systolic blood pressure did not increase the CV risk. Also no relation between pulse pressure and 
outcome could be observed.  
In general, evaluation of several baseline characteristics for the secondary endpoints did not reveal 
any interaction which would identify patients at higher risk for treatment of ivabradine, except for an 
interaction of age on MI. Patients <65 years showed a higher risk for MI than patients ≥65 years with 
a significant p-value for interaction (p=0.035). 
No interaction for CV endpoints was observed for baseline use of amiodarone, dihydropyridine CCBs, 
and beta-blocker. Beta-blocker use during treatment also showed no interaction. 
Bradycardia 
Bradycardia and visual symptoms are the main adverse effects related to the mechanism of action. 
For the SIGNIFY study, bradycardia occurred in 17.9% (n=1703) vs 2.1% (n=202) patients, which was 
higher than in patients with HR ≥70 in the BEAUTIFUL trial (4.0% (n=109) vs 1.2% (n=31)) and in 
heart failure patients in the SHIFT study (10% (n=322) vs 2.2% (n=72)). 
For angina patients in the SIGNIFY study, bradycardia occurred in 17.9% on ivabradine and 2.5% on 
placebo, while in the subgroup of patients with angina and heart rate ≥70 in the BEAUTIFUL study this 
was 4.6% (n=16) and 1.7% (n=6), respectively. 
The use of a nested structural accelerated failure time model displayed a higher risk for bradycardia for 
patients exposed to 10 mg dose versus not exposed to 10 mg (E=2.54; 95% CI: 1.54-4.82), mainly 
driven by patients with starting dose of 7.5 mg as for patients ≥75 years of age, all starting on 5 mg, 
had a E of 0.57 [0.06-1.57] suggesting a more limited risk of emergent bradycardia on 10 mg dose 
when ivabradine is started at 5 mg dose. 
More bradycardia events on the 10 mg dose were demonstrated in 2 small parallel studies. One study 
with forced titration from 5 to 7.5 mg or 5 to 10 mg, showed respectively 2.2% vs 5.4% events of 
bradycardia. The other study comparing 7.5 vs 10 mg showed 6.5% vs 10.5%. This latter study also 
displayed a higher bradycardia incidence probably due to the higher number of patients on the 7.5 mg 
starting dose. 
Atrial fibrillation 
In SIGNIFY, AF occurred in 5.3% of patients on ivabradine vs. 3.8% of patients on placebo, during the 
study. In a pooled analysis of controlled double blind studies a significant increased risk for AF 1.26 
(1.15-1.39), with a higher frequency (4.86% vs 4.08%) was found. In the SIGNIFY study, for patients 
with atrial fibrillation on treatment, the proportion of patients with a subsequent primary endpoint was 
similar in the ivabradine group (11.5% per year) and in the placebo group (10.8% per year). These 
observations do not seem to provide a clear explanation for the observed increased CV risk in SIGNIFY. 
2.2.  Risk minimisation activities 
The PRAC requested the submission of an updated Risk Management Plan including a risk minimisation 
plan.  
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
A Direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) warning prescribers of the preliminary results 
of SIGNIFY was sent out shortly after the review was initiated. The PRAC considered that another 
DHPC is required to inform prescribers of the outcome of the review and of the new recommendations 
(see section 5. Action Plan). 
2.3.  Product Information  
The Product Information for Corlentor and Procoralan was revised to include the following: 
• 
In symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris, treatment should only be initiated 
in patients with HR ≥ 70 bpm. Treatment should be discontinued if the symptoms of angina do 
not improve within 3 months. 
•  Reinforcement of the recommendation not to exceed the authorised posology. 
•  Concomitant treatment with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with heart rate reducing properties 
such as diltiazem or verapamil is now contraindicated. 
•  Warnings added on measurement of heart rate, lack of benefit on clinical outcomes, and atrial 
fibrillation. 
•  Concomitant use of grapefruit juice (previously to be used with precaution) is now not 
recommended due to the potential for a pharmacokinetic interaction resulting in increased 
exposure to ivabradine. 
•  Update to the frequency of atrial fibrillation. 
•  A summary of the results of the SIGNIFY study has been added. 
Amendments have been introduced to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, and 5.1 of the Summary of 
Product Characteristics (SmPC). The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly.  
3.  Consultation with the Scientific Advisory Group  
The PRAC consulted the cardiovascular scientific advisory group (SAG) which provided advice on a 
number of issues. 
The SAG agreed with the Rapporteurs’ conclusion that there were no favourable effects observed with 
ivabradine on clinical outcomes and prognosis in patients with stable CAD without clinical heart failure 
in the SIGNIFY study. However the SAG pointed out that this is also true for other medicinal products 
for symptomatic treatment of CAD recommended by the European Cardiology Society (ECS) 
guidelines5. 
The Group noted the significant increase in the primary outcome in the pre-specified subgroup of 
patients in the SIGNIFY study (with angina pectoris CCS II or higher) using a dosage regimen that is 
not recommended in the current SmPC of ivabradine. While possible mechanisms to explain this 
observation such as low heart rate and low diastolic pressure have been discussed in detail, the SAG 
noted that this negative effect could be due to chance, given the overall neutral result of the study, the 
difficulty in proposing a clear pathophysiological mechanism, inconclusive results in subgroup analyses 
(age, angina grade, etc.) and the fact that this effect was not observed in previous studies with 
5   2013 ESC guidelines on the management of stable coronary artery disease; European Heart Journal 2013 34, 2949-
3003 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
ivabradine (no excess MIs in the SHIFT study). The low event rate was also considered to make it 
difficult to draw conclusions regarding mechanisms. 
Experts agreed that the results in this subgroup raise safety concerns and supported the 
recommendations regarding modifications to the SmPC (dosing, HR cut-off for starting treatment, 
addition of the contraindication for use in patients on diltiazem and verapamil). They also agreed that 
the highest dosage regimen in the SIGNIFY study (max 10 mg b.i.d.) could be partly responsible for 
the negative results and therefore should not be recommended and that the 50 bmp cut-off for 
diminishing the dose/stopping the treatment should be maintained, following the explanation that a 
proposed cut-off of 60 bmp could possibly lead to exclusion of “responders” that particularly benefited 
from this therapy. 
The SAG expressed concern about the considerable increase in AF rate in the SIGNIFY study. This 
observation is in line with former studies (in the pooled analysis of all controlled double blind studies 
with ivabradine a significant increase in risk of AF was found: OR 1.26 [1.15 – 1.39]). Albeit at a low 
absolute risk level for the observation period (4.6% vs 3.2%), it is likely that the true incidence of AF 
was higher - had it been thoroughly looked for by extended Holter monitoring -, which poses a major 
concern. The increased rate of fatal strokes in the pre-specified angina subgroup in the SIGNIFY study 
(26 vs 13 cases or 0.43 vs 0.22 % in the ivabradine vs placebo group) was discussed in this context. It 
was felt that though no proof for a causal relationship is apparent, AF might have contributed to the 
excess in strokes. However it is appreciated that the higher incidence of emergent AF on ivabradine vs 
placebo (4.6% vs 3.2%) did not translate into a higher incidence of CV events in this subgroup within 
the observation period of the study. 
Therefore, the Group recommended to modify the SmPC by including the information that doctors 
should specifically look for signs and symptoms of AF and if such are found, this should be investigated 
further. 
Given the results of the previous trials with ivabradine, the neutral results in the whole population 
studied in SIGNIFY, and finally the concerning findings in the subgroup of patients with angina CCS 
class II or higher, the Group agreed that there is a place for the treatment of symptoms with 
ivabradine in patients with stable angina pectoris (also with preserved left ventricular function). The 
SAG considered that the SmPC amendments proposed should help to diminish the risks observed in 
the SIGNIFY study.  
It was also highlighted that patients should be informed about the benefits and risks associated with 
ivabradine therapy. Significant effects on symptomatic improvement (CCS class improvement at 
3 months was significantly higher on ivabradine [23%] as compared to placebo [18.2%]) should be 
weighed against an increased CV death and MI rate (which was significant in the predefined subgroup) 
and against the increased rate of serious AF (3.5%, [1.7%PY] versus 2.4%, [1.1%PY]). The SAG 
extensively discussed the balance between symptomatic benefits and potential risks. While some 
members emphasised that in the main trial neither CV death nor MI rate was significantly higher in the 
ivabradine group, others felt that the safety signal from the angina ≥ 2 subgroup poses a major 
burden for this therapy. The risk of AF was, however, unequivocally seen as a concern. The Group 
supported the view of patients’ representative that the symptomatic treatment should not be 
prioritised at the expense of life expectancy. Hence the recommended measures to diminish the risks 
observed in the SIGNIFY study. 
Finally, the SAG agreed that the population studied in the SHIFT study was very different from the 
population studied in the SIGNIFY study (very high vs low risk for CV events; left ventricular ejection 
fraction (LVEF) ≤35% vs LVEF >40%; patients with NYHA class II/III vs NYHA class 0/I). The benefits 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
of heart rate reduction in patients with heart failure such as improved force frequency relationship, 
positive remodelling and others further distinguish the indication heart failure from the indication 
angina pectoris. Also, the dose regimen used in both studies was different. In addition, there was no 
signal of increased risk of MI in the SHIFT study. Therefore, the Group was of the opinion that the 
results of the SIGNIFY trial do not impact on ivabradine in the treatment of chronic heart failure. 
4.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Ivabradine, a specific heart rate lowering agent, has demonstrated symptomatic improvement of 
angina symptoms in patients with stable CAD. A large study in patients with CAD and left ventricular 
dysfunction (BEAUTIFUL study) could not demonstrate a benefit in terms of CV outcome. The SIGNIFY 
study  in patients with CAD without clinical heart failure using doses higher than currently approved 
also showed no benefit in terms of CV outcome, but demonstrated a small significant increased risk on 
CV outcome for patients with symptomatic angina (CCS class II or higher) in a pre-specified analysis. 
As the absolute risk is based on 69 events, the possibilities for further analysis to identify the 
contributing risk factors are limited. 
Although it does not fully explain the findings, a contributor to the increased risk of CV events appears 
to be the high starting dose and maximum dose used in the SIGNIFY study, exceeding the currently 
approved maximum dose. In patients titrated to the maximum 10 mg b.i.d. dose in the SIGNIFY study 
(higher than the current approved 7.5 mg b.i.d.), most endpoints occurred while on the highest dose. 
Patients exposed to the 10 mg dose seemed to be at increased risk of a CV endpoint in comparison to 
patients not exposed to the 10 mg dose based on a time model evaluation. In addition, the higher dose 
of 10 mg could clarify the higher incidence of bradycardia during the SIGNIFY study in comparison to 
other large studies with ivabradine, BEAUTIFUL and SHIFT. Patients exposed to 10 mg dose versus not 
exposed to 10 mg showed a higher risk for bradycardia (E=2.54 [1.54-4.82]), observation supported 
by data from two small parallel studies also using the 10 mg dose. This highlights the need to comply 
with the currently authorized posology. 
Although baseline heart rate ≥ 70 bpm was an inclusion criteria in the SIGNIFY study, data from the 
BEAUTIFUL study indicate a significant p-value for interaction for the primary composite endpoint when 
patient are divided around the 70 bpm cut-off level, although a significant beneficial effect was only 
observed for the MI endpoint in the heart rate ≥ 70 subgroup. Applying such a cut-off based on data 
from the BEAUTIFUL study is a reasonable measure to exclude patients who are likely to be at higher 
risk.  
Concomitant use of diltiazem/verapamil (which also have an additional heart rate lowering effect) and 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitors have also shown to increase the incidence of bradycardia events and the risk 
of MI. Concomitant treatment with verapamil and diltiazem is currently not recommended but this 
should be strengthened to a contraindication to minimize the risk of clinically relevant interactions. 
The increased incidence of bradycardia in relation to the increased observed CV risk upon treatment 
with the larger initial dose and maximum dose (as in the SIGNIFY study), or concomitant 
diltiazem/verapamil or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors indicate that the heart rate should not be extensively 
reduced. This is further supported by some of the data indicating that a heart rate <50 bpm is 
associated with a trend toward a higher CV risk. Therefore it is justified that ivabradine is discontinued 
or down titrated if the heart rate falls under 50 bpm. As a precaution, up-titration should only occur if 
the initial dose is well tolerated and the resting heart rate remains above 60 bpm. 
Other factors could not be directly related to a higher CV risk. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
The frequency of atrial fibrillation (AF) was more than currently described in the product information. 
However, AF was not related to the higher outcome risk as patients with AF in relation to the 
proportion of patients with a subsequent endpoint was similar for ivabradine as for the placebo 
patients. Nevertheless information monitoring of patients for AF needs to be reinforced. 
In a previously evaluated clinical study on the impact of grapefruit juice on ivabradine 
pharmacokinetics, an intake of 600 ml given as 200 ml three times a day for 3 days a moderate 
interaction level was observed with a 2.3-fold increase in ivabradine exposure. Given the importance of 
ensuring that patients are not exposed to higher than recommended dose of ivabradine, the currently 
existing warning on concomitant intake of grapefruit juice should be strengthened to avoid a potential 
pharmacokinetic interaction.  
The beneficial effect of symptomatic improvement of angina is considered of clinical relevance. 
However the results of SIGNIFY highlight the need to make it explicit in the product information that 
ivabradine use in CAD patients has no benefits on CV outcomes and it will only have an effect on 
symptoms of angina pectoris.  
In addition to CAD, ivabradine is currently also indicated for treatment of chronic heart failure on the 
basis of results from the previous SHIFT study. The potential impact of the SIGNIFY results in the heart 
failure indication was considered, but the two populations are substantially different in terms of 
underlying cardiac function and presence or absence of clinical heart failure. Also a lower dose and 
different titration method was used in the SHIFT study when compared to the SIGNIFY study. No risk 
factors identified in the SIGNIFY study had an impact on the beneficial effect of ivabradine observed in 
the SHIFT study. Therefore it is considered that overall, the results of the SIGNIFY study do not impact 
on the heart failure indication.  
The MAH will conduct a drug utilisation study to describe the characteristics of users of ivabradine, as 
well as describing the patterns of use of ivabradine and adherence to the risk minimisation measures. 
This will be a multinational retrospective cohort study that will collect data from medical record 
abstraction (chart review) for patients with chronic stable angina pectoris initiating treatment with 
ivabradine in routine clinical practice in selected European countries. The MAH is requested to submit 
within the agreed timelines, the final study protocol of the drug utilisation study. Due to the fact that 
the higher than approved dose used in the SIGNIFY study did not fully explain the findings of the 
study, it was considered key to benefit-risk balance to assess the effectiveness of the new risk 
minimisation measures and therefore this drug utilisation study is imposed as a condition to the 
marketing authorisation.       
5.  Action Plan 
As part of this procedure, the MAH and the PRAC agreed the wording of a ‘Direct Healthcare 
Professional Communication’ designed to inform prescribers of the amendments to the product 
information of Corlentor and Procoralan, to be distributed as per the agreed communication plan. 
6.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
The PRAC considered Procoralan and Corlentor (ivabradine) in the procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, initiated by the European Commission. 
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC reviewed all data presented by the MAH on the safety and efficacy of ivabradine, 
including the results of the SIGNIFY study, as well as the views expressed by the cardiovascular 
scientific advisory group. 
The PRAC noted that the data from the SIGNIFY study showed that ivabradine does not have a 
beneficial effect on cardiovascular outcomes in coronary artery disease patients without clinical 
heart failure, and therefore its use is only beneficial for symptomatic treatment. 
The PRAC also noted a small but significant increase of the combined risk of cardiovascular death 
and non-fatal myocardial infarction in a subgroup of symptomatic angina patients in the SIGNIFY 
study. The individual components of the endpoint were not significantly increased. Ivabradine was 
also associated with a significantly higher risk of bradycardia. The PRAC is of the opinion that the 
higher than approved dose used in the SIGNIFY study does not fully explain these findings.   
The PRAC considered that the increased risks observed can be minimised by reinforcing the 
recommendation not to exceed the authorised posology, excluding patients with a resting heart 
rate < 70 bpm who are likely to be at greater risk, recommending discontinuation of treatment in 
the absence of improvement in angina symptoms within 3 months and contraindicating 
concomitant use of verapamil and diltiazem.  
The PRAC further considered data on the incidence of atrial fibrillation, which is higher than 
previously recognised, and concluded that ivabradine treated patients should be monitored for the 
occurrence of atrial fibrillation to minimise the risk of atrial fibrillation. If atrial fibrillation develops 
during treatment, the benefits and risks of continued treatment with ivabradine should be carefully 
reconsidered. 
The PRAC concluded that there are clinically relevant benefits to the symptomatic treatment of 
angina pectoris with ivabradine.  
The PRAC is therefore of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of ivabradine remains favourable 
taking into account the product information amendments and subject to the risk minimisation 
measures and additional pharmacovigilance activities agreed.  
The PRAC has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Corlentor and Procoralan.  
Assessment report  
EMA/734305/2014  
Page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
