EMA/479655/2013 
EMEA/H/C/002465 
EPAR summary for the public 
Procysbi 
mercaptamine  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Procysbi. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Procysbi. 
For practical information about using Procysbi, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Procysbi and what is it used for? 
Procysbi is a medicine that contains the active substance mercaptamine (also known as cysteamine). It 
is used in patients with nephropathic (kidney) cystinosis. Cystinosis is an inherited disease in which 
excess amounts of cystine, an amino acid naturally found in the body, build up within cells, especially 
in the kidneys and the eyes, damaging them. 
Because the number of patients with cystinosis is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Procysbi 
was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 20 September 2010. 
Procysbi is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Procysbi is available in a formulation that allows for a delayed release of 
the active substance in the body. The reference medicine for Procysbi is Cystagon. 
How is Procysbi used? 
Procysbi can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started under the 
supervision of a doctor who has experience in the treatment of cystinosis. 
Procysbi is available as gastroresistant capsules (25 and 75 mg). Gastroresistant means that the 
capsules' contents pass through the stomach without being broken down until they reach the intestine. 
The recommended daily dose is calculated according to body surface area, as 1.30 g per m2 divided 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
into 2 doses given every 12 hours. Cystine levels in white blood cells (which are measured as nmol 
hemicystine per mg white blood cell protein), or alternatively mercaptamine concentration in the blood, 
should be monitored and used to adjust the dose, which should never exceed 1.95 g per m2 per day. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Procysbi work? 
The active substance in Procysbi, mercaptamine, reacts with cystine to form another amino acid, called 
cysteine, and a compound called a cysteine-cysteamine salt. The body is able to remove this salt from 
the cells. The amount of cystine in the organs is therefore reduced, and this limits the damage to these 
organs. 
What benefits of Procysbi have been shown in studies? 
Procysbi given every 12 hours has been shown to be at least as effective as Cystagon given every 6 
hours at maintaining the amount of cystine in white blood cells at acceptable levels (less than 1 nmol 
hemicystine per mg of white blood cell protein). In a main study involving 43 patients with 
nephropathic cystinosis, there was no meaningful difference between the average levels of cystine in 
white blood cells during a 3-week treatment with the two medicines. Levels were 0.51 nmol/mg with 
Procysbi, compared with 0.44 nmol/mg with Cystagon.  
What are the risks associated with Procysbi? 
The most common side effects with Procysbi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are loss of 
appetite, vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea, lethargy (lack of energy) and pyrexia (fever). For 
the full list of all side effects reported with Procysbi, see the package leaflet. 
Procysbi must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any form of mercaptamine or 
any of the other ingredients, or to penicillamine. It must also not be used in women who are 
breastfeeding. 
Why is Procysbi approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Procysbi’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP noted 
that Procysbi was shown to be at least as effective as Cystagon at maintaining the amount of cystine in 
white blood cells at acceptable levels. The Committee also considered that the gastroresistant 
formulation, due to its less frequent administration, is expected to increase compliance with treatment 
and the quality of life of patients with cystinosis. Regarding its safety, the CHMP considered that the 
safety profile of mercaptamine is well established and the safety of Procysbi is expected to be similar 
to that of the reference medicine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Procysbi? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Procysbi is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Procysbi, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Procysbi  
EMA/479655/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
In addition, the company that markets Procysbi will provide educational material to all doctors 
expected to prescribe the medicine, containing important safety information including the risk that the 
medicine may be harmful to the unborn child. 
Other information about Procysbi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Procysbi on 06.09.2013.  
The full EPAR for Procysbi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Procysbi, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Procysbi can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2013. 
Procysbi  
EMA/479655/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
