Part VI:  Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of risk management plan for PROCYSBI (cysteamine bitartrate, also called mercaptamine 
bitartrate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for PROCYSBI. The RMP details important risks of 
PROCYSBI,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
PROCYSBI's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
PROCYSBI's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how PROCYSBI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for PROCYSBI should be read in the context of all this information, including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of PROCYSBI's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
PROCYSBI is authorised for the treatment of nephropathic cystinosis (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains cysteamine bitartrate (also called mercaptamine bitartrate) as the active substance and it is given by 
oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  PROCYSBI’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  PROCYSBI’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/procysbi: link to product’s EPAR summary landing 
page on the EMA webpage. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of PROCYSBI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about PROCYSBI 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the medicine 
is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a medicine is  supplied to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or  without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and  regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information that may affect  the  safe use of  PROCYSBI  is  not yet  available, it is listed  under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A.  A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of PROCYSBI are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
PROCYSBI. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Leukopenia  
•  Teratogenicity 
•  Fibrosing colonopathy 
Missing information 
•  Somatostatin level reduction and associated hormonal, behavioural or 
cognitive consequences 
II.B.  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Leukopenia 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence  source:  scientific  literature,  available  data  on  immediate-
release cysteamine, post-marketing data. 
Strength of evidence:  
Cumulatively, 9 relevant case reports (including 10 events, 6 serious and 
4  non-serious)  pertaining  to  this  risk  have  been  received  among 
approximately  the  809  patients  exposed  to  PROCYSBI  in  the  post-
marketing setting. The following PTs were included: White blood cell 
count  decreased  (n=5),  Leukopenia  (n=3),  Agranulocytosis  (n=1), 
Pancytopenia (n=1).  
In 2 cases, WBC results were reported in context of PROCYSBI dosing 
and likely refer to WBC cystine levels, a parameter used for monitoring 
and dose titration in patients treated with PROCYSBI. These 2 cases are 
therefore not considered for this risk. 
Five cases were confounded by immunosuppressive therapy in the post-
transplant setting. 
Two  remaining  cases  including  the  relevant  PTs  Pancytopenia  and 
Leukopenia provided only limited information on the events and lacked 
details on diagnostic work-up. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Mostly transplanted patients. It should be taken into account that a high 
portion  of  nephropathic  cystinosis  patients  develop  end  stage  renal 
receive 
disease 
transplantation, 
undergo 
kidney 
thus 
and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Leukopenia 
Risk minimisation measures 
immunosuppressive  agents  which  may  be  causative  of  bone  marrow 
suppression and leukopenia. 
Of note, patients who have renal insufficiency or bacteraemia at the time 
of presentation have a significantly higher mortality (Julia et al., 1991) 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 
•  PL section 2 
•  Treatment under supervision of experienced physician 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None  
Important potential risk: Teratogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Evidence source: non-clinical data. 
Strength  of  evidence:  Animal  studies  have  shown  embryo  foetotoxic 
effects, including teratogenesis. 
First trimester of pregnancy. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.3, 4.4, 4.6, 5.3 
•  Before  starting  PROCYSBI  in  a  woman  of  child-bearing 
potential,  pregnancy  status  should  be  confirmed.  Patients 
should  be  advised  of  the  potential  risk  to  a  fetus  and  the 
importance  of  ensuring  adequate  contraception  while  taking 
PROCYSBI. 
•  PL section 2 
•  Treatment under supervision of experienced physician 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None  
Important potential risk: Fibrosing colonopathy 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: scientific literature. 
Strength of evidence: Eudragit L30 D-55, the ingredient in the enteric 
coating  of  cysteamine  in  RP103,  is  a  methracrylic  acid  polymer 
composed with two surfactants, sodium lauryl sulfate and polysorbate 
80.  Animal  studies  have  shown  that  methacrylic  acid  induces 
submucosal fibrosis (van Velzen et al., 1996) and there has been, to date, 
a  single  report  describing  the  incidence  of  fibrosing  colonopathy  in  a 
child  that  was  associated  with  the  ingestion  of  Eudragit-coated 
mesalazine for the treatment of ulcerative pancolitis (Prieto et al., 2009). 
Since a causal link could not be conclusively ruled out for methacrylic 
acid in this case report, the authors advised caution for the monitoring of 
related  events  due  the  relatively  small  number  of  patients  exposed  to 
Eudragit-coated drugs. Although rare, a dose-dependent lipase-induced 
fibrosing colonopathy has been reported in young children with cystic 
fibrosis treated with very high doses of pancreatic enzyme replacement 
therapy containing Eudragit (Smyth, 1996). Because the majority (53 to 
100  percent)  of  the  children  in  whom  fibrosing  colonopathy  has  been 
observed  were  taking  high-strength  pancreatic-enzyme  products,  the 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Fibrosing colonopathy 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
safety of the high-strength preparations was questioned. On the basis of 
a study of 14 cases of fibrosing colonopathy in the United Kingdom, the 
committee  concluded  that  the  risk  was  associated  with  high-strength 
products.  The  possibility  of  occurrence of fibrosing  colonopathy  even 
with lower doses has not been ruled out. 
Use  of  doses  higher  than  the  maximum  recommended  dose  of 
1.95g/m2/day; abuse; overdose. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 
•  PL section 2 
•  Precaution for assessment of unusual abdominal symptoms 
•  Treatment under supervision of experienced physician 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None  
Missing information: Somatostatin level reduction and associated hormonal, behavioural or cognitive 
consequences 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 5.3 
•  Treatment under supervision of experienced physician 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None  
II C.  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies which are conditions of marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of PROCYSBI. 
II.C.2. 
Other studies in post authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for PROCYSBI. 
 
 
 
