EMA/17925/2019 
EMEA/H/C/000597 
Procoralan (ivabradine) 
An overview of Procoralan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Procoralan and what is it used for? 
Procoralan is a heart medicine used to treat the symptoms of long-term stable angina (pains to the 
chest, jaw and back, brought on by physical effort) in adults with coronary artery disease (disease of 
the heart caused by the obstruction of the blood vessels that supply blood to the heart muscle).The 
medicine is used in patients who have a normal heart rhythm, and whose heart rate is at least 70 
beats per minute. It is used in those who cannot be treated with beta blockers (another type of 
medicine to treat angina) or in combination with a beta blocker in patients whose disease is not 
controlled by beta blockers alone.  
Procoralan is also used in patients with long-term heart failure (when the heart cannot pump enough 
blood to the rest of the body) who have a normal heart rhythm and whose heart rate is at least 75 
beats per minute. It is used in combination with standard therapy including beta blockers, or in 
patients who cannot be treated with beta blockers. 
Procoralan contains the active substance ivabradine. 
How is Procoralan used? 
Procoralan is available as tablets (5 and 7.5 mg) and it can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The recommended starting dose is 5 mg twice a day with meals, which the doctor may increase to 7.5 
mg twice a day or decrease to 2.5 mg (half a 5-mg tablet) twice a day depending on the patient’s 
heart rate and symptoms. In patients over 75 years old, a lower starting dose of 2.5 mg twice a day 
can be used. Treatment must be stopped if the heart rate is persistently below 50 beats per minute or 
if symptoms of bradycardia (slow heart rate) continue despite dose reduction. When used for angina, 
treatment should be stopped if symptoms do not improve after 3 months.  Also, the doctor should 
consider stopping treatment if the medicine has only a limited effect on reducing angina symptoms or 
reducing the heart rate within 3 months.  
For more information about using Procoralan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Procoralan work? 
The symptoms of angina are caused by the heart not receiving enough oxygenated blood. In stable 
angina, these symptoms appear during physical effort. The active substance in Procoralan, ivabradine, 
works by blocking the ‘If currents’ in the sinus node, the ‘pacemaker’ for the heart that controls the 
heart’s contractions and regulates the heart rate. When these currents are blocked, the heart rate is 
lowered, so that the heart has less work to do and needs less oxygenated blood. Procoralan therefore 
reduces or prevents the symptoms of angina. 
The symptoms of heart failure are caused by the heart not pumping enough blood around the body. By 
lowering the heart rate, Procoralan reduces the stress on the heart, thereby slowing the progression of 
heart failure and improving symptoms. 
What benefits of Procoralan have been shown in studies? 
Angina 
Procoralan was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) and other treatments in five main studies 
involving over 4,000 adults with long-term stable angina. The main measure of effectiveness was how 
long patients could exercise on a bicycle or a treadmill, which was measured at the start and the end 
of each study. Each study lasted three to four months. 
Results showed that the medicine was more effective than placebo in one of the studies in 360 
patients. It was as effective as atenolol (a beta blocker) in a study of 939 patients and as effective as 
amlodipine (another medicine used to treat angina) in a study of 1,195 patients. In a fourth study in 
889 patients, Procoralan was more effective than placebo, when both were added to atenolol. 
However, a fifth study in 728 patients showed that adding Procoralan to amlodipine did not provide an 
additional benefit. 
A sixth study compared Procoralan with placebo in 19,102 patients with coronary artery disease and 
without clinical heart failure. The main measure of effectiveness was a reduction in the risk of death 
due to heart problems and non-fatal heart attack.  
In this study, a specific subgroup of patients who had symptomatic angina had a small but significant 
increase in the combined risk of cardiovascular death or non-fatal heart attack with Procoralan 
compared with placebo (3.4% vs 2.9% yearly incidence rates). However it should be noted that 
patients in this study were given doses higher than the recommended dose (up to 10 mg twice a day). 
Heart failure 
Procoralan was compared with placebo in one main study involving over 6,500 patients with long-term 
moderate to severe heart failure. Results showed that Procoralan was more effective than placebo at 
preventing death due to disease of the heart or blood vessels or hospitalisation due to worsening heart 
failure: 24.5% (793 out of 3,241) of patients treated with Procoralan died or were hospitalised due to 
worsening heart failure, compared with 28.7% (937 out of 3,264) of patients receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Procoralan? 
The most common side effect with Procoralan (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is luminous 
phenomena or ‘phosphenes’ (a temporary brightness in the field of vision). Bradycardia (slow heart 
rate) is common (it may affect up to 1 in 10 people). For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Procoralan, see the package leaflet. 
Procoralan (ivabradine)  
EMA/17925/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Procoralan must not be used in patients who have a resting heart rate below 70 beats per minute, very 
low blood pressure, various types of heart disorder (including cardiogenic shock, rhythm disorders, 
heart attack, unstable or acute (sudden) heart failure and unstable angina) or severe liver problems. It 
must not be used in women who are pregnant, breast-feeding or by women who could become 
pregnant and who are not using appropriate contraceptives. Procoralan must not be taken with a 
number of other medicines. 
For the full list of restrictions with Procoralan, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Procoralan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Procoralan was shown to be effective in long-term 
angina with an acceptable safety profile for it to provide an alternative treatment for patients who 
cannot take beta blockers or whose disease is not controlled with them. It also concluded that 
Procoralan was effective in long-term heart failure with an acceptable safety profile. The Agency 
decided that Procoralan’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
For the treatment of angina, Procoralan was originally authorised for patients whose heart rate is at 
least 60 beats per minute. However, the use was later restricted to patients whose heart rate is at 
least 70 beats per minute.1 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Procoralan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Procoralan have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Procoralan are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Procoralan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Procoralan 
Procoralan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 October 2005.  
Further information on Procoralan can be found on the Agency’s 
website:  ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Procoralan.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018.  
1 In the context of a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. More information can be found 
here. 
Procoralan (ivabradine)  
EMA/17925/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
