European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 18 March 2010 
Doc.Ref.:  EMA/21672/2010 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Prolia 
International Nonproprietary Name: denosumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001120 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
3.1 
3.2 
3.3 
3.4 
3.5 
3.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 42 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 50 
Page 2 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Amgen  Europe  B.V.  submitted  on  09  January  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Prolia,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
The  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
The  treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  and  in 
women  with  breast  cancer  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving 
hormone ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7, the application included an EMEA Decision P/89/2008 for the denosumab on 
the granting of a product-specific waiver  in indication of bone loss associated with sex hormone 
ablative therapy. 
Pursuant  to  Article  7,  the  application  included  an  EMEA  Decision  P/47/2008  for  the  following 
condition:  
•  Treatment of menopausal and other perimenopausal disorders. 
. 
on the granting of a class waiver. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP for these conditions. 
Licensing status: 
The  product  was  not  licensed  in  any  country  at  the  time  of  submission  of  the  application.  A  new 
application was filed in the following countries: USA, Canada. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Tomas Salmonson  
Co-Rapporteur: Christian K. Schneider 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 09 January 2009. 
The procedure started on 28 January 2009.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  17  April 
2009. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 17 
April 2009.  
Page 3 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
During the meeting on 29 May 2009 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 29 
May 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  21 
August 2009. 
The  Integrated  Inspection  Report  of  the  GCP  routine  inspection  carried  out  at  the  following 
site(s): Argentina on 16-19 June 09, Brazil on 22-24 June 2009 and at CRO site on 26-28 May 
09 was issued on 17 September 09. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 02 October 2009. 
During a meeting of a Biologics Working Party on 12-14 October 2009 experts were convened 
to address questions raised by the CHMP. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22  October  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 09 November 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 01 December 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  14-17  December  2009  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Prolia on 17 December 2009. The applicant provided the 
letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  15 
December 2009. 
The applicant provided information of a case of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) from an open 
label extension trial in postmenopausal osteoporosis on 11 February 2010, and subsequently a 
report  on  this  case  was  provided  on  12  February.  The  Rapporteur  circulated  Preliminary 
Assessment Report on 16 February 2010 to all CHMP members. During the CHMP meeting on 
17 February 2010 it was decided to continue assessment and discuss final Assessment Report 
during CHMP meeting in March 2010. 
The applicant provided a data summary from study 20050103 on 17 February 2010 pertaining 
new safety information for denosumab and further also data from studies 20050136 and 
20050244.  
On 24 February 2010 EMA informed European Commission about new safety information and 
subsequently the preparation of the Commission decision was suspended. 
Preliminary Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 March 2010. This 
Assessment Report was discussed during PhVWP on 16 March 2010.  
During the meeting of 15 – 18 March 2010 the CHMP concluded that overall balance of 
benefit-risk remains positive. In the light of the information submitted and the proposed 
revisions of the Summary of Product Characteristics, Package Leaflet and Risk Management 
Plan the CHMP adopted a revised opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation for Prolia on 
18 March 2010.  The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 March 2010. 
Page 4 of 54 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.2 
Introduction 
Osteoporosis  is  a  systemic  skeletal  disorder  characterised  by  low bone  mass  and  micro-architectural 
deterioration of bone tissue, with consequent increase in bone fragility and susceptibility to fractures. 
Age and menopause are the two main determinants of osteoporosis. There are also other risk factors 
for osteoporotic fractures such as race, being underweight, hormone ablation therapy, dietary calcium 
deficiency,  sedentary  lifestyle,  alcohol  use,  family  history,  and  cigarette  smoking.  Compression 
fractures of the vertebrae and traumatic fractures of the wrist and femoral neck are the most common 
osteoporotic fractures, which cause a substantial clinical and economic burden for society. 
The  aim  of  the  pharmacological  intervention  is  to  decrease  the  incidence  of  fractures.  Intake  of 
adequate amounts of calcium and vitamin D and continuing exercise are basic preventive measures for 
persons  of  all  ages.  Earlier  approved  classes  of  drugs  for  this  indication  are  antiresorptive  agents 
(bisphosphonates,  hormone  replacement  therapy  (HRT)  and  selective  estrogen-receptor  modulators); 
the  parathyroid  hormone  analogue  teriparatide  that  has  an  anabolic  effect  on  bone  tissue,  and 
strontium ranelate that increases bone formation and decreases bone resorption. 
Denosumab represents a new therapeutic principle for the treatment of osteoporosis. Denosumab is a 
fully human monoclonal antibody of IgG2 subtype, inhibiting RANK ligand (RANKL),, which is an 
essential  factor  for  the  formation,  activation  and  survival  of  osteoclasts  (see  Figure  1).  Inhibition  of 
RANKL  is  a  possible  intervention point  to  interfere  with  conditions  with  increased  bone  resorption. 
RANKL production is increased when estrogen is decreased, as it is after menopause and in conditions 
of hormone ablation, leading to an increased bone resorption.  
Mechanism of action for denosumab. 
This application concerns the centralised procedure (Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, article 3(1) indent 
1 of regulation (EC) No.726/2004) as biotech medicinal product.  
It is submitted in accordance with Article 8(3) in Directive 2001/83/EC for a new active substance. 
Page 5 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditional approval, an approval under exceptional circumstances or an accelerated review were not 
requested. 
The claimed indication was: 
“The  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
The  treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  and  in 
women  with  breast  cancer  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving 
hormone ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures.” 
The approved indications are:  
“Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
Treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk 
of fractures. In men with prostate cancer receiving hormone ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the 
risk of vertebral fractures.” 
2.3  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Denosumab  is  a  full-length  human  monoclonal  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cells. 
Denosumab targets the RANK ligand which stimulates osteoclast differentiation. 
The  Prolia  drug  product  is  supplied  as  a  sterile,  preservative-free  solution,  intended  for  delivery  by 
subcutaneous injection.  
There are two presentations, a vial and a pre-filled syringe strength, both at a strength of 60 mg. The 
same  acetate-sorbitol  formulation  is  used,  except  for  the  addition  of  Polysorbate  20  to  the  pre-filled 
syringes.  
Active Substance 
Description of the drug substance 
Denosumab is a full-length human monoclonal antibody of the IgG2 subclass, consisting of 2 heavy 
chains, and 2 light chains of the kappa subclass. Denosumab contains 36 total cysteine residues, which 
are involved in both intrachain and interchain disulfide bonds. 
Each heavy chain contains an N-linked glycan at the consensus glycosylation site at asparagine 298. 
Each  light  chain  contains  215  amino  acids,  with  2  intramolecular  disulfides.  Each  heavy  chain 
contains 448 amino acids, with 4 intramolecular disulfides.  
Manufacture 
The manufacture of the drug substance takes place mainly at two sites: Amgen Inc. (ACO) located in 
Boulder,  Colorado  and  Boehringer  Ingelheim  Pharma  GmbH  &  Co.  Kg  (BI  Pharma  or  BIP  in 
Biberach an der Riss, Germany).  
Denosumab is manufactured by a batch-wise cell culture process in the production bioreactor followed 
by a harvest process using conventional unit operations (centrifugation and membrane filtration) and a 
purification  process  employing  several  chromatography  steps  (protein  A,  cation  exchange  and 
hydrophobic  interaction),  a  viral  inactivation  step  and  a  viral  removal  step.  Finally,  formulation  is 
made by means of ultrafiltration/ diafiltration.  
Cell line development 
Page 6 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Denosumab  is  a  full-length  human  monoclonal  antibody  and  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary 
(CHO) cells. 
Development genetics 
Lymph node cells from immunized animals were fused to create hybridomas. The hybridoma cell line 
was  identified  and  subcloned.  The  cDNA  encoding  the  light  chain  and  the  variable  portion  of  the 
heavy  chain  was  generated  and  used  to  construct,  intermediate  vectors,  which  were  transfected  into 
CHO cells. After subsequent rounds of subcloning, a clone was chosen as the manufacturing cell line 
and a Master Cell bank (MCB) was established. 
The generation of the cell substrate has been sufficiently described.  
Cell bank system 
A tiered cell bank system of Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) was developed 
and maintained in accordance to GMP and ICH Q5D guidelines. 
The Working Cell Bank (WCB) was prepared from a single vial of MCB according to an established 
manufacturing procedure and is used for manufacture in both manufacturing sites. 
Procedures  followed  in  the  preparation  of  MCB  and  WCB  have  been  appropriately  described. 
Validation was accomplished through an evaluation of performance parameters for the operations in 
the cell culture and harvest process. The cell banks are well tested with regards to safety and identity.  
Cell culture, harvest and recovery 
The  CHO  cell  culture  expansion  process  includes  vial  thaw,  primary,  secondary,  and  maintenance 
shake  flasks,  and  consecutive  cell  expansion  steps.  The  cell  culture  process  in  the  production 
bioreactor  proceeds  as  a  batch  culture,  one  cell-culture  batch  constitutes  the  basis  for  one  drug 
substance batch. There are no components of animal origin in the cell culture medium. 
Cell  culture  conditions  and  in-process  controls  including  viable  cell  density,  culture  viability  and 
microscopic  examination  are  tested  during  the  culture  expansion  and  at  the  end  of  the  production. 
Each harvest is sampled for bioburden, mycoplasma testing, adventitious virus and titre of denosumab.  
Purification process 
The  purification  process  of  the  cell  harvest  consists  of  the  following  chromatographic,  and  viral 
inactivation  and  filtration  steps:  Protein  A  chromatography,  viral  inactivation,  Cation  exchange 
chromatography, 
and 
Hydrophobic 
Viral 
Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration. 
chromatography 
interaction 
filtration, 
There are no formal control steps for intermediates in the drug substance manufacturing process, since 
the current validated product pool hold times are within the acceptable hold times established through 
process characterization. Clarifications on the different designs of hold time studies between the two 
sites (ACO versus BI Pharma) have been provided and the description of the manufacturing process is 
thereby acceptable. 
There are minor differences (equipment and medium component related) between the ACO and BIP 
versions of the processes. The applicant has committed to amend the ACO process in line with the BIP 
process  specifications  as  regards  certain  differences,  as  further  addressed  in  relation  to  the 
Comparability assessment. 
To  evaluate  the  robustness  of  the  process  and  to  develop  a  comprehensive  understanding  of  the 
process  to  support  process  validation  and  in-process  controls,  the  applicant  has  developed  a  design 
space,  classified  as  “Characterization  Range”,  “Acceptable  Range”  and  “Operational  Range”,  along 
with a control strategy, including a risk analysis of the process (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis; 
FMEA),  by  large  in  line  with  ICH  Topic  Q8,  step  4  Annex  to  Pharmaceutical  Development 
(EMEA/CHMP/ICH/518819/2007).  Amgen  is  not  requesting  registration  based  on  a  design  space 
concept, but the “design space” was identified for the purpose of process characterisation. The process 
Page 7 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conditions will remain within the “Operational range”, and any departure from this range will trigger a 
variation.  
Reprocessing  is  allowed  at  some  unit  operations  during  the  drug  substance  manufacturing  process. 
Reprocessing is not allowed in response to a failing adventitious virus or bioburden result. 
Manufacturing process development and validation. 
The  drug  substance  manufactured  to  support  the  initial  phase  1  and  phase  2  clinical  trials  was 
produced  at  the  clinical  manufacturing  site.    A  process  suitable  for  commercial  production  of 
denosumab and used in all pivotal clinical trials (Phase 3) was subsequently developed. 
Extensive  comparability  exercises  comparing  the  different  materials  showed  minor  quantitative 
differences in the glycosylation, size and charge profiles with no impact on the in-vitro potency of the 
drug substance and the comparative non-clinical PK/PD study in cynomolgus monkeys. 
During  scale-up  of  the  process  and  transfer,  minor  changes  to  the  process  related  to  up-scaling  and 
facility/equipment related have been made.  As regards the process as performed at the two authorised 
manufacturing sites, comparability was demonstrated by comparison of IPC data, batch data on drug 
substance, additional characterisation data and data of forced degradation.  
According to most of the analytical results, the materials derived from the two sites were comparable. 
However, a difference in charge profile was found in the extended biochemical characterisation in the 
comparability analysis. The root cause was found to relate to a component of the culture medium. The 
variant forms are clinically qualified, because the clinical experience of the C-terminal variants, spans 
the range of the observed variability. Nevertheless, the applicant has committed to further harmonize 
the process, as performed at the two sites. 
The manufacturing process has been validated using data from consecutive commercial manufacturing 
scale lots at the two authorised manufacturing sites. The process validation studies include validation 
of the cell culture operations, purification operations, and drug substance fill.  
The  results  of  the  process  validations  performed  at  the  two  authorised  manufacturing  sites,  provide 
evidence  that  the  cell  culture,  recovery  and  harvest,  and  purification  processes  consistently  produce 
Prolia drug substance that meets pre defined specifications. Some minor issues remaining as concerns 
process validation are agreed to be solved by follow-up measures post-approval.  
Characterisation 
The  biochemical  characterisation,  conducted  using  commercial  scale  material,  has  been  performed 
using state-of-the art methods.  
The primary, secondary and tertiary structures of denosumab were analysed by various techniques and 
conformed to that expected from the IgG2 antibody construct.  
The primary peptide structure of denosumab was characterized through the application of orthogonal 
methods  including  Edman  N-terminal  sequence  analysis,  peptide  mapping  studies  and  mass 
spectrometry.  
The  secondary  and  tertiary  structures  were  analysed  by  far  and  near  UV  circular  dichroism 
spectroscopy respectively. 
Characterisation of glycosylation indicated that denosumab  is N-glycosylated at a single site in each 
heavy  chain  Asn299.  The  N-linked  structures  consist  of  biantennal,  core-fucosylated  species  with 
galactose and sialic acid heterogeneity.  
The structures of minor product-related variants were also determined to an acceptable extent.  
Page 8 of 54 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data  demonstrate  that  process-related  impurities  are adequately  controlled  and  cleared  to  acceptable 
levels  by  the  commercial  manufacturing  process.  The  applicant  has  demonstrated  here  (and  also  by 
batch  analysis  data)  that  process  related  impurities  can  constantly  be  reduced  below  the  detection 
levels.  
Biological characterisation and immunological characterisation, including antigen specificity, has been 
made using adequate methods. The mechanism of action of denosumab is to bind RANKL outside the 
cell, and prevent it from associating with the RANK receptor.  
Different potency assays have been used in the biological characterization of denosumab. The potency 
assay has been shown to be stability indicating. 
In  conclusion,  the  characterisation  is  considered  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  guideline  on 
monoclonal antibodies, EMEA/CHMP/BWP/157653/2007.  
Control of drug substance 
The  methods  used  for  routine  control  are  deduced  from  the  characterisation  studies,  and  the 
specification limits are set in line with batch data, including batches used in clinical trials.  
The drug substance specifications include tests for appearance, identity, purity, adventitious agents, 
potency, and quantity. 
The  applicant  justified  not  to  include  specifications  for  some  impurities  based  on  1)  the  process 
characterisation and validation data, showing consistent reduction of these impurities to levels below 
or  comparable  with  the  drug  substance  material  used  in  clinical  trials,  and  2)  the  action  or  alert  in-
process controls in place for these impurities.  
Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and storage temperature conditions 
are in accordance with current ICH guidelines. The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the release 
specifications selected for stability indicating properties. 
Drug Product  
Composition, pharmaceutical development   
The  Prolia  drug  product  is  supplied  as  a  sterile,  preservative-free  solution,  intended  for  delivery  by 
subcutaneous injection. There are two presentations, a vial and a pre-filled syringe strength, both at a 
strength  of  60  mg.  The  same  acetate-sorbitol  formulation  is  used,  except  for  the  addition  of 
polysorbate 20 to the pre-filled syringes.  
The qualitative composition of the drug product is:  denosumab, sorbitol, acetate, polysorbate 20 (pre-
filled syringe only), sodium hydroxide and water for injection. 
In  order  to  develop  the  proposed  commercial  formulations,  screening  studies  were  conducted  to 
evaluate drug product attributes at accelerated temperatures as a function of pH, protein concentration, 
buffer type, buffer concentration, excipient type (polar or non polar) and excipient concentration.   
The applicant developed a polysorbate-containing PFS formulation that has demonstrated comparable 
long-term  stability  data  at  the  recommended  storage  temperature  of  2°C  to  8°C  and  the  absence  of 
particle formation. 
In the vial formulation translucent particles have been found in aged containers in the inventory of the 
clinical  material.  Isolated  denosumab-derived  particles  and  microbubbles  were  identified.  Since  the 
visible particles have been observed in a majority of the denosumab vial lots inspected, there is a high 
probability that denosumab-treated subjects in clinical studies have been exposed to visible particles. 
In  over  8,000  subjects  treated  with  denosumab,  no  neutralizing  antibodies  to  denosumab  have  been 
Page 9 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
detected and less than 1% of the treated subjects developed non-neutralizing binding antibodies which 
were mostly transient. 
During  the  procedure,  additional  information  regarding  particle  formation  in  vials  and  possible 
formulation  optimization  in  vials  were  requested.  Proteinaceous  particles  are  unwanted  in  a  drug 
product solution and should be eliminated as far as possible.  
As  a  consequence,  the  applicant  implemented  more  defined  criteria  in  the  inspection  and  testing 
procedure for evaluation of particle content. By the responses provided, and considering that the route 
of  administration  in  this  case  is  subcutaneous,  the  issue  on  the  control  of  particles  is  considered 
satisfactorily solved. In addition, the applicant has also committed to further characterize the effect of 
formulation  parameters,  on  the  propensity  for  low-level  particle  formation  in  the  60  mg/mL  vial 
formulation and to undertake further studies on alternative formulations. 
The pre-filled syringe is presented either with or without an automatic needle guard (ANG). Most of 
the clinical trials were performed using the vial presentation. The applicant provided in-use studies on 
the handling of the pre-filled syringe with the ANG device.   
Manufacture 
The manufacturing process is a standard aseptic process.  Formulation buffer is prepared by pooling 
the drug substance, adding polysorbate 20 solution (only for PFS) and diluting with formulation buffer 
to a target drug concentration prior to transferring into a surge vessel which is attached to the syringe 
filler or the vial filler. 
Drug product lots that do not meet the established release specification cannot be reprocessed. 
Comparability  studies  to  address  a  change  of  manufacturing  site  and  the  difference  in  composition 
between the vial and the pre-filled syringe were performed. Analytical comparability between the two 
presentations,  lot  release,  additional  product  characterization,  forced  degradation,  and  accelerated 
stability  studies  were  performed.  In  the  extended  characterisation,  the  two  presentations  have  been 
thoroughly compared side-by side using a wide range of biochemical and biophysical methods along 
with a comparison of the potency. The comparability program is considered sufficient, and, based on 
the results, comparability is considered acceptably demonstrated from a pharmaceutical point of view. 
Furthermore,  a  bioequivalence  study  and  an  immunogenicity  study  have  been  made  in  support  of 
comparability claim.  
The comparability of the materials filled at the two sites is also considered satisfactorily shown. The 
manufacturing process is acceptably validated.  
Control of drug product 
The specifications are primarily based on the batch and stability data derived from the batches derived 
from the drug substance process This is considered acceptable for the time being, taking into account 
that  the  applicant  has  committed  to  reconsider  and  propose  to  narrow  limits,  as  appropriate,  when 
more batch data has been gathered.  
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  performed  per  the  ICH  Guidelines  Stability  Testing  of  Biotechnological/ 
Biological  Products  (Q5C)  and  Stability  Testing  of  New  Drug  Substances  and  Products  (Q1A). 
Stability  studies  at  elevated  temperatures  have  also  been  conducted  in  order  to  assess  the  effect  of 
these conditions and to compare relative degradation rates. Furthermore, stability to light exposure has 
been  studied.  The  stability  protocol  includes  stability  indicating  specifications,  as  based  on  the 
biochemical characterisation. 
Stability data for the two presentations have been combined. This is considered acceptable, based on 
the comparability data presented including the similar stability profiles.  
Based on the presented data the claimed 30 months shelf life when stored at 2-8oC is acceptable.  
Page 10 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety as regards adventitious agents 
The applicant has provided a complete assessment  of the TSE risk for raw and starting  materials of 
animal origin, including associated Certificates of Suitability. The approach taken by the applicant is 
therefore considered acceptable. The mycoplasma testing is also deemed adequate. 
The  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  scale-down  models  used  in  the  execution  of  the  virus 
validation  studies  are  applicable  to  commercial  purification  process  operations.  All  chromatography 
steps  were  evaluated  in  the  viral  spiking  studies.  The  virus  validation  studies  are  deemed  well 
performed  with  adequate  design  of  interference  and  cytotoxicity  studies.  The  in  vitro  adventitious 
agent testing is found adequate. 
The overall viral clearance capacity was found to be high for the enveloped viruses and medium high 
for non-enveloped viruses.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Overall, information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product 
have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important quality characteristics. 
At the time of the opinion, there were some minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on the 
risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve them after the opinion within an agreed timeframe. 
2.4 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Denosumab  is  the  first  proposed  antiresorptive  therapy  for  osteoporosis  targeting  the  ligand  for 
RANK.  RANKL  is  together  with  its  receptor  RANK  and  osteoprotegerin  is  the  key  mediator  in  the 
pathway  involved  in  regulating  bone  resorption.  Denosumab’s  binding  to  RANKL  prevents  the 
RANKL-RANK  interaction,  inhibiting  osteoclast  formation,  function  and  survival.  Denosumab  is  a 
fully human IgG2 mAb and does not recognize rodent RANKL. Several studies have been conducted 
with  a  transgenic  huRANKL  knock-in  mouse  model  expressing  chimeric  RANKL  that  can  be 
recognized  and  neutralized  by  denosumab.  Since  denosumab  recognizes  and  neutralizes  RANKL  in 
non human primates, the cynomolgus monkey was identified as a relevant species and the main studies 
have been conducted in ovariectomized animals. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro primary pharmacodynamic studies 
In  vitro  studies  demonstrated  that  denosumab  binds  with  high  affinity  to  huRANKL  (Kd  3x10-12M 
which is comparable to huOPG-Fc) but not to muRANKL. These data support the use of huOPG-Fc as 
surrogate molecule in mechanistic studies. Denosumab did not bind to the other TNF family members, 
TNF-α,  TNF-β,  TRAIL  and  CD40L,  indicating  specificity  to  target.  Osteoclast  formation  was 
suppressed by denosumab in cell culture systems with huRANKL (IC50 of 10-14M), while no effects 
were detected on osteoblast proliferation.  
In vivo primary pharmacodynamic studies 
The huRANKL knock-in mice appeared to have a moderately high bone mass phenotype compared to 
wild  type  mice.  This  bone  phenotype  is  not  anticipated  to  have  any  implications  for  the  overall 
evaluation of denosumab’s mechanism of action. Denosumab caused reduction in bone resorption and 
increased volumetric bone mineral density in the knock-in mice.  
Page 11 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
A  fracture  healing  study  in  male  huRANKL  KI  mice  (R2006458),  suggested  that  treatment  with 
denosumab  delayed  the  removal  of  cartilage  and  remodelling  of  the  fracture  callus  compared  to 
control. Despite this finding, denosumab did not seem to negatively affect the overall biomechanical 
strength.  An  increase  in  torsional  stiffness  compared  to  control  and  an  increase  in  max  torque 
compared to contralateral bones were observed 42 days after fracture. These findings are mentioned in 
section 5.3 in the SmPC.  
The disease model in ovariectomized cynomolgus monkeys is considered a relevant model for the 
indication of postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
Summary of primary pharmacodynamic studies performed with denosumab in cynomolgus 
monkeys. 
Type of Study 
Test System 
(method, cell line, 
species/strain) 
Noteworthy Findings 
Report No 
Effects of denosumab on bone parameters in adult ovariectomized cynomolgus monkeys (16 month study) 
Female OVX 
cynomolgus monkeys 
n=20/group, SC 
injections, 0, 25 and 
50 mg/kg + sham 
operated vehicle 
controls, once/month 
for 16 months. 
Injections started one 
month after OVX or 
sham surgery. 
Samples taken post 
dose 3, 6, 9, 12 and 
16.  
As above 
As above. Scans 
taken post dose 3, 6, 
12 and 16. 
As above 
Effects on hormone 
levels (estradiol, 
PTH, 1,25-
dihydroxy-vitamin 
and 25-
hydroxyvitamin D) 
Effects on OC, 
sALP, CTx, NTx and 
TRACP-5b 
Effects on bone 
densitometry 
measured by DXA 
and pQCT  
Effects on 
histomorphometry 
(cancellous bone and 
cortical bone) 
Effects on 
biomechanical 
testing  
As above  
103981 
103981 
103981 
103981 
103981 
1. There were no effects of treatment with 
denosumab on estradiol levels. 
2. Significant increases in PTH were observed for 
both denosumab-treated groups following dose 3, 6 
and 16 when compared to OVX and/or Sham vehicle 
controls.  
3. For 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels a linear dose 
effect was noted for adjusted values post dose 3 and 6 
with values for both denosumab-treated groups 
significantly increased compared to OVX and sham 
vehicle controls. 
4. There were no effects of treatment with 
denosumab on 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels 
Treatment with denosumab at 25 or 50 mg/kg/dose 
resulted in significant suppression of all biochemical 
markers of bone turnover compared to OVX and 
sham vehicle controls on each post dose occasion.  
DXA: Both doses of denosumab completely 
prevented the OVX-induced effects at all sites 
evaluated compared to OVX and sham vehicle 
controls, positive gains in BMD were also observed. 
Both doses of denosumab fully prevented OVX-
related changes while reducing most values 
significantly below those of sham controls. Cortical 
bone turnover was also increased in OVX-vehicle. 
Both doses of denosumab fully prevented the OVX-
related changes while reducing labelled perimeter 
and BFR significantly below sham control levels. 
Denosumab significantly increased bone strength 
parameters compared to OVX and Sham controls. 
Disproportionate increases in bone strength relative 
to bone mass were observed at the lumbar spine 
following treatment with denosumab at 25 and 50 
mg/kg/dose and at the femoral neck at the 50 
mg/kg/dose group.  
Page 12 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on bone parameters in adult ovariectomized cynomolgus monkeys, transition from 6-months 
treatment with alendronate, a nitrogen-containing biphosphonate, to denosumab (12 month study) 
Summary of study design of report no 106564 
Phase I  
Group Number 
Dose 1 to 6* 
 /Identification 
Vehicle (SC) + PBS& (IV) 
1/Vehicle# 
2/Vehicle + denosumab#  Vehicle (SC) + PBS (IV) 
3/ALN& 
4/ALN + denosumab 
5/denosumab 
Phase II 
Dose 7 to 12* 
Vehicle (SC) + PBS (IV) 
Denosumab (SC) + PBS (IV) 
ALN (IV) 
ALN (IV) 
ALN (IV) 
Denosumab (SC) + PBS (IV) 
Denosumab (SC) + PBS (IV)  Denosumab (SC) + PBS (IV) 
Number of 
Females 
10 
10 
10 
11 
11 
* Relative to denosumab dosing occasions. 
# Denosumab (25 mg/kg) or vehicle used as denosumab placebo were injected SC once every 28 days.  
& Alendronate (ALN) at 50 µg/kg or Dulbecco’s PBS saline were injected IV once every 14 days. 
Female OVX 
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above.  
Female OVX 
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above. 
Female OVX 
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above. 
Female OVX 
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above. 
Female OVX 
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above. Bone strength 
measured at the 12 
month time point.  
Female OVX            
cynomolgus 
monkeys, study 
design described 
above. 
Effects on serum 
calcium and 
phosphorous levels 
Effects on PTH 
Effects on TRACP-
5b, sALP, OC and 
CTx 
Effects on bone 
densitometry using 
DXA and pQCT  
Effects on 
biomechanical 
testing  
Effects on 
histomorpho-metry. 
Biopsies of right 7th 
rib and right ilium 
were taken post dose 
6. After complete 
study also right 
proximal and central 
tibia, second lumbar 
vertebra (L2), left 
ilium and left 7th rib 
were analysed  
106564 
106564 
106564 
106564 
106564 
106564 
Denosumab caused a significant but transient 
hypocalcemia with corresponding change in 
phosphorus compared to vehicle controls for up to 14 
days. The maximum relative reduction in serum 
calcium compared to vehicle control was 15.2 %.  
Denosumab significantly increased PTH during 6 
months of treatment. PTH levels declined to control 
or baseline levels during the next 6 months. Prior 
treatment with ALN caused transient increase of PTH 
up to 72 hours post dose.  
TRACP-5b, sALP, OC and CTx were significantly 
reduced by both denosumab and ALN throughout the 
12-month treatment period. All markers were 
similarly suppressed during the latter 6 months of 
treatment with denosumab. CTx and OC were 
significantly decreased in the denosumab-denosumab 
group compared to the ALN-ALN group. 
As a result of treatment with denosumab and ALN 
significant gains in bone mass were observed most 
notably at trabecular bone sites. Pretreatment with 
ALN did not modify the response to denosumab.  
Denosumab and ALN caused significant gains in 
bone mass observed in both trabecular and cortical 
bone compartments.  
Denosumab significantly increased bone strength 
parameters at the lumbar spine compared to vehicle 
treated controls. There were no differences between 
the ALN-denosumab group and denosumab-
denosumab group. There were no statistically 
significant differences between groups at the femoral 
neck or femur. 
Endocortical and intracortical bone formation rates at 
the rib and tibial diaphysis were significantly 
decreased by 12 months of denosumab or ALN 
treatment, compared to vehicle controls which was 
associated with significantly lower levels of cortical 
porosity in month 6 and 12 rib biopsies. In cancellous 
bone, both denosumab and ALN significantly 
lowered mineralizing surface, mineral apposition 
rate, bone formation rate, and activation frequency 
relative to vehicle controls. Denosumab treatment 
significantly reduced osteoclast surfaces at all 
cancellous sites at month 12.   
No studies were conducted in a disease model for hormone ablation therapy in males. According to the 
guideline  on  the  evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  primary  osteoporosis, 
CPMP/EWP/552/95 Rev.2, gender-specific toxicity and efficacy should be extensively investigated in 
a relevant animal model. Bone efficacy endpoints were addressed in a toxicology study in male and 
Page 13 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
female  cynomolgus  monkeys  (102090)  but  few  animals  made  statistics  difficult.  However,  clinical 
studies in males have addressed the incidence of new vertebral fractures and these data supersede the 
lack of a non-clinical disease model in males. 
A  trend  towards  gender-specificity  of  the  pharmacological  effect  was  indicated  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys.  Effects  on  biochemical  markers  were  dose-dependent  and  shown  in  both  genders,  while 
significant and consistent increases in bone mineral content and density, cortical area and thickness as 
well  as  bone  strength  were  mainly  described  in  males.  The  pharmacodynamic  effects  on  bone  mass 
and  strength is  influenced  by  skeletal growth  rate, which  can  differ  between  genders  before  skeletal 
maturity. The Applicant further explains these differences to be due to the inclusion of a female that 
developed antidenosumab antibodies, to differences in baseline bone mass and to a greater rate of bone 
growth  in  adolescent  males.  An  inhibitory  influence  of  estradiol  on  RANKL  expression  and  on 
downstream  effects  has  been  published  and  in  such  circumstances  denosumab  would  lack  a  target 
which  could  partially  account  for  the  differences.  Furthermore,  the  results  in  ovariectomized  female 
Cynomolgus monkeys differ from the minimal effects of denosumab on bone mineralization, density 
and  strength  observed  in  gonad-intact  females.  In  this  context  a  potential  effect  of  estrogen 
supplementation  in  postmenopausal  women  on  the  efficacy  of  denosumab  could  be  an  issue  to 
consider. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
A study on bone growth and tooth eruption in neonatal pre-weaning rats treated with OPG-Fc (1 and 
10 mg/kg/week) for 6 weeks caused a dose-dependent reduction in long bone growth, suggested to be 
related  to  osteoclast  inhibition.  High-dose  OPG-Fc  significantly  inhibited  incisor  growth  and 
rd 
nd 
molars.  
molars and 84% of 2
prevented the eruption of all 3
Studies on immunomodulatory effects have been incorporated in some pharmacology and toxicology 
studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  These  studies  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  compared  to 
controls.  The  applicant  also  refers  to  published  literature  and  abstracts  from  Amgen  on  the  role  of 
RANKL  on  immune  functions  using  OPG-TG  mice  and  rats  and  OPG-Fc  treated  WT  mice.  The 
relevance  of  using  these  models  instead  of  denosumab  in  studies  on  immunomodulatory  effects  is 
uncertain  and  considering 
the  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab,  potential  effects  on 
immunomodulation and immunosuppression cannot be ruled out.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  safety  pharmacology  package  included  two  studies  (see  table  below);  one  of  these  was 
incorporated  in  a  toxicology  study  in  accordance  with  ICH  S6  and  ICH  S7A.  According  to  the 
guideline,  clinical  observation  of  animals  is  generally  not  adequate  to  assess  respiratory  function. 
However, since no indication of denosumab to affect respiratory function were noted, the current study 
is considered sufficient. 
Summary of safety pharmacology studies performed with denosumab.  
Type of Study 
Effects of 
denosumab on blood 
pressure, heart rate, 
ECG activity, 
respiration rate and 
cageside 
observations 
Effects of 
denosumab on blood 
pressure and ECG 
Test System (method, 
cell line, 
species/strain) 
Male cynomolgus 
monkey (n=3/group, 
single SC injection, 0, 
0.3, 3, and 30 mg/kg 
Male and female 
cynomolgus monkey 
(n=3/group, 3 months 
recovery n=2/group, 
Noteworthy Findings 
Report No 
One animal (3 mg/kg) had a run of four 
ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) 
approximately 45 minutes following 
administration of the test article. This episode was 
not considered to be related to treatment with 
denosumab. No treatment related changes in 
respiration rate were observed. No treatment 
related cageside observations were observed 
There was no ECG evidence of cardiotoxicity 
after 53 weeks of treatment with denosumab. 
Isolated cases of slight bradycardia, fused P-T 
wave or slight tachycardia were observed in 
101606 
102090  
(tox study) 
Page 14 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SC injection, 0, 1, 10 
and 50 mg/kg 
once/month for 6 or 12 
months) 
single animals. These findings were not 
considered to be related to the administration of 
the test material. Two male animals died in the 
high dose group. According to the Applicant these 
deaths were not related to treatment.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific preclinical studies have been conducted addressing drug interactions. In the switch study 
performed in OVX cynomolgus monkeys with 6 months pretreatment of alendronate before 6 months 
treatment of denosumab (report 106564) no adverse effects on the pharmacodynamic activity of either 
alendronate  or  denosumab  were  noted.  The  absence  of  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  is 
considered acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics 
of 
of 
and 
464 
ng/mL 
calculated 
77.6%  were 
Levels of free denosumab in serum from mouse, rat and monkey were measured by an ELISA method. 
Denosumab  does  not  bind  to  RANKL  in  mouse  and  rat  and  this  could  be  related  to  linear 
pharmacokinetics  evident  after  intravenous  doses  of  0.1  to  10  mg/kg.  Subcutaneous  doses  were 
associated with a good bioavailability in all species. Further, clearance was low in rodents and volume 
of distribution similar to plasma volume. In contrast, clearance was 6- to 15- fold higher in knock-in 
mice that express a chimeric form of RANKL and in knock-out mice that lack expression of the Fc 
neonatal receptor. The terminal half-lifes were 19 days in mouse and 11 days in rat.  
In  the  cynomolgus  monkey  pharmacokinetics  were  linear  over  both  intravenous  and  subcutaneous 
dose  range  of  1  to  3  mg/kg,  but  were  non-linear  at  doses  below  1  mg/kg.  Values  for  volume  of 
distribution indicated lack of extravascular distribution. The non-linearity in monkeys may reflect that 
binding of denosumab to RANKL leads to accelerated, but saturable, elimination and that elimination 
also  involves  the  neonatal  receptor  Fc  (FcRn)  and  the  reticuloendothelial  system.  A  50%  effective 
concentration 
using 
an  Emax 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  modelling  and  bone  resorption  marker  N-telopeptide  of  type  I 
collagen in serum data. 
Denosumab labelled with 125I was widely distributed in monkey after subcutaneous doses with most of 
the  circulating  radioactivity  being  intact  antibody  as  indicated  by  acid-precipitation.  No  particular 
sequestration to bone was reported. Levels of radioactivity declined to non-quantifiable levels by 672 
hours  at  a  dose  of  0.1  mg/kg,  but  levels  were  measurable  at  the  injection  site,  eye  (cornea),  large 
intestine  (males)  contents,  lymph  nodes,  spleen,  stomach  contents  (males)  and  thyroid.  The  tissue 
distribution  or  radioactivity  at  later  time  points  was  consistent  with  distribution  of  free  iodine 
radiolabel (example thyroid). No obvious or remarkable differences in pattern of distribution between 
genders  were  evident,  but  the  highest  dose  used  was  1  mg/kg  and  animals  developed  antibodies  to 
denosumab.  There  were  indications  that  denosumab  has  limited  potential  to  cross  the  blood/brain 
barrier, the blood/testis barrier as well as the placental barrier, although this data is confounded by the 
presence of radiolabel in blood vessels and an unknown contribution of free radiolabel. In this context 
the distribution of RANKL could be of interest and RANKL protein and mRNA expression has been 
reported in bone, brain, heart, kidney, liver, lung, intestine, skeletal muscle, mammary tissue, placenta, 
spleen, thymus and testis. However, data on the specific distribution of various forms of RANKL does 
not appear to be available.  
Denosumab is a monoclonal antibody and current knowledge concerning the clearance of antibodies 
indicates  that  metabolism  may  be  mediated  through  internalization  followed  by  intracellular 
degradation  to  small  peptides  and  amino  acids.  Antibodies  may  be  protected  from  lysosomal 
degradation through binding to the Fc region of the neonatal receptor FcRn and data from studies in 
FcRn  knock-out  mice  were  consistent  with  that  FcRn  protects  denosumab  from  elimination  and  so 
may influence tissue distribution. 
Radioactivity was primarily excreted in urine with only 1 to 3% recovered in faeces.  
Page 15 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma levels and systemic exposure to denosumab manufactured by two methods differed by 23 to 
16%. Overall the product used in pivotal toxicity studies is considered representative for the clinical 
formulation of denosumab.  
After  repeated  subcutaneous  doses  of  0.1  to  50  mg/kg  in  monkey  approximately  linear 
pharmacokinetics  were  reported.  Anti  denosumab  antibodies  were  recorded  in  the  majority  of  non-
clinical studies, however exposures achieved in toxicology studies still corresponded to high multiples 
in comparison with expected clinical levels. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
A specific single dose toxicity study was not conducted and this is also consistent with ICH guidance. 
A cardiovascular safety pharmacology study evaluated single subcutaneous doses of up to 30 mg/kg in 
the cynomolgus monkey. No evidence of toxicity was reported. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In the 1 month repeat dose toxicity study (101447) in young adult Cynomolgus monkeys, as the only 
potentially  drug-related  change  of  statistically  significant  elevated  thyroid  weights  were  noted  in 
females of the high dose group that were not confirmed by histopathological findings. Despite the high 
immunogenicity  observed  in  all  dose  groups,  a  dose  dependent  change  in  some  PD  parameters  was 
observed. In 6/12-Month Repeated-dose Study in Monkeys (102090) denosumab was administrated at 
doses of 0, 1, 10, and 50 mg/kg. Overall, no effects on organ weights or macroscopic or microscopic 
evidence  of  target  organ  toxicity  were  noted.  Denosumab  also  had  no  untoward  effects  on  sperm 
motility  or  morphology.  The  previously  reported  effects  on  thyroid  weight  (study  101447)  were  not 
confirmed. Consistent with the 1-month study, denosumab was highly immunogenic in monkeys.  
•  Genotoxicity 
No  studies  were  conducted.  Denosumab  is  a  recombinant  protein  and  contains  no  inorganic  or 
synthetic  organic  linkages  or  other  non-protein  portions.  Regulatory  guidance  is  consistent  with 
studies on genotoxicity not being necessary for this type of product. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  available  regulatory  guidance. 
Ovariectomized  monkey  treated  for  up  to  16  months  with  denosumab  showed  no  evidence  of  pre 
neoplastic lesions. However, potential to interfere with the immune system cannot be discounted. The 
multiple  signalling  pathways  involved  in  OPG  effects,  and  by  analogy  possibly  also  relevant  in  the 
case  of  denosumab,  indicate  a  potential  for  dysregulation  of  functions  that  could  be  critical  in  e.g. 
cancer pathogenesis.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The potential for reproduction toxicity of denosumab was evaluated in monkey. Female fertility and 
early  embryonic  development  did  not  appear  to  be  influenced  by  weekly  doses  of  denosumab  up  to 
12.5  mg/kg.  Evaluation  of  sperm  motility  and  flow  cytometric  data,  and  testicular  tissue  in  the  12 
month  monkey  toxicity  study  did  not  indicate  adverse  effects  of  denosumab  on  male  fertility. 
Denosumab  and  anti-denosumab  antibodies  crossed  the  placenta  as  indicated  by  analysis  of  fetal 
serum samples at caesarean section. In an embryotoxicity study similar incidences of external, visceral 
and skeletal finding in both control and treated groups were reported. While constitutive deficiency of 
RANK/RANKL may not be directly comparable to situations of exogenously induced inhibition, data 
that  RANK/RANKL  are  essential  for  the  development  of  the  lactating  mammary  gland  during 
pregnancy  could  be  of  interest  for  assessment  of  use  of  denosumab  during  pregnancy  and  lactation. 
The  proposed  text  in  the  relevant  sections  of  the  SmPC  has  overall  sufficiently  considered  these 
possibilities.  
Page 16 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  data  indicated  no  significant  differences  in  exposure  in  male  and  female  monkeys. 
Toxicokinetic data is presented in relation to relevant studies.  
•  Local tolerance  
No specific studies were conducted. Evaluation in repeated dose toxicity studies did not indicate any 
relevant irritation at the site of application. Incidences of haemorrhages at the injection site were noted 
in the denosumab treated monkey, but not in control monkeys in the 12 months study. Clinical data are 
expected to be sufficient to assess any possible local reactions. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
No specific studies were conducted. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Denosumab is a sequence of amino acids and a protein and in accordance with the CHMP guideline on 
the  environmental  risk  assessment  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00)  is  exempt  from  testing  because  of 
the chemical structure. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall the preclinical studies characterized the pharmacological, pharmacodynamic and toxicological 
properties of denosumab and demonstrated its activity in vitro and in vivo. The following discussion 
highlights issues identified during evaluation process.  
The binding affinity of denosumab for Cynomolgus monkey RANKL was not tested. This absence is 
acceptably  justified  by  the  fact  that  the  RANKL  domain  to  which  denosumab  binds  is  entirely 
conserved between cynomolgus monkeys and humans. The choice of Cynomolgus monkey as relevant 
animal  model  is  justified  considering  the  highly  selective  binding  and  neutralizing  effect  of 
denosumab on human and non-human primate RANKL. Supportive data were derived from studies in 
rodents. The applicant has satisfactory discussed the choice of recombinant OPG and knock-in mice 
versus  a  surrogate  mAb  in  the  rodent  osteoporosis  model.  No  disease  model  for  hormone  ablation 
therapy in males has been used. However, clinical studies in males are available which supersede the 
lack of non-clinical data. Gender difference observed in gonad-intact animals with female animals not 
responding  in  a  comparable  way  as  males  to  the  treatment  was  adequately  discussed  by  applicant. 
However,  provided  information  should  not  be  translated  into  the  adult  population.  In  general,  high 
immunogenicity was observed in all studies and the results need to be interpreted with caution. The 
pharmacological  effect  of  transitioning  from  alendronate  to  denosumab  was  investigated  in  the 
appropriate animal model of ovariectomized Cynomolgus monkeys. The potential risk of denosumab 
to interfer with fracture healing was sufficiently assessed in huRANKL knock-in mice in comparison 
to alendronate.  
For PK evaluation serum denosumab concentration was measured by ELISA assay which detects only 
free denosumab in serum. Therefore, the PK profile  has to be interpreted with caution. A difference 
was found in the single dose PK (linear) of rodents, where denosumab does not bind RANKL, and the 
PK (non linear) of Cynomolgus monkeys. By the means of supportive studies in huRANKL knock-in 
mice  and  in  FcRn  knock-out  mice  this  was  attributed  to  the  role  of  RANKL  binding  and  FcRn  in 
denosumab disposition. In Cynomolgus monkey a non-linear PK was demonstrated following IV and 
SC  administration.  SC  bioavailability  increased  from  28%  up  to  100%  with  increasing  dose,  but 
dropped at the highest dose steps tested from 100% (at 1 mg/kg) to 59% (at 3 mg/kg). This drop was 
Page 17 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
explained by the applicant as an artefact caused by the criteria set to define the best fit compartmental 
model.  In  general,  the  high  percentage  of  animals  developing  anti-drug-antibodies  impacted  the  PK 
analysis.  Especially  at  the  high  dose  range,  the  PK  data  need  to  be  interpreted  with  caution.  The 
formation  of  these  antibodies  appeared  to  markedly  increase  the  rate  of  elimination  of  denosumab. 
Thus, the extent of the disproportional dose-exposure relationship is likely underestimated, given the 
prevalence  of  antibody  formation  at  the  higher  doses.  However,  the  apparent  increased  rate  of 
elimination at lower denosumab concentrations was also observed at the lowest 2 doses (for which no 
animals  developed  antibodies)  and  in  antibody-negative  animals  at  the  higher  doses.  Thus,  the 
conclusion  of  non-linear  PK  with  dose  or  concentration  in  monkey  is  not  confounded  by  anti-drug 
antibody formation.  
Studies  on  immunomodulatory  effects  were  incorporated  in  some  pharmacology  and  toxicology 
studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  These  studies  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  compared  to 
controls.  However,  considering  the  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab,  potential  effects  on 
immunomodulation  cannot  be  ruled  out.  No  specific  studies  on  potential  for  immunotoxicity  have 
been  conducted  and  it  is  referred  to  literature  data  that  RANKL  has  no  significant  role  in  the 
functional responses of an adult animal with an intact immune system while RANKL has a role in the 
developing immune system 
OPG  and  RANKL  are  discussed  to  play  a  role  in  arteriosclerotic  plaque  formation  suggesting  a 
potentially  increased  risk  of  denosumab  treatment  in  postmenopausal  women.  The  preclinical  study 
results in OVX Cynomolgus monkeys have not addressed this issue. However it is acknowledged, that 
important  results  addressing  this  issue  are  obtained  from  PMO  clinical  study.  The  absence  of 
genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies  was  sufficiently  justified.  However,  the  multiple  signalling 
pathways  involved  in  OPG  effects  and  recent  literature  indicating  a  role  of  OPG  and  RANKL  in 
angiogenesis and endothelial cell function suggest a potential for dysregulation of functions critical in 
e.g. tumour devlopment.  
Considering the potential for reproduction toxicity the collective findings indicate that denosumab is 
neither a maternal nor an overt developmental hazard. However, even though no safety signals were 
seen in the animal studies with denosumab, it has been reported in the literature that RANK/RANKL 
knock-out  mice  had  an  absence  of  lactation  due  to  inhibition  of  mammary  gland  maturation.  In 
conclusion  non-clinical  data  supported  the  clinical  development  of  denosumab  in  the  current 
indication 
2.5 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The Figure below shows the clinical studies submitted for this application. Study 20010223 was the 
main  dose-response  study,  study  20030216  was  the  pivotal  study  for  the  PMO  indication,  study 
20040135 was the pivotal study for the hormone ablation therapy (HALT) indication in females while 
20040138 was the pivotal study for the HALT indication in males. 
An overview of the therapeutic confirmatory trials can be found in the Clinical Efficacy section. 
The claimed indication for Prolia was: 
“The  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
The  treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  and  in 
women  with  breast  cancer  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving 
hormone ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures.” 
The approved indication and posology are the following: 
Page 18 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
Treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk 
of fractures. In men with prostate cancer receiving hormone ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the 
risk of vertebral fractures.” 
Organisation scheme for denosumab clinical studies. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
On  request  from  the  CHMP,  a  GCP  inspection  was  undertaken  of  the  clinical  study  20030216  -  A 
Study  to  Evaluate  Denosumab  in  the  Treatment  of  Postmenopausal  Osteoporosis  (FREEDOM: 
Fracture REduction Evaluation of Denosumab in Osteoporosis every 6 Months). The inspection was 
carried out on study sites 413 (139 included subjects) and 430 (160 included subjects) plus at the CRO 
performing  the  assessments  of  X-rays  and  DXA-scans.  The  outcome  of  this  inspection  and  the 
satisfactory  responses  to  its  findings  are  an  integral  part  of  this  procedure.  In  conclusion,  the  major 
findings in the inspection report from inspection (INS/GCP/2009/03) were the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Investigators  were  not  informed  about  the  cases  where  trial  subjects  had  positive  antibody 
tests or unexpectedly low BMD results 
Drug accountability for calcium and vitamin D supplementation was not performed 
Inconsistencies  were  detected  between  Bone  biopsy  sub-study´s  Manual  and  protocol;  the 
manual did not reflect the protocol 
Fracture status could be changed from “incident” to “prevalent” without adjudication of the X-
ray investigation. Fracture status was changed by a late reader for 288 trial subjects; fracture 
status at screening was changed for more than 75 % of these subjects   
Some  of  the  critical  deviations  related  to  the  CRO  procedures  had  already  been  detected  during  a 
previous  inspection  and  insufficient  corrective/preventive  actions  had  been  implemented.  It  is 
Page 19 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therefore recommended that a follow-up inspection should be performed. The re-inspection will not be 
a part of the Prolia application. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Twelve  studies  were  primarily  designed  as  clinical  pharmacology  studies  or  bioequivalence  studies 
and  11  studies  were  primarily  designed  to  address  other  objectives  but  provide  supportive 
pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  data.  The  bioanalytical  methods  used  in  bioequivalence 
studies and the clinical pharmacology studies seem adequately validated. 
•  Absorption  
Based  on  a  Population  PK  analysis  the  absolute  bioavailability  was  estimated  to  be  61%,  which  is 
supported by data on relative exposures from Study 20010124. Formal bioavailability, plasma protein 
binding,  and  other  human  biomaterials  studies  have  not  been  conducted.  Comparison  of  the  PK,  as 
well  as  PD  profiles  of  denosumab  demonstrated  bioequivalence  between  denosumab  from  different 
production sites and in different drug product presentations. 
•  Distribution 
Volume  of  distribution  was  determined  in  the  dose-escalation  study  20010124.  Mean  volume  of 
distribution  at  steady-state  increased  slightly  across  the  IV  dose  range  from  approximately  29  to 
55 mL/kg  and  were  similar  to  that  for  plasma  (43 mL/kg).  In  the  Population  PK  Analysis  after  IV 
administration, the volume of distribution was also similar to plasma volume (approximately 3760 mL 
66 kg  individual),  with  a  lack  of  extensive  extravascular  distribution.    This  data  is  consistent  with 
results for other monoclonal antibodies. 
•  Elimination 
It is generally accepted that monoclonal antibodies are eliminated by catabolism or receptor-mediated 
processes and not by hepatic metabolic clearance or renal excretion. Denosumab is likely eliminated 
through  a  non-specific,  linear  pathway  via  the  reticuloendothelial  system  and  a  target-mediated, 
nonlinear pathway. This assumption is supported by PK data provided. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Denosumab  displays nonlinear PK across the 0.01- to 3.0 mg/kg IV and SC dose range investigated 
which  is  most  pronounced  at  lower  doses.  Data  are  consistent  with  2  mechanisms  of  elimination,  a 
saturable  one  predominating  at  low  serum  concentrations  and  a  nonsaturable  mechanism  that 
predominates elimination at higher serum concentrations.  
At the 1.0 mg/kg SC dose median time to Cmax ranged from 7 to 42 days and the mean half-life was 
about 30 days. No accumulation in serum denosumab concentrations is observed with repeated doses 
of 60 mg Q6M and pharmacokinetics do not appear to change with time for up to 4 years of exposure. 
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
In Study 20040245 the PK profile was not notably affected by varying degrees of renal function. Thus 
no  dose  adjustments  are  required  with  different  degrees  of  renal  impairment.  Transient  decreases  in 
median serum calcium concentration were observed following administration, most notably in patients 
with severe kidney disease.  
Impaired hepatic function 
As  denosumab  is  a  monoclonal  antibody  and  not  eliminated  via  hepatic  metabolic  mechanisms, 
hepatic impairment studies have not been conducted. 
Gender 
Page 20 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite a higher average body weight in the men (mean 85.2 vs. 69.8 kg), no notable differences in 
exposure were observed following 60 mg denosumab SC between men and women. 
Ethnicity 
Although  data  are  very  limited  in  non-Caucasians,  there  did  not  appear  to  be  notable  differences  in 
exposure in Caucasians compared with non-Caucasians. Results are consistent with those from phase 3 
studies 20030216 and 20040138 were denosumab increased BMD across all racial groups examined. 
However PK data in non-Caucasians are sparse and the grouping in Caucasians and non-Caucasians is 
very  vague  considering  ethnicities  subsumed.  Comparison  between  Japanese  and  non-Japanese 
subjects  support  the  finding  of  no  influence  of  ethnicity  on  PK  and  thus  no  further  evaluations  are 
required.  
Weight 
Exposure based on AUC and Cmax, tended to be lower for heavier subjects following 60 mg SC dose 
The trend of lower exposure with higher body weight did not result in a reduction in PD effect. Results 
are consistent with that from phase 3 studies. 
Elderly 
No relationship has been detected between denosumab concentration and age, except a trend to lower 
exposure  in  postmenopausal  women  65  to  80  years  of  age  compared  to  <65  years.  This  had  no 
influence on PD parameters, consistent with findings in the pivotal phase 3 studies. 
Children 
The applicant has obtained necessary waivers for paediatric development pertaining to the indications 
contained within this MAA in all age subsets of the paediatric population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal drug interaction studies were performed because denosumab is a monoclonal antibody and 
is not eliminated via hepatic metabolic mechanisms and interaction potential is considered to be low. 
However,  the  impact  of  previous  bisphosphonate  treatment  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab 
was  assessed  in  the  study  20050241  in  which  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  was  not  altered  in 
subjects who transitioned from alendronate to denosumab. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Denosumab  is  a  fully  human  IgG2  mAb  is  RANK  Ligand  (RANKL).  RANKL  is  together  with  its 
receptor  RANK  and  osteoprotegerin  the  key  mediator  in  the  pathway  involved  in  regulating  bone 
resorption.  Denosumab’s  binding  to  RANKL  prevents  the  RANKL-RANK  interaction,  inhibiting 
osteoclast formation, function and survival. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
While a high prevalence of binding and/or neutralizing antibodies was seen at all doses in cynomolgus 
monkeys treated with denosumab, no corresponding production of antibodies was seen in humans.  
The proposed dose regime, 60 mg every 6 month, has support from the presented pharmacodynamic 
data in several studies (see figure below).  
Page 21 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results in study 20010223, following two 60 mg Q6M doses: mean serum denosumab concentrations 
and mean % change from baseline for serum CTX1 and lumbar spine BMD. 
Instead of formal PKPD analysis a kinetic-pharmacodynamic (K-PD) model was developed describing 
the  serum  CTX1  and  BMD  time  profiles  utilizing  dose  information  and  assumptions  of  1st  order 
kinetics of denosumab in the biophase as drug input. This approach seems questionable for a drug with 
highly non-linear pharmacokinetics. The model cannot aid in judging whether difference in PK is of 
relevance and thus is considered to be of limited value. 
Study 20010223 was a phase II study with the primary objective to determine the effect of denosumab 
treatment  compared  with  placebo  over  12  months  on  BMD  of  the  lumbar  spine  in  postmenopausal 
women with low BMD and with the secondary objectives to choose a dose regimen of denosumab for 
future studies and to evaluate the effect of denosumab on BMD, plus safety and tolerability profiles 
over 12 months. 
Study  20050172  was  a  phase  II  randomised  double-blind  placebo-controlled  dose  response  study  of 
denosumab  in  Japanese  postmenopausal  osteoporotic  women,  conducted  at  21  sites  in  Japan.  The 
primary study objective was to assess the effect of denosumab on the lumbar spine BMD at month 12, 
plus the safety profile. Doses of 14, 60 or 100 mg were administered SC once every 6 months. The 
dose of 60 mg denosumab administered Q6M appeared to be optimal. 
In the dose response Studies 20010223 and 20050172, significant effects on BMD were seen after 48 
months  over  the  Q3M  (6 mg,  14 mg,  30 mg)  and  Q6M  (14 mg,  60 mg,  100 mg,  210 mg)  doses 
investigated.  At  earlier  time  points  the  effect  seen  with  the  14 mg  Q6M  dose  was  less  pronounced. 
After  discontinuation,  BMD  levels  returned  to  baseline  values  without  a  rebound  effect.  Significant 
suppression of markers of bone turnover was apparent. During approximately the last 2 months of the 
Q6M dosing interval, levels of denosumab appear to be too low to sustain the effect on serum CTX1, 
although  the  applicant  argues  that  a  significant  suppression  of    ≥ 55%  remains.  Data  from  the  off-
treatment period indicate that the effects of denosumab on BMD are mitigated at discontinuation. The 
applicant could, in the response to the D120 LoQ, reasonably justify that only the 60 mg Q6M dose 
was chosen for the pivotal trials. 
Study  20010124  was  a  phase  I  multicenter  randomised  placebo-controlled  double-blind  single  dose 
escalation study in healthy postmenopausal Japanese women. Doses of 0.03 - 3.0 mg/kg, administered 
SC, maintained decreases in bone turnover markers for at least 6 months. Safety parameters (primary 
endpoint) were satisfactory. 
Page 22 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  20030164  was  a  phase  I  study  conducted  to  evaluate  the  PK,  PD,  safety  and  tolerability  of 
denosumab  administration  in  healthy  Japanese  postmenopausal  women.  These  women  were 
administered  doses  between  0.01  and  3.0  mg/kg  SC  or  IV;  one  dosing  group  got  a  repeat  dose  3 
months later. Bone turnover markers were evaluated for efficacy and a number of safety parameters 
were recorded.  
Study 20050241 was a study to evaluate the safety of transitioning postmenopausal women with low 
BMD currently receiving alendronate to a single dose of denosumab (15 – 60 mg SC). Twenty patients 
were included in this 128 day US 2-center phase I study. 
Study  20040113  was  a  phase  II  tricontinental  study  in  women  with  breast  cancer  (n  =  255)  with 
metastases  who  had  not  previously  been  treated  with  bisphosphonates.  This  was  a  denosumab  dose 
finding study, evaluating the effect of denosumab on the percentage change from baseline in urinary 
NTX at week 13. Denosumab was administered SC doses of 30, 120, or 180 mg Q4W or 60 or 180 mg 
Q12W. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
The dosage of 60 mg per dose was selected based on results from study 20010223. Doses of 30 mg 
Q3M and 60 mg Q6M were similar in pharmacodynamic activity and the dose interval of 6 months 
was  selected  for  phase  3  studies  as  being  the  most  convenient  effective  dose  interval.  The 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this dosing schedule was further studied in three pivotal 
studies (20030216, 2004135, 20040138). The dose amd dose intervals selected had adequate support 
in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. 
•  Main studies  
Study  20030216  was  the  pivotal  phase  3  study  in  PMO  population  titled  ‘A  Study  to  Evaluate 
Denosumab  in  the  Treatment  of  Postmenopausal  Osteoporosis:  FREEDOM  (Fracture  REduction 
Evaluation of Denosumab in Osteoporosis every 6 Months)’. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis,  as  defined  by  a  BMD  T-score  at  the  total  hip  or  lumbar 
spine < –2.5 were included in the study. Subjects with BMD T-scores < -4.0 at the total hip or lumbar 
spine were not eligible as it was considered unethical to leave placebo-treated subjects untreated for 3 
years.  Study participants  were  to  be  in  good  health and  not  to  be  on  any  other  medication  affecting 
bone metabolism. This study was conducted in Europe, North and South America, Australia and New 
Zealand. 
Treatments 
Subjects received either denosumab 60 mg or placebo every 6 months (Q6M) subcutaneously (SC) for 
3 years (last dose at month 30; follow-up to month 36). All subjects received daily calcium (≥ 1 g) and 
vitamin D (≥ 400 IU) supplementation. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the incidence of new vertebral fractures after 3 years of treatment. 
Secondary objectives were the time to first nonvertebral fracture and time to first hip fracture.  
Sample size 
The  sample  size  was  planned  to  provide  adequate  statistical  power  to  detect,  at  a  minimum,  a  45% 
reduction in the incidence of new vertebral fracture, a 40% decrease in the risk of nonvertebral and hip 
fracture with assumptions of  a vertebral, nonvertebral and hip fracture rate in the placebo arm of 4%, 
3.3% and 1.0% per year respectively and a loss-to-follow-up vertebral radiograph rate of 5% per year.  
Randomisation 
Page 23 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects were randomised (1:1) in a double-blinded fashion to receive either denosumab or placebo. 
Randomisation was stratified by age at entry: 60 to 64 years, 65 to 69 years, 70 to 74 years, and ≥ 75 
years. 
Blinding (masking) 
Denosumab and placebo vials had the same appearance and subjects, investigators, and site staffs were 
blinded  to  identity.  Unblinding  was  limited  to  cases  where  knowledge  was  essential  for  further 
management. Unblinding for medical emergencies occurred for 7 subjects, 2 on denosumab and 5 on 
placebo.  
Statistical methods 
For the primary efficacy endpoint and the two secondary efficacy endpoints, a fixed sequence testing 
procedure was used. The significance of the treatment comparisons between denosumab and placebo 
were assessed using the score test from a logistic regression model. In addition to the estimate of the 
odds ratio from the logistic regression model, point estimates of absolute risk reduction and risk ratio 
as  well  as  the  corresponding  95%  confidence  intervals  were  calculated  using  Mantel-Haenszel 
methodology.  The  significance  of  the  treatment  effect  between  denosumab  and  placebo  on  time-to-
event endpoints was assessed using the score test from a stratified Cox proportional hazards. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Subject disposition and exposure to investigational product in study 20030216 
Recruitment 
The study was conducted from 03 August 2004 to 17 June 2008. 
Page 24 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Important  eligibility  protocol  deviations  were  reported  for  9.2%  in  the  denosumab  and  9.0%  in  the 
placebo group. Most subjects did not meet inclusion criterion “screening BMD T-score < -2.5”. These 
deviations  from  the  eligibility  criteria  would  not  be  expected  to  impact  the  study  results.  On-study 
important  protocol  deviations  were  reported  for  9.4%  in  the  denosumab  and  13.7%  in  the  placebo 
group. The greater incidence of on-study important protocol deviations in the placebo group was due 
to an imbalance in the concomitant administration of bisphosphonates. These deviations were judged 
unlikely to have affected the interpretation of the study results. Site 803 was closed in May 2007 after 
an inspection by the Lithuanian health authority, due to violation of GCP. All subjects from this site 
underwent  full  early  study  termination  procedures  and  the  decision  was  made  to  exclude  from  all 
analyses  the  60  subjects  from  site  803  because  of  the  seriousness  of  the  GCP  violations.  Severe 
findings were made at a later GCP inspection carried out at the CRO performing the assessments of X-
rays and DXA-scans and this inspection, and at two study sites.  
Baseline data 
Baseline mean age for study participants was 72.3 years, baseline mean lumbar spine BMD was -2.8 
and  years  since  menopause  was  24.2.  Baseline  mean  10-year  probabilities  of  major  osteoporotic 
fractures  and  of  hip  fractures  were  18.66±10.65  %  in  the  placebo  group  and  18.54±10.61  %  in  the 
denosumab group while the corresponding risk of hip fractures was for the high risk group (defined as 
meeting ≥ 2 of the following criteria: age > 70 years, baseline BMD T-score ≤ -3, prevalent vertebral 
fracture at baseline)  ,  44.9 % in the placebo group and 45.1 % in the denosumab group. 53.5 % of all 
study subjects had at least one fracture in their medical history at baseline.  
Numbers analysed 
Numbers analysed per treatment group are summarized in table below. 
Analysis Sets for Key Endpoints (Randomised Subjects) 
Endpoint 
Analysis subset  
New vertebral fractures through month 36  
Primary efficacy subset  
Per protocol subset  
Additional exploratory per protocol subset  
Placebo  
(N = 3906)  
n (%)  
3691 (94.5)  
2960 (75.8)  
3328 (85.2)  
Denosumab  
60 mg Q6M  
(N = 3902)  
n (%)  
3702 (94.9)  
3034 (77.8)  
3334 (85.4)  
All  
(N = 7808)  
n (%)  
7393 (94.7)  
5994 (76.8)  
6662 (85.3)  
N = Number of subjects randomised 
Percentages based on number of subjects randomised 
a Numbers (n) in safety subset based on the actual treatment received 
Over 3 years, 17.0% withdrew from study (16.1% denosumab, 17.9% placebo). The reasons for 
withdrawal are summarized in table below. 
Reasons for Study Discontinuation (Randomised Subjects) 
Randomised  
Completed study  
Discontinued study  
Consent withdrawn  
AE  
Death  
Lost to follow-up  
Other  
Noncompliance  
Protocol deviation  
Ineligibility determined  
Percentages based on number of subjects randomised 
       Placebo 
        n (%) 
3906  
3206 (82.1)  
700 (17.9)  
403 (10.3)  
81 (2.1)  
78 (2.0)  
57 (1.5)  
40 (1.2)  
17 (0.4)  
12 (0.3)  
12 (0.3)  
      Denosumab 
      60 mg n (%) 
3902  
3272 (83.9)  
630 (16.1)  
344 (8.8)  
93 (2.4)  
62 (1.6)  
57 (1.5)  
42 (1.1)  
13 (0.3)  
10 (0.3)  
9 (0.2)  
All 
n (%) 
7808  
6478 (83.0)  
1330 (17.0)  
747 (9.6)  
174 (2.2)  
140 (1.8)  
114 (1.5)  
82 (1.1)  
30 (0.4)  
22 (0.3)  
21 (0.3)  
Outcomes and estimation 
Denosumab 60 mg SC Q6M for 3 years significantly reduced risk of new vertebral, nonvertebral, and 
hip fractures  in women with osteoporosis compared  to placebo. RR reductions  at  month 36 for new 
Page 25 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures were 68%, 20%, and 40%, respectively. The main results are 
summarized in figure and table below. 
Summary of primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in study 20030216. 
Summary of additional fracture endpoints in study 20030216. 
Ancillary analyses 
7834  subjects  were  tested  for  anti-denosumab  antibodies  and  43  subjects  in  the  safety  analysis  set 
tested positive for nonneutralizing, binding antibodies. Four subjects in the placebo group (0.1%) and 
5  in  the  denosumab  group  tested  positive  for  pre-existing  antidenosumab  nonneutralizing,  binding 
antibodies.  Ten  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  (0.3%)  and  24  in  the  denosumab  group  (0.6%)  tested 
positive  for  development  of  antidenosumab  nonneutralizing,  binding  antibodies  in  postbaseline 
samples.  Nine  of  these  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  and  all  24  in  the  denosumab  group  were 
transiently positive since the last time point tested was negative The few patients who tested positive 
for antidenosumab antibodies did not seem to have lower BMD gains than other patients. Antibodies 
will be monitored in extension studies.  
Increases  from  baseline  to  month  36  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  in  body  weight  were  similar  among 
denosumab-treated  subjects  within  those  subgroups.  The  difference  between  the  denosumab  and 
placebo groups decreased with increasing body weight and BMI subgroups. 
Study  20040135  was  the  pivotal  phase  3  study  in  the  HALT  population,  titled  ‘A  Randomised, 
Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  AMG  162  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone  Loss  in 
Subjects Undergoing Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy for Nonmetastatic Breast Cancer’.  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Women 
early-stage, 
estrogen-receptor-positive  adenocarcinoma  of  the  breast  with  completed  treatment  pathway  and 
currently  on  or  initiating  aromatase  inhibitor  therapy  for  the  duration  of  the  study.  Subjects  had  to 
histologically 
years  with 
cytologically 
confirmed 
≥ 18 
or 
Page 26 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have lumbar spine, total hip, or femoral neck BMD T-score of -1.0 to -2.5 and none of these anatomic 
sites  could  have  been  in  the  BMD  range  corresponding  to  a  T-score  of  < -2.5.  The  study  was 
conducted at 53 sites in the United States and Canada. 
Treatments 
Subjects received either denosumab 60 mg or placebo every 6 months (Q6M) subcutaneously (SC) for 
a total of 4 doses during 24 month treatment period. All subjects received daily calcium (≥ 1 g) and 
vitamin D (≥ 400 IU) supplementation. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary objective was to determine whether denosumab compared with placebo preserved lumbar 
spine BMD  during aromatase inhibitor therapy in subjects with  nonmetastatic breast cancer after 12 
months. The secondary objectives were to assess the effect on BMD of the total hip and femoral neck 
and the safety and PK of denosumab.  
Sample size 
A sample size of 104 subjects enrolled in each group was considered to provide a 95% power to detect 
a  2%  difference  between  denosumab  and  placebo  in  the  percentage  of  change  of  BMD  for  lumbar 
spine at 12 months with expected loss to follow-up rate of 20% per year.  
Randomisation 
Subjects were classified by duration of aromatase inhibitor therapy at study entry of ≤ 6 months or > 6 
months and equally allocated 1:1 to treatment groups using a stratified randomisation schedule. 
Blinding (masking) 
Denosumab and placebo vials had the same appearance and subjects, investigators, and site staffs were 
blinded  to  identity.  Unblinding  was  limited  to  cases  where  knowledge  was  essential  for  further 
management. No treatment assignments were unblinded during the first 24 months of the study.  
Statistical methods 
Analysis  of  the  primary  and  secondary  BMD  endpoints  employed  an  ANCOVA  model  using  the 
LOCF imputation. Primary conclusions on the efficacy of denosumab were made using the difference 
of the point estimates for the least-squares mean and the 2-sided 95% CI for treatment difference at 
month 12. Sensitivity analyses were also conducted.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Subject disposition and exposure to investigational product in study 20040135 
. 
Page 27 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The study was conducted from 04 October 2004 to 11 May 2007.  
Conduct of the study 
The  original  study  protocol  was  approved  on  04  May  2004  and  subsequently  amended  3  times. 
Important  eligibility  criteria  deviations  were  reported  for  8%  overall  (9%  denosumab,  8%  placebo). 
On-study important protocol deviations were reported for 19% of subjects overall (17% denosumab, 
21% placebo). Protocol deviations are not considered to have influenced the validity of the results. 
Baseline data 
Mean (SD) age was 59.5 (9.3) years comparable in both groups. Baseline disease characteristics were 
generally  balanced  between  treatment  groups.  Of  subjects  with  known  ECOG  values,  all  had  either 
score  0  (90%  denosumab,  84%  placebo)  or  1  (10%  denosumab,  11%  placebo);  6  subjects  (5%)  on 
placebo had unknown ECOG scores. Baseline BMD T-scores were similar between treatment groups. 
Numbers analysed 
252 subjects were enrolled, 127 randomised to denosumab and 125 to placebo. Of the 252 subjects, 
249 (125 denosumab, 124 placebo) received at least 1 dose. 83% in the denosumab and 79% in the 
placebo  group  completed  the  24-month  treatment  period.  93  subjects  (47  denosumab,  46  placebo) 
were in the ≤ 6 months of aromatase inhibitor stratum, and 159 (63%) (80 denosumab, 79 placebo) in 
the > 6 months of aromatase inhibitor therapy stratum.  
Outcomes and estimation 
All primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were  met with statistical significance. Treatment with 
denosumab statistically significantly increased BMD, as assessed by DXA, at the lumbar spine, total 
hip,  and  femoral  neck  at  months  6  and  12  (p < 0.0001).  The  main  results  are  summarized  in  table 
below 
Primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  ANCOVA  model,  study  20040135  (primary  efficacy 
subset, LOCF). Figures in the two left columns indicate numbers analysed. 
Page 28 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
The mean serum denosumab concentration observed was with a lack of change in PK with time and a 
lack of accumulation with repeated dosing. Treatment with denosumab resulted in rapid and sustained 
decreases in concentrations of sCTx1 relative to placebo at each postbaseline assessment (p < 0.0001). 
Denosumab  reduced  serum  concentrations  of  P1NP  relative  to  placebo  at  each  postbaseline 
assessment, with the greatest median reduction obtained at month 6 and sustained through month 24 
(p < 0.0001).  Kaplan-Meier  estimates  of  the  risk  of  nonvertebral  fracture  were  3.3%  for  denosumab 
and  3.5%  for  placebo  at  month  12  and  7.2%  for  both  treatment  groups  at  month  24.  No  vertebral 
fractures were reported during the 24-month treatment period. There was only 1 death per group, thus 
an analysis of overall survival at month 24 was not conducted. 
Study  20040138  was  the  pivotal  phase  3  study  in  the  HALT  population,  titled  ‘A  Randomised, 
Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  AMG  162  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone  Loss  in 
Subjects Undergoing Androgen-deprivation Therapy for Nonmetastatic Prostate Cancer’. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Men ≥ 70 years of age with histologically confirmed prostate cancer, or men < 70 years of age with 
histologically confirmed prostate cancer and a history of osteoporotic fracture or BMD T-score at the 
lumbar spine, total hip, or femoral neck < -1.0, but not < -4.0. Subjects had to have undergone bilateral 
orchiectomy or initiated ADT with GnRH agonists and are expected to continue with ADT for at least 
12 months. The study was conducted at 156 sites in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Europe. 
Treatments 
Subjects received either denosumab 60 mg or placebo every 6 months (Q6M) subcutaneously (SC) for 
3 years (last dose at month 30; follow-up to month 36). All subjects received daily calcium (≥ 1 g) and 
vitamin D (≥ 400 IU) supplementation. The 60-month study includes a 24-month safety follow-up 
period.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Page 29 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  endpoint  was  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  from  baseline  to  month  24. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  percentage  change  in  femoral  neck  and  total  hip  BMD  from 
baseline  to  month  24,  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine,  femoral  neck,  and  total  hip  BMD  from 
baseline to month 36, subject incidence of any fracture and subject incidence of new vertebral fracture 
over the 36-month treatment period, time to first clinical fracture over the 36-month treatment period, 
and subject incidence of any fracture over the 24-month treatment period. 
Sample size 
The  sample  size  of  1226  subjects  was  planned  to  provide  adequate  statistical  power  to  detect  a  2% 
difference  between  the  denosumab  and  placebo  groups  in  the  percentage  change  from  baseline  in 
lumbar spine BMD after 24 months of treatment, a reduction in the risk of developing any fractures by 
45% over 36 months, and a reduction in the risk of developing new vertebral fractures by 45% over 36 
months. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomised 1:1 to receive placebo or denosumab. Randomisation was stratified by age 
group (< 70 years vs ≥ 70 years) and duration of ADT with a GnRH agonists or orchiectomy at study 
entry (≤ 6 months vs > 6 months).  
Blinding (masking) 
Denosumab and placebo vials had the same appearance and subjects, investigators, and site staffs were 
blinded  to  identity.  Unblinding  was  limited  to  cases  where  knowledge  was  essential  for  further 
management. Treatment assignment was unblinded for 1 subject recieving denosumab.  
Statistical methods 
Analysis  of  the  continuous  primary  and  secondary  BMD  endpoints  employed  an  ANCOVA  model 
using LOCF imputation with treatment group, baseline BMD value, machine type, the interaction of 
baseline BMD value and machine type, age group (< 70 versus ≥ 70 years), and duration of ADT (≤ 6 
versus  > 6  months)  as  covariates.  Efficacy  conclusions  based  on  the  primary  endpoint  were  made 
using  the  least-squares  mean  estimate  for  the  treatment  difference  (denosumab  –  placebo)  and  its 
2-sided 95% CI at month 24.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Subject disposition and exposure to investigational product; all randomised subjects in study 
20040138. 
Page 30 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The study was conducted from 02 August 2004 until 16 May 2008. Upon completion of the 36-month 
treatment  period,  subjects  were  continued  on  study  for  24  months  during  which  no  investigational 
product was administered, or were offered enrolment in a 2-year extension study (20080537). These 
both are ongoing and not part of the dossier. 
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol was approved on 04 May 2004 and subsequently amended 5 times. Important 
eligibility criteria deviations were reported for 4% of subjects, inclusion criteria for 1% of subjects and 
exclusion criteria deviations for 3% of subjects. On-study important protocol deviations were reported 
for 18% of subjects overall (19% denosumab, 17% placebo). Protocol deviations are not considered to 
have influenced the validity of the results. 
Baseline data 
Most subjects (83%) were white. The mean (SD) age was 75.4 (7.1) years, and 93% were ≥ 65 years 
of  age.  Mean  (SD)  weight  and  BMI  were  83.58  (13.46)  kg  and  28.2  (4.0)  kg/m2,  respectively.  The 
majority (63%) (460 denosumab, 460 placebo) were in the stratum of subjects ≥ 70 years of age who 
had  received  > 6  months  ADT.  A  medical  history  of  at  least  1  fracture  was  noted  for  34%  in  the 
denosumab and 37% of subjects in the placebo group. 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 1468 subjects were enrolled, 734 randomised to denosumab and 734 to placebo. 1456 (726 
denosumab,  730  placebo)  received  at  least  1  dose.  64%  in  the  denosumab  and  61%  in  the  placebo 
group  completed  the  36-month  treatment  period.  309  subjects  (161  denosumab,  148  placebo) 
participated in the substudy evaluating BMD of the distal 1/3 radius and total body. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  and  the  secondary  BMD  endpoints  were  met  with  statistical 
significance. Treatment with denosumab increased significantly BMD relative to placebo both for the 
Page 31 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
primary and the secondary efficacy endpoints; the effect on lumbar spine BMD is considered clinically 
relevant (6.7% difference). Main results are summarized in table below. 
Summary of Treatment Group Comparisons for Primary and Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
a Difference from placebo ANCOVA model adjusting for age group, ADT duration at study entry, baseline value, machine type, and baseline 
value-by machine type interaction;  b Odds ratio relative to placebo logistic regression model adjusting for age group and ADT duration at 
entry: c Hazard ratio relative to placebo Cox proportional hazards model stratified by age group and ADT duration at entry; d P-values for all 
endpoints adjusted for multiplicity (sequential testing); e Only subjects with nonmissing baseline and ≥ 1 postbaseline assessment included 
Ancillary analyses 
The mean serum denosumab concentration observed was with a lack of change in PK with time.  
Treatment with denosumab resulted in rapid and sustained decreases in concentrations of serum Type 
1 CTX and TRAP 5b relative to placebo at each postbaseline assessment (p < 0.0001). At the end of 
the  SC  dosing  interval  at  month  6,  attenuation  of  month  1  suppression  was  noted.  Suppression  of 
P1NP with denosumab temporally followed suppression of serum Type 1 CTX.  Total testosterone and 
PSA and incidences of PSA rise were similar between treatment groups. Overall, there did not appear 
to be any clinically meaningful differences in HRQoL or pain throughout the duration of the study in 
either treatment group. In addition, no clinically significant differences in HRQoL or pain were noted 
between  treatment  groups.  There  was  no  difference  in  overall  survival  between  denosumab  and 
placebo.  
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
BMD  data  were  only  data  compared  between  pivotal  studies  for  the  two  different  indications  and 
found to be of similar magnitude (see table below).  
Page 32 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison  of  change  in BMD  from  baseline  to  month  24  compared  to  placebo  between PMO  and 
HALT studies (ANCOVA, LOCF). 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Study 20040245 was carried out in male or female volunteers to evaluate the effects of denosumab in 
subjects with impaired renal function: subjects in group 1 (n = 12) had normal renal function, group 2 
(n = 10) had creatinine clearance (CrCl) 50 – 80 ml/min, group 3 (n = 10) had CrCl 30 – 49 ml/min, 
group  4  (n  =  7)  had  CrCl  <    30  ml/min  and  group  5  (n  =  7)  were  on  hemodialysis.  The 
pharmacokinetic profile of  
denosumab  was  not  notably  affected  by  varying  degrees  of  renal  impairment.  Parametric  and 
nonparametric  analyses  did  not  indicate  a  significant  relationship  between  renal  function  and  PK 
parameters  of  denosumab.  These  data  indicate  that  denosumab  does  not  need  dose  adjustment  in 
patients with renal impairment. 
•  Supportive studies 
Supportive  studies  for  the  PMO  indication  are  studies  20040132,  20050233,  20060289,  20010223, 
20050179, 20050141 and 20050324. The latter three were alendronate-controlled studies. 
Study  20040132  was  a  North  American  36  month  multicenter  study  with  the  primary  objective  to 
determine if denosumab treatment could prevent lumbar spine BMD loss, measured as % change from 
baseline in lumbar spine BMD, at 24 months of treatment in women with PMO and basal lumbar spine 
BMD T-score between -1.0 and -2.5. The study included 332 women and showed significantly greater 
BMD increases at all anatomic sites for the denosumab-treated subjects during the 24-month treatment 
period.  Subjects  were  randomised  1:1  to  receive  either  denosumab  or  placebo;  randomisation  was 
stratified by time since onset of menopause (≤ 5 years or > 5 years). During the on-treatment period 
(baseline to month 24), subjects received blinded investigational product Q6M SC (last dose at month 
18). During the off-treatment period (months 25 to 48), administration of investigational product was 
discontinued.  Within  12  months  of  discontinuation  of  denosumab  treatment,  BMD  returned  to 
approximately  baseline  levels.  Bone  turnover  markers  did  no  longer  remain  reduced  3  months  after 
discontinuation of treatment.  
Study  20050233  is  an  ongoing  1-year  continuation  study  for  those  patients  in  study  20010223  who 
completed  4  years  of  denosumab  treatment;  113  subjects  in  this  study  completed  5  years  of 
denosumab therapy. The placebo cohort received placebo SC for 4 years, and then active treatment. 
Study  20060289  is  a  7  -year  open-label  extension  of  study  20030216,  to  provide  10    years  of  total 
exposure  to  denosumab  in  women  who  were  receiving  denosumab  in  that  study.  This  study  is 
presently ongoing. 
Study 20050179 included 247 subjects in a phase II randomised  placebo-controlled trial to estimate 
the  treatment  effects  of  denosumab  and  alendronate  sodium,  compared  to  placebo,  in  PMO  subjects 
with  low  mineral  density.  Effects  were  evaluated  at  distal  radius,  using  in  vivo  high-resolution 
peripheral quantitative computed tomography at 12 months. Increases in BMD occurred within both 
the cortical and the trabecular bone compartments and the skeletal changes observed were greater with 
denosumab than with alendronate. Formal statistics were not calculated in this study. 
Page 33 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  20050141  included  1189  postmenopausal  women  with  lumbar  spine  BMD  ≤  -2.0.  Study 
subjects  were  randomised  1:1  to  receive  denosumab  plus  placebo  or  alendronate  plus  placebo.  At 
month 12, noninferiority was met for the primary endpoint: the mean percent change in total hip BMD 
was 3.5% in the denosumab and 2.6% in the alendronate group (1-sided p< 0.0001). The prespecified 
secondary  endpoints  were  inferentially  evaluated.  Results  of  superiority  testing  were  statistically 
significantly in favour of denosumab for the total hip, hip trochanter, and distal 1/3 radius at month 12 
(1-sided p≤ 0.0001 after multiplicity adjustment). 
Study 2005234 was a phase III multicenter study to evaluate the effect of denosumab 60 mg SC every 
6 month on total hip BMD (primary endpoint) at 12 months in postmenopausal women with low BMD 
previously  treated  with  alendronate  70  mg  weekly  or  equivalent,  compared  to  patients  continuing 
alendronate therapy. Five hundred and four subjects, with a mean age of 67.6± years, were included. 
Subjects were stratified according to previous alendronate exposure. Greater increases in BMD were 
seen at the total hip, lumbar spine, femoral neck, hip trochanter and distal radius in denosumab treated 
patients  compared  with  those  continuing  on  alendronate  therapy.  Bone  turnover  markers  were 
significantly more reduced in the denosumab group than in the alendronate group. Bone histology was 
evaluated in 39 of the study subjects and revealed no abnormal findings. 
Fig  7.  Studies  20050141  and  2005234:  BMD  by  DXA;  %  change  from  Baseline  to  month12  at  all 
anatomic sites (Primary efficacy subset).  
Supportive studies for the PMO indication: Discontinuation of denosumab 
In the US osteoporosis prevention study 20040132 (in which subjects received denosumab or placebo 
for 2 years and then were observed for another 2 years without treatment), off-treatment exploratory 
objectives  were  to  evaluate  changes  in  BMD  and  bone  turnover  markers  during  the  off-treatment 
period,  and  the  safety  profile  of  denosumab  during  the  off-treatment  period.  Within  12  months  of 
discontinuation  of  denosumab  treatment,  BMD  returned  to  approximately  baseline  levels.  Bone 
turnover  markers  did  no  longer  remain  reduced  3  months  after  discontinuation  of  treatment. 
Discontinuation  of  denosumab  was  also  investigated  in  the  phase  II  PK  study  20010223  in  PMO 
patients  (in  this  study,  some  cohorts  were  retreated  with  denosumab  after  a  period  of  placebo 
treatment, see fig 4) and also in study 20040144 (phase II study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in 
which  patients  were  treated  for  12  months  and  then  observed,  without  treatment,  for  another  12 
months).  While  bisphosphonates  bind  to  the  skeleton  and  are  active  for  several  years  after 
discontinuation, denosumab treatment effects disappear within month after drug discontinuation. 
Page 34 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 20010223: percent change in BMD of lumbar spine from baseline, off-treatment and retreatment 
denosumab cohorts; cf also fig 4. 
Studies 20010223 and 20050233: Lumbar spine BMD percent change from 20010223 baseline (LSM 
+ 95% CI), continuous denosumab cohorts. 
Study 20010223 had a 24 month off-treatment period and study 20040144 had a 12 month treatment 
period, followed by a 12 month off treatment observation period. In these studies, BMD returned to 
approximately  baseline  levels  12  months  after  the  end  of  the  treatment  period,  and  remained  at 
baseline during the subsequent year off treatment (study 20010223 only: see figs 4 and 9). No further 
decline in BMD was observed. Increases in bone turnover markers above baseline were observed 12 
months after the end of the treatment period. Subsequently, bone turnover marker values returned to 
baseline  levels  and  remained  at  near  baseline  levels  through  24  months  after  the  discontinuation  of 
treatment. 
Other supportive studies, for denosumab in general, are the following: 
Study  20040114:  In  this  study,  111  subjects  of  both  sexes  and  with  solid  carcinomas  or  multiple 
myeloma  with  bone  metastases  and  earlier  treated  with  bisphosphonates  were  enrolled  in  an  open-
Page 35 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
label active-controlled study, comparing IV bisphosphonate (pamidronate or zoledronic acid) therapy 
with denosumab therapy. The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects with urinary NTX/Cr < 
50  nM/mM  at  week  13.  A  significantly  greater  proportion of  subjects  administered  denosumab  than 
with bisphosphonates responded to study treatment. 
Study 20040144 was a 24-month phase II study recruiting 227 patients, with the primary objective to 
evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  denosumab  in  decreasing  the  progression  of  periarticular  bone 
erosions  in  subjects  with  rheumatoid  arthritis  on  methotrexate  treatment.  Study  results  indicated  a 
positive effect on joint erosions.  
Study  20050134  is  an  ongoing  open  phase  II  multicenter  proof-of  concept  study  with  denosumab 
treatment in subjects with relapsed or plateau-phase multiple myeloma.  
Study  20050209  is  an  ongoing  phase  III  multicenter  randomised  double-blind  placebo-controlled 
study  to  determine  the  treatment  effect  of  denosumab  in  subjects  with  nonmetastatic  breast  cancer 
treated  with  an  aromatase  inhibitor.  The  primary  endpoint  is  time  to  first  clinical  fracture.  2800 
subjects are planned to be included in this event-driven Austrian study. 
Study  20060237  is  an  ongoing  phase  III  study  with  the  primary  objective  to  compare  the 
immunogenicity  profiles  of  denosumab  using  a  pre-filled  syringe  and  denosumab  using  a  vial.  The 
study  is  including  only  postmenopausal  females  with  low  BMD  who  have  successfully  completed 
study 20050141. No subjects have so far developed denosumab antibodies. 
Study  20060232  is  a  phase  III  randomised  cross-over  open-label  North  American  study,  with  the 
primary  objective  to  evaluate  the  treatment  adherence,  preference  and  satisfaction  of  subjects  who 
receive  60  mg  SC  injections  of  denosumab  every  6  months,  compared  to  oral  70  mg  alendronate 
weekly. Study patients are postmenopausal women with low BMD (T-scores -2.0 – 4.0). This study is 
planned to enrol 250 patients and is still ongoing. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
For the PMO indication efficacy as reduction of the incidence of new vertebral fractures was clearly 
demonstrated in a placebo controlled study of 3 years duration, as required in the PMO osteoporosis 
guideline  (CPMP/EWP/552/rev  2).  A  reduction  of  the  incidence  of  hip  fractures  and  non-vertebral 
fractures was also demonstrated in the PMO study. Efficacy for denosumab was also demonstrated in 
another  PMO  study  with  regard  to  change  in  BMD  with  alendronate  as  the  active  control.  BMD  at 
different locations increased more with denosumab than with alendronate during a 12 month treatment 
period in controlled studies. A continuous gain in lumbar spine BMD was seen during 60 months of 
denosumab treatment in a long term study. Thus, the pivotal study for this indication was adequately 
sized,  designed  and  performed  and  the  efficacy  results  were  equal  to  or  better  than  what  has  earlier 
been  demonstrated  for  other  drugs  approved  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal 
women at increased risk of fracture. 
In addition, a number of supportive studies provide additional support for the efficacy of denosumab 
in this indication. 
No  CHMP  guideline  exists  on  the  evaluation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  bone  loss 
associated  with  hormone  ablation  and  no  medicinal  product  has  hitherto  been  approved  for  this 
indication.  
The  pivotal  study  20040138  for  denosumab  in  male  HALT  indication  was  properly  designed  and 
conducted.  Denosumab  significantly  increased  the  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  from 
baseline  to  month  24  in  all  subgroups  for  BMI,  age  and  duration  of  ADT.  The  incidence  of  new 
vertebral fractures was significantly reduced, at 3 years by 62%, in the denosumab group and BMD 
relative  to  placebo  at  lumbar  spine,  total  hip  and  femoral  neck  at  month  24  and  month  36  was 
significantly  increased  (adjusted  p  <  0.0001).  Higher  withdrawal  rate  was  observed  in  this  study  in 
comparison  to  study  20030216.  The  major  difference  was  related  to  the  higher  rate  of  consent 
withdrawn  at  the  prolongation  of  the  study.  Thus,  efficacy  was  clearly  shown  as  vertebral  fracture 
incidence reduction as well as for lumbar spine BMD gain in the pivotal study.  
Page 36 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pivotal  study  20040135  for  denosumab  in  female  HALT  indication  was  not  powered  to 
demonstrate  a  difference  in  fracture  incidence  between  groups.  In  this  study,  a  significant  gain  in 
lumbar  spine  was  demonstrated  in  the  denosumab-treated  group.  Notably  few  non-Caucasians  were 
included in this study. The applicant’s conclusion that efficacy results by ethnic subgroups from the 
entire denosumab program can be extrapolated to the Study 20040135 patient population is endorsed.  
Information  on  the  exact  duration  of  aromatase  inhibitor  therapy  in  female  HALT  study  was  not 
initially  provided.  Additionally  provided  information  suggested  that  median  treatment  time  with 
aromatase  inhibitors  before  onset  of  denosumab  therapy  was  evenly  distributed  between  treatment 
groups and was about 10 months with significant standard deviation of about 11 months. This could 
suggest that denosumab can be initiated at the start of aromatase inhibitor therapy. The risk of fracture 
in the populations studied in the female HALT study was not clearly demonstrated to be increased at 
baseline. The Applicant provided justification based on published information concluding that women 
on aromatase inhibitor therapy have an increased risk of fractures.   
The CHMP Osteoporosis guideline states that in male osteoporosis studies, where a significant effect 
is demonstrated for gain in lumbar spine also in studies of the same size as this study, such data can 
bridge  to  a  convincing  fracture  reduction  effect  demonstrated  in  a  corresponding  population  in  the 
opposite sex provided that the male population is also at an increased risk of fractures. In the case of 
aromatase  inhibitor  treated  women  with  nonmetastatic  breast  cancer,  these  women  should  by 
definition  be  postmenopausal  and  are  therefore  considered  to  be  included  in  the  general  PMO 
indication rather than being included in a separate indication.  
The incidence of antidenosumab antibodies in all studies was low. Such antibodies could however, if 
present,  possibly  affect  the  efficacy  of  the  drug.  However  additionally  provided  data  did  not  give 
evidence of lower efficacy of denosumab in those patients who developed antibodies to denosumab. 
In conclusion efficacy of denosumab has been adequately discussed in the clinical part of dossier.  
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Altogether,  more  than  13.000  patients  have  been  exposed  to  denosumab  in  31  clinical  studies.  Of 
these,  approximately  11.000  were  postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis  or  low  bone mass,  252 
were women with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy and 1468 were  men receiving 
androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer. The absolute majority of patients, with the exception 
of patients in dose finding studies, received the dose of 60 mg subcutaneously every 6 months. Long 
time safety data are available for 5 years or more for 113 patients, 4 years or more for 168 patients, 3 
years or more for 4016 patients and 2 years or more for 4625 patients. Studies 20030216, 20040132, 
20040135, and 20040138, with 9800 evaluable subjects altogether, provide the primary data sets for 
discussions of safety for the PMO indication. 
•  Adverse events  
In study 20030216 healing complications for nonvertebral fractures were infrequent in both treatment 
groups (2 subjects = 0.1% denosumab, 3 subjects = 0.1% placebo). The majority of all fractures in all 
clinical  studies  healed  without  complications  in  the  denosumab  as  well  as  in  the  placebo  treatment 
group.  No  cases  of  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  were  seen  in  the  clinical  studies.  There  was  no 
overfrequency  of  cardiovascular  events  or  abnormal  ECGs  in  denosumab  treated  patients.  The 
evaluation  of  the  type  and  amount  of  immunoglobulins  (Igs  A,  G  and  M)  in  studies  20010124  and 
20030148 did not show any effect of denosumab on Ig production. In the US prevention PMO study 
20040132  (332  patients  included),  more  subjects  receiving  denosumab  developed  an  infection  that 
required hospitalisation compared with subjects receiving placebo (4.9% vs 0.6%). In the dose finding 
study  20010223  (406  patients  dosed  with  study  drug),  infection  resulting  in  hospitalisation  was 
reported in 3.2% of subjects receiving denosumab compared with 0% of subjects receiving placebo or 
alendronate.  The  types  of  SAEs  of  infections  reported  among  the  denosumab-treated  subjects  were 
characterized by common infections (e. g. pneumonia, urinary tract infection, cellulitis, appendicitis, 
and  diverticulitis)  and  the  events  were  not  distinguishable  as  opportunistic  infections.  The  serious 
infection  events  tended  to  occur  6  to  12  months  after  the  initial  administration  of  denosumab.  This 
observed imbalance  in hospitalizations in these two studies (20040132 and 20010223)was not seen in 
Page 37 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
any other denosumab studies. When the 4 pivotal studies were pooled in the Combined safety analysis 
set, the small differences noted in individual studies in certain SAEs were not evident.  
The  incidences  of  AEs  of  acute  renal  events  was  1.3%  in  both  denosumab  and  placebo  treatment 
groups in the Combined safety analysis set (including data from all clinical denosumab studies). 
Patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease should be adequately supplemented 
with  calcium  and  vitamin  D,  and  be  adequately  supervised  for  serum  calcium  levels,  when 
administered denosumab.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Fatalities in the denosumab and placebo occurred with the same frequencies in the PMO as well as in 
the HALT studies. In the PMO study 20040132, significantly more patients in the denosumab group 
than in the placebo group reported SAEs, particularly osteoarthritis and pneumonia. In the other PMO 
studies,  and  in  the  combined  PMO  safety  dataset,  there  were  no  significant  differences  in  SAEs 
between  treatment  groups.  In  the  Primary  HALT  Safety  Analysis  Set,  combining  data  from  the  two 
HALT studies, the overall incidence of SAEs was 31.6% in the denosumab group and 27.6% in the 
placebo  group.  No  pattern  was  observed  with  respect  to  the  types  of  SAEs  that  were  reported  with 
greater  incidence  in  each  treatment  group.  The  only  SAE  that  occurred  with  ≥  1%  difference  in 
incidence was bone metastases, which occurred in 3 subjects (0.3%) in the denosumab group and 11 
subjects (1.3%) in the placebo group. 
No  single  type  of  malignancy  was  reported  at  an  increased  frequency  in  clinical  studies  with 
denosumab.  In  the  male  HALT  study  20040138,  in  contrast  to  in  other  clinical  studies,  there  was  a 
higher  all  over  frequency  of  neoplasm  AEs  in  the  denosumab  group  (16.3%),  compared  to  placebo 
(11.9%).  In  this  study,  new  primary  malignancies  were  reported  with  similar  frequency.  The  higher 
incidence  of  neoplasm  AEs  in  the  denosumab  group  in  study  20040138  was  mainly  explained  by  a 
higher  incidence  of  non-specific  benign  conditions,  in  particular  basal  cell  cancers,  in  this  treatment 
group. 
Denosumab treated patients in the male HALT study 20040138 had a significantly higher incidence of 
cataract  than  patients  in  the  control  group  (4.7%  in  the  denosumab  group  and  1.2%  in  the  placebo 
group).  On-study  AEs  of  cataracts  in  the  denosumab  group  were  more  prevalent  in  the  first  year  of 
study than in subsequent years, with 18 of 34 subjects (52.9%) with cataracts reporting events in year 
1  compared  with  17.6%  of  cataract  subjects  reporting  events  in  year  3.  The  subject  incidence  of 
cataracts reported in the third study year for the denosumab group (1.0%) approximated that reported 
for the placebo group (0.7%). Cataract development and progression will prospectively be studied in a 
prospective,  randomized,  placebo-controlled  study  in  men  with  nonmetastatic  prostate  cancer 
receiving denosumab for bone loss due to androgen-deprivation therapy.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Hypocalcaemia  was  mild  and  transient  in  clinical  denosumab  studies  when  denosumab  was 
administered together with vitamin D and calcium.  In phase 1 studies in healthy volunteers who were 
not  supplemented  with  calcium  or  vitamin  D,  the  changes  in  serum  calcium  were  generally 
characterized by transient decreases of approximately 3 - 8% observed within the first 2 weeks after 
denosumab administration. In the clinical studies, where patients were prescribed calcium and vitamin 
D,  5  subjects  (3  denosumab-treated,  2  placebo-treated)  in  the  denosumab  PMO  studies  received  IV 
calcium while on study. Four subjects treated with denosumab received IV calcium for hypocalcaemia 
in studies of subjects with advanced cancer (1 in study 20040176 and 3 in study 20050134), in which 
much higher doses of denosumab are used than in the PMO and HALT studies. Thyroid function tests, 
vitamin D- or PTH values were not prospectively recorded in the pivotal studies. In study 20010223, 
compensatory increases in median changes from baseline for iPTH occurred (46% to 82%) during the 
first  month  following  dosing.  The  magnitude  of  these  increases  diminished  steadily  to near-baseline 
levels  at  month  12,  when  they  ranged  from  11%  below  baseline  to  22%  above  baseline  for  the 
denosumab  cohorts.  In  the  HALT  safety  population  in  clinical  studies,  there  was  an  almost  3-fold 
greater frequency of hypothyroidism in the denosumab compared to the placebo group.  
Page 38 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant provided additional study data on AEs of hypothyroidism and on thyroid function tests 
in  clinical  studies.  It  is  concluded  that  it  is  unlikely  that  denosumab  should  be  the  cause  of 
hypothyroidism. Consequently, hypothyroidism at present does not warrant inclusion in the RMP. 
•  Bone biopsy studies 
A  total  of  237  bone  biopsies  were  evaluable  for  histology,  after  12  months  of  treatment  in  studies 
20010223  and  20050234,  and  after  24  and/or  36  months  of  treatment  in  study  20030216.  Bone 
biopsies  were  obtained  from  substudy  participants  in  clinical  studies  20010223  (37  evaluable 
samples),  20030216  (115  evaluable  samples),  and  20050234  (36  evaluable  samples)  to  evaluate 
histologic  and  histomorphometric  changes  resulting  from  denosumab  administration.  In  these 
substudies, the bone tissue looked normal: normal lamellar bone, normal mineralization, and normal 
osteoid  without  evidence  of  pathologic  findings  such  as  woven  bone  or  marrow  fibrosis.  In  study 
20030216, 5 subjects in the denosumab-treated group at month 24 did not have osteoid that could be 
visualized.  Histomorphometric  evaluation  demonstrated  lower  osteoclast  cell  counts  compared  with 
placebo  or  alendronate,  as  indicated  by  decreased  surface-  and  length-based  osteoclast  numbers. 
Indicators  associated  with  bone  formation  also  showed  decreases  with  denosumab  compared  with 
placebo  or  alendronate,  with  lower  osteoblast-osteoid  interface,  osteoid  surface,  and  osteoid  width. 
MicroCT analysis: Bone biopsies obtained in the substudy of study 20030216 were further evaluated 
by microCT analysis at month 24, 68 biopsies (31 denosumab, 37 placebo); month 36, 45 biopsies (21 
on  denosumab,  24  on    placebo).  After  24  or  36  months  of  treatment,  several  trabecular-related 
structural parameters, including trabecular number, trabecular separation, bone volume, and structural 
model  index,  showed  a  trend  of  improvement  compared  with  placebo.  A  significant  decrease  in 
cortical  porosity  and  an  increase  in  cortical  bone  mineral  density  was  observed  in  the  denosumab 
group at 24 months.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Study  20040245  evaluated  denosumab  in  42  subjects  with  impaired  renal  function.  Clinically 
significant hypocalcemia was observed in 3 (1 with mild and 2 with severe renal impairment) of the 
first  19  subjects  enrolled.  Two  of  the  3  events  were  reported  as  SAEs;  both  subjects  received  IV 
calcium. None of the 3 subjects with clinically significant hypocalcemia were receiving both calcium 
and  vitamin  D  supplementation,  and  2  of  them  had  severe  renal  impairment  and  secondary 
hyperparathyroidism.  Subsequent  to  these  AEs,  the  study  protocol  was  amended  to  minimize  the 
potential  for  development  of  hypocalcemia.  Two  subjects  with  end  stage  renal  disease  who  were 
enrolled under the amended protocol had transient, asymptomatic decreases in albumin-adjusted serum 
calcium  concentration.  No  other  notable  safety  findings  were  observed  to  be  associated  with 
denosumab administration relevant to renal impairment in the study population. 
Calcium  evaluations  by  baseline  creatinine  clearance  were  performed  in  the  Primary  PMO  safety 
analysis set as well as in the Primary PMO safety analysis set. Serum calcium assessments and AEs 
representing  potential  clinical  manifestations  of  hypocalcemia  were  evaluated  by  baseline  creatinine 
clearance  to  provide  an  indication  of  whether  denosumab  administration  is  associated  with  greater 
decreases  in  serum  calcium  in  subjects  with  impaired  renal  function.  No  clinically  important 
differences between groups were seen. 
Subgroup  analyses  for  sex,  race,  age  and  BMI  did  not  show  differences  in  safety  profiles  between 
groups. Some differences in frequency of AES were noted between different geographic regions but 
these differences were the same in the placebo group as in the denosumab group. 
Patients  with  hepatic  impairment  were  not  studied.  Denosumab  was  not  administered  to  children  or 
during pregnancy. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  drug/drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted  with  denosumab.  The  interaction  potential  is 
considered low and the lack of formal interaction studies is acceptable. 
Page 39 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The number of patients discontinuing investigational product was not higher in the denosumab group 
than in the placebo group in any of the pivotal studies for PMO or HALT (see tables below). 
AEs leading to investigational product discontinuation of ≥ 4 subjects (0.1%) in either treatment group 
by Preferred Term in descending order of frequency, Primary PMO safety analysis set. 
AEs leading to investigational product discontinuation of  ≥ 2 subjects (0.2%) in either treatment 
group by Preferred Term in descending order of frequency, Primary HALT safety analysis set. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Denosumab has not been marketed in any part of world. 
Page 40 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
A sufficient number of patients have been exposed to the drug in clinical studies but data from long 
time exposure are still limited. Some extension or follow-up phases as well as some clinical trials are 
currently ongoing. 
Overall analysis of death and non-fatal SAEs did not indicate significant differences between 
denosumab and placebo. 
RANKL inhibition by denosumab theoretically can be linked to an increased incidence of infectious 
complications  and  malignancies  during  denosumab  treatment.  Although  an  increased  incidence  of 
cellulitis was seen with denosumab treatment in the PMO pivotal study and an increased incidence of 
diverticulitis in the male HALT study, there was no overrepresentation of infectious complications in 
the overall safety data analysis set. Opportunistic infections were not overrepresented among patients 
treated  with  denosumab.  No  single  type  of  malignancy  was  reported  at  an  increased  frequency  in 
clinical studies with denosumab. However, there was a higher overall frequency of neoplasm AEs in 
the  denosumab  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  in  the  male  HALT  study.  The  higher  incidence  of 
neoplasm AEs in the denosumab group in study 20040138 was mainly explained by a higher incidence 
of non-specific benign conditions, in particular basal cell cancers, in this treatment group. 
Delayed fracture healing and osteonecrosis of the jaw were other areas that have been prospectively 
monitored  in  clinical  studies  with  denosumab,  so  far  with  no  confirmed  cases  identified.  Hitherto, 
denosumab  has  not  shown  any  tendency  to  cause  an  increased  incidence  of  cardiovascular  or  renal 
events. Denosumab can cause hypocalcaemia, especially in patients with renal impairment. This has 
however  not  been  a  significant  problem  in  clinical  studies,  with  concomitant  oral  administration  of 
vitamin  D  and  calcium.  The  incidence  of  cataract  was  increased  in  the  male  HALT  study.  Cataract 
development  and  progression  will  prospectively  be  studied  in  a  prospective,  randomized,  placebo-
controlled  study  in  men.  Data  on  thyroid  function  were  not  prospectively  recorded  in  the  pivotal 
studies.  In  the  HALT  safety  population,  there  was  an  almost  3-fold  greater  frequency  of 
hypothyroidism in the denosumab compared to the placebo group. The applicant provided additional 
study data on AEs of hypothyroidism and on thyroid function tests in clinical studies. It is concluded 
that it is unlikely that denosumab should be the cause of hypothyroidism. 
In conclusion, the Applicant has appropriately addressed safety issues of denosumab in clinical part of 
dossier.  
Additional safety information 
The MAH reported to the Rapporteur on 11 February 2010 a case of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) 
from an open label extension trial in postmenopausal osteoporosis, and then provided a further report 
to the Rapporteur on this case on 12 February. The patient was an 83 year old female included in the 
PMO study 20030216 in January 2008 and then in the extension trial 20060289. Her medical history 
included breast cancer, cardiovascular disease, dementia, and repeated dental procedures. Mandibular 
osteomyelitis was first reported in August 2009 and adjudicated ONJ was reported in February 2010 
and the case was discussed by the CHMP in February 2010. 
Because of the nature of the lesions reported and the course of the complication, plus the relation in 
time  to  the  denosumab  treatment,  this  reported  case  of  ONJ  was  regarded  as  possibly  related  to 
denosumab treatment. This first reported case of ONJ was considered to confirm the risk for ONJ and 
warrant an update of the SPC and PL and also an update of the RMP before placing the product on the 
market.  
On  17  February,  Amgen  submitted  to  the  EMA  a  data  summary  from  study  20050103,  “A 
Randomized, Double-Blind, Multicenter Study of Denosumab Compared with Zoledronic 
Acid  (Zometa®)  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone  Metastases  in  Men  with  Hormone-Refractory  Prostate 
Cancer”.  Integrated  efficacy  and  safety  data  from  the  three  denosumab  pivotal  studies  in  advanced 
cancer (Studies 20050136, 20050244 and 20050103) were later provided and also subject listings and 
narratives for cases of ONJ, cerebrovascular accidents and new primary malignancies.  
A  first  preliminary  analysis  of  the  combined  data  set  from  these  three  oncology  studies  arouse  a 
suspicion  of  an  overrepresentation  of  osteonecrosis,  ONJ  and  hypocalcaemia  in  the  denosumab 
Page 41 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  group  compared  to  the  zoledronic  acid  treatment  group.  The  findings  in  these  oncology 
studies are however difficult to extrapolate to Prolia since the dose of denosumab in these studies was 
13 times the dose of Prolia and the study populations different to patient populations in Prolia studies. 
The data were assessed by the Rapporteurs and discussed by the PhVWP and CHMP in March 2010. 
The  benefit  risk  balance  for  Prolia  was  concluded  to  remain  positive.  Safety  and  efficacy  data  for 
denosumab in the treatment of advanced cancer will be thoroughly assessed in a coming submission of 
complete study data in a marketing authorisation application for denosumab in this indication. 
Furthermore  it  was  concluded  that  amendments  to  the  Product  Infomation  and  to  the  Risk 
Management  Plan  for  Prolia  should  be  undertaken.  The  updated  Prolia  RMP  should  include  a 
discussion of the possible risk of increase of ONJ in patient previously treated with bisphosphonates 
before  start  of  denosumab  treatment  as  well  as  information  on  ONJ  cases  reported  in  the  oncology 
clinical  trials.  Cases  of  ONJ  identified  in  the  postmarketing  epidemiological  studies  in  the  US  and 
Scandinavian countries should be identified continuously and reported expeditiously to the authorities. 
Active surveillance by setting up Sentinel sites combined with follow-up questionnaire should also be 
considered  and  the  sentinels  site  feasibility  should  be  added  in  the  PV  plan  for  ONJ.  Furthermore, 
osteonecrosis  outside  the  jaw  should  be  added  as  a  potential  risk  in  the  safety  specification  and 
Pharmacovigilance activities should be specified. A detailed updated RMP according to this should be 
provided by the applicant by 15.05.2010. 
2.6 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Page 42 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Identified Risks 
Hypocalcemia 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization Activities 
Routine PV activities, including:  
•  Cumulative reporting in periodic 
reports and assessment of events 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
Identification of rates of serious 
hypocalcemia in postmarketing 
safety observational study, 
including events in patients with 
low calcium and/or low vitamin 
D prior to the start of therapy 
•  Cumulative analysis of reports of 
hypocalcemia in PSURs 
4.2 Posology and Method of Administration 
Patients must be adequately supplemented with 
calcium and vitamin D. 
4.3 Contraindications 
Hypocalcemia 
4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is 
important in all patients. 
Hypocalcemia must be corrected by adequate 
intake of calcium and vitamin D before initiating 
therapy.  Patients with severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) or receiving 
dialysis are at greater risk of developing 
hypocalcemia.  Clinical monitoring of calcium 
levels is recommended in patients predisposed to 
hypocalcemia. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated Summary of Adverse Reactions: 
Hypocalcemia is listed under metabolism and 
nutrition disorders as very rare. 
Description of Selected Adverse Reactions, 
Hypocalcemia: In 2 phase 3 placebo-controlled 
clinical trials in postmenopausal women with 
osteoporosis, approximately 0.05% (2 out of 
4050) of patients had declines of serum calcium 
levels (less than 1.88 mmol/L) following 
denosumab administration.  Declines of serum 
calcium levels (less than 1.88 mmol/L) were not 
reported in the 2 phase 3 placebo-controlled 
clinical trials in patients receiving hormone 
ablation. 
Other Special Populations:  In clinical studies, 
patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 30 mL/min) or receiving dialysis 
were at greater risk of developing hypocalcemia 
in the absence of calcium supplementation.  
Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is 
important in patients with severe renal 
impairment or receiving dialysis. 
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
Calcium levels were transiently decreased and 
parathyroid levels transiently increased in 
ovariectomized monkeys treated with denosumab. 
Skin Infections 
Leading to 
Hospitalization 
Routine PV activities, including: 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
(Annex 12) to identify risk 
factors, identify bacterial 
4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
Patients receiving denosumab may develop skin 
infections (predominantly cellulitis) leading to 
hospitalization. Patients should be advised to seek 
prompt medical attention if they develop signs or 
symptoms of cellulitis. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated Summary of Adverse Reactions: 
Cellulitis is listed under infections and 
infestations as uncommon. 
Page 43 of 54 
  
 
• 
pathogens, and to determine 
clinical outcome  
Identification of event rates in 
postmarketing safety 
observational study to further 
elucidate risks, seriousness, 
nature, outcome, and incidence 
Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
Description of Selected Adverse Reactions, Skin 
Infections:  In phase 3 placebo-controlled clinical 
trials, the overall incidence of skin infections was 
similar in the placebo and the denosumab groups 
in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis 
(placebo [1.2%, 50 out of 4041] vs. denosumab 
[1.5%, 59 out of 4050]) and in breast or prostate 
cancer patients receiving hormone ablation 
(placebo [1.7%, 14 out of 845] vs. denosumab 
[1.4%, 12 out of 860]).  Skin infections leading to 
hospitalization were reported in 0.1% (3 out of 
4041) of postmenopausal women with 
osteoporosis receiving placebo vs 0.4% (16 out of 
4050) of women receiving denosumab.  These 
cases were predominantly cellulitis.  Skin 
infections reported as serious adverse reactions 
were similar in the placebo (0.6%, 5 out of 845) 
and the denosumab (0.6%, 5 out of 860) groups in 
the breast and prostate cancer studies. 
Page 44 of 54 
ONJ 
Routine PV activities, including: 
4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for Use 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire  
•  Ongoing adjudication in clinical 
trials 
• 
Identification of events in 
postmarketing safety observational 
study to further elucidate risk and 
incidence 
Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
including annual reports of the 
postmarketing safety observational 
study 
Potential Risks 
Fracture 
Healing 
Complications 
Routine PV activities, including: 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
• 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire (Annex 12) 
In ongoing Study 20050209, 
information on fracture healing is 
captured for all fracture adverse 
Page 45 of 54 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported 
in patients treated with denosumab or 
bisphosphonates, another class of anti-resorptive 
agents. Most cases have been in cancer patients; 
however some have occurred in patients with 
osteoporosis.  
ONJ has been been reported rarely in clinical 
studies in patients receiving denosumab at a dose 
of 60 mg every 6 months for osteoporosis.   
There have been reports of ONJ in clinical studies 
in patients with advanced cancer treated with 
denosumab at the studied dose of 120 mg 
administered monthly.  Known risk factors for 
ONJ include a diagnosis of cancer with bone 
lesions, concomitant therapies (eg, chemotherapy, 
antiangiogenic biologics, corticosteroids, 
radiotherapy to head and neck), poor oral 
hygiene, dental extractions, comorbid disorders 
(eg, pre-existing dental disease, anaemia, 
coagulopathy, infection) and previous treatment 
with bisphosphonates. 
A dental examination with appropriate preventive 
dentistry should be considered prior to treatment 
with denosumab in patients with concomitant risk 
factors. While on treatment, these patients should 
avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. 
Good oral hygiene practices should be maintained 
during treatment with denosumab. For patients 
who develop ONJ while on denosumab therapy, 
dental surgery may exacerbate the condition.  If 
ONJ occurs during treatment with denosumab, 
use clinical judgment and guide the management 
plan of each patient based on individual 
benefit/risk evaluation. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Description of Selected Adverse Reactions, 
Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: 
In the osteoporosis clinical trial program (8710 
patients treated ≥ 1 year), ONJ was reported 
rarely with denosumab. 
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
In male mice genetically engineered to express 
huRANKL (knock-in mice), which were 
subjected to a transcortical fracture, denosumab 
delayed the removal of cartilage and remodelling 
of the fracture callus compared to control, but 
biomechanical strength was not adversely 
affected. 
Infection 
Hypersensitivity 
Reactions 
Cataracts in 
Men With 
Prostate Cancer 
Receiving ADT 
• 
events using a specific CRF 
Identification of event rates in 
postmarketing safety observational 
study  
•  Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
Routine PV activities, including:  
•  Assessment of serious adverse 
events of infection from ongoing 
clinical trials and spontaneous 
reports 
•  Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up 
• 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
(Annex 12) to identify risk 
factors and causative pathogen 
and to determine clinical 
outcome 
Identification of rates of serious 
adverse events of infection in 
postmarketing safety 
observational study to further 
elucidate risk and incidence 
Cumulative analysis of serious adverse 
events of infection in PSURs 
Routine PV activities, including: 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
(Annex 12)  
Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
Routine PV activities, including: 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
A prospective, randomized, placebo-
controlled study is being conducted to 
further evaluate the incidence of 
cataracts in men receiving denosumab 
concurrently with ADT for prostate 
cancer  
Cardiovascular 
Risk 
Routine PV activities, including: 
Assessment of events reported from 
ongoing clinical trials and spontaneous 
reports 
Page 46 of 54 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated Summary of Adverse Reactions:  
Listed under infections and infestations are 
diverticulitis (uncommon), upper respiratory tract 
infection (common), urinary tract infection 
(common), and ear infection (uncommon). 
Description of Selected Adverse Reactions, 
Diverticulitis: In a single phase 3 placebo-
controlled clinical trial in patients with prostate 
cancer receiving ADT, an imbalance in 
diverticulitis adverse events was observed 
(1.2% denosumab, 0% placebo). The incidence of 
diverticulitis was comparable between treatment 
groups in postmenopausal women with 
osteoporosis or in women undergoing aromatase 
inhibitor therapy for nonmetastatic breast cancer. 
4.3 Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any 
of the excipients 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated Summary of Adverse Reactions: 
Cataracts are listed under eye disorders as 
common. 
Description of Selected Adverse Reactions, 
Cataracts: In a single phase 3 placebo-controlled 
clinical trial in patients with prostate cancer 
receiving ADT an imbalance in cataract adverse 
events was observed (4.7% denosumab, 1.2% 
placebo). No imbalance was observed in 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis or in 
women undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy 
for nonmetastatic breast cancer. 
No risk minimization activities given the lack of 
evidence for cardiovascular risk 
Expert adjudication of serious cardiovascular 
adverse events in the large long-term pivotal 
denosumab studies showed that denosumab did 
not increase the overall risk for cardiovascular 
serious adverse events. No difference between 
denosumab and placebo treatment groups was 
found in the change from baseline in aortic 
calcification score in a subset of subjects with 
high baseline cardiovascular risk.  Results of 
clinical and nonclinical studies indicate that 
denosumab administration was not associated 
with clinically significant ECG abnormalities.  
Cardiovascular adverse events will continue to be 
assessed in clinical trials. 
If a safety risk for cardiovascular events is 
identified in the postmarketing setting, 
appropriate risk minimization activities will be 
implemented. 
No risk minimization activities proposed given 
the lack of evidence for malignancy associated 
with denosumab. 
Nonclinical studies have examined a wide range 
of human tumor types and indicate no 
carcinogenic risk associated with RANKL 
inhibition. Results from the large pivotal studies 
demonstrate no increased risk of malignancy in 
denosumab-treated subjects, and the incidence of 
malignancies was balanced between the 
denosumab and comparator treatment groups.  
There was no evidence of progression of 
malignancy associated with denosumab 
administration in subjects with nonmetastatic 
prostate cancer and breast cancer. 
Malignancy will continue to be followed in 
ongoing studies and results will be reported. 
If a safety risk for malignancy is identified in the 
postmarketing setting from clinical trials or 
spontaneous reports, appropriate risk 
minimization activities will be implemented. 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic Properties  
Immunogenicity: In clinical studies, neutralizing 
antibodies have not been observed for 
denosumab.  Using a sensitive immunoassay, < 
1% of patients treated with denosumab for up to 5 
years tested positive for non-neutralizing binding 
antibodies, with no evidence of altered 
pharmacokinetics, toxicity, or clinical response. 
No risk minimization activities proposed. 
No atypical fractures have been observed with 
Malignancy 
Routine PV activities, including: 
•  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
• 
Identification of rates of new 
primary malignancy in 
postmarketing safety 
observational study  
•  Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
• 
In ongoing Studies 20050209, 
20050103, 20050136, 20050147, 
20050244, and 20060359, 
information on new primary 
malignancies is being captured.  
Information on progression of 
malignancy will be obtained from 
ongoing studies in advanced cancer 
(Studies 20050136, 20050244, 
20050103, 20050147, and 20060359) 
Immunogenicity  Proactive surveillance: 
•  Testing for antidenosumab 
antibodies in all ongoing clinical 
trials 
•  Evaluation of relationship 
between development of 
antidenosumab antibodies and 
changes in adverse event 
profiles, changes in 
pharmacodynamic profiles, or 
delayed or missed doses in 
clinical trials 
•  Evaluation of relationship 
between development of 
antidenosumab antibodies and 
hypersensitivity reaction adverse 
events in clinical trials 
During the postmarketing period, 
testing for antidenosumab antibodies 
will be available for any patient on 
denosumab at the request of the 
treating physician 
•  Routine PV activities, including 
assessment of events reported 
Page 47 of 54 
Atypical 
Fracture 
denosumab treatment up to 6 years’ duration in 
the clinical program, and no causal relationship 
has been established between suppression of bone 
remodeling and occurrence of atypical fractures.  
If a safety risk for atypical fracture is identified in 
the postmarketing setting, appropriate risk 
minimization activites will be implemented. 
from ongoing clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports.   
•  Proactive surveillance: 
•  Targeted follow-up of 
• 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
(Annex 12)  
Identification of rates of atypical 
fracture from postmarketing 
safety observational studies 
•  Data on atypical fracture from 
clinical studies in subjects 
receiving long-term treatment 
with denosumab will be 
summarized in CSRs and PSURs 
(Studies 20050233, 20080537, 
20050209, and 20060289). 
Page 48 of 54 
Osteonecrosis 
outside the jaw 
(avascular 
necrosis) 
Routine PV activities, including 
assessment of events reported from 
ongoing clinical trials and spontaneous 
reports, including cumulative analysis 
in PSURs. 
Important Missing or Limited Information 
Pregnant 
Women 
Routine PV activities, including: 
• 
Pregnancy registry based on 
Amgen Pregnant Surveillance 
System established on the basis of 
Spontaneous Reporting Safety 
System.  All patients who report 
having a pregnancy during 
denosumab treatment will be 
followed to observe birth outcomes 
Proactive surveillance: 
A prospective, observational, 
matched-cohort study will be 
conducted in pregnant women in the 
US who are exposed to denosumab 
during pregnancy and of their live 
born children up to one year of age; 
includes matched denosumab-
unexposed group 
Lactating 
Women 
Routine.  No additional PV activities. 
Page 49 of 54 
No risk minimization activities proposed. 
There is no known biological mechanism by 
which denosumab would impair blood supply, the 
known mechanism for osteonecrosis outside the 
jaw (avascular necrosis).  Event rates are low and 
the affected subjects had risk factors for the 
development of osteonecrosis.   
•  4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
•  Pregnancy:  There are no adequate data from 
the use of denosumab in pregnant women.  
Animal studies do not indicate direct or 
indirect harmful effects with respect to 
reproductive toxicity. In genetically 
engineered mice in which which RANK 
ligand (RANKL) has been turned off by 
gene removal (a “knockout mouse”), studies 
suggest absence of RANK ligand (the target 
of denosumab) could interfere with the 
development of lymph nodes in the fetus 
and could lead to postnatal impairment of 
dentition and bone growth.  Denosumab is 
not recommended for use in pregnant 
women. 
•  5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
•  At exposures up to 100-fold higher than the 
human exposure, denosumab showed no 
evidence of impaired female fertility and 
harm to the fetus in cynomolgus monkeys in 
development toxicity studies. In preclinical 
studies conducted in knockout mice lacking 
RANK or RANKL, impairment of lymph 
node formation was observed in the fetus.   
Knockout mice lacking RANK or RANKL 
exhibited decreased body weight, reduced bone 
growth and lack of tooth eruption.  In neonatal 
rats, inhibition of RANKL (target of denosumab 
therapy) with high doses of a construct of 
osteoprotegerin bound to Fc (OPG-Fc) was 
associated with inhibition of bone growth and 
tooth eruption.  The reversibility of the effects of 
OPG-Fc has not been examined. 
4.6 Pregnancy and Lactation 
Lactation: It is unknown whether denosumab is 
excreted in human milk.  Knockout mouse studies 
suggest absence of RANK ligand during 
pregnancy may interfere with maturation of the 
mammary gland leading to impaired lactation 
postpartum.  A decision on whether to abstain 
from breast-feeding or to abstain from therapy 
with denosumab should be made, taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding to the 
newborn/infant and the benefit of denosumab 
therapy to the woman. 
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
 
Children, 
Including 
Off-label 
Pediatric Use 
Routine PV activities, including 
cumulative reports in PSURs  
Proactive surveillance: 
• 
Monitoring for off-label use in 
children through postmarketing 
surveillance and from drug 
utilization patterns obtained from 
the postmarketing safety 
observational study 
• 
Study 20090695 will collect 
data on pediatric off-label use 
Clinical trial activities as described in 
the PIP  
Potential Adult 
Off-label Use 
•  Routine PV activities, 
including cumulative reports in 
PSURs 
Proactive surveillance: 
• 
Monitoring for off-label use in 
the postmarketing safety 
observational study  
Study 20090695 will collect data on 
off-label use 
Use in Patients 
with Hepatic 
Impairment 
Routine PV activities, including 
evaluation in the PSUR of hepatic 
adverse events under the hepatobiliary 
system organ class 
An absence of lactation due to inhibition of 
mammary gland maturation (lobulo-alveolar 
gland development during pregnancy) was also 
observed in knockout mice lacking RANK or 
RANKL. 
4.2 Posology and Method of Administration 
Pediatric Population: Denosumab is not 
recommended in pediatric patients (age < 18) as 
the safety and efficacy of denosumab in these 
patients have not been established. 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic Properties 
Special Populations: The pharmacokinetic profile 
in pediatric populations has not been assessed.  
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
Knockout mice lacking RANK or RANKL 
exhibited decreased body weight, reduced bone 
growth and lack of tooth eruption.  In neonatal 
rats, inhibition of RANKL (target of denosumab 
therapy) with high doses of a construct of 
osteoprotegerin bound to Fc (OPG-Fc) was 
associated with inhibition of bone growth and 
tooth eruption.  The reversibility of the effects of 
OPG-Fc has not been examined.  Adolescent 
primates dosed with denosumab at 27 and 150 
times (10 and 50 mg/kg dose) the clinical 
exposure had abnormal growth plates.  Therefore, 
treatment with denosumab may impair bone 
growth in children with open growth plates and 
may inhibit eruption of dentition. 
4.1 Therapeutic indications: 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal 
women at increased risk of fractures. Denosumab 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, 
nonvertebral and hip fractures. 
Treatment of bone loss associated with hormone 
ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased 
risk of fractures. In men with prostate cancer 
receiving hormone ablation, denosumab 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral 
fractures. 
4.2 Posology and Method of Administration 
Patients with Hepatic Impairment:  The safety and 
efficacy of denosumab have not been studied in 
patients with hepatic impairment.   
5.2 Pharmacokinetic Properties 
Special Populations:  No specific study in patients 
with hepatic impairment was performed.  In 
general, monoclonal antibodies are not eliminated 
via hepatic metabolic mechanisms.  The 
pharmacokinetics of denosumab is not expected 
to be affected by hepatic impairment. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
3.1 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Page 50 of 54 
 
 
 
Quality 
Based  on  the  submitted  data,  the  marketing  authorisation  application  for  Prolia  is  recommended  for 
approval based on quality grounds.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In  vitro  studies  showed  that  denosumab  binds  to  huRANKL  with  high  affinity  and  specificity.  No 
binding to TNF-α, TNF-β, TRAIL or CD40L was observed. In vivo, denosumab significantly reduced 
biochemical  bone  turnover  markers  in  ovariectomized  cynomolgus  monkeys  which  was  associated 
with  increased  trabecular  and  cortical  bone  volume  and  density  and  increased  biomechanical 
parameters  of  bone  strength.  Hence,  denosumab  has  demonstrated  efficacy  in  a  relevant  model  for 
PMO.  No  disease  model  for  hormone  ablation  therapy  in  males  has  been  used.  However,  clinical 
studies  in  males  are  available  which  supersede  the  lack  of  non-clinical  data.  Safety  pharmacology 
studies  revealed  no  major  cause  for  concern.  Considering  the  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab, 
potential effects on immunomodulation and immunosuppression cannot be ruled out. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  monkey  did  not  indicate  any  specific  target  organ  toxicity  of 
denosumab. Reproduction toxicity studies in monkey did not show any teratogenic potential, but data 
from RANKL knock out mouse show that the RANK/RANKL system is essential for the development 
of  lactating  mammary  gland.  However,  available  studies  do  not  permit  to  rule  out  a  potential  for 
adverse interactions with the immune system. Because of the immunogenicity of denosumab, leading 
to  development  of  anti-drug  antibodies  in  most  animals  in  the  preclinical  studies,  the  preclinical 
toxicity profile may not have been fully identified. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  denosumab  in  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  was  demonstrated  in  the  pivotal  study 
20030216  in  postmenopausal  women  at  high  risk  of  fracture.  A  significant  risk  reduction  was 
demonstrated  for  the  incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures.  RR  reductions  at  month  36  was  68%.  A 
reduction of the incidence of hip fractures and non-vertebral fractures as well as a significant gain in 
lumbar  spine  BMD  were  also  shown  in  this  study.  Risk  reduction  for  hip  fracture  during  the  study 
period (40 %) in this study was similar to what has previously been demonstrated for zoledronic acid. 
The  study  was  designed  and  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  CHMP  Osteoporosis  guideline 
(CPMP/EWP/552/rev 2). Subgroup analyses did not reveal insignificant treatment effect in any of the 
subgroups analysed.  
The primary efficacy results in the pivotal PMO study 20030216 were questioned as an inspection at 
the CRO responsible for assessment of X-rays evaluation status revealed that change of fracture status 
from  ´incident´  to  ´prevalent´  could  be  done  without  adjudication  which  could  possibly  have 
influenced the study result. After alternative analyses on basis of different readings of these fracture 
data  it  was  concluded  that  the  changes  made  did  not  significantly  influence  the  primary  efficacy 
parameter outcome. 
Efficacy for denosumab was also demonstrated in a PMO study with regard to BMD with alendronate 
as  the  active  control:  BMD  at  different  locations  increased  significantly  more  with  denosumab  than 
with alendronate during a 12 month treatment period. A continuous gain in lumbar spine  BMD was 
seen  during  60  months  of  denosumab  treatment  in  a  long  time  study.  After  discontinuation  of 
denosumab, BMD and bone turnover markers returned to baseline within 1-2 years after denosumab 
discontinuation, in contrast to alendronate treated group.  
The incidence of antidenosumab antibody formation was low; no neutralising antibodies were detected 
and efficacy was demonstrated after retreatment with denosumab in one study cohort.  
No CHMP guideline exists on the evaluation of medicinal products in the treatment of bone loss 
associated with hormone ablation in women with breast cancer and no medicinal product has hitherto 
been approved for this indication. 
Page 51 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pivotal  study  for  denosumab  in  this  category  of  patients,  study  20040135  was  not  powered  to 
demonstrate  a  difference  in  fracture  incidence  between  groups.  These  women  had  a  moderately 
decreased  lumbar  spine  BMD  at  baseline  (-1.1),  low  numbers  of  prevalent  vertebral  fractures  at 
baseline  (8  and  4  %  in  treatment  groups).  Lumbar  spine  BMD  increase  from  baseline  to  month  12 
(primary endpoint) was significantly increased in the denosumab group, as compared to placebo (p< 
0.0001).  Secondary  endpoints  (BMD  at  other  locations)  also  increased  significantly  more  in  the 
denosumab  group.  The  study  was  adequately  designed  and  conducted  and  drop  out  rates  were 
reasonable. In this small study, a significant gain in lumbar spine was demonstrated in the denosumab-
treated group, of the same magnitude that had been demonstrated in larger denosumab studies in other 
indications and therefore it was considered reasonable by the CHMP to extrapolate to fracture results 
from  these  studies.  The  female  HALT  population  would  be  considered  by  definition  as 
postmenopausal. Treatment with an aromatase inhibitor is a clear risk factor in this group of patients 
and  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  an  effect  of  denosumab  also  in  this  sub-population.  Hence,  the 
indication  valid  for  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  (“Postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of 
fractures”) is also valid for women treated with aromatase inhibitors for non-metastatic breast cancer. 
A separate indication for the female HALT population was thus considered not to be necessary by the 
CHMP.  
No CHMP guideline exists on the evaluation of medicinal products in the treatment of bone loss 
associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer and no medicinal product has hitherto 
been approved for this indication. 
The  pivotal  study  20040138  for  denosumab  in  the  treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone 
ablation in men with prostate cancer Prevalent vertebral fractures were present at baseline in 21 % of 
denosumab subjects and 24 % of placebo subjects (as compared to 45 % of patients at baseline in the 
pivotal PMO study). Calculated FRAX data were not presented and baseline lumbar spine BMD was -
0.3 and -0.4 in treatment groups.  
Denosumab  significantly  increased  the  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  from  baseline  to 
month 24 (primary endpoint) in all subgroups for BMI, age  and duration of ADT. The incidence of 
new  vertebral  fractures  (secondary  endpoint)  was  significantly  reduced,  at  3  years  by  62  %,  in  the 
denosumab group and BMD relative to placebo at lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck at month 
24 and month 36 (secondary endpoints) was significantly increased (adjusted p < 0.0001). 
Thus,  efficacy  was  clearly  shown  as  vertebral  fracture  incidence  reduction  as  well  as  lumbar  spine 
BMD gain in the pivotal study.  
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Denosumab is a first in class drug, with a new mechanism of action that could theoretically interfere 
with  the  immune  system  and  the  indications  applied  for  are  very  wide.  Although  more  than  13.000 
patients have been exposed to at least one dose of denosumab, there is still limited experience of long 
term treatment with the drug, with less than 200 patient that have been on denosumab for more than 4 
years.  
An overrepresentation of infectious adverse events leading to hospitalisation was seen in two studies 
in  postmenopausal  osteoporosis;  this  was  due  to  all  kinds  of  common  infections  but  without  any 
reports of opportunistic infections. In the pivotal PMO study, a small overrepresentation of cellulitis 
and  erysipelas  was  found  in  the  denosumab  treatment  group,  compared  to  placebo;  and  in  the  male 
HALT study, the denosumab group had a small overrepresentation of diverticulitis. This was not seen 
in other studies or in pooled safety data from several studies. 
There  was  an  increased  incidence  of  neoplasm  adverse  events  in  the  pivotal  study  for  males  with 
prostate cancer on hormone ablation therapy. The higher incidence of neoplasm AEs in the denosumab 
group  seems  to  be  mainly  explained  by  a  higher  incidence  of  non-specific  benign  conditions,  in 
treatment  group.  The  remaining  concerns  regarding 
particular  basal  cell  cancers, 
this 
in 
Page 52 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunomodulatory  effects  of  denosumab  in  terms  of  malignancies  and  infections  have  been 
adequately addressed in the Risk Management Plan. 
Hypocalcaemia is a defined risk, especially in patients with impaired renal function, but was mostly 
mild and transient in clinical studies where patients were on calcium and vitamin D co-medication. 
For  unclear  reasons,  cataract  was  overrepresented  in  denosumab  treated  patients  in  the  male  HALT 
study,  but  the  prevalence  in  this  treatment  group  did  not  exceed  that  in  the  general  age-matched 
population.  Cataract development and progression will prospectively be studied in a planned clinical 
study in this category of patients. 
The effects on parathyroid function and thyroid function have not been fully evaluated. In contrast to 
bisphosphonates, denosumab did not cause an higher frequency of gastrointestinal adverse effects in 
clinical studies, and no higher frequency of cardiovascular events. 
To address remaining concerns the applicant will perform a study for patients with PMO to further 
follow up of the following risks: hypocalcaemia leading to hospitalisation, ONJ, infections leading to 
hospitalisation, hypersensitivity leading to hospitalisation, fracture healing complications and 
malignancies. A prospective randomised study to further evaluate the incidence of cataracts in men 
receiving denosumab with ADT for prostate cancer is also planned. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
in 
it  was  missing 
A  full  User  Test  (UT)  has  been  performed.  In  the  first  UT  report  all  per  protocol  questions  met  the 
criteria and at least 99.4 % were able to find the information, and of these, at least 99.15 % were able 
to understand it. Regarding the choice of Test Questions and Model Answers, the questionnaire shows 
an imbalance between general and specific issues, e.g. just 2 questions are linked to side effects and 
seems in principle easy designed with appropriate sparsely answers; 3 yes/no answers and 4 contain 
“contact/tell your doctor-like” answers. Furthermore, a general open question reflecting the subjects’ 
impression  of  layout  and  design  of  the  PL  was  only  asked  the  subjects  in  the  pilot  phase.  The 
Applicant was asked to submit the ratings and an analysis of the quantitative evaluation of responses, 
since 
the  first  UT  report.  Their  response  did  not  reveal  any  new 
presentation/summary  or  analysis  other  than  a  repetition  of  the  timescales  used  in  the  test  with  a 
maximum of 4 min 30 s per question. Although a pie chart was submitted, including the overall results 
of the 24 participants, this does not add any information to the issue. The timescales definitions should 
be expressed more precisely in future tests (here; very easily: within 30 s, easily: within 30 s to 1min 
30 s, little difficulty: within 1 min 30 s to 3 min etc.) in order to e.g. avoid question marks/overlapping 
how  to  grade  if  exactly  1  min  30  s.  The  Applicant  was  asked  to  provide  an  analysis  and  a  new 
summary of the “Assessment of Responses” for test rounds 1 and 2 since it was missing in the first UT 
report. The response contained new information as requested. 
In  conclusion,  the  user  test  is  judged  acceptable  but  the  Applicant  is  asked  to  perform  a  new  more 
complete user test (including a more complete set of summaries/ranges/analyses/diagrams/definitions 
etc. and at least one open general question asking all subjects about the PL layout and design), of 10 
subjects,  in  case  a  variation  procedure  becomes  necessary  affecting  the  key  safety  messages  of  the 
package information leaflet.   
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits with denosumab are: 
- For the indications applied for, administration is simple as the drug is administered as a subcutaneous 
injection of a fix dose once every 6 months, and many patients can probably be trained to administer 
Page 53 of 54 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the injections themselves. The treatment effect of denosumab is reversible and study data indicate that 
bone formation returns to base levels within one year after the cessation of denosumab therapy.  
-  For  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures,  the  pivotal 
study for this indication was adequately sized, designed and performed and the efficacy results were 
similar to or better than what has earlier been demonstrated for other drugs approved for the treatment 
of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture. The risks for interference with 
the immune system seem  to be moderate according to data from large clinical studies. Treatment of 
bone loss associated with hormone ablation in women with breast cancer at increased risk of fractures 
is not considered to be a separate indication as these patients are considered to be postmenopausal and 
at increased risk of fracture and thus to be included in the PMO indication. 
- For treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer, efficacy 
was clearly shown as fracture incidence reduction and this effect is clinically relevant. This positive 
effect  must  be  weighed  against  the  risks  of  interference  with  the  immune  system.  The  men  in  the 
pivotal  study  for  this  indication  exhibited  an  overfrequency  of  adverse  events  of  neoplasms,  mainly 
attributed to benign neoplasms, especially basal cell cancer. In addition, a high risk group for fractures 
needs to be better defined within this indication.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  By 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Prolia in the following indication: 
“Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly  reduces  the  risk  of  vertebral,  non  vertebral  and  hip  fractures.  Treatment  of  bone  loss 
associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  In  men 
with  prostate  cancer  receiving  hormone  ablation,  Prolia  significantly  reduces  the  risk  of  vertebral 
fractures.” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 54 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
