SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Prometax.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 April 2004. For information on changes after this date please refer 
to module 8B. 
All doses quoted refer to rivastigmine base. 
1. 
Introduction 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. From epidemiological studies, it is 
estimated  that  there  are  over  three  million  individuals  with  dementia  in  the  European  Union,  and  of 
these  about  70%  have  AD.  It  is  not  only  a  heavy  burden  for  the  patient  but  is  also  responsible  for 
making the patient dependent on his family or the community.  
Dementia  is  characterised  by  dysmnesia,  intellectual  deterioration,  and  changes  in  personality,  and 
behavioural  abnormalities.  Dementia  of  the  Alzheimer  type  is  the  most  common  cause  of  dementia. 
The prevalence of this disease, which mainly occurs from the sixth decade of life increases gradually 
with age to reach about 30% by the end of a century of life.  
The  cause  of  the  disease  remains  unknown.  Its  diagnosis  is  an  exclusion  diagnosis  in  the  face  of  a 
dementia with insidious onset, a gradual progression, and no sign of another cause of dementia. The 
neuropathology of AD is characterised by extensive neuronal cell loss, deposition of numerous senile 
plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the cerebral cortex. Early neurochemical studies suggested that 
there is a specific loss of cholinergic neurones and/or acetyltransferase activity in AD. This led to the 
development of acetylcholinesterase inhibiting drugs for treatment of AD. 
Tacrine  was  the  first  acetylcholinesterase  (AChE)  inhibitor  to  obtain  a  marketing  authorisation  in 
symptomatic  treatment  of  Alzheimer’s  Disease  in  the  USA  (1993)  and  in  some  European  countries. 
Another AChE inhibitor, donepezil, has been recently authorised in 14 EU Member States. 
Rivastigmine  is  a  non-competitive  acetylcholinesterase  inhibitor  of  the  carbamate  type.  It  has  been 
shown, 
inhibit  central  and  peripheral  acetylcholinesterases  and 
butyrylcholinesterases, proportionally with the dose. Animal studies indicate a weak specificity for the 
cortex within the CNS.  
in  animal  and  man, 
to 
PROMETAX  is  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  mild  to  moderately  severe 
Alzheimer’s dementia. 
Doses  of  rivastigmine  should  be  titrated  to  achieve  an  individual  optimal  therapeutic  response;  the 
recommended starting dose is 1.5 mg twice a day. The daily dose may be increased up to 6 mg twice a 
day, after a minimum of two weeks treatment between each increase. The effective dose is 3 to 6 mg 
twice  a  day;  to  achieve  maximum  therapeutic  benefit  patients  should  be  maintained  on  their  highest 
well-tolerated dose. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
PROMETAX hard capsules: 
Composition  
PROMETAX  hard  gelatin  capsules  contain  rivastigmine  hydrogen  tartrate.  There  are  four  capsule 
strengths  containing  2.4  mg,  4.8  mg,  7.2  mg,  and  9.6  mg  of  rivastigmine  hydrogen  tartrate, 
corresponding respectively to 1.5 mg, 3.0 mg, 4.5 mg, and 6.0 mg of rivastigmine. The 4 strengths are 
differentiated by colour or colour combination and imprint. The various strengths are not homothetic. 
The primary packaging material is composed of a clear PVC film and coated hard aluminium foil or a 
clear polypropylene film and coated soft aluminium foil. Each blister contains 14 capsules and there 
are 3 package sizes: 28, 56, and 112 capsules. 
1/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients 
The capsules contain microcrystalline cellulose as disintegrant/filler, colloidal anhydrous silica as flow 
regulator,  methylhydroxypropylcellulose  as  binder,  and  magnesium  stearate  as  lubricant.  All 
excipients  are  commonly  used  in  many  other  authorised  pharmaceuticals  and  meet  European 
Pharmacopoeial requirements. 
Active substance 
Rivastigmine hydrogen tartrate is a white to off-white, fine crystalline powder that is very soluble in 
water,  soluble  in  ethanol  and  acetonitrile,  slightly  soluble  in  n-octanol  and  very  slightly  soluble  in 
ethyl  acetate.  The  pKa  is  8.85.  The  distribution  coefficient  at  37°C  in  n-octanol/phosphate  buffer 
solution pH 7 is 3.0. Forced degradation experiments have revealed the potential degradation pathways 
of the active ingredient, and the main degradation products have been identified. The active substance 
is not sensitive to light. Rivastigmine hydrogen tartrate is very hygroscopic and is deliquescent. At a 
relative  humidity  above  55%  it  should,  therefore,  be  stored  in  packaging  that  is  impermeable  to 
moisture. 
The  rivastigmine  base  is  chiral,  containing  one  optical  active  centre  and  is  used  as  a  single  stereo-
isomer (the S-isomer). The active substance is a (R,R)-hydrogentartrate salt that has an overall positive 
rotation. The racemate separation provides active substance with high optical purity. No polymorphism 
was observed. 
Rivastigmine  hydrogen  tartrate  is  manufactured  in  a  synthesis  using  well-established  chemical 
reactions.  
The chemical structure of rivastigmine has been confirmed by elemental analysis, interpreted infra red 
(IR)-,  ultra  violet  (UV)-,  mass  spectroscopy-,  and  nuclear  magnetic  resonance  spectra.  The  absolute 
configuration of the chiral centre was determined by single crystal x-ray diffraction. For identification 
thin layer chromatography is used in comparison with a reference substance. The purity is checked by 
high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and UV. The proportion of the (+)-antipode in the 
drug substance is routinely determined by a separate HPLC method using a chiral stationary phase. All 
methods have been adequately validated. 
Fifteen potential impurities are described for the active substance, but only nine have been observed. 
The  (S)-3-(1-dimethylaminoethyl)  phenol  was  the  only  impurity detected  above 0.1%. It  is  the  main 
by-product, the main metabolite and a possible hydrolysis product. The proposed limit is ≤ 0.3%. The 
R-enantiomer  is  present  as  an  impurity  at  levels  below  the  limit  of  quantitation  (<0.2%),  with  a 
specification limit at ≤ 0.3%. The level of total related compounds in the active ingredient is limited to 
0.5%  by  HPLC.  Batch  results  indicate  that  lower  limit  levels  of  total  and  individual  impurities  are 
possible, and further tightening may be considered after sufficient experience in chemical production 
has been gathered. 
In the solid  state, the active  substance was tested under accelerated  and normal conditions. A re-test 
period of 5 years for the active substance is acceptable. 
Product Development and Finished product 
The pharmaceutical development conducted by the company resulted in the production of conventional 
capsules for immediate release. The compatibility of the active ingredient with various excipients was 
demonstrated in a pre-formulation programme from which the optimum formulation was selected. In 
order to guarantee content uniformity at low strengths a wet granulation was the selected process.  
The manufacturing process is a conventional process for oral solid capsules consisting of 4 principle 
steps: aqueous wet granulation, fluidised bed drying, final blending and capsule filling. Validation of 
the  process  was  carried  out  with  industrial  sized  batches  particularly  with  regard  to  uniformity  of 
content of active substance in the resulting product, bearing in mind the low dose. In-process controls 
are performed and have been validated. 
Control  tests  on  the  finished  product  use  adequately  validated  methods,  including  identification  of 
active  substance,  quantitative  determination  of  active  substance,  determination  of  degradation 
products,  uniformity  of  mass,  content  uniformity,  disintegration  testing,  dissolution  testing  and 
2/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
identification of colouring material. Results from batch analyses showed that all batches complied with 
release specifications and demonstrated acceptable batch to batch consistency. 
In  the  finished  product  specification  (release)  the  main  impurity,  the  main  metabolite  of  the  active 
substance, is limited at ≤ 0.4% in the specification. Other identified impurities are limited to ≤ 0.3% 
and unidentified impurities to ≤ 0.2%. The limit for total impurities is 0.5%. 
For the finished product stability data support the storage conditions “storage at below 30°C”. A shelf 
life of 5 years is supported by real time stability data and acceptable when the hard capsules are stored 
under these conditions.  
PROMETAX oral solution: 
Composition  
PROMETAX  oral  solution  contains  rivastigmine  hydrogen  tartrate.  There  is  one  strength  containing 
3.2 mg of rivastigmine hydrogen tartrate, corresponding to 2 mg of rivastigmine base per ml. The oral 
solution  contains  sodium  benzoate,  citric  acid,  sodium  citrate,  quinoline  yellow  (E104)  and  purified 
water. The primary packaging material is composed of a USP Type III amber glass bottle with a child-
resistant cap, dip tube and self-aligning plug. Each bottle contains 120 ml. 
Active substance 
Rivastigmine  hydrogen  tartrate  is  the  same  active  substance  as  that  used  in  the  hard  capsule  dosage 
form described above.  
Other ingredients 
The  oral  solution  contains  sodium  benzoate  as  antimicrobial  preservative,  anhydrous  citric  acid  and 
sodium citrate as buffers, quinoline yellow (E104) as colouring agent and purified water as solvent. All 
excipients  are  commonly  used  in  many  other  authorised  pharmaceuticals  and  meet  European 
Pharmacopoeial  requirements,  with  the  exception  of  quinoline  yellow,  which  is  tested  according  to 
French Pharmacopoeial procedures. 
Product development and finished product 
The  objective  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  a  flavourless,  unsweetened  solution. 
An existing injectable solution of rivastigmine, developed as a clinical service form, was the starting 
point for the development of the oral solution. An oral solution was developed with the same aqueous 
solvent and at the same pH (3.5-4.5) as the injectable dosage form. Sodium benzoate was selected as 
an antimicrobial preservative. Quinoline yellow WS was used as a colouring agent to make the clear 
solution more visible in the dispensing syringe. An amber glass bottle was chosen for the packaging 
because of its known inertness to liquid pharmaceutical products. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  conventional.  No  overages  are  included  in  the  manufacturing  formula. 
The critical process parameters are adequately controlled during manufacture and have been validated. 
Batch  analyses  show that the manufacturing process results in a uniform product which conforms  to 
specifications. 
The  finished  product  specification  includes  tests  to  identify  and  assay  the  active  substance  and 
preservative, identification of the colourant, and tests for density, refractive index, pH, determination 
of  degradation  products,  deliverable  volume,  leakage  and  microbial  limits.  Adequately  validated 
methods are employed. The same assay limits and purity specifications as the hard capsule formulation 
are used. 
The finished product is packed in 120 ml USP type III amber glass bottles with a child resistant cap. 
The specifications and tests for the packaging materials are satisfactory.  
The  finished  product  showed  good  stability  both  during  long  term  and  accelerated  stability  studies. 
The data, therefore, support a shelf life of 3 years for the oral solution when stored below 30ºC and in 
an upright position. The oral solution should be protected from freezing. 
3/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic action of rivastigmine has been studied in vitro and in vivo.  
The inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) leads to an increased availability of acetylcholine (ACh) 
in  cholinergic  neurones  of  the  brain  assumed  to  ameliorate  cognitive  deficits  associated  with 
Alzheimer’s disease. The  active site of AChE  comprises two distinct  regions: an anionic  site  and an 
esteratic  site.  Anti-cholinesterase  drugs  fall  into  different  categories  according  to  the  nature  of  their 
interaction  with  the  active  site.  Rivastigmine,  like  physostigmine,  interacts  with  the  catalytic  site 
resulting  in  a  carbamylated  enzyme  that  slowly  breaks  down  to  generate  free-enzyme,  resulting  in  a 
“pseudo-irreversible action”. Short acting AChE inhibitors such as tacrine bind to the anionic site of 
the enzyme.  
The effect of rivastigmine on the electrically evoked release of [3H]-ACh from rat hippocampal slices 
was  studied  in  vitro  and  showed  that  the  decrease  in  the  release  of  ACh  was  due  to  an  increased 
accumulation of endogenous ACh which triggers the negative feed-back mechanism via the muscarinic 
autoreceptor. This effect on auto-receptor is expected with AChE inhibitors.  
The  ability  of  rivastigmine  to  inhibit  the  activity  of  AChE  in  different  rat  brain  regions  (cortex, 
hippocampus, striatum and pons/meddulla), heart, and blood was measured in vitro and ex vivo. Short-
term  exposure  showed  that  rivastigmine  was  4-17  times  more  specific  for  inhibition  of  brain  AChE 
compared to heart and blood AChE. However, sub-chronic treatment with rivastigmine over 14 days 
resulted  in  similar  AChE  inhibition  in  brain,  heart  and  blood,  indicating  that  any  possible  regional 
selectivity  of  rivastigmine  was  lost  during  subchronic  treatment.  Following  chronic  administration, 
rivastigmine increased acetylcholine levels. The ACh increase was in the range of that observed with 
physostigmine or tacrine.  
In in vitro studies, the major metabolite of rivastigmine, ZNS 114-666 (also known as NAP 226-90), 
caused  a  dose-dependent  inhibition  of  AChE  activity.  No  inhibition  of  AChE  by  ZNS  114-666  was 
detected ex vivo, which might be due to poor blood-brain-barrier penetration.  
In  radioligand  binding  studies,  rivastigmine  displayed  no  affinity  for  muscarinic,  α-  and 
β- adrenergic, dopaminergic, serotoninergic or opiate binding sites.  
A study of behavioural effects in mice, aimed at studying AChE inhibition, showed the lowest active 
oral dose to be 0.5-1 mg/kg. In a study examining the effects of the hippocampal EEG in the rat, the 
lowest  active  dose  was  0.075  mg/kg.  A  study  of  salivation  in  anaesthetised  mice  showed  that  the 
peripheral effects appeared at higher doses than the central effects.  
A  water  maze  test,  conducted  to  study  memory  activity  in  rats,  suggested  that  rivastigmine  may 
reverse short-term scopolamine-induced amnesia with no effect on long term memory. The short-term 
activity  weakly  increased  with  dose  (1  to  10  mg/kg).  Although  this  model  of  scopolamine  induced 
amnesia  is  probably  not  the  best  animal  model  for  Alzheimer’s  disease  available,  given  the  clinical 
efficacy studies, no further preclinical studies were considered necessary.  
General  pharmacology  studies  showed  effects  expected  from  a  cholinomimetic  agent:  stimulation  of 
smooth muscle fibres inducing an increase in enteral peristaltism and bronchoconstriction, a negative 
chronotropic effect (slight bradycardia) and hypertension of central origin. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rivastigmine  was  studied  in  the  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and  dog,  the  main 
species  used  in  the  preclinical  program.  Plasma  protein  binding  was  low,  <  20%  in  the  animals  as 
compared  to  approximately  40%  in  humans.  Rivastigmine  was  mostly  distributed  within  the  blood 
compartment, while drug-related radioactivity was rapidly distributed into tissues. The highest levels 
were observed in the liver, kidney and salivary gland. Rivastigmine was found to penetrate easily into 
the brain when investigated in situ using a rat brain perfusion/ capillary depletion method, with a brain 
extraction  of  70%  and  19%,  respectively  for  rivastigmine  and  the  metabolite  ZNS  115-666.  In 
pregnant rabbits, moderate transfer of drug–related material across the placenta was seen. In lactating 
rabbits, rapid distribution of radioactivity into milk was observed. After oral administration, absorption 
4/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
was  rapid  in  all  species.  The  oral  bioavailability  increased  with  dose,  due  to  saturable  first  pass 
metabolism.  At  high  dose  levels,  it  ranged  from  3%  (rat)  to  43%  (dog).  In  humans  the  absolute 
bioavailability is approximately 36%. 
The  metabolic  pattern  of  rivastigmine  was  qualitatively  similar  in  all  species  studied  including 
humans.  The  main  metabolic  pathways  were  decarbamylation,  conjugation  and  N-dealkylation.  The 
main product of esterase metabolism was the phenol ZNS 114-666 in all species (also known as NAP 
226-90). In vitro studies indicated that the liver is the main organ for rivastigmine metabolism, with up 
to  5  times  faster  metabolism  in  rat  than  in  human  liver.  The  major  route  of  excretion  was  via  the 
kidney,  with  >75%  (except  mouse  51-66%)  of  the  radioactivity  recovered  in  urine.  The  urinary 
excretion was rapid and nearly complete within 24 hours of dosing. 
Based  on  pharmacokinetic  comparisons,  the  dog  was  considered  the  most  relevant  species  for  the 
assessment  of  safety.  Based  on  toxicokinetic  data,  the  systemic  exposure  of  animals  in  the  toxicity 
studies was usually lower than that in patients on recommended doses. Only at higher doses tested in 
mice  and  dogs  did  systemic  exposure  in  the  toxicity  studies  approach  that  found  in  AD  patients 
receiving 6 mg twice a day. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity of rivastigmine after oral administration was studied in rodents and dogs. These 
studies  showed  that  rivastigmine  had  relatively  low  LD50  values.  All  deaths  and  symptoms  observed 
including  clonic  convulsions,  tremors,  decreased  activity,  ataxia  and  effects  on  respiration,  were 
associated with the pharmacological action of rivastigmine. 
Repeated dose toxicity of rivastigmine after oral administration was studied in mice (13 weeks), rat 
(up  to  52  weeks),  mini  pigs  (4  weeks),  dog  (up  to  52  weeks)  and  monkeys  (2  weeks).  All  species 
showed  signs  of  toxicity  related  to  exaggerated  pharmacodynamic  responses  to  rivastigmine,  i.e.  an 
excessive cholinergic stimulation as a result of AChE-inhibition. Dose dependent clinical signs, which 
diminished over time in dogs, included effects on the gastrointestinal (e.g. diarrhoea) and respiratory 
systems.  At  high  doses,  reduced  food  intake  and  reduced  body  weight  gain  were  observed. 
Nevertheless,  neither  unexpected  toxicological  findings  nor  specific  target  organs  were  found  in  the 
studies. The dog was the most sensitive species. The No Observed Adverse Effect Level in rodents and 
dogs was around 0.11 mg/kg, i.e. less than the maximum recommended human dose (0.2 mg/kg for a 
60kg patient). 
Toxicity to reproduction was studied in rats and rabbits at dose levels inducing excessive cholinergic 
stimulation. In a rat study of fertility and general reproductive function, a reduced weight of offsprings 
was seen at the end of the lactation period. Administration during organogenesis resulted in increased 
embryonic resorptions and post implantation loss (rabbit only) but there were no signs of teratogenic 
effects.  The  peri/post  natal  study  showed  increased  neonatal  mortality  and  reduced  post  natal  body 
weights.  All  these  findings  were  possibly  consequences  of  AChE inhibition/maternal toxicity. In the 
peri/post natal study, a slight increase in gestation time (about 0.5 days) was also observed. 
The genotoxic potential of rivastigmine was studied in vitro and in vivo. Overall, it was not genotoxic, 
although  a  slight  increase  of  chromosomal  aberrations  was  observed  in  human  peripheral  blood 
lymphocyte  test  at  a  very  high  concentration.  Chromosomal  damage  was  not  seen  in  the  in  vivo 
micronucleus test in mice. Consequently, these observations were not considered to raise toxicological 
concerns for the dose levels used in man. 
Carcinogenicity was studied in mice and rats following 2 years administration. In general, symptoms 
related  to  excessive  cholinergic  stimulation  were  observed  but  there  was  no  indication  of  specific 
target organs of toxicity or of carcinogenic effects.  
Rivastigmine showed no local irritancy or antigenicity. 
Impurities 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  on  several  impurities.  Results  did  not  show  any 
toxicological effect of significance. 
5/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
The genotoxic potential was also evaluated for 226-90 and 541-87. Results were negative for 226-90 
and slightly positive for 541-87. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  program  was  aimed  at  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  rivastigmine  for  the 
symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s disease. The clinical documentation, 
contained in the application for marketing authorisation for rivastigmine hard capsules, consisted of a 
total of 39 studies. In phase I and II there were 17 clinical pharmacology and 6 therapeutic studies, and 
there were 16 studies in the phase III programme.  
The  oral  solution  was  developed  to  allow  patients  dose  flexibility  during  both  the  titration  and 
maintenance phases, which are necessary to optimise dose. In addition the oral solution addresses the 
need of patients who may have difficulty swallowing hard capsules. Although this formulation has not 
been used during clinical trials, it has been shown to be bioequivalent to the existing hard capsule by 
means of a standard single dose crossover study in humans described in this section. 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
Following single and repeated administration, rivastigmine was shown to inhibit acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) in the central nervous system (in cerebrospinal fluid, CSF) 
and  in  the  periphery  (in  erythrocytes  or  plasma).  Central  effects  were  moderately  greater  than 
peripheral  effects.  In  Alzheimer’s  patients  significant  dose-dependent  inhibition  of  CSF  AChE  was 
observed by 1.2 hours post-dose, and was maintained for up to 11.6 hours. The maximum CSF AChE 
and  BChE  inhibition  was  comparable  (62%  and 77%  respectively). Significant BChE inhibition was 
also  observed  in  plasma  with  a  maximum  observed  inhibition  of  51%  at  5  mg  b.i.d.  significant 
inhibition was generally observed from 1.5 hours post-dose up to 8 hours post-dose. Through a Type II 
variation  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  submitted  new  information  on  the  pharmacodynamic 
properties  of  rivastigmine  as  a  BChE  inhibitor.  The  application  was  a  bibliographic  application 
referencing  three  studies.  The  studies  showed  that  inhibition  of  BChE  activity  in  CSF  of  14 
Alzheimer’s disease patients by rivastigmine was similar to that of AchE.  
Pharmacokinetic  profile:  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rivastigmine  and  its  decarbamylated 
metabolite ZNS 114-666 has been well documented both in healthy volunteers and the target patient 
population.  Rivastigmine  demonstrates  non-linear  kinetics,  with  variable  bioavailability.  It  is  well 
absorbed, but a first-pass metabolism results in a bioavailability of approximately 36% for a 3mg oral 
dose. It is extensively metabolised, principally via cholinesterase-mediated hydrolysis. A higher than 
proportional  increase  with  dose  in  Cmax  and  AUC  of  rivastigmine  was  seen  both  after  oral  and  i.v. 
administration,  while  the  exposure  of  the  phenolic  metabolite  is  dose  proportional.  The  dose 
disproportionality for the parent drug may be due to binding to the target enzyme. The plasma protein 
binding of rivastigmine is in the range 35-45%.  
Elimination: Plasma clearance of rivastigmine is 130 l/h at a dose of 0.2mg and it is decreased to 70 
l/h  for  a  2.7  mg  dose.  The  half-life  was  approximately  1  hour  following  a  3  mg  oral  dose.  No 
accumulation  is  expected.  Rivastigmine  derived  material  is  predominantly  (about  90%)  excreted  via 
the kidney.  
No  study  specifically  investigating  the  effect  of  gender  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rivastigmine  has 
been  conducted.  However,  in  the  population  analysis,  females  were  found  to  have  lower  renal 
clearance compared to males (98 vs 149 l/h) resulting in a greater exposure. 
Interactions: Food delays the absorption and decreases Cmax while the extent of absorption is slightly 
increased. Drug interaction studies were performed with digoxin, warfarin, diazepam, and fluoxetine. 
No  pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  demonstrated,  and  no  effects  on  the  dynamic  properties  of 
warfarin (as measured by prothrombin time and complex activity) and digoxin (as measured by blood 
pressure,  pulse  rate  and  PR  interval)  were  demonstrated.  Metabolic  interactions  are  not  expected  as 
rivastigmine  is  minimally  metabolised  by  cytochrome  P450  isoforms,  although  rivastigmine  may 
inhibit the BChE mediated metabolism of other drugs. 
6/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Special populations: Healthy elderly subjects and Alzheimer patients appeared to have higher plasma 
levels of rivastigmine than young healthy subjects. However, in Alzheimer patients aged between 50 
and  92  years  no  change  in  bioavailability  was  found  with  age.  Gender  and  body  surface  area  were 
found to be two factors contributing to the variability in plasma levels of rivastigmine. No prolonged 
elimination or accumulation was observed. 
Although no unchanged parent drug is excreted renally, Cmax and AUC of rivastigmine were twice as 
high  in  subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  compared  to  healthy  subjects.  A  slight  increase  in 
exposure  was  also  seen  in  severely  impaired  renal  function,  but  not  as  much  as  in  moderate 
impairment.  
In cirrhotic patients, the conversion of rivastigmine to ZNS 114-666 was decreased. The AUC ratio of 
rivastigmine to ZNS 114-666 was 1.8 in cirrhotics compared to 0.7 in normal subjects.  
A  statement  is  included  in  the  SPC  advising  that,  due  to  increased  exposure  in  renal  and  mild  to 
moderate  hepatic  impairment,  dosing  recommendations  to  titrate  according  to  individual  tolerability 
should be closely followed in these patient groups.  
Bioequivalence  
The clinical development of the oral solution formulation of rivastigmine focused on demonstrating the 
bioequivalence  between  the  new  formulation  and  the  hard  capsule  formulation.  Three  open 
pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  with  various  formulations.  These  included  two  pilot 
pharmacokinetic studies (B353-Amendment 1 and study W251) which were carried out with a primary 
drink solution (2 mg/5 ml intravenous solution diluted in water), not the proposed formulation, and one 
study  (B153)  with  the  proposed  formulation.  Details  of  study  B153  are  provided  below.  The  pilot 
studies will not be further discussed here. 
Study B153 was an open-label, randomised, cross-over  study comparing single doses of 3 and 6 mg 
rivastigmine oral solution (formulation proposed for marketing) with rivastigmine capsules in patients 
with  probable  Alzheimer’s  disease.  To  eliminate  the  need  for  dose  titration  patients  who  tolerated 
doses of rivastigmine at or above the doses to be used in the study were recruited from other ongoing 
rivastigmine studies (B353, B355 and B357). Patients fasted for 10 hours prior to dosing and 2 hours 
after dosing. 
A total of 27 patients taking doses of 3-5 mg (bid) were assigned to the 3-mg cohort and 26 patients 
taking  doses  of  6  mg  bid  were  assigned  to  the  6-mg  cohort.  One  patient  in  the  3-mg  cohort  was 
excluded from the statistical analyses because of an incomplete PK profile. The patients stopped taking 
rivastigmine three days before the first intake in this study and there was a 3-day interval between the 
cross-over of doses.  
The  relative  bioavailability  of  the  capsules  compared  to  the  solution  ranged  from  101  to  111  %. 
Consistent with the non-linear pharmacokinetics of rivastigmine, a more than proportional increase in 
AUC and Cmax was observed with a doubling of the dose from 3 mg to 6 mg given either as solution or 
capsule. However, as the intra-subject variability for rivastigmine has been found to be low, and based 
on  the  results  for  AUC0-t,AUC0-8  and  Cmax  of  both  rivastigmine  and  metabolite,  the  3  mg  and  6  mg 
doses  of  the  oral  solution  proposed  for  marketing  were  bioequivalent  to  the  3  mg  and  6  mg  capsule 
forms respectively.  
As  rivastigmine  displays  non-linear  pharmacokinetics  and  a  food  interaction  (delayed  absorption, 
increased AUC and decreased Cmax) had previously been shown with the hard capsule formulation, the 
CPMP requested further information on the effect of food with the oral solution. In view of the narrow 
therapeutic  margin  from  both  the  efficacy  and  safety  viewpoints,  the  CPMP  considered  that  it  was 
neither  possible  nor  acceptable  to  extrapolate  the  pharmacokinetic  data  obtained  with  the  capsule 
formulation to the oral solution in the fed state. Although this is not a common requirement, the CPMP 
requested  that  food  interaction  be  studied  with  the  oral  solution  as  a  post-marketing  commitment. 
Results of that study evidenced the effect of food on the bioavailability of rivastigmnine oral solution 
(Tmax delayed and AUC increased). Following the recommendation of the CPMP, the MAH included 
through  a  Type  II  variation  information  on  the  interaction  with  food  in  section  5.2  of  the  SPC  and 
added in the package leaflet the instruction to take PROMETAX with breakfast and with the evening 
meal. 
7/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
Therapeutic efficacy 
Phase  II:  Three  phase  II  studies  in  566  patients  have  been  carried  out,  as  summarised  in  Table  1 
below. In addition, three Japanese studies have been carried out (2 open and 1 double-blind study with 
2, 4 mg/day for 12 weeks) which will not be further commented upon.  
Table 1: Phase II studies with rivastigmine and study extensions (rndomised, double-blind studies in 
parallel groups) 
Study 
B103 
B104 
B105 
Description 
Extensions 
Doses 
Duration 
No. of 
patients 
Placebo-controlled, three-arm, 
multicentre study to evaluate the 
efficacy, tolerability and 
pharmacology of rivastigmine. 
Double-blind extension (B103-
01/04) followed by open long-term 
extension (B103-06). 
Placebo-controlled, multicentre 
study to assess the maximum 
tolerated dose (MTD) and efficacy 
of b.i.d or t.i.d rivastigmine. 
Efficacy of concomitant anti-emetic 
therapy was also studied. 
Open extension (B104-01/02) 
Placebo controlled, single centre, 
study to assess the MTD of b.i.d or 
t.i.d rivastigmine. 
2 mg or 3 mg b.i.d 
13 weeks 
(2 week washout) 
402  
Titration up to 12 mg 
daily (b.i.d or t.i.d)  
114 
10-week titration 
period, followed 
by 8 weeks of 
maintenance 
therapy 
Titration up to 12 mg 
daily (b.i.d or t.i.d) 
50 
9 week titration 
period, followed 
by a one week 
washout period 
Results from these studies suggested that the maximum tolerated dose was 12 mg/day. In study B103, 
statistically  significant  efficacy  versus  placebo  was  observed  for  the  CGIC  primary  endpoint  and 
efficacy  was  shown  on  secondary  criteria  (Mini  Mental  State  Examination,  Fuld  object  memory 
evaluation,  Digit  symbol  substitution  test,  Benton  visual  retention  test,  Trial  making  test,  Nurse 
observation  scale  for  geriatric  patient).  The  Clinician  Interview  Based  Impression  of  Change-Plus 
(CIBIC-Plus) analysis of study B104 revealed a statistically significant improvement in the b.i.d group 
when compared with placebo (56% vs 16% respectively). 
In study B104, there is a trend suggesting that t.i.d administration could be better tolerated than b.i.d. 
This  is  being  further  investigated  in  an  ongoing  phase  III  study,  B304,  the  results  of  which  will  be 
submitted when finalised. 
Phase  III:  sixteen  phases  III  trials  were  conducted,  of  which  four  randomised,  placebo-controlled, 
multicentre  studies  (B303,  B304,  B351,  and  B352)  with  duration  of  26  weeks  were  regarded  as  the 
main  efficacy  studies,  see  table  2  below.  For  study  B304  efficacy  data  were  not  yet  available,  only 
interim safety data. Overall, efficacy data were evaluated from more than 2100 patients.  
8/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2:  Main  Phase  III  placebo-controlled  studies  (radomised,  multicentre,  double-blind  studies  in 
parallel groups) 
Study 
Description 
Treatment 
(mg/day) 
Fastest titration 
rate 
Duratio
n 
(weeks) 
No. of patients 
randomised 
B351 
B352 
B303 
B304 
Interi
m 
Safety 
Repor
t 
Study comparing the efficacy and 
safety of three doses of 
rivastigmine (3 mg/day, 6 mg/day, 
9 mg/day) with placebo. 
Fixed dose: 3, 6 
and 9 (b.i.d)  
1mg/day/week 
Study to compare the efficacy and 
safety of 1-4 mg/day rivastigmine 
with 6-12 mg/day rivastigmine 
with placebo. 
Study to compare the efficacy and 
safety of 1-4 mg/day rivastigmine 
with 6-12 mg/day rivastigmine 
with placebo. 
Study comparing rivastigmine 2-
12 mg/day, given in a tid or bid 
regimen, with placebo. 
Individual 
MTD, 1-4 and 
6-12 (b.i.d)  
1-
1.5mg/day/week 
Individual 
MTD, 1-4 and 
6-12 (b.i.d)  
1-
1.5mg/day/week 
Individual 
MTD, 2-12 
(b.i.d or t.i.d)  
1-
1.5mg/day/week 
26 
26 
26 
26 
rivastigmine 
placebo 
173 
529 
(175/176/178
) 
434 
(233/231) 
235 
486 
(243/243) 
239 
229 
(118/111) 
117 
Two open extension phases have followed these trials, to provide an additional two years of treatment 
for B303 (US centres only), B351 and B352 and an additional 6 months in study B303 and B304. 
Phase III patient population: Patients of both sexes, who were at least 50 years old (mean age was 
73  years)  and  fulfilled  the  DSM-IV  criteria  for  Alzheimer’s  type  dementia,  having  probable  AD 
according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria, and having MMSE score between 10 and 26 (both included), 
participated in the trials. The Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) of Reisberg evaluated the severity of 
the  disease.  The  mean  duration  of  dementia  in  patients  treated  with  rivastigmine  was  39.4  months 
(placebo 39.3 months). Exclusion criteria included severe progressive illness, and clinically significant 
laboratory  abnormalities  indicative  of  impaired  renal  or  hepatic  function.  In  the  phase  III  controlled 
trials,  86%  of  the  patients  were  experiencing  concurrent  medical  conditions  with  cardiovascular 
disorders  (31%)  being  most  frequent  (primarily  hypertension  27%).  Concomitant  administration  of 
medication known to influence the assessment of efficacy was not permitted, except chloral hydrate for 
occasional  insomnia  or  agitation  (and  short-acting  benzodiazepines  and  haloperidol  in  studies  B303 
and B304). 
Efficacy  parameters:  Improvement  of  symptoms  was  assessed  in  the  following  three  domains: 
cognition  as  measured  by  objective  tests  (cognitive  endpoint),  activities  of  daily  living  (functional 
endpoint) and overall clinical response as reflected by global assessment (global endpoint). In all phase 
III  studies,  the  primary  efficacy  measures  were  the  cognitive  and  global  endpoints:  Alzheimer’s 
Disease  Assessment  Scale-Cognitive  sub-scale  (ADAS-Cog)  and  the  Clinician  Interview  Based 
Impression of  Change-Plus  (CIBIC-Plus). A number of secondary endpoints were also assessed, e.g. 
the  Progressive  Deterioration  Scale  (PDS)  a  functional  endpoint,  Mini-Mental  State  Examination 
(MMSE), and Global Deterioration Scale (GDS).  
Multiple definitions of responders, which combined cognitive, functional and global efficacy measures 
(ADAS-Cog,  PDS,  and  CIBIC-Plus)  were  investigated  for  the  pooled  studies.  For  ADAS-Cog  and 
9/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pbo 
239 
208 
243 
209 
14% 
13% 
7% 
7% 
243 
164 
33%
* 
23%
* 
CIBIC Plus a lower rating is in the direction of improvement. In the PDS, positive changes are in the 
direction of improvement. 
The  number  of  patients  entered,  completed,  discontinued  and  drop-outs  due  to  adverse  events  in  the 
three main efficacy studies according to dose group are shown in Table 3 below: 
Table 3: Number of patients, entered, completed and withdrawn in studies B303, B351, and B303 
Study 
B351 
Groups mg/day 
9 
No. entered 
178 
No. Completed 
91 
6 
176 
111 
3 
175 
130 
Pbo 
6-12 
173 
130 
231 
149 
B352 
1-4 
233 
199 
235 
197 
B303 
Pbo 
6-12 
1-4 
Discontinued 
Adverse event 
drop outs  
49%
* 
34%
* 
37%* 
26% 
25% 
35%* 
15% 
16% 
21%* 
10% 
12% 
29%* 
8% 
7% 
* significantly different from placebo 
Efficacy results from B303, B351, and B352: 
The efficacy results of the three main efficacy studies are provided in table 4 on the next page (ITT 
analysis at week 26 for each treatment group and with a pooled analysis of the three clinical trials).  
Results indicated that doses of rivastigmine in the range of 1 to 4 mg/day failed to confer statistically 
significant differences in efficacy in some trials with a small effect overall. With regard to ADAS-Cog 
and  CIBIC-Plus,  at  these  doses,  statistically  significant  differences  were  only  demonstrated  versus 
placebo  in  study  B352  and  in  the  pooled  analysis,  but  not  in  studies B303 and  B351. Results of the 
analyses  of  various  definitions  of  responders,  for  the  dose  range  1  to  4  mg/day,  showed  only  a 
significant  greater  number  of  responders  for  one  of  the  definitions  (i.e.  any  improvement  in  ADAS-
Cog, CIBIC-Plus or PDS).  
Doses of 6 to 12 mg/day rivastigmine demonstrated consistent statistical differences in efficacy versus 
placebo.  With  regard  to  ADAS-Cog,  a  statistically  significant  difference  was  demonstrated  versus 
placebo in all groups, and for CIBIC-Plus in the [6-12 mg] groups of B303 and B352 but not the 6 or 9 
mg groups of study B351. The mean difference versus placebo in the pooled analysis was 2.4 points 
for  ADAS-Cog  and  0.3  point  for  CIBIC-Plus  (table  4).  For  ADAS-Cog  a  significantly  greater 
proportion of patients  were improved by at least 4 points in study B352 and B303, as well as in the 
pooled  analysis  (16%  versus  10%  in  the  placebo  group).  Similarly  for  CIBIC-Plus  a  significantly 
greater  proportion  of  patients  improved  (score  <4)  in  studies  B352  and  B303,  and  in  the  pooled 
analysis (28% versus 20% in the placebo group). 
10/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results from study B351, B352, B303 (ITT analysis at week 26) and pooled analysis of three studies 
STUDY 
Groups mg/day 
ADAS-Cog 
Baseline 
Change from baseline 
p vs placebo 
CIBIC-Plus Rating 
p vs placebo 
PDS Baseline 
Change from baseline 
p vs placebo 
MMSE Baseline 
Change from baseline 
p vs placebo 
GDS Baseline 
Change from baseline 
p vs placebo 
B351 
9 
21.5 
6 
21.7 
3 
22.0 
+1.2 
+0.9 
+1.7 
0.018 
4.1 
0.24 
54.9 
-2.2 
0.37 
20.2 
-0.11 
0.054 
3.9 
-0.1 
0.004 
4.2 
0.86 
57.0 
-2.5 
0.58 
19.9 
0.04 
0.018 
3.8 
-0.1 
0.17 
4.2 
0.84 
55.9 
-2.9 
0.85 
20.0 
0.2 
0.003 
3.8 
-0.1 
Pbo 
21.7 
+2.4 
4.2 
54.0 
-3.1 
19.8 
-0.7 
3.9 
-0.2 
6-12 
22.6 
+0.3 
<0.001 
4.2 
0.01 
52.0 
-1.5 
<0.001 
19.7 
0.2 
<0.001 
4.0 
-0.1 
B352 
1-4 
22.2 
+2.4 
0.002 
4.2 
0.02 
54.7 
-5.2 
0.77 
19.5 
-0.4 
0.07 
4.0 
-0.2 
Pbo 
22.1 
+4.1 
4.5 
53.7 
-4.9 
20.0 
-0.9 
3.9 
-0.3 
0.40 
0.47 
0.25 
0.003 
0.014 
6-12 
23.6 
-0.3 
0.011 
3.9 
0.012 
55.2 
0.1 
0.07 
20.1 
0.2 
0.04 
4.0 
-0.1 
0.006 
B303 
1-4 
23.9 
Pooled Studies 
Pbo 
23.3 
6-12 
22.9 
1-4 
22.9 
Pbo 
22.5 
+1.4 
+1.3 
+0.2 
+1.8 
+2.6 
0.97 
4.2 
0.36 
53.8 
-3.4 
0.33 
19.7 
-0.6 
0.66 
4.1 
-0.2 
0.63 
4.4 
54.8 
-2.2 
19.9 
-0.5 
4.0 
-0.3 
<0.001 
4.1 
<0.001 
53.6 
-1.1 
<0.001 
19.9 
0.2 
<0.001 
4.0 
-0.1 
0.02 
4.2 
0.02 
54.6 
-3.9 
0.46 
19.7 
-0.3 
0.04 
4.0 
-0.2 
4.4 
53.8 
-3.4 
19.9 
-0.7 
4.0 
-0.3 
<0.001 
0.04 
11/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-hoc analyses: 
At the request of the CPMP the effect of rivastigmine was analysed with a responder definition of at 
least 4-point improvement in ADAS-Cog and an improvement (score <4) on CIBIC-Plus. The results 
are provided in Table 5 below: 
Table 5: Patients with clinically significant response (%) from pooled studies B351, B352 and B303 
Improvement from baseline 
Rivastigmine 
Placebo 
Rivastigmine 
ITT 
6-12 mg 
N=749 
8% 
N=619 
4% 
6-12 mg vs 
placebo 
4%*** 
At least 4 points improvement on 
ADAS-Cog and an improvement 
(score < 4) on CIBIC-Plus 
*** p<0.001 
For  the  6-12mg/day-dose  range,  an  analysis  pooling  only  two  out  of  the  three  pivotal  26-week 
multicentre  which  were  dose  titration  studies  (B352  and  B303)  was  also  carried  out,  excluding  the 
fixed dose  pivotal study (B351). Clinically relevant improvement in these two studies was defined a 
priori as at least 4-point improvement on the ADAS-Cog, improvement on the CIBIC-Plus, or at least a 
10% improvement on the PDS. Table 6 shows the results of the analyses for this definition of response, 
together  with  a  post-hoc  definition  of  response  requiring  a  combination  of  a  4-point  or  greater 
improvement on the ADAS-Cog, no worsening on the CIBIC-Plus, and no worsening on the PDS. The 
mean actual daily dose for responders in the 6-12 mg group, corresponding to the post-hoc definition, 
was 9.3 mg. This information has been provided in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Table 6: Patients (%) with clinically significant response from pooled studies B352 and B303 
Response Measure 
Rivastigmine 
Placebo 
Rivastigmine 
Placebo 
ITT 
LOCF 
6-12 mg 
N=473 
21*** 
29*** 
26*** 
10* 
N=472 
12 
18 
17 
6 
6-12 mg 
N=379 
25*** 
32*** 
30*** 
12** 
N=444 
12 
19 
18 
6 
ADAS-Cog: improvement of at 
least 4 points 
CIBIC-Plus: improvement 
PDS: improvement of at least 10% 
At least 4 points improvement on 
ADAS-Cog with no worsening on 
CIBIC-Plus and PDS 
* p<0.05, **p<0.01, ***p<0.001 
Safety 
The assessment of safety of rivastigmine is based on data from 3006 patients who received treatment 
with  rivastigmine  in  all  therapeutic  studies.  All  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medication and had a subsequent safety evaluation were included in the safety database. In total, 1249 
patients were treated with rivastigmine for more than 6 months (128 patients with a mean daily dose < 
3mg, 513 with a dose of 3-6 mg/day, 248 with a dose of 6-9 mg/day, 360 with a dose of 9-12 mg/day). 
In total, 220 patients were treated with rivastigmine for more than a year. 
There  is  no  statistically  significant  increase  in  the  risk  for  mortality  or  in  the  incidence  of  serious 
adverse  events  in  patients  treated  with  rivastigmine  compared  to  placebo.  Up  to  31  March  1997,  57 
deaths  (55  rivastigmine,  2  placebo)  had  been  reported  in  clinical  trials  with  rivastigmine  worldwide. 
12/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data  from  patients  were  entered  into  an  analysable  data-base  based  on  2  criteria:  cut-off  date  and  a 
patient’s opportunity for meeting the designated exposure. In the analysed safety data-base (cut-off 31 
December 1996) a total of 35 deaths (33 rivastigmine, 2 placebo) occurred in patients whose data were 
included.  Of  the  33  deaths  of  patients  receiving  rivastigmine,  15  occurred  in  long-term  extension 
studies that have no placebo control and a further 6 occurred in study B355 which also had no placebo 
group. The data available do not indicate an increased mortality rate with rivastigmine. 
In phase III controlled clinical trials, of the patients withdrawn for adverse events, 17% of the patients 
treated  with  rivastigmine  had  at  least  one  adverse  event  compared  to  8%  in  the  placebo  group.  The 
highest proportion of withdrawals for adverse events were for gastro-intestinal disorders, in particular 
for  nausea  and  vomiting.  The  percentage  of  withdrawals  appeared  to  decrease  with  the  duration  of 
exposure and the cumulative hazard seemed to reach a plateau after 3 months of treatment. 
About the same frequency of patients (82% for rivastigmine and 72% for placebo) experienced at least 
one  adverse  event  in  both  groups.  There  was  a  high  incidence  of  side-effects  by  body  system  for 
gastro-intestinal  disorders  (57%  rivastigmine,  31%  placebo),  central  and  peripheral  nervous  system 
disorders  (36%  rivastigmine,  24%  placebo),  psychiatric  disorders  (30%  rivastigmine,  24%  placebo). 
The most frequent adverse events were nausea (38% rivastigmine, 10% placebo) and vomiting (23% 
rivastigmine, 5% placebo). 
Following  the  review  of  the  1st  PSUR  the  MAH  included  the  events  ‘seizures’  and  ‘gastric  and 
duodenal ulcers’ to section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) through a Type II variation. Twenty serious cases 
of  gastrointestinal  ulcers,  including  15  cases  of  gastric  or  duodenal  ulcers  have  been  received  for 
rivastigmine.  
Nausea seemed more frequent in females, in patients treated with doses higher than 6-9 mg/day, and at 
the start of treatment (weeks 1-12). This information has been reflected in the SPC. Most of the nausea 
episodes were mild to moderate in severity. In each dose group, about half of the patients with nausea 
experienced  only  one  episode  of  nausea.  Nausea  associated  with  vomiting  seemed  more  frequent  in 
patients treated with doses over 6-9 mg/day and some of the patients experienced multiple episodes of 
nausea/vomiting in these dose ranges. 
The gastro-intestinal side effects of rivastigmine were reflected in body weight decreases, especially in 
female patients. In patients treated with rivastigmine, 13% of patients had a weight decrease versus 5% 
in the placebo group, and 6% of the patients had a weight increase versus 12% in the placebo group. A 
warning that patient’s weight should be monitored has been included in the SPC accordingly.  
Following one published case of spontaneous rupture of the oesophagus the MAH submitted a Type II 
variation to include a recommendation on re-initiation of therapy following treatment interruption. The 
proportion of patients reporting adverse events within 7 days following re-initiation of treatment had 
been  analysed  by  duration  of  treatment  interruption  and  restarting  dose.  The  percentage  of  vomiting 
and any serious adverse events were higher at restarting doses above 3 mg/day than at a restarting dose 
of  3  mg/day.  Sections  4.2  (Posology  and  method  of  administration)  and  4.4  (Special  warnings  and 
special  precautions  for  use)  of  the  SPC  were  amended  to  specify  that  re-initiation  after  treatment 
interruption for more than several days should start at 1.5 mg twice daily to reduce the possibility of 
adverse reactions (e.g. vomiting). 
During long term treatment gastro-intestinal side effects predominated. The gastro-intestinal symptoms 
often responded to dose reduction. No clinically important effects on laboratory parameters, ECGs or 
cardio-respiratory  vital  signs  were  observed  in  rivastigmine  treated  patients.  However,  the  CPMP 
requested,  following  the  review  of  the  1st  PSUR  that  bradycardia  and  following  the  review  of  the 
fourth  and  fifth  PSUR  that  the  wording  “Very  rare  cases  of  atrio-ventricular  block”  be  included  in 
section 4.8 of the SPC (Undesirable effects). Consequently, the MAH submitted a Type II variation. 
The  bioequivalence  studies  conducted  with  the  oral  solution  formulation  did  not  raise  any  specific 
safety  concerns.  No  deaths,  discontinuations,  severe,  serious  or  unexpected  adverse  events  were 
reported. The oral solution and hard capsule formulations were considered to be equally tolerated. 
Further  to  the  assessment  of  the  6th  PSUR,  which  covered  the  period  from  01  February  2000  to  31 
January  2001,  the  MAH  was  requested  to submit safety reviews on myocardial infarction, heart rate 
and rhythm disorders, hypertension and hallucinations.  
13/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
In  the  majority  of the cases of  hypertension reviewed, the causal relationship between  PROMETAX 
and  hypertension  was  doubtful  and  the  pharmacological  effect  of  PROMETAX  is  increase  of 
acetylcholine,  which  can  be  expected  to  induce  vessel  relaxation.  However,  in  19  cases,  the 
responsibility  of  PROMETAX  could  not  be  definitely  ruled  out  and  as  the  initial  pre-clinical 
assessment report application mentioned cardiovascular effects, such as hypertension of central origin, 
the term hypertension was added through a Type II variation to the Product Information.A total of 95 
reports of atrial fibrillation and flutter and 66 reports of tachycardia had been received. Given that in 
rare cases, the responsibility of PROMETAX could not be ruled out the terms ‘atrial fibrillation’ and 
tachycardia were added to the Product Information through a Type II variation. 
As of 30 June 2001, 98 cases of hallucinations with rivastigmine have been reported to the Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder.  The  hallucinations  were  mainly  visual  hallucinations.  Hallucination  may  be  a 
symptom of Alzheimer’s disease, and may be an intermittent symptom. Therefore, the responsibility of 
PROMETAX  is  difficult  to  assess.  However,  the  reports  of  hallucinations  after  a  drug  overdose, 
shortly  after  a  dose  increase  or  PROMETAX  initiation,  the  occurrence  of  positive  dechallenges 
justified  the  inclusion  of  the  term  ‘hallucination’  to  the  Product  Information  through  a  Type  II 
variation. 
Pancreatitis was reviewed in  the  assessment of the 7th PSUR. Until the 7th PSUR, the analysis of all 
reported  cases  of  pancreatitis  did  not  suggest  strong  evidence  of  PROMETAX  responsibility. 
However,  in  the  seventh  PSUR,  20  additional  cases  were  reported  and  in  half  of  these  cases, 
responsibility  of  PROMETAX  could  not  be  ruled  out  (chronology,  positive  dechallenge).  In  some 
cases,  patients  had  predisposing  factors  (past  history  of  pancreatitis,  drug-induced  pancreatitis).  It 
cannot  be  excluded  that  PROMETAX  may  play  a  part,  especially  in  these  patients  and  the  term 
‘pancreatitis’ was added to the Product Information through a Type II variation. 
During  post-marketing  surveillance,  PROMETAX  has  been  associated  with  elevation  of  liver 
enzymes. In some cases, the data are too scarce to allow an accurate assessment and some details are 
lacking such as the outcome, the result of a dechallenge, the time to onset, the history of the patient. In 
some  cases,  confounding  factors  have  been  identified  such  as  concomitant  medications,  underlying 
diseases  (cholelithiasis..)  or  a  negative  dechallenge  has  been  observed.  However,  in  other  cases,  the 
responsibility of PROMETAX cannot be ruled out due to the chronology, the positive dechallenge or 
the  absence  of  risk  factors.  In  a  few  cases,  liver  disorders  occurred  shortly  after  dose  increase  of 
rivastigmine. Therefore, following the assessment of the Renewal dossier in which the 8th PSUR was 
reviewed the MAH updated section 4.8 of the SPC to include elevated liver function tests.Sections 4.4 
and 4.8 of the SPC were also amended during the renewal procedure to take into account that like other 
cholinomimetics  rivastigmine  may  exacerbate  or  induce  extrapyramidal  symptoms,  including 
worsening symptoms in patients with Parkinson’s disease. 
5. 
Overall Conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The  quality  of  PROMETAX  capsules  and  oral  solution  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in 
accordance with the conditions defined in the SPC. Physiochemical and biological aspects relevant to 
the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  these  products  have  been  investigated  and  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
to 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  of  the  ability  of 
rivastigmine 
inhibit  AChE  activity.  Furthermore,  rivastigmine  dose-dependently  reversed 
scopolamine  induced  amnesia  in  the  rat  during  behavioural  testing  in  a  water  maze,  indicating  a 
positive  effect  on  memory  dysfunction.  The  general  pharmacology  studies  showed  effects  expected 
from a cholinomimetic agent. 
14/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, the dog was the most relevant species for preclinical efficacy 
and  safety  studies.  Overall,  the  toxicology  program  revealed  mainly  effects  related  to  exaggerated 
pharmacodynamic responses to rivastigmine. Exposure levels in toxicity studies were in general lower 
than those observed in patients on recommended doses. This information has been included in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
Overall,  the  clinical  programme  for  rivastigmine  was  well  conducted.  The  patients  studied  were 
representative  of  the  target  population  i.e.  patients  with  mild  to  moderately  severe  dementia  of 
Alzheimer  type,  at  inclusion  MMSE  was  20,  GDS  4  and  ADAS-Cog  22-23.  The  primary  efficacy 
criteria  were  acceptable.  The  applicant  performed  analyses  on  various  definitions  of  responders  in 
order to demonstrate a clinically relevant effect of the product. 
In clinical use, doses of rivastigmine are titrated to achieve an individual optimal therapeutic response, 
and doses ranging from 1 to 12 mg were tested in clinical trials. The results of the analyses of various 
definitions  of  responders  showed  a  statistically  significant  larger  number  of  responders  with 
PROMETAX (6-12 mg/day). According to the various definitions of responders there was from 2 to 
12%  more  responders  in  6-12  mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group.  According  to  the  responder 
definition  requested  by  the  CPMP,  combining  at  least  4 points improvement on  ADAS-Cog  with  no 
worsening on CIBIC-Plus and PDS, there was a statistically significant difference in the percentage of 
responders on rivastigmine (8%) compared to placebo (4%).  
The  proposed  maintenance  dose  of  3  to  6  mg  twice  a  day  is  supported  by  the  clinical  results.  The 
recommended  starting  dose  is  1.5  mg  twice  a  day,  with  dose  titration  at  2  weekly  intervals  to  a 
maximum of 6 mg twice a  day. In  order to achieve maximum therapeutic benefit it is recommended 
that patients be maintained on their highest well-tolerated dose. 
Safety 
On the basis of the data provided, the overall safety profile of rivastigmine is considered acceptable. 
The  main  safety  concerns  raised  were  gastro-intestinal  disorders,  such  as  nausea  and  vomiting,  and 
dizziness.  There  were  concerns  about  the  odds  of  experiencing  weight  decrease,  it  was  therefore 
recommended that patient’s weight be monitored during treatment with rivastigmine.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
In patients with mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s disease, the high dose group of rivastigmine (6-
12  mg/day)  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  effect  in  comparison  to  placebo  for  cognitive 
function, global function and activities of daily living. Although the benefit at doses of 6 to 12 mg/day 
was  considered  modest  and  its  clinical  relevance  in  some  patients  may  be  questioned,  as  the 
differences on the ADAS-Cog and CIBIC-Plus scores are lower than 4 points and 1 point respectively, 
in the overall population analyses of various responders suggest that a clinically relevant benefit does 
exist in some patients (2-12%).  
The  CPMP  agreed  that  the  mean  effect  of  rivastigmine  is  modest.  Some  CPMP  members  held  a 
divergent  view  and  moreover  considered  that  the  dose  of  6-12mg/day  might  be  too  low  to  achieve 
clinically  relevant  benefit,  whereas  at  higher  doses  it  may not  be  well tolerated. The majority of the 
CPMP considered that, although modest, it is clinically relevant. 
Although  no  active  comparator  trials  have  been  performed,  the  effects  observed  with  other  AChE 
inhibitors appear to be of similar size. It is important to note that the scales used in this indication vary 
and direct comparisons of results for different therapeutic agents are not valid. 
The main safety concerns raised were gastro-intestinal side effects, in particular nausea and vomiting, 
and  dizziness.  The  gastro-intestinal  side  effects  were  also  reflected  in  body  weight  decreases.  To 
address these concerns appropriate warnings and precautions have been included in the SPC together 
with recommendations regarding weight monitoring. Taking these measures into account, the potential 
safety concerns were considered to be adequately addressed. 
Based on the CPMP review of the data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by 
majority decision that the overall benefit/risk profile of rivastigmine in the symptomatic treatment of 
mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s dementia was favourable. 
15/15 
EMEA 2005 
 
