London, 2 March 2006 
Product name: Prometax 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/255/II/33 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Currently, rivastigmine is indicated in Europe for the symptomatic treatment of patients with mild to 
moderately severe Alzheimer’s Dementia (AD).  
The scope of this variation application is to extend the therapeutic indication of rivastigmine to include 
the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease 
(PDD).  
Both  types  of  dementia  (AD  and  PDD)  are  thought  to  result  from  central  neurodegeneration  and 
associated with deficits in cholinergic activity. However, the neuropathology of AD and PDD differ, 
and  the  clinical  picture  is  also  different  between  AD  and  PDD.  The  principal  differences  are  the 
presence of a retrieval type memory deficit in PDD compared to an amnestic type memory deficit in 
AD,  a  relative  lack  of  language  abnormalities  in  PDD  compared  to  AD,  and  a  predominance  of 
executive deficits in PDD compared to AD. 
rivastigmine-  is  a  slowly  reversible,  carbamate-typed  inhibitor  of  both  acetylcholinesterase  (AChE) 
and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). Both enzymes play a role in cholinergic transmission. 
2. 
CLINICAL EFFICACY 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  rivastigmine  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  dementia  in  patients  with 
Parkinson’s  disease  (PDD)  was  examined  in  one  placebo-controlled  study  (Study  ENA713B2311), 
and its uncontrolled extension study (Study ENA713B2311E1). 
A 4-week validation study (Study ENA713B2314) was conducted to evaluate and validate the efficacy 
assessment scales in patients with PDD, as compared to the sensitivity and reliability of these scales in 
AD patients. 
The  proposed  clinical  development  and  study  designs  were  discussed  twice  with  the  SAWP  at  the 
EMEA.    These  advices  were  followed  in  this  development  program  (Scientific  Advice  letter  of  22-
Feb-02,  Scientific  Advice  letter  of  29-April-03).    The  CHMP  did  not  recommend  re-exploring  the 
dose-response  relationship  for  rivastigmine-  as  this  was  well-defined  for  the  approved  “mild  to 
moderately  severe  dementia  of  the  Alzheimer’s  type”.  Many  cholinomimetic  drugs,  including 
cholinesterase  inhibitors,  have  a  potential  to  induce  extrapyramidal  symptoms.    The  SAWP/CHMP 
therefore required data to show that rivastigmine- has no negative impact on the signs and symptoms 
of PD and no effect on the evolution of the disease.   
Studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  version  of  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki  and  the 
principles of Good Clinical Practice applicable at the time. The MAH has also provided a statement to 
the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried out in accordance with the 
ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
2.1  Main study ENA713B2311 
Study  ENA713B2311  was  a  24-week  prospective,  randomized,  multicenter,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled,  parallel-group  study  to  assess  the  efficacy,  tolerability,  and  safety  of  3-12  mg/day  of 
rivastigmine capsules. 
Design and Methods 
The study was conducted in approximately 60 centers in Europe and Canada. 
Approximately  540  patients  with  PDD  were  to  be  randomly  assigned  to  treatment  with  either 
rivastigmine- 3-12 mg/day, or placebo in an assignment ratio of 2:1 (i.e. approximately 360 patients on 
rivastigmine and 180 on placebo). 
2/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 
Period 
Time 
Visit 
Treatment  None 
Pre-randomization  
Screening 
week s -3 to -1  day 0 
1 
2 
None 
Baseline 
Double-blind treatment  
Titration 
16 weeks 
3 4 5 6 
rivastigmine 
mg/d) 
or placebo 
(3-12 
Maintenance 
8 weeks 
7 and 8 
rivastigmine (12 mg/d or highest 
well- 
tolerated dose) or placebo 
All patients were started on dose level 1, with increases to the next dose level after a minimum of 4 
weeks. Dosage could be reduced to the next lower dose level in case of tolerability problems and then 
increased again by one dose level as clinically indicated (in case of re-increases, the minimum interval 
was 2 weeks). The aim was to find the highest well-tolerated dose for each individual patient within 
the 16-week titration period.  
The  highest  well-tolerated  dose  for  each  individual  patient  was  then  to  be  maintained  for  the 
remaining  8  weeks,  although  dose  adjustments  were  allowed  at  any  time  during  this  maintenance 
period. 
If 6 consecutive doses or less were missed, patients were allowed to continue at the same dose level, or 
to restart at the next lower dose level. If patients missed more than 6 consecutive doses, they were to 
be re-titrated starting at dose level 1. 
Study population 
The study included patients of either sex aged 50 years or older with idiopathic PD according to UK 
Parkinson’s  Disease  Society  Brain  Bank  clinical  diagnostic  criteria  and  a  clinical  diagnosis  of  PDD 
according to DSM IV criteria (Code 294.1) with the onset of dementia symptoms occurring at least 2 
years after the first diagnosis of idiopathic PD, with an MMSE score of 10 to 24, and with a single, 
designated caregiver.  
Excluded were patients with other primary neurodegenerative disorders and other causes of dementia 
(Alzheimer’s  disease,  Frontotemporal  dementia,  Huntington’s  disease,  dementia  with  Lewy  bodies, 
Parkinson  plus  Syndromes  other  than  PDD  (progressive  supranuclear  palsy  or  olivopontocerebellar 
degeneration), a current diagnosis of probable or possible vascular dementia (according to the NINDS-
AIREN criteria), a current diagnosis of major depressive episode (DSM IV- Code 296), and patients 
with  conditions  or  circumstances  likely  to  affect  the  patient's  safety  or  compliance,  the  efficacy 
evaluations, or the conduct of the study. 
Efficacy endpoints 
Primary 
Cognition: Alzheimer’s Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog). 
Global  clinical  rating  of  change:  The  Alzheimer’s  Disease  Cooperative  Study  -  Clinician’s  Global 
Impression of Change (ADCS-CGIC). 
Secondary 
Cognitive  Drug  Research  (CDR)  Computerized  Assessment  System  tests  for  the  assessment  of 
attention.  
D-KEFS Verbal Fluency Test for the assessment of executive functioning.  
Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study – Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL) for the assessment 
of ability to perform activities of daily living. 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) for the assessment of behaviour including delusions, hallucinations, 
apathy,  depression,  irritability,  agitation,  disinhibition,  euphoria,  aberrant  motor  behaviour  and 
anxiety. 
NPI  Caregiver  Distress  Scale  (NPI-D)  for  the  assessment  of  caregiver  distress  due  to  behavioural 
disturbances. 
Ten Point Clock Test (TPCT). 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). 
3/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ADAS-cog, MMSE, CDR, D-KEFS and TPCT are direct patient performance scales whereas the 
ADCS-ADL, NPI and NPI-D are assessed through interview with the caregiver. The ADCS-CGIC is 
assessed through patient interview by a clinician who is blinded to the other assessments in the study.  
Study ENA713B2314 was conducted to evaluate and validate the efficacy assessment scales used in 
the evaluation of AD patients in patients with PDD.  
Statistical analysis 
The  primary objective of this  study required demonstration  of a statistically significant difference at 
the two-sided 5% level of significance between the group of patients randomized to rivastigmine and 
the group randomized to placebo for each of the two primary efficacy variables. 
Primary  efficacy  variables  included  the  ADAS-cog  (analysis  of  covariance,  ANCOVA,  on  mean 
change  from  baseline)  and  the  CGIC  (categorical  analysis,  Van  Elteren  test).  ANCOVA  analyses 
included country and baseline (when applicable) as stratification factor and covariates, respectively.  
All  statistical  tests  were  2-tailed  and  performed  at  the  0.05  significance  level.  Analyses  were 
performed on several analysis data set to assess the biasing effects of discontinuation.  
Populations 
The primary population for comparing the treatment groups was the Intent To Treat with Retrieved 
Dropouts  (ITT+RDO).  This  population  includes  all  randomized  patients  who  received  at  least  one 
dose of study medication and had at least a pre-baseline assessment and a post-baseline assessment for 
one  of  the  primary  efficacy  variables,  either  under  treatment  or  not.  The  RDO  population  included 
patients who discontinued study treatment early and continued to attend scheduled visits for efficacy 
evaluations. 
ITT-Last observation carried forward (LOCF) 
This population included all randomized patients who received at least one dose of study medication 
and had at least a pre-baseline assessment and a post baseline assessment on study drug (i.e. not more 
than 2 days after the last known date of study drug) for one of the primary efficacy variables. 
Observed Cases (OC) 
This population included all randomized patients who received at least one dose of study medication 
and had at least a pre-baseline assessment and a post baseline assessment on study drug (i.e. not more 
than 2 days after the last known date of study drug) for one of the primary efficacy variables. 
Data  was  reported  only  from  randomized  subjects  who  had  an  evaluation  on  treatment  at  the 
designated assessment time (either interim scheduled or endpoint). Evaluations done more than 2 days 
after the last known date of study drug were not included in the analysis. 
No  imputation  occurs  under  this  definition.  Note  that  only  the  OC  analysis  population  was  used  for 
tests  which  were  only  performed  at  selected  sites  (Delis  Kaplan  Executive  Function  tests  and  the 
TPCT). 
Demographics and baseline characteristics 
Baseline  demographic  characteristics  for  age,  gender  and  race  were  comparable  in  both  treatment 
groups. The overall demographic characteristics (87% age beyond 65, 65% male) were representative 
of patients with PD and PDD.    
Duration of PD, duration of PDD, and time interval between diagnosis of PD and initial symptoms of 
PDD were well balanced between the treatment groups (the last one being a bit longer in the placebo 
group). The distribution of PD severity as measured by Hoehn and Yahr (UPDRS part V) staging was 
similar in the two groups and indicated a moderate to severe stage of PD for majority of patients.  
The average MMSE scores in both treatment groups were comparable at study entry: 19.4 (3 – 30) in 
the rivastigmine group and 19.2 (8 – 27) in the placebo group. The inclusion criteria (MMSE score of 
4/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 to 24) was not fulfilled for 6 patients in the rivastigmine group and 3 patients in the placebo group. 
This low MMSE score in some patients seems not compatible to carry out the ADAS-Cog test.  
The  CHMP  raised  concerns  on  these  protocol  violations  and  requested  the  MAH  clarifications.  In 
addition the CHMP requested the MAH to clarify the percentage of patients with mild and moderate 
dementia and a post-hoc analysis in the sub-groups. 
The  MAH  clarified  that  these  patients  were  assigned  as  protocol  violators;  however,  they  were 
included  in  the  primary  analysis  population  as  was  defined  prospectively  in  the  statistical  analysis 
plan. When the 9 patients who were protocol violators for out of range MMSE scores were excluded, 
all  three  efficacy  measures  still  maintained  significant  improvement  in  the  rivastigmine  group 
compared to placebo at week 24. 
The MAH also clarified that the distribution of patients with mild and moderate dementia were similar 
in  both  treatment  groups.  A  post-hoc  analysis  of  ADAS-cog,  ADCS-CGIC  and  ADCS-ADL  in  the 
subgroups  of  patients  with  mild  and  moderate  PDD,  showed  favourable  results  for  rivastigmine  as 
compared to placebo, but they did not achieve statistical significance on some measures. 
Primary Efficacy results 
ADAS-Cog change from baseline 
Patients with PDD in the rivastigmine treatment group achieved an improvement of 2.1 points on the 
ADAS-Cog at week 24, whereas patients in the placebo group deteriorated by 0.7 points at week 24 
(ITT+RDO).  
The difference was 2.5 points in rivastigmine group and -0.8 points in the placebo group in the LOCF 
population  and  2.9  points  and  -1.0  in  the  rivastigmine  and  placebo  groups  respectively  in  the  OC 
population.  
The treatment group difference for the change from baseline was statistically significantly in favour of 
rivastigmine in all three analysis populations, both at week 24 and at week 16 (p<0.001). 
ADAS-Cog categorical analysis - patients improving 
The percentage of patients in whom the ADAS-Cog score improved by at least 4 points on study drug 
was consistently significantly higher in the rivastigmine group in analysis of populations at weeks 16 
and  24.  For  the  ITT+RDO  population  at  week  24,  the  statistical  significance  level  was  close  to 
statistical significance (p=0.074). 
ADCS- CGI-C - categorical analysis at week 24 
The percentage of patients in whom the ADCS CGI-C rating improved on study drug was significantly 
higher in the rivastigmine group in all analysis populations at week 24 than in the placebo group.  At 
week 16 the ADCS CGI-C rating improved was also significantly higher in the rivastigmine group in 
all analysis populations.  
ADCS CGI-C - patients improving and treatment effect 
The treatment effect was consistently in favour of rivastigmine, with odds ratios for an improvement 
on rivastigmine between 1.6 and 2.1. 
When  adjusted  for  duration  of  PD  (measured  by  time  since  diagnosis  of  PD)  and  severity  of 
Parkinsonian  motor  symptoms  (measured  by  baseline  UPDRS  part  III  total  score,  and  change  from 
baseline  at  week  24)  CGIC  scores  at  week  24  remained  significant  in  favour  of  rivastigmine  as 
compared to placebo.  
Secondary Efficacy Results 
ADCS-ADL total score change from baseline 
Patients  in  the  rivastigmine  group  demonstrated  significantly  less  deterioration  as  measured  by  the 
ADCS-ADL mean scores at week 24 compared to the placebo group. The decline in ADCS-ADL total 
score  was  3.6  points  in  the  placebo  group  and  1.1  points  in  the  rivastigmine  group  (ITT+RDO 
population).  A  statistically  significant  superiority  of  rivastigmine  over  placebo  for  the  ADCS-ADL 
total score change from baseline for all three-analysis populations at week 24 was observed. 
5/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  assessment  of  activities  of  daily  living  by  ADCS-ADL  in  patients  who  have  reported  ‘AEs 
potentially associated with PD’ did not show a less favourable outcome. 
Supplementary  sensitivity  analysis  including  all  randomized  patients  (even  those  without  measures 
after baseline) with an imputation of missing data by LOCF method and by the hypothesis that ADAS-
Cog  score  variation  is  similar  to  those  observed  in  the  placebo  group,  were  requested  to  the  MAH. 
Both analyses showed that the results are statistically significant, in favour of rivastigmine group. 
NPI-10 total score change from baseline 
The  NPI-10  total  composite  scores  decreased,  indicating  clinical  improvement.  The  decrease  from 
baseline was larger in the rivastigmine group than in the placebo group. At week 24, significance was 
observed in the ITT-RDO and LOCF populations. The percentage of patients with an improved NPI-
10 total composite score at week 24 was also statistically significantly higher in the rivastigmine group 
compared  to  placebo  in  all  three  analysis  populations.  The  difference  in  change  from  baseline  also 
reached statistical significance in all three analysis populations at week 16.  
The  NPI-12  total  score  was  decreased  in  the  rivastigmine  group  compared  to  placebo  group  in  the 
ITT+RDO  and  the  LOCF  population  and  was  comparable  for  the  OC  population.  Although  the 
percentage  of  patients  improving  (at  least  30%  improvement  over  baseline)  was  higher  in  the 
rivastigmine group at all times points, the differences in all populations analysis were not statistically 
significant. 
CDR - power of attention score change from baseline 
The CDR attention battery scores at week 24 were statistically significantly lower in the rivastigmine 
group for the combined power of attention score (mean of simple reaction time, digit vigilance test and 
choice reaction time) and significant for choice reaction time but not for simple reaction time or for 
digit vigilance speed of detection test. 
D-KEFS Letter fluency test change from baseline – total correct responses 
On  the  D-KEFS  Letter  Fluency  test,  the  mean  scores  for  total  correct  responses  improved  in  the 
rivastigmine  group  (1.7  points)  and  deteriorated  (-1.1  points)  in  the  placebo  group  at  week  24.  The 
treatment group difference was statistically significant at both weeks 16 and week 24. 
The others D-KEFS executive functions tests were not performed in all study centres. D-KEFS Color-
Word Interference tests show no statistically significance in mean change score. In the D-KEFS Card 
Sorting Test and Symbol Digit Modality test, a statistically significant improvement was observed in 
the rivastigmine group.  
Ten point clock test change from baseline 
Mean scores for this test at week 24 increased in the rivastigmine group and decreased in the placebo 
group. The difference in change from baseline was statistically significant at week 24.  
MMSE  
Mean MMSE scores increased by 0.8 points in the rivastigmine group, and decreased by 0.2 points in 
the  placebo  group  (week  24,  ITT+RDO  population);  the  difference  was  statistically  significant  in 
favour of rivastigmine in all three analysis populations.  
Composite responder analysis  
A composite  responder  analysis was performed  based  on the  criteria ADAS-Cog improvement  of at 
least  4  points  and  no  worsening  on  CGIC-C  and  ADCS-ADL  (CGIC  categories  1-4  and  an  ADCS-
ADL change ≥ 0). For the primary analysis population ITT+RDO there was no statistically significant 
difference  between  rivastigmine  and  placebo  at  week  24  (p=0.082).  For  the  LOCF  population,  the 
difference  was  statistically  significant  (p=0.037),  and  for  the  OC  population  close  to  statistical 
significance (p=0.051). 
The CHMP acknowledged that the results for the primary efficacy parameters ADAS-cog and ADCS-
CGIC were statistically significant in favour of rivastigmine. The secondary efficacy measure of ADL 
also  improved  significantly  in  the  active  group.  However,  the  magnitude  of  the  improvements  for 
ADAS-cog  were  modest.  In  addition,  the  responder  analysis  measuring  the  proportion  of  clinically 
relevant  responders  did  not  show  any  difference  from  placebo  at  week  24  in  the  primary  analysis 
6/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population  ITT+RDO.  In  the  analysis  of  efficacy  for  the  primary efficacy  population  (ITT  +  RDO), 
only  23  patients  (4.3  %)  returned  for  efficacy  assessment  (retrieved  dropouts),  whereas  the  total 
number  who  discontinued  was  131.  For  those  patients  who  were  missing,  and  no  retrieved  drop  out 
was  available,  LOCF  was  used.  The  low  number  of  retrieved  drop  outs  in  the  ITT+RDO  analysis 
entails  a  risk  that  the  effect  of  rivastigmine  is  overestimated  and  the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to 
discussed this issue. 
The  MAH  conducted  a  post-hoc  analysis 
the  differential  pattern  of 
discontinuations  over  time.  The  analysis  performed  was  the  ‘placebo  results  for  all’,  which  imputed 
the  ITT+RDO  placebo  mean  score  (ADAS-cog  total  score/ADCS-CGIC)  to  the  patients  who  were 
neither completer nor retrieved dropout (RDO) patients (80 rivastigmine and 28 placebo patients). For 
the ADAS-cog scale, the mean baseline total score of 24.3 and change at Week 24 of -0.7 were used; 
and for the ADCS-CGIC, the mode of the placebo result at week 24 (unchanged) was used. 
into  account 
taking 
In  summary,  the  analyses  in  ADAS-cog  total  score  resulted  in  statistically  significant  differences  in 
favour of rivastigmine (p<0.001). The ‘placebo results for all method’ shows a treatment difference of 
2.5  versus  the  difference  of  2.8  achieved  through  the  primary  analysis  method.  This  analysis  also 
demonstrates  consistent  findings  to  ADAS-cog,  which  is  cognitive  benefit  for  rivastigmine-treated 
patients  with  PDD.  The  analysis  of  ADCS-CGIC  using  the  ‘placebo  results  for  all’  method  also 
demonstrated the superiority of rivastigmine group over placebo group (p=0.006), and the result of this 
analysis was consistent to the primary analysis of the core study. 
The CHMP considered that the imputation of placebo results for all missing values might still resulted 
in  an  overestimation  since  patients  remaining  on  placebo  are  likely  to  have  a  better  response  than 
patients  withdrawn  due  to  intolerance.  However,  the  uncertainty  about  the  potential  overestimation 
does not differ from that in Alzheimer trials.  
7/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Health economic parameters 
NPI-D caregiver distress ratings were not significantly different between treatment groups; caregiver 
distress  due  to  aberrant  motor  behaviour  were  in  favour  of  rivastigmine  at  weeks  16  and  24,  and 
sleep/night-time behaviour was in favour of placebo at week 16. 
Overall efficacy conclusions on study ENA713B2311  
Patients of either sex aged 50 years or older with idiopathic PD according to UK Parkinson’s Disease 
Society Brain Bank clinical diagnostic criteria and a clinical diagnosis of PDD according to DSM IV 
criteria  with  the  onset  of  dementia  symptoms  occurring  at  least  2  years  after  the  first  diagnosis  of 
idiopathic PD were included.   
The average MMSE scores in both treatment groups were comparable at study entry: 19.4 (3 – 30) in 
the rivastigmine group and 19.2 (8 – 27) in the placebo group. The inclusion criteria (MMSE score of 
10 to 24) was not fulfilled for 6 patients in the rivastigmine group and 3 patients in the placebo group. 
These  patients  were  assigned  as  protocol  violators;  however,  they  were  included  in  the  primary 
analysis population as was defined prospectively in the statistical analysis plan. When the 9 patients 
who were protocol violators for out of range MMSE scores were excluded, all three efficacy measures 
still maintained significant improvement in the rivastigmine group compared to placebo at week 24. 
The distribution of patients with mild and moderate dementia was similar in both treatment groups. A 
post-hoc  analysis  of  ADAS-cog,  ADCS-CGIC  and  ADCS-ADL  in  subgroups  of  patients  with  mild 
and moderate PDD, showed favourable results for rivastigmine as compared to placebo, but they did 
not achieve statistical significance on some measures. This could be explained due to reduced power 
as a result of decreased sample size. 
Baseline  demographic  characteristics  for  age,  gender  and  race  were  comparable  in  both  treatment 
groups. The overall demographic characteristics (age and sex) were representative of patients with PD 
and  PDD.   Duration  of  PD, duration of PDD  and time interval  between  diagnosis  of PD and initial 
symptoms of PDD were well balanced between the treatment groups. The distribution of PD severity 
(as measured by Hoehn and Yahr staging) was similar in the two groups and indicated a moderate to 
severe stage of PD severity for majority of patients.  
Of the 541 patients randomized, 410 (75.8 %) completed the study and were evaluated at week 24. 
In the primary efficacy analysis, patients with PDD in the rivastigmine treatment group achieved an 
improvement  of  2.1  points  on  the  ADAS-Cog  at  week  24,  whereas  patients  in  the  placebo  group 
deteriorated by 0.7 points at week 24 (ITT+RDO). The difference was more pronounced in the LOCF 
(2.5 points in rivastigmine group and -0.8 points in the placebo group) and OC (2.9 points and -1.0 in 
the  rivastigmine  and  placebo  groups  respectively)  analysis  populations.  The  treatment  group 
difference  for  the  change  from  baseline  was  statistically  significant  in  favour  of  rivastigmine  in  all 
three analysis populations, both at week 16 and at week 24 (p<0.001). The percentage of patients in 
whom the ADAS-Cog score improved by at least 4 points did not achieve statistical significance in the 
primary efficacy analysis population (ITT + RDO) at week 24 (p=0.074). 
The percentage of patients in whom the ADCS CGI-C rating improved was significantly higher in the 
rivastigmine  group  in  all  analysis  populations  at  week  24  (ITT+RDO  p=0.007;  LOCF  and  OC 
p<0.001).  The ADCS CGI-C rating improved was also significantly higher in the rivastigmine group 
in all analysis populations at week 16. The treatment effect was consistently in favour of rivastigmine 
(odds ratios for an improvement on rivastigmine between 1.6 and 2.1). 
When adjusted for duration of PD and severity of Parkinsonian motor symptoms, CGIC scores at week 
24 remained significantly in favour of rivastigmine as compared to placebo. There is no evidence that 
in  patients  who  have  reported  ‘AEs  potentially  associated  with  PD’,  the  assessment  of  activities  of 
daily living by ADCS-ADL scale has a less favourable outcome of functional assessment. 
Secondary  efficacy  measures  of  activities  of  daily  living,  behaviour,  attention  and  executive 
functioning showed statistically significant superiority for rivastigmine over placebo for the ITT+RDO 
population, the ITT (LOCF) and the OC population. 
Mean  MMSE  scores  difference  between  rivastigmine  and  placebo,  was  statistically  significantly  in 
favour of rivastigmine in all three analysis populations.  
8/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  categorical  analysis  of  the  percentage  of  overall  responders  was  significantly  in  favour  of 
rivastigmine at week 16 (LOCF, OC) and 24 (LOCF). The magnitude of the treatment effect in both 
primary  efficacy  criteria  were  in  the  range  of  magnitude  of  effect  seen  in  studies  for  Alzheimer’s 
Disease. 
In  summary,  the  two  primary  efficacy  criteria  were  statistically  significant  in  patients  treated  by 
rivastigmine  compared  to  placebo.  The  magnitude  of  the  treatment  effect  in  both  primary  efficacy 
criteria were in the range of magnitude of effect seen in studies for Alzheimer’s Disease. 
All  secondary  efficacy  criteria  measuring  activities  of  daily  living,  behaviour,  attention,  executive 
functions and quality of life were in favour of rivastigmine compared to placebo. 
Parkinson’s Disease  motor signs assessed by  the  UPDRS  motor score (the change  scores  of 0.3  and 
0.4 at week 24 for the rivastigmine and placebo groups, respectively) and Hoehn-Yahr stage, were not 
aggravated neither in the rivastigmine nor in the placebo group.  
2.2  Study ENA713B2311E1 
This was a 24 week, prospective, multi-center, open-label, uncontrolled extension to the double-blind, 
placebo-controlled core study ENA713B2311. As in the core study, all patients had a 16-week titration 
period followed by an 8-week maintenance period.  
The primary objectives of this 24-week extension study were to evaluate the safety and tolerability of 
rivastigmine (3 to 12 mg/day) and to provide access or continued access to rivastigmine for patients 
included in study ENA713B2311. 
The  planned  overall  duration  of  treatment  was  24  weeks  and  consisted  of  a  16-week  titration  phase 
(with titration steps at 4 week intervals) and an 8-week maintenance phase. 
Patients who have completed the double-blind (DB) core phase continued in the extension phase (OL) 
without any washout period. Study drug titration to the highest well-tolerated dose was restarted at 1.5 
mg  bid  in  all  patients  at  the  start  of  the  extension  period  in  order  to  preserve  the  blind  for  the  core 
study. 
Secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  rivastigmine  on  cognition  including  executive 
function,  on  activities  of  daily  living,  behavioural  symptoms  and  health  economic  parameters 
including caregiver distress and caregiver burden. 
Criteria for evaluation 
Safety 
Safety  assessments  included  the  recording  and  monitoring  for  adverse  events  and  serious  adverse 
events,  of  vital  signs  and  body  weight,  and  the  Unified  Parkinson’s  Disease  Rating  Scale  (UPDRS) 
part III motor subscale. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy was evaluated on similar assessment scales to those utilized in the core study. 
Statistical methods 
As this was an uncontrolled open-label study, no inferential statistics on efficacy were planned. 
Descriptive summary statistics were used for all tests. The data include baseline (week 0) information 
and efficacy results obtained during the core period in those patients who participated in the extension. 
Data  were  presented  separately  for  each  of  the  two  pre-treatment  groups;  for  patients  exposed  to 
rivastigmine in the core trial, and for patients exposed to placebo in the core trial, as well as for the 
combined pre-treatment groups. 
Of the 433 patients who were eligible for the open-label extension, 334 consented to participate, in the 
extension phase (75% from the rivastigmine group vs 82% from the placebo group). 
9/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic characteristics of patients who continued in the open-label extension phase were similar 
to those in the double-blind core phase with similar age distribution and male dominance. 
The  average  time  between  diagnosis  of  PD  and  the  first  symptoms  of  dementia  was  6.7  years.  The 
majority  of  patients  were  at  Hoehn  and  Yahr  stages  2  to  3,  with  a  similar  distribution  across  both 
treatment groups in terms of severity of the disease. 
Efficacy Results  study ENA713B2311E1  
One  population  was  defined  for  analysis  purposes,  the  Observed  Cases  (OC)  population  which 
included  all  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  open-label  study  drug  and  had  at  least  one 
efficacy assessment on treatment during the open-label phase. At week 48, the mean ADAS-Cog score 
had  improved  by  2.0  points  from  baseline  in  the  OC  population.  The  evaluation  by  treatment  phase 
and pre-treatment group showed that the improvement seen during rivastigmine exposure in placebo - 
pre-treated patients was comparable to that seen during exposure to rivastigmine in the double -blind 
phase (mean of +2.3, vs. +3.3).  
At the end  of the  open-label phase, ADAS-Cog  score, as  compared to  baseline, had improved  by  at 
least 4 points across both groups in 41% of patients. 
An improvement of 0.4 points in ADCS-ADL scores was maintained in the patient group treated with 
rivastigmine for 48 weeks. The decline observed during placebo treatment in the double-blind phase (-
2.1  points  at  week  24)  was  reversed  to  during  the  open-label  extension.  Patients  in  the  DB-
Placebo/OL-rivastigmine group, who received rivastigmine for 24 weeks in the open label phase also 
showed improvement in total ADCS-ADL scores, but remained below baseline level at week 48. 
Patients  had  behavioural  improvement  on  NPI-10  total  composite  score  (2.4  points  above  their 
baseline level at week 0). Both groups remain above baseline at week 48 even if in the OL phase, DB-
rivastigmine/OL-rivastigmine patients had slight deterioration from week 24.  
Verbal fluency test also improved at week 48 in all patients. DB-placebo patients had some benefit in 
the OL-phase after receiving rivastigmine.  
The mean MMSE score had increased by 1.4 points. Both group were above baseline (week 0) at week 
48. 
All this results should  be  considered as supportive taking into  account  the  open  nature  of  this  study 
phase. 
2.3  Study ENA713B2314 
Study  2314  recruited  patients  diagnosed  with  3  types  of  dementia,  with  the  purpose  of  validating 
various assessment scales for their ability to differentiate between mild and moderate severity of PDD 
and Vascular Dementia (VaD). The study did not add any efficacy data in PDD. The scales evaluated 
were commonly used efficacy assessments in AD studies, and were used in the key study 2311. The 
presence of the AD arm in this validation study was to support the validity and reliability of the scales 
in PDD and VaD patients. For the indication sought in this submission (PDD), only the data for PDD 
and AD patients were required for assessment of validity and reliability, therefore an interim analysis 
of the data was performed, excluding the VaD patients. 
This study was performed in accordance with the EMEA Scientific Advice of April, 28th  2003. 
Objectives 
Primary:  
To  assess  the  criterion-related  validity  through  determination  of  the  ability  of  the  ADAS-Cog  to 
differentiate between mild and moderate severity of PDD. 
To assess the test-retest reliability of ADAS-cog in patients with PDD. 
Secondary:  
10/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To  assess  the  criterion-related  validity  through  determination  of  the  ability  of  other  dementia  rating 
scales/tests to differentiate between mild and moderate severity of PDD.  
To assess the test-retest reliability of other dementia rating scales/tests.  
To assess the convergent and divergent construct validity of ADAS-cog in patients with PDD.  
To compare scores on dementia rating scales/tests in patients with AD with those in PDD. 
These  assessment  scales  include  the  Vascular  Dementia  Assessment  Scale  (VaDAS),  Alzheimer 
Disease  Assessment  Scale,  cognitive  subscale  (ADAS-cog),  Neuropsychiatric  Inventory  (NPI) 
including  the  Distress  subscale  (NPI-D),  Alzheimer  Disease  Cooperative  Study  Activities  of  Daily 
Living scale (ADCS-ADL), Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS) verbal fluency test, 
Trail  Making  Test  Part  A  (TMT-A),  Ten  Point  Clock  Test  (TPCT)  and  Cognitive  Drug  Research 
(CDR) computerized assessment system for attention. 
Domain 
Cognition 
Scales 
ADAS -Cog (for PDD patients only) 
List of Scales/Tests to be validated by domain type 
Executive Function 
Attention 
Behaviour 
Activities of Daily 
Living 
Ten-point Clock Test (TPCT) 
Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS) verbal fluency 
(letter fluency condition only) 
Cognitive Drug Research (CDR)  Computerized Assessment 
System tests for attention 
Trail Making Test Part A (TMT-A) 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), including NPI-D 
Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study – Activities of Daily Living 
(ADCS-ADL) 
Methodology  
It was planned to enrol approximately 150 patients; 50 patients with AD, 50 patients with VaD and 50 
patients  with  PDD.   The  population  used for  the  interim  analysis are only the  patients with AD  and 
PDD. No patients with VaD were included in the analysis. 
Patients were rated on a number of dementia rating scales at baseline, and 4 weeks later. The scales 
were assessed for their validity by comparing their ability to differentiate between mild and moderate 
severity  stages  of  dementia  in  patients  with  AD  and  PDD,  and  for  reliability  by  using  test-retest 
procedures to compare the baseline and 4-week results for reproducibility. 
Main criteria for inclusion 
The study population were male or female patients aged 50 to 85, with a clinical diagnosis of PDD or 
AD  according  to  DSM  IV  criteria,  and  with  a  severity  of  between  10  –  24  inclusive  on  MMSE  at 
baseline. Patients were further divided into Mild (MMSE 18-24) or Moderate (MMSE 10 -17) severity 
groups. 
Patients were on stable doses of existing therapy for at least 6 weeks prior to baseline and not expected 
to change doses/medications during the study (i.e. approximately 4 weeks after baseline). 
Duration of treatment 
No treatment was applied. After an initial 6-week screening period, a baseline visit was performed at 
least one week after the screening visit. A further single visit was performed 4 weeks after the baseline 
visit.  
Statistical methods 
Criterion-related validity was assessed on the basis of ‘disease severity’ as the external criterion. The 
patients were stratified by the MMSE into groups of mild or moderate severity and the performance of 
the two severity groups on the scales were compared by t-test. 
11/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construct  validity  was  demonstrated  by  evaluating  the  relative  strengths  of  the  correlations  between 
the  scales  assessing  similar  symptom  domains  such  as  ADAS  -cog  and  MMSE  and  the  correlations 
between scales assessing different symptom domains, such as ADAS -cog and the NPI.  
Test-retest  reliability  was  assessed  by  comparing  baseline  scores  with  the  scores  on  the  same  scales 
after a period of 4 weeks. Spearman correlation coefficient was calculated for both construct validity 
and reliability. 
Results study ENA713B2314  
The criterion-related validity was evaluated by the ability of the ADAS-Cog to differentiate between 
mild  and  moderate  severity  of  PDD  by  performing  a  t-test  on  the  ADAS-cog  values  achieved  with 
mild  vs.  moderate  patients  within  each  dementia  type.  In  both  PDD  and  AD  patients,  mean  ADAS-
Cog  at  baseline  showed  a  distinct  separation  between  mild  and  moderate  patients.  In  each  dementia 
type and severity the variance associated with the mean was similar. The difference between mild and 
moderate was statistically significant for each dementia type. 
The test-retest reliability of ADAS-cog was explored by obtaining a correlation coefficient between a 
patients ADAS-cog value at baseline and at 4 weeks. Mean values were similar between baseline and 
the  assessment  at  week  4,  and  correlation  coefficients  were  strongly  positive  for  all  dementia 
type/severity combinations.  
The ability of other dementia rating scales to differentiate between mild and moderate severity of PDD 
and AD was explored by comparing the mean values obtained with each scale for mild vs. moderate 
patients  with  a  t-test.  In  both  PDD  and  AD  patients,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  separation 
between  mild  and  moderate  patients  for  ADCS-ADL,  TPCT,  TMT-A,  and  D-KEFS.  For  the 
behavioural scales NPI 10 and NPI 12, and the associated scales for caregiver distress NPI-D-10 and 
NPI-D-12,  the  differences  between  severity  strata  were  smaller  and  not  statistically  significant.  The 
NPI scales were also inconsistent between the dementia types. 
The test-retest reliability analysis showed  moderate to high correlations in ADAS-cog, ADCS-ADL, 
and  NPI-10  scores  in  both  PDD  and  AD  patients.  The  other  scales  were  generally  positively 
correlated,  though  several  had  less  consistent  results  in  the  moderate  severity  patients  in  both 
populations. 
These results showed that ADAS-Cog might be used for analysis of cognitive impairment in patients 
with  PDD.  The  scale  attributed  statistically  significantly  different  mean  values  to  patients  with  mild 
severity disease compared to moderate severity disease patients.  
The secondary outcomes selected to assess the other domains of the patients’ dementia syndrome that 
may  not  have  been  adequately  addressed  by  the  ADAS-cog  were:  Cognitive  Drug  Research  (CDR) 
attention  battery  for  attention,  Delis-Kaplan  Executive  Function  System  (D-KEFS),  Verbal  Fluency 
test  for  executive  function,  Ten-point  clock  test  (TPCT)  for  executive  and  visuo-spatial  function, 
Neuropsychiatric  Inventory  (NPI)  for  behavioural  assessment.  These  outcomes  showed  statistically 
significant differences between rivastigmine treated patients as compared to placebo treated patients. 
2.4  Dementia in Parkinson’s disease population 
The CHMP acknowledged that dementia in Parkinson’s disease is a very complex topic and the MAH 
was questioned if the effect of rivastigmine on dementia in Parkinson’s disease was dependent on the 
kind of cognitive impairment present. The MAH confirmed that the patient population included in the 
core  study  had  mild  to  moderately  severe  dementia  associated  with  Parkinson’s  disease  (PDD),  and 
the results in these patients may be generalised to this population in routine clinical practice.  
PDD is aetiologically an homogenous dementia syndrome that develops in patients with a diagnosis of 
idiopathic  Parkinson’s  disease  (PD)  as  a  result  of  the  progression  of  the  Lewy  body  pathology  that 
characterises  this  disease.  Converging  evidence  from  recent  studies  indicates  that,  if  concomitant 
Alzheimer pathology is present, it is generally no higher than in age-matched non-demented controls, 
insufficient to account for the dementia syndrome, and it is not considered to be the underlying cause 
of the dementia syndrome. 
12/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  presented  a  review  showing  that  risk  factors,  genetic,  neuropathological,  neuroimaging, 
neuropsychological, and non-neuropsychological evidence for PDD dementia differ from AD. 
Risk Factors for Parkinson’s Disease Dementia (PDD) 
Several risk factors for dementia in patients with PD have been identified.  The most significant risk 
factors  are  age,  duration  of  PD,  age  at  onset,  akinetic-rigid  form  of  the  disease  and  the  severity  of 
motor symptoms. Older PD patients with higher motor symptom severity at baseline had an almost 10-
fold increase in risk of incident dementia, compared with younger patients with lower motor symptom 
severity. 
The principal risk factor for developing PDD is the presence of PD.  The diagnosis of AD is excluded 
in  the  presence  of  PD  by  the  requirement  that  other  central  nervous  system  disease  that  may  cause 
dementia  be  excluded  before  the  diagnosis  of  probable  AD  or  of  dementia  of  the  Alzheimer  can  be 
made. PDD can thus be diagnosed in an individual with PD and dementia in whom other etiologies of 
dementia (hypothyroidism, B12 deficiency, cerebrovascular disease) have been excluded. 
Genetic Distinctions between PDD and AD 
Genetic Feature 
Causative mutations  Alpha-synuclein, PARKIN, UCH-L1, PARK-8,  
Dementia Associated with Parkinson’s Disease 
Alzheimer’s Disease 
PS1, PS2, APP 
APOE-4 influence 
APOE-2 influence 
PINK-1, DJ-1 
No effect on PDD; increases age-related or  
AD-type pathology 
Increases PDD 
Major risk factor 
Decreases AD 
Neuropathologic Distinctions between PDD and AD 
 Pathological Feature  Dementia Associated with Parkinson’s 
Alzheimer’s Disease 
Disease 
Correlate highly with cognitive impairment  Rare 
Lewy bodies 
Senile plaques 
Low sensitivity for dementia 
Neurofibrillary tangles  Low sensitivity for dementia 
Cholinergic deficit 
Dopaminergic deficit 
Noradrenergic deficit 
More marked 
Present 
Present 
Present in all cases 
Present in nearly all cases 
Less marked 
Absent 
Present 
Neuroimaging 
Neuroimaging  evidence  supports  a  distinction  between  PDD  and  AD  based  on  differences  in  the 
distribution of atrophy on MRI and degree of involvement of nigro-striatal dopaminergic function on 
PET or SPECT in the two disorders. 
13/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neuropsychological differences between PDD and AD 
Neuropsychological Domain 
Memory 
Executive function 
Language changes 
Visuospatial deficits 
Bradyphrenia 
Fluctuation attention 
Dementia Associated with 
Parkinson’s Disease 
Retrieval deficit syndrome 
Prominent 
Limited 
Prominent, may be attributable 
to executive abnormalities 
Present 
Characteristic 
Alzheimer’s Disease 
Amnestic type 
Moderate 
Prominent 
Milder, Independent of 
executive changes 
Absent 
Uncommon 
Non-Cognitive Clinical Distinctions between PDD and AD 
Non-cognitive Feature 
Dementia Associated with 
Parkinson’s Disease 
Alzheimer’s Disease 
PD motor features 
Present 
Neuroleptic sensitivity 
Autonomic dysfunction 
Present 
Common 
REM sleep behaviour disorder 
Common 
Absent 
emerge late) 
(parkinsonism  may 
Absent 
Uncommon 
Absent 
Diagnostic criteria for dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease   
Criteria for PDD 
All major criteria must be present. 
Parkinson’s disease 
Dementia 
  Memory impairment 
Impairment of at least one other cognitive domain 
Impairment represents a decline from a previous level of function 
Impairment sufficient to cause occupational or social disability 
Impairment not present exclusively during a delirium 
Onset of Parkinson’s disease preceded the onset of dementia 
Alternate causes of dementia have been excluded 
3  CLINICAL SAFETY 
The  main  results  for  safety  derive  from  the  single  pivotal  core  study  with  supportive  data  from  the 
extension study. The key safety population consists of the 362 rivastigmine-treated and 179 placebo-
treated patients examined in the core study. In addition, there were 334 patients in the extension study 
who were treated with rivastigmine. 
Adverse events 
In the core study, the overall incidence rate of AEs was higher with rivastigmine than with placebo. 
The  most  frequently  affected  system  organ  classes  were  the  same  as  seen  with  rivastigmine  in  AD 
(gastrointestinal disorders, metabolism and nutrition disorders, and nervous system disorders).  
14/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nausea and vomiting were the most common AEs, with incidence rates of 29% for nausea, and 16.6 % 
for  vomiting.  Tremor,  diarrhoea,  anorexia  and  dizziness  were  also  more  frequent  with  rivastigmine 
than placebo.  
In the extension study, the overall incidence rate of AEs was the same in both groups of patients that 
were based on core study treatment assignments (i.e., core study rivastigmine patients re-treated with 
rivastigmine  “rivastigmine-rivastigmine”  or  placebo  patients  newly  treated  with  rivastigmine  “Plc-
rivastigmine”).  The frequency of nausea and tremor decreased in the rivastigmine-rivastigmine group, 
but vomiting remained at the same level in the rivastigmine-rivastigmine group as in the core study.  
The higher incidence of tremor is not unexpected in the rivastigmine group. 
Cardiac disorders 
When all AEs that could be related to cardiac rhythm and conduction abnormalities in the core study 
are combined, the total incidence rate for the rivastigmine group was slightly higher at 3.3% compared 
to  the  placebo  group  at  2.2%.  Moreover,  3  patients  on  rivastigmine  (0.8%)  developed  acute  cardiac 
syndromes  (2  cases  of  myocardial  infarction  and  one  case  of  sudden  death)  compared  to  2  patients 
(1.1%) on placebo (one case of acute coronary syndrome and one case of cardiac arrest). 
In the core study, there were 3 (0.8%) premature study discontinuations for cardiac system AEs in the 
rivastigmine  group  compared  to  2  (1.1%)  in  the  placebo  group.  In  the  extension  study,  5  (1.5%) 
patients discontinued due to cardiac system AEs. 
Based  on  these  findings,  treatment  with  rivastigmine  in  patients  with  PDD  did  not  seem  to  be 
associated with any new cardiovascular safety findings that indicated an additional risk other than the 
already known profile as described in rivastigmine product information.   
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The overall summary of SAEs, discontinuations, and deaths is the following: 
*During the core study, the incidence rate of SAEs and the rate of discontinuations due to SAEs were 
less frequent in the rivastigmine group than placebo. 
*AE  discontinuations  were  found  to  be  more  frequent  in  the  rivastigmine  group  due  to  the 
discontinuations for nausea, vomiting and tremor, which are known AEs associated with rivastigmine. 
*The  occurrence  of  SAEs  and  of  AE  discontinuations  were  as  predicted,  with  higher  rates  of  these 
events early in the study, during titration, and lower rates once maintenance doses had been achieved.  
*Deaths  were  less  frequent  with  rivastigmine  than  placebo  and  they  reflected  problems  generally 
expected  in  the  elderly  population.  There  was  no  apparent  relationship  between  the  occurrence  of 
death and the dose of study drug or the duration of therapy. None of the deaths reported were found to 
be related to the study medication. 
*Importantly,  in  a  disorder  where  parasympathetic  and  sympathetic  drives  may  be  altered, 
rivastigmine was not associated with any significantly increased incidence rate of cardiac or vascular 
SAEs and had a lower mortality rate compared to the placebo group. 
Adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation 
In the core study, a total of 27.3 % discontinued in the rivastigmine group compared with 17.9 % in 
the placebo group. The main reason for discontinuation in the rivastigmine group was adverse events 
(17.1  %).  In  the  placebo  group,  7.8  %  discontinued  due  to  adverse  events.  Adverse  events  that 
contributed  to  premature  withdrawal  from  the  study  included  nausea  (3.6  %  of  patients  in  the 
rivastigmine  group  and  0.6  %  in  the  placebo  group,  p=0.04),  vomiting  (in  1.9  %  and  0.6  % 
respectively, ns), and tremor (in 1.7 % and 0 %, respectively, ns). 
In  the  extension  study,  the  frequency  of  patients  discontinuing  for  safety/tolerability  reasons  was 
slightly higher in newly-treated rivastigmine patients.  
The discontinuation rates due to adverse events potentially associated with PD in the core study was 
4.7 % in the rivastigmine group relative to 1 .1 % in the placebo group. 
15/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric disorders, including delusions and hallucinations 
The MAH submitted a comprehensive safety review on psychiatric disorders and the findings did not 
indicate  that  rivastigmine  treatment  was  associated  with  an  increased  incidence,  severity,  or 
discontinuation from overall or individual psychiatric AEs. 
Severe constipation / abdominal obstructions 
The  MAH  submitted  a  comprehensive  safety  review  on  severe  constipation  and  abdominal 
obstructions and the findings do not indicate that the incidence rate of AEs of constipation, intestinal 
obstruction or fecaloma were higher than the expected rates in elderly PD patients. 
Nausea / vomiting 
Nausea and vomiting were the most common AEs, with incidence rates of 29% for nausea, and 16.6 % 
for  vomiting.  The  supplementary  data  provided  by  the  MAH  indicate  that  the  incidence  rates  for 
gastrointestinal  side  effects  are  highest  during  the  dose-titration  period  and  decrease  with  long-term 
treatment. These side effects are, however, common during a relatively long period because the dose 
titration is slow. It is not until week 16, i.e after 4 months of therapy, that the incidence rates show a 
more marked decrease. 
Since  nausea  and  vomiting  are  the  main  side  effects  of  rivastigmine  and  Parkinson  medication  the 
MAH was asked to clarify if these enhance each other, making their combination less favourable for 
this specific patient group. 
The  MAH  compared  the  incidence  rates  of  AEs  of  nausea  and  vomiting  in  the  placebo  groups  of 
studies  in  AD  and  PDD  and  similar  frequencies  were  reported  indicating  that  concomitant 
dopaminergic  treatment  in  the  PDD  patients  enrolled  to  the  2311  study  did  not  appear  to  increase 
incidence  rates  of  these  events.  This  may  be  due  to  the  chronic  nature  of  most  treatment  with 
dopaminergic  agents  in  the  PDD  patient  population  and  the  likely  desensitization  of  their 
dopaminergic  receptors.  In  addition,  frequent  concomitant  use  of  antiemetics  and  antipsychotic 
medications could decrease the incidence rate of nausea and vomiting in this population. 
Thus, there is no evidence that the incidence rates of AEs of nausea and vomiting, or discontinuations 
for these events, were  more common in the patient  population that was also receiving  dopaminergic 
medication. 
Laboratory findings 
In  the  core  study,  the  incidence  of  newly  occurring  laboratory  abnormalities  (clinical  chemistry  or 
hematology) was low, comparable for both treatments and were not regarded as clinically significant.  
There  were  no  significant  findings  with  urinalysis.    There  were  a  few  cases  of  abnormally  elevated 
prolactin, but the incidence was similar in both groups and mean values at 24 weeks were comparable.  
However, there were changes in the special laboratory tests of amylase and lipase, examined as a part 
of  safety  evaluations,  which  revealed  a  mean  increase  from  baseline  greater  with  rivastigmine  than 
with  placebo.  With  rivastigmine,  patients  with  normal  baseline  values  of  serum  amylase 
(approximately 17%) or serum lipase (9%) showed elevated values atweek 24, with no indication of 
pancreatitis.    Associated  AEs  included  epigastric  pain/discomfort  and  most  frequently  nausea, 
vomiting and anorexia.  These events did not lead to discontinuation and patients generally completed 
the study and entered the extension.  The cause for the increases in amylase and lipase is unclear and 
the MAH was requested to clarify this issue. 
The  MAH  clarified  that  the  pancreas  is  richly  innervated  by  the  autonomic  nervous  system.  The 
stimulation  of  cholinergic  system  through  the  vagus  nerve  is  involved  in  the  cephalic  phase  of 
regulation of  pancreatic secretions. There  are  multiple  studies that show that  cholinergic stimulation 
increases the serum level of pancreatic enzymes. 
There is some evidence that suggests an increased incidence rate of modest elevations of amylase and 
lipase  in  rivastigmine-treated  patients.  These  elevations  do  not  appear  to  be  associated  with  any 
clinical  significance.  None  of  the  patients  with  abnormal  elevations  of  amylase  or  lipase  reported 
16/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘pancreatitis’  as  an  AE  and  the  majority  completed  the  core  study  and  continued  in  the  extension 
study.  
A possible explanation for these modest increases in amylase and lipase in a small number of patients 
may  be  the  cholinergic  effects  on  the  autonomic  nervous  system  innervation  of  the  salivary  and/or 
pancreatic glands. The scientific literature indicates that cholinergic stimulus may enhance secretion of 
pancreatic enzymes.  
In  summary,  there  is  a  possibility  that  amylase  and  lipase  levels  can  be  modestly  elevated  by 
cholinergic  stimulation  in  some  patients  with  PD.  However,  this  study  does  not  provide  conclusive 
evidence that rivastigmine is the cause of these increases. 
Cerebrovascular accidents  
In  the  literature,  there  is  no  strong  evidence  of  increased  risk  of  cerebrovascular  accidents  with 
cholinergic treatment. The risk of cerebrovascular events is increased by age and vascular risk factors, 
such as hypertension. 
Of  6  patients  that  experienced  cerebrovascular  AEs  during  the  core  study,  2  patients  in  the 
rivastigmine group and 3 of the 4 patients in the placebo group had either a previous cerebrovascular 
event  or  a  cardiovascular  risk  factor.  Of  8  patients  that  experienced  cerebrovascular  AEs  during  the 
extension study, 6 patients had either a previous cerebrovascular event or a cardiovascular risk factor. 
These  findings  do  not  indicate  that  the  incidence  rate  of  cerebrovascular  AEs  is  increased  by 
rivastigmine treatment. 
Adverse  events  reflecting  worsening  of  Parkinson’s  disease,  motor  function  scores,  and  use  of 
medication for Parkinson’s disease 
In  order  to  find  out  if  treatment  with  rivastigmine  could  result  in  a  worsening  of  PD  symptoms,  3 
sources of data were reviewed: 
• 
• 
• 
Pre-defined AEs that could indicate a worsening of PD symptoms 
The motor score, collected from the UPDRS part III scale 
The usage of anti-parkinsonian medication 
Adverse events associated with signs and symptoms of PD 
Parkinsonian  symptoms  were  reported  as  adverse  events  more  frequently  in  the  rivastigmine  group 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (27.3  %  vs.  15.6  %,  p=0.002).  This  was  mainly  due  to  a  higher  rate  of 
tremor (3.9 % for placebo vs 10.2 % for rivastigmine, p=0.01). Other predefined adverse events with a 
trend  to  be  more  common  in  the  rivastigmine  group  were  bradykinesia,  dyskinesia,  worsening  of 
parkinsonian symptoms, salivary hypersecretion, gait abnormality and musculoskeletal stiffness. 
Thus,  although  tremor  appears  to  be  the  main  symptom  of  PD  that  is  exacerbated  by  rivastigmine 
several  other  Parkinson-related  symptoms  were  reported.  Adverse  events  for  tremor  were  mild  to 
moderate  in  severity  with  one  report  of  a  severe  case.  Tremor  led  to  discontinuation  in  1.7%  of 
rivastigmine-treated patients in the double-blind phase versus none in the placebo group. 
Change in parkinsonian motor symptoms (UPDRS part III score) 
Parkinsonian motor symptoms were evaluated (UPDRS part III subscale) at baseline, week 16 and/or 
at  study  endpoint,  to  detect  any  changes  in  motor  symptoms  caused  by  the  use  of  rivastigmine  in 
patients with PDD.  The population from the main study and its extension study showed no significant 
change  in  any  individual  UPDRS  sub  items  after  treatment  with  rivastigmine,  and  no  change  in  the 
total score. 
The CHMP requested clarifications on the fact that risk of worsening of PD symptoms is well-known 
with rivastigmine, but the motor scores did not reveal any worsening of PD symptoms. 
17/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  majority of ‘AEs potentially associated with PD’ emerged  and resolved  before week  16, during 
the titration phase. Therefore, these events would not be recorded at the UPDRS part III assessment at 
week 16. 
Use of anti-parkinsonian medication  
Changes  in  the  use  of  dopaminergic  medications  were  examined  to  detect  any  worsening  of  PD 
symptoms.  
In the core study, patients were required to keep their current dopaminergic treatment at constant doses 
through  out  the  study  and  any  dose  increases  resulted  in  protocol  violations.  At  baseline,  100%  of 
patients in the rivastigmine group and 99.4% of patients in the placebo group were on dopaminergic 
agents. During the core study, 5.5% of patients in the rivastigmine group and 4.5% of patients in the 
placebo group increased their dopaminergic agents. Also, 10.5% of patients in the rivastigmine group 
and 9.5% of patients in the placebo group started new dopaminergic agents during the study.  
In  summary,  the  most  frequently  affected  system  organ  classes  were  gastrointestinal  disorders, 
metabolism  and  nutrition  disorders,  and  nervous  system  disorders.  In  the  extension  study 
(rivastigmine-rivastigmine), there was a decrease in the incidence of nausea but vomiting remained at 
a  frequency  of  18  %.  Parkinsonian  symptoms  were  reported  as  adverse  events  significantly  more 
frequent in the rivastigmine group than in the placebo group (27.3 % vs. 15.6 %, p=0.002). This was 
mainly due to a higher rate of tremor (3.9 % for placebo vs 10.2 % for rivastigmine, p=0.01) but there 
was  a trend for an increase also of other Parkinson-related symptoms. The difference with regard to 
the  incidence  of  parkinsononian  symptoms  was  not  reflected  in  significant  difference  in  UPDRS 
scores between the two groups. Concomitant use of dopaminergic drugs that were newly introduced or 
increased in dose was slightly more common in the rivastigmine group during the double-blind core 
study,  however,  the  MAH  pointed  out  that  the  mean  doses  of  dopaminergic  medications  in 
rivastigmine-treated  patients  during  the  core  study  and  with  long-term  treatment  were  stable.  The 
MAH was requested to provide supplementary information with regard to the frequency of tremor and 
other Parkinson-related symptoms over time.  
The  supplementary  data  provided  by  the  MAH  indicate  that  the  incidence  rates  for  adverse  events 
associated with PD are highest during the dose-titration period and decrease with long-term treatment. 
However,  because  the  dose  titration  is  slow,  adverse  events  associated  with  PD  remain  common 
during  a  relatively  long  time  period.  It  is  not  until  week  16,  i.e  after  4  months  of  therapy,  that  the 
incidence rates decrease.  
Published safety information 
Safety information from three open investigator-initiated studies of rivastigmine treatment in PDD is 
summarized below. In addition, there is a published case report with reversible worsening of motor 
function, mood and anxiety after ingestion of one 3-mg dose of oral rivastigmine. 
Giladi et al (Acta Neurol Scand 108:368-373, 2003) 
In the study by Giladi et al, 28 patients with PD and dementia were treated openly for 26 weeks with 
rivastigmine 1.5 -6 mg b.i.d. (mean daily dose 7.2 ± 3.3 mg/day). The most frequent adverse events 
were increased salivation (in 46 % of patients) and tremor (in 39 % of patients). Eleven patients had to 
decrease  the  rivastigmine  daily  dose  due  to  side  effects.  Eight  patients  discontinued  because  of 
different  reasons:  three  because  of  motor  worsening,  one  developed  a  confusional  state  and  one 
withdrew  because  of  palpitations.  One  patient  fell  at  week  25,  had  a  minor  brain  concussion  and 
developed  acute  psychosis,  and  rivastigmine  was  discontinued.  One  patient  who  had  no  history  of 
heart disease was found dead in her bed after going to sleep with no special complaints while being on 
rivastigmine for 25 weeks. An autopsy was refused. Another patient with a long history of ischemic 
heart disease had an acute myocardial infarction at week 25. 
18/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reading et al (Mov. Disorders 16, 1171-1195, 2001) 
The study included 15 patients diagnosed with idiopathic PD. The key entry criterion for the study at 
screening  was  the  presence  of  troublesome  hallucinations  for  at  least  the  previous  3  months. 
Rivastigmine was titrated from 1.5 mg twice daily with increases at 2-week intervals until either 6 mg 
twice  daily  of  the  highest  tolerated  dose  was  achieved.  Rivastigmine  was  generally  well  tolerated 
although significant nausea was a dose-limiting side effect in most patients. Tremor was not reported 
to  worse,  and  the  UPDRS  scale  (motor  subscale)  was  unchanged.  Three  patients  withdrew  from  the 
study. One died from septicemia thought not related to trial medication, one experienced side effects 
of severe nausea, and the third patients caregiver became unable to participate in the study due to ill 
health. 
Bullock and Cameron (Curr. Med. Res. Opin. 18. 258-64, 2002) 
Five  patients  with  PD  and  dementia  and/or  hallucinations  were  treated  with  rivastigmine. 
Rivastigmine  was  generally  well  tolerated,  although  one  patient  had  to  reduce  the  dose  due  to  the 
occurrence of dizziness, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain. 
Hegeman Richard et al., Clinical Neuropharmacology 25, 296-299 (2002) 
A  case  report  of  a  71-year  old  woman  with  PD  and  cognitive  impairment  who  developed  a  marked 
worsening of motor function, mood and anxiety after ingestion of one 3-mg dose of oral rivastigmine. 
The worsening was reversible. The patient had no previous exposure to acetylcholine inhibitors. The 
authors  believe  that  the  mechanism  of  the  motor  and  perhaps  psychiatric  worsening  was  increased 
central cholinergic tone. 
User consultation 
The MAH  did not conduct an assessment of the patient leaflet in cooperation with the target patient 
group for the following reasons: 
1. 
The  product  has  been  on  the  market  for  more  than  7  years.  No  difficulties  have  been 
encountered  by  patients  and  caregivers  with  respect  to  clarity  and  ease  of  use  of  the  patient 
leaflet. 
2.  With  this  variation  a  new  patient  population  is  concerned,  which  however  is  very  similar  in 
terms of age (elderly), disease (neurodegenerative disorder) and treatment process (caregivers, 
same posology and method of administration with same pharmaceutical forms/strengths). 
3. 
The  package  leaflet  has  only  been  changed  by  adding  the  proposed  new  indication.  This  has 
even  been  done  by  keeping  the  same  language  as  with  the  current  approved  label  namely 
“Symptomatic  treatment  of  mild  to  moderately  severe  dementia  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s 
disease”. 
4 
BENEFIT-RISK ASSESSMENT 
The scope of this variation is to extend the approved indication for rivastigmine currently indicated in 
the  European  Union  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  mild  to  moderately  severe 
Alzheimer’s  disease  (AD)  to  include  the  treatment  of  symptomatic  treatment  of  mild  to  moderately 
severe dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease.  
Following  the  evaluation  of  the  dossier  and  the  responses  submitted  by  the  MAH  in  the  request  for 
Supplementary Information, the MAH was asked to present in an oral explanation the risk/benefit of 
rivastigmine in the treatment of dementia in Parkinson’s disease. 
Further  to  the  oral  explanation,  the  CHMP  still  considered  the  risk/benefit  of  rivastigmine  in  the 
treatment  of  dementia  in  Parkinson’s  disease  to  be  negative  and  therefore  concluded  on  13  October 
2005 that the variation should be refused. The MAH requested a re-examination of the opinon and on 
19/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 December 2005 provided the detailed grounds for this request. The MAH disagreed with the grounds 
for refusal of the variation and presented its arguments. 
In order to assist the CHMP with this review, an expert meeting composed of experts in the fields of 
dementia in Parkinson disease and statistics took place. 
During the re-examination the following issues were reassessed: 
Issue 1: CHMP considered that the treatment with rivastigmine resulted in modestly statistically 
significant  improvements  in  cognition,  global  ratings  of  dementia,  ADL  and  behavioural 
symptoms.  However,  a  responder  analysis  of  the  proportion  of  clinically  relevant  responders 
failed to show any statistically significant difference from placebo  
The MAH claimed that the CHMP ‘Note For Guidance On Medicinal Products In The Treatment Of 
Alzheimer’s  Disease’  (CPMP/EWP/533/95  corrected)  was  followed  for  the  design  of  study 
ENA713B2311.  The  study  was  designed  to  show  significant  differences  in  two  protocol  stipulated 
primary variables which evaluated cognition (Alzheimer’s Disease Assessment Scale; ADAS-cog) and 
the  overall  dementia  improvement  which  reflects  the  clinical  relevance  of  improvement  in 
combination of individual symptom domains (Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study Clinical Global 
Improvement of Change; ADCS-CGIC). The results of the study not only showed significance in these 
two  domains,  but  also  in  functional  activity  (Alzheimer’s  Disease  Cooperative  Study  Activities  of 
Daily  Living;  ADCS-ADL)  and  in  other  symptom  domains  related  to  deficits  that  are  known  to  be 
profoundly affected in dementia associated with PD (PDD), including executive functioning, attention 
and behaviour.  
With  regards  to  the  failure  to  show  statistical  significance  relative  to  placebo  at  Week  24  in  the 
responder  analysis,  section  5  of  the  “CHMP  Points  to  Consider  document  on  multiplicity  issues  in 
clinical  trials”(CPMP/EWP/908/99)  clearly  states  that  where  responder  analyses  are  being  used  to 
establish clinical significance following demonstration of statistical significance on the primary 'raw' 
endpoints, the level of statistical significance is best judged from the primary analysis i.e. the results of 
the  responder  analysis  do  not  need  to  be  statistical  significant,  and,  the  presence  or  absence  of 
statistical significance between responder rates does not address whether the differences in responder 
rates are clinically important. 
Some  CHMP  members  highlighted  that  a  considerable  number  of  the  patients  would  be  treated 
without any benefit from the drug. But the majority concluded that even if the magnitude of the effect 
was  modest,  this  effect  is  shown  highly  consistent  in  all  three  domains  (cognitive,  functional  and 
global) and it was accepted that the modest mean effect size in PDD reflected an important effect in a 
fraction of patients. 
In addition, it was acknowledged that the effect size in this population is in the range of the one seen 
in AD. The MAH agreed to recommend in the product information an early review of efficacy with 
discontinuation  if  ineffective.  Therefore  the  CHMP  concluded  that  although  the  effects  are  modest 
they are considered as clinically meaningful. 
Issue 2: safety concerns in relation to the frequent occurrence of gastrointestinal side effects 
Nausea and vomiting have been attributed to the central cholinergic-mediated release of dopamine in 
addition  to  the  central  effects  of  elevated  acetylcholine  (ACh).  Vomiting  is  a  complex  process 
involving multiple neurotransmitters and organ systems, all coordinated by the central nervous system. 
Multiple  neurotransmitters  are  involved  in  the  emesis  pathway,  but  dopamine,  serotonin,  histamine, 
and  substance  P  are  believed  to  play  the  largest  roles.  The  stages  of  emesis  are  co-ordinated  by  the 
vomiting  center  (an  area  of  the  brainstem  consisting  of  the  area  postrema,  also  known  as  the 
chemoreceptor trigger zone; the nucleus tractus solitarius; and the dorsal vagal complex. Coordination 
of these systems results in the activation of somatic and visceral impulses to effector organs such as 
the abdominal muscles, stomach, esophagus, and diaphragm, resulting in emesis.  
20/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rapidity and maximal increases in brain levels of ACh and brain compensating mechanisms that 
increase  dopamine  may  be  responsible  for  acute  adverse  events  of  nausea  and  vomiting.  Peripheral 
dopamine blockade and peripheral anticholinergics do not appreciably influence the incidence of these 
events.  However,  centrally  acting  dopamine  blocking  anti-emetics  and  concomitant  antipsychotics 
appear  to  be  effective  at  relieving  cholinesterase  inhibitor  (ChEI)  induced  nausea  and  vomiting 
Evidence  from  animal  models  supports  these.  Vomiting  in  dogs  following  ChEI  administration  was 
prevented  by  either  centrally  acting  dopamine  antagonists  or  muscarinic  antagonists.  Thus,  acutely 
elevated brain ACh levels accompanying the initiation of ChEI therapy may induce elevations of brain 
dopamine  levels  and  centrally  mediated  AEs  attributable  to  these  elevated  brain  levels  of  ACh  and 
dopamine.  Nausea  and  vomiting  are  transient  in  most  patients  treated  with  ChEIs  indicating 
adjustment  over  time  in  the  sensitivity  of  this  mechanism.  This  mechanism  is  also  blocked  by 
concomitant  dopamine  receptor  blockade  and,  perhaps  also  by  chronic  desensitization  of  dopamine 
receptors  by chronic levodopa administration, explaining the lower incidence  and severity of nausea 
and vomiting in the current rivastigmine study in PDD relative to similarly designed studies in AD.   
The MAH argued that for patients who had received rivastigmine treatment during the core study, the 
incidence  of  nausea  and  vomiting  decreased  by  approximately  50%  during  the  extension  study.  The 
majority of adverse events (AEs) of nausea and vomiting reported for core-study rivastigmine patients 
occurred during the 16 week titration period, were single episodes of mild to moderate severity, were 
of 1 to 14 days duration, and only rarely resulted in discontinuation from the study. 
The MAH highlighted that the incidence rates of AEs of nausea and vomiting, known cholinergic side 
effects, are consistent with the established safety profile of rivastigmine. Discontinuations due to these 
events were lower in patients with PDD than in patients with AD in placebo controlled pivotal studies.  
In patients with AD or PDD, the majority of these events occurred during the dose titration period and 
were of mild or moderate severity.   
The MAH concluded that AEs of nausea and vomiting associated with rivastigmine treatment present 
no greater risk to patients with PDD than to those with AD. 
The  CHMP  acknowledge  that  gastrointestinal  AEs  are  known  cholinergic  effects  with  rivastigmine 
treatment. These events have been clearly described in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8) and guidance on their management such as, slower titration, dose adjustments, 
discontinuations or administration with food, is provided when events are experienced (SPC Section 
4.2).   
Therefore  the  CHMP  concluded  that  with  the  guidance  introduced  in  the  product  information  these 
AEs could be manageable and can be controlled by reduction or interruption of the treatment. 
Issue 3: Safety concerns in relation to the risk for worsening of PD symptoms  
According to the ‘Acetylcholine/dopamine balance hypothesis of striatal function’, ACh and dopamine 
exert  opposing  effects  on  striatal  circuitry,  and  inhibition  of  ACh  breakdown  by  ChEIs  should 
exacerbate PD symptoms, such as tremor.  However, several lines of reasoning and data from clinical 
studies suggest that ChEI therapy has little effect on motor function in most PD patients.Cholinergic 
and  dopaminergic  systems  normally  influence  each  other  and  modulate  brain  function  in  complex 
feed-forward  and  feedback  loops.  Cholinergic  nuclei  Ch5-6  (including  pedunculopontine  and 
dorsolateral  tegmental  nuclei)  modulate  basal  ganglia  and  cerebellum,  and  nuclei  Ch1-4  (including 
nucleus basalis of Meynert) modulate the cortex. Thus, the cholinergic system is normally involved in 
modulating  different  levels  of  motor  function  including  simple  movements,  planning,  timing,  and 
coordination.  Different  motor  symptoms 
to  have  different  regional 
pathophysiologies.  Together  these  observations  suggest  that  the  involvement  of  ACh  in  producing  a 
particular  motor  symptom  is  dependent  upon  the  local  regional  mix  of  ACh  and  dopamine 
dysfunction.  Therefore,  depending  on  the  particular  motor  symptoms,  ChEI  therapy  may  have  no 
effect,  a  positive  effect,  or  a  negative  effect  in  different  subgroups  of  PD  patients.  Furthermore,  an 
immediate and often transient impact on motor symptoms, suggested by specific dose-titration related 
AEs,  should  be  differentiated  from  any  impact  on  the  progression  of  the  underlying  PD-associated 
movement disorder, which should be demonstrated on the motor symptom and functional assessments 
and/or an altered pattern of concomitant dopaminergic drug use. 
in  PD  are 
thought 
21/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
The  MAH  claimed  that  rivastigmine  did  not  generally  induce  clinically  significant  exacerbation  of 
movement  disorder  in  patients  with  PDD.    Nevertheless,  AE  reports  of  worsening  of  parkinsonian 
symptoms,  mainly  tremor,  were  more  frequently  reported  in  rivastigmine-treated  patients  than  in 
placebo-treated  patients.  The  peak  incidence  of  these  reports  was  between  weeks  8  and  12,  during 
rivastigmine-dose  titration.  These  reports  were  not  reflected  in  changes  in  overall  or  individual  sub-
items of UPDRS part III motor scale assessments at  week 16 and at study termination, compared to 
baseline  or  placebo  indicating  that  the  events  were  not  prolonged  or  severe  enough  to  result  in  a 
change on the scale. Tremor and other events related or potentially related to an exacerbation of PD in 
the  double-blind  and  extension  studies  were  usually  mild  or  moderate  in  severity,  decreased  in 
frequency after completion of the dose-titration periods of the core and extension studies, and resulted 
in few discontinuations.  
The  CHMP  had  highlighted  that  there  were  slightly  more  patients  in  the  rivastigmine  group  who 
started  new  dopaminergic  agents  or  increased  their  dose  during  the  core  study.  However,  the  MAH 
pointed out that the  mean doses of  dopaminergic medications in rivastigmine-treated  patients during 
the  core  study  and  with  long-term  treatment  were  stable.  Similar  improvements  in  the  symptoms  of 
dementia were seen regardless of whether events related or possibly related to an exacerbation of PD 
were  reported  during  the  study,  including  assessments  of  the  ability  to  perform  activities  of  daily 
living.  
The incidence of the AE of tremor appeared to be the main driver behind the higher incidence of “AEs 
potentially  associated  with  PD”  in  rivastigmine-treated  patients  (10.2%  out  of  27.3%).  Premature 
study discontinuations due to an AE of tremor were low (1.7%).  Relative to patients receiving placebo 
in the overall study, rivastigmine-treated patients who reported the AE of tremor showed comparable 
changes in total UPDRS part III scores and improvements in the ability to perform activities of daily 
living assessed on the ADCS-ADL scale at the core study endpoint (week 24). A small increase in the 
AE of tremor was also seen in patients with mild to moderately severe AD receiving rivastigmine (4% 
versus  <1%  in  those  receiving  placebo).  These  data  are  consistent  with  the  view  that,  unlike  other 
extrapyramidal  symptoms,  AEs  of  tremor  may  not  be  an  indication  of  disease  progression,  but  due 
rather to symptomatic response of enhanced cholinergic neurotransmission. 
The MAH provided analysis of subgroups that may be more vulnerable to worsening of PD and these 
showed no increased risk of worsening with treatment of rivastigmine. However, increased incidence 
of AEs of worsening of parkinsonian symptoms and bradykinesia was observed in patients receiving 
concomitant antipsychotics, which may be related to the side effect profile of the antipsychotic and/or 
the  combination  of  therapies.  It  should  be  noted  that  there  was  no  increased  incidence  of  tremor  in 
patients receiving concomitant antipsychotics. 
The  MAH  concluded  that  these  findings  did  not  indicate  that  rivastigmine  is  associated  with  effects 
that increase the underlying progression rate of PD, beyond the expected rate of decline and suggest 
that  symptoms  potentially  associated  with  the  worsening  of  PD  are  manageable  through  clinical 
monitoring and advice stated in the SPC. 
Following  the  expert  meeting  the  CHMP  acknowledged  that  PD  motor  symptoms  are  easily 
identifiable by clinical examination and clinicians would be able to deal with this problem since there 
are some good options to treat Parkinsonian tremor. In view of the post-hoc analyses performed by the 
MAH the CHMP concluded that no clinical relevant increase in dopaminergic treatment took place in 
these patients.  
The  CHMP  discussed  and  concluded  that  physicians  experienced  in  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of 
dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease would be able to differentiate these adverse event from 
the underlying progression rate of PD and these symptoms could be controlled in the worst cases by 
down-titration or interruption of the treatment which has been addressed in the SPC. 
Issue 4: the benefit/risk assessment 
The  MAH  claimed  that  the  superior  efficacy  of  rivastigmine  treatment  relative  to  placebo  on  both 
primary outcome measures (ADAS-cog and ADCS-CGIC) at study endpoint was robust. Statistically 
22/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
significant improvements were also demonstrated in rivastigmine-treated patients on all key secondary 
efficacy outcome measures assessing executive functioning, attention, behaviour and functioning.   
Gastrointestinal  AEs  occurred  mostly  during  rivastigmine  dose  titration,  the  majority  were  single 
events,  were  of  mild  or  moderate  severity,  were  lower  in  incidence,  and  less  likely  to  result  in 
discontinuation  than  in  previous  rivastigmine  studies  in  AD,  and  thus  present  no  greater  risk  to 
patients with PDD than to those with AD. 
Tremor and other events related or potentially related to an exacerbation of PD in the double-blind and 
extension  studies  were  usually  single  episodes  of  mild  or  moderate  severity, decreased  in  frequency 
after  completion  of  the  dose-titration  periods  of  the  core  and  extension  studies,  and  resulted  in  few 
discontinuations.  
Exposure to long-term treatment with rivastigmine (i.e. 48 weeks) was not associated with worsening 
of PD relative to patients who had received rivastigmine for a shorter period of time (i.e. 24 weeks), 
even in patients potentially more vulnerable to worsening of PD.  
The MAH performed analysis of subgroups that may be more vulnerable to worsening of PD and these 
showed  no  increased  risk  of  worsening  with  treatment  of  rivastigmine.  However,  an  increased 
incidence of AEs of worsening of parkinsonian symptoms and bradykinesia was observed in patients 
receiving  concomitant  antipsychotics,  which  may  be  related  to  the  side  effect  profile  of  the 
antipsychotic and/or the combination of therapies. 
The MAH argued that there were less newly introduced antipsychotics and fewer increases in doses of 
these  drugs  in  rivastigmine-treated  patients,  particularly  in  patients  with  visual  hallucinations  at 
baseline,  suggesting  that  rivastigmine  treatment  may  decrease  the  need  for  antipsychotic  use  in 
patients with PDD. 
The  MAH  concluded  that  the  results  from  this  study  do  not  indicate  that  rivastigmine  is  associated 
with effects that increase the underlying progression rate of PD, beyond the expected rate of decline. 
In fact, data suggest that rivastigmine may have a favourable impact on the progression of underlying 
PD, particularly in patients who are progressing more rapidly, such as those with more advanced PDD. 
The results of Number needed to treat (NNT) versus number needed to harm (NNH) analyses showed 
that  the  benefits  of  treatment  with  rivastigmine  on  cognition,  overall  dementia  or  functionality, 
outweigh potential risks associated with of PD or GI related side effects.  
There is currently no approved treatment for patients with PD who suffer from dementia.  
Following  the  evaluation  of  the  grounds  for  the  re-examination  submitted  by  the  MAH  and  the 
outcome of the expert meeting, the CHMP considered that the previous concerns raised by the CHMP 
had  been  addressed  sufficiently  by  the  MAH  through  the  new  changes  introduced  in  the  product 
information. In addition the MAH committed to conduct further analysis to identify prognostic factors 
for  patients  that  would  benefit  most  from  the  medicinal  product  and  to  perform  a  long-term  safety 
study  with  particular  focus  on  PD  symptoms  and  the  potential  greater  clinical  benefit  in  the 
subpopulations identified by the data mining.  
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that Prometax’s benefits outweigh the potential risks in the proposed 
indication “Symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe dementia in patients with idiopathic 
Parkinson’s disease” due to the following reasons: 
•  The studies submitted to support the new indication showed modest efficacy in PDD, however 
this reflects an important benefit in a fraction of patients 
•  Prometax will be initiated and supervised by physicians with experience in PDD. Prometax will 
only be started if a caregiver is available to monitor drug intake by the patient 
•  The  product  information  has  been  amended  to  recommend  an  early  review  of  efficacy  with 
discontinuation if ineffective  
•  The  product  information  recommends  appropriate  measures  for  the  management  of  gastro-
intestinal and parkinsonian symptoms  
•  The MAH committed change the PSUR cycle  and  closely  monitor nausea,  vomiting, tremor 
and other adverse events associated with worsening of parkinsonian symptoms and to report 
23/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
these events to CHMP (every six months after the CD for a period of two years, then yearly 
for two years and then every three years thereafter) 
•  The MAH committed to conduct further analysis to identify prognostic factors for patients that 
would benefit most from rivastigmine  
•  The  MAH  committed  to  perform  a  long-term  safety  study  with  particular  focus  on  PD 
symptoms and the potential greater clinical benefit in the subpopulations identified by the data 
mining 
Pharmacovigilance measures  
The CHMP having considered the data submitted in the variation application agreed on the following 
activities minimize potential risks associated with Prometax in the treatment of patients with PDD: 
• 
Changes to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
The changes to the SPC and PL are highlighted in the product information attached in Annex 10. The 
MAH  introduced  more  detailed  recommendations  in  the  method  of  administration  and  special 
warnings and precautions for use in the SPC, which are described bellow:  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Dose  titration:  The  starting  dose  is  1.5 mg  twice  a  day.  If  this  dose  is  well  tolerated  after  a 
minimum  of  two  weeks  of  treatment,  the  dose  may  be  increased  to  3 mg  twice  a  day.  Subsequent 
increases  to  4.5 mg  and  then  6 mg  twice  a  day  should  also  be  based  on  good  tolerability  of  the 
current dose and may be considered after a minimum of two weeks of treatment at that dose level. 
If  adverse  effects  (e.g.  nausea,  vomiting,  abdominal  pain  or  loss  of  appetite),  weight  decrease  or 
worsening  of  extrapyramidal  symptoms  (e.g.  tremor)  in  patients  with  dementia  associated  with 
Parkinson’s  disease  are  observed  during  treatment,  these  may  respond  to  omitting  one  or  more 
doses. If adverse effects persist, the daily dose should be temporarily reduced to the previous well-
tolerated dose or the treatment may be discontinued. 
Maintenance dose:  
Maintenance treatment can be continued for as long as a therapeutic benefit for the patient exists. 
Therefore, the clinical benefit of rivastigmine should be reassessed on a regular basis, especially for 
patients treated at doses less than 3 mg twice a day. If after 3 months of maintenance dose treatment 
the patient’s rate of decline in dementia symptoms is not altered favourably, the treatment should be 
discontinued. Discontinuation should also be considered when evidence of a therapeutic effect is no 
longer present.  
Individual response to rivastigmine cannot be predicted. However, a greater treatment effect was seen 
in Parkinson’s disease patients with moderate dementia. Similarly a larger effect was observed in 
Parkinson’s disease patients with visual hallucinations (see section 5.1). 
4.4 Special warnings and special precautions for use 
Dose  titration:  Adverse  effects  (e.g.  hypertension  and  hallucinations  in  patients  with  Alzheimer’s 
dementia  and  worsening  of  extrapyramidal  symptoms,  in  particular  tremor,  in  patients  with 
dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease) have been observed shortly after dose increase. They 
may respond to a dose reduction. In other cases, Prometax has been discontinued (see section 4.8). 
The use of rivastigmine in patients with severe dementia of Alzheimer’s disease or associated with 
Parkinson’s disease, other types of dementia or other types of memory impairment (e.g. age-related 
cognitive decline) has not been investigated. 
Like  other  cholinomimetics,  rivastigmine  may  exacerbate  or  induce  extrapyramidal  symptoms. 
Worsening  (including  bradykinesia,  dyskinesia,  gait abnormality) and an  increased incidence or 
severity  of  tremor  have  been  observed  in  patients  with  dementia  associated  with  Parkinson’s 
disease  (see  section  4.8).  These  events  led  to  the  discontinuation  of  rivastigmine  in  some  cases 
(e.g. discontinuations due to tremor 1.7% on rivastigmine vs 0% on placebo). Clinical monitoring 
is recommended for these adverse events. 
24/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Classification for supply of the medicinal product  
Maintain  the  current  Prometax  classification  for  supply  “Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted 
medical prescription”. Section 4.2 of the SPC is defined as follows: 
Administration:  Treatment  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the 
diagnosis  and  treatment  of  Alzheimer’s  dementia  or  dementia  associated  with  Parkinson’s  disease. 
Diagnosis should be made according to current guidelines. Therapy with rivastigmine should only be 
started if a caregiver is available who will regularly monitor drug intake by the patient. 
• 
Change of PSUR cycle 
Additionally  to  routine  pharmacovigilance,  the  MAH  will  submit  PSURs  every  six  months  for  a 
period of two years after the Commission Decision on the extension of the indication then yearly for 
two years and then every three years thereafter.  The MAH also committed to closely monitor AEs of 
nausea, vomiting, tremor and other events associated with worsening of parkinsonian symptoms and 
report these events to CHMP with future PSURs.  
• 
Follow up measures 
In order to identify prognostic factors for patients who would most benefit from Prometax, the MAH 
committed to conduct further analysis of the existing Parkinson’s disease dementia (PDD) database.  
A detailed plan will be provided to the SAWP for further discussion prior to conduct of the analysis. 
Findings of  this data  mining will be submitted  to SAWP  and will be taken into  consideration in the 
design and analysis plan of the study proposed below. 
The MAH also committed to perform a long term (≥12 months) open label safety study to investigate  
-  The  safety  of  Prometax  treatment  in  PDD  patients  with  particular  focus  on  worsening  of 
parkinsonian symptoms  
-  The  potential  for  greater  clinical  benefit  in  subpopulations  identified  by  the  data  mining  and  in 
PDD  patients  with  visual  hallucinations  (including  the  assessment  of  the  reduction  in  the 
antipsychotics burden in treated patients) 
25/25 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
