EMA/250195/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000255 
EPAR summary for the public 
Prometax 
rivastigmine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Prometax. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Prometax. 
What is Prometax? 
Prometax is a medicine containing the active substance rivastigmine. It is available as capsules (1.5, 3, 
4.5 and 6 mg), as an oral solution (2 mg/ml), and as transdermal patches, which release either 4.6 , 
9.5 or 13.3  mg rivastigmine across the skin over 24 hours. 
What is Prometax used for? 
Prometax is used for the treatment of patients with mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s dementia, a 
progressive brain disorder that gradually affects memory, intellectual ability and behaviour. 
The capsules and oral solution can also be used to treat mild to moderately severe dementia in 
patients with Parkinson’s disease. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Prometax used? 
Treatment with Prometax should be initiated and supervised by a doctor who has experience in the 
diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer’s disease or dementia in patients with Parkinson’s disease. 
Treatment should only be started if a caregiver is available who will regularly give and monitor the use 
of Prometax by the patient. Treatment should continue as long as the medicine has a benefit, but the 
dose can be reduced or treatment interrupted if the patient has side effects. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Prometax capsules or oral solution should be given twice a day, with morning and evening meals. The 
capsules should be swallowed whole. The starting dose is 1.5 mg twice a day. In patients who tolerate 
this dose, it can be increased in 1.5 mg steps no more frequently than every two weeks, to a regular 
dose of 3 to 6 mg twice a day. The highest tolerated dose should be used to get the maximum benefit, 
but the dose should not exceed 6 mg twice a day. 
If the transdermal patches are used, the 4.6 mg per 24 hours patch should be used first, with the dose 
increased to the 9.5 mg/24 h patch after at least four weeks if the lower dose is well tolerated. The 
9.5 mg/24 h patch should be used for as long as the patient benefits from it. After six months of 
treatment with 9.5 mg/24 hours, the doctor may increase the dose to 13.3 mg/24 hours if the 
patient’s condition has worsened. The patches are applied to clean, dry, hairless, intact skin on the 
back, upper arm or chest, and are replaced every 24 hours. They should not be placed on irritated or 
red skin, on the thigh or abdomen (tummy), or in places where they will be rubbed by tight clothing. 
The patches can be worn during bathing and hot weather. The patches should not be cut into pieces.  
Patients can be switched from the capsules or oral solution to the patches. See the summary of 
product characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for detailed information. 
How does Prometax work? 
The active substance in Prometax, rivastigmine, is an antidementia medicine. In patients with 
Alzheimer’s dementia or dementia due to Parkinson’s disease, certain nerve cells die in the brain, 
resulting in low levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (a substance that allows nerve cells to 
communicate with each other). Rivastigmine works by blocking the enzymes that break down 
acetylcholine: acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase. By blocking these enzymes, Prometax 
allows levels of acetylcholine to be increased in the brain, helping to reduce the symptoms of 
Alzheimer’s dementia and dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease. 
How has Prometax been studied? 
Prometax has been studied in mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s disease. The capsules have been 
studied in 2,126 patients in three main studies, and the transdermal patches in one main study 
involving 1,195 patients. Prometax capsules have also been studied in 541 patients with dementia due 
to Parkinson’s disease. All of the studies lasted six months and compared the effects of Prometax with 
those of placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measures of effectiveness were the change in 
symptoms in two main areas: cognitive (the ability to think, learn and remember) and global (a 
combination of several areas including general function, cognitive symptoms, behaviour and the ability 
to carry out everyday activities). 
An additional study in 27 patients was used to show that Prometax capsules and oral solution produced 
similar levels of the active substance in the blood. 
What benefit has Prometax shown during the studies? 
Prometax was more effective than placebo at controlling symptoms. In the three studies of Prometax 
capsules in patients with Alzheimer’s dementia, patients taking doses of Prometax between 6 and 9 mg 
per day had an average increase in cognitive symptoms of 0.2 points from a baseline of 22.9 points at 
the start of the study, where a lower score indicates better performance. This was compared with an 
increase of 2.6 points from 22.5 in the patients taking placebo. For the global score, patients taking 
Prometax capsules had in increase in symptoms of 4.1 points, compared with 4.4 in those taking 
placebo. The Prometax transdermal patches were also more effective than placebo in preventing 
dementia from getting worse. 
Prometax  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
The patients with dementia due to Parkinson’s disease taking Prometax capsules showed an 
improvement in cognitive symptoms of 2.1 points, compared with a worsening of 0.7 points in those 
taking placebo, from a baseline of around 24 points. The global symptom score also improved more in 
the patients taking Prometax. 
What is the risk associated with Prometax? 
The types of side effects seen with Prometax depend on the type of dementia it is being used to treat 
and whether the capsules, oral solution or transdermal patches are used. Overall, the most common 
side effects (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) include nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting, particularly 
during the phase when the dose of Prometax is being increased. For the transdermal patch application 
site reactions are the most commonly seen side effects. For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Prometax, see the package leaflet. 
Prometax must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to rivastigmine, other 
carbamate derivatives or any of the other ingredients. Prometax must also not be used in patients who 
are suspected to have had in the past a severe allergic reaction called ‘allergic contact dermatitis’ to 
Prometax patch. 
Why has Prometax been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Prometax has a modest effectiveness in treating the symptoms of 
Alzheimer’s dementia, although this does reflect an important benefit in some patients. The Committee 
initially concluded that for the treatment of dementia due to Parkinson’s disease, Prometax’s benefits 
did not outweigh its risks. However, following a re-examination of this opinion, the Committee 
concluded that the medicine’s modest effectiveness could also be of benefit to some of these patients. 
Therefore, the Committee decided that Prometax’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Prometax?  
The company that makes Prometax must ensure that all doctors who intend to prescribe Prometax 
transdermal patch receive an information pack containing instructions to be given to patients and 
caregivers on how to use the patch safely as well as a reminder card for patients and caregivers that 
contains key information on how to use the patch and allows them to record the application and 
removal of patches. 
Other information about Prometax 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Prometax on 4 December 1998.  
The full EPAR for Prometax can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Prometax, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2012. 
Prometax  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
