Summary of risk management plan for ProQuad™ (measles, mumps, rubella, varicella 
virus vaccine [live])
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ProQuad™. The RMP details 
important risks of ProQuad™, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about ProQuad™’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Proquad™’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ProQuad™ should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for ProQuad™ should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ProQuad™'s RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What It Is Used For
ProQuad™ is indicated for simultaneous vaccination against measles, mumps, rubella, and 
varicella in individuals from 12 months of age. ProQuad™ can be administered to 
individuals from 9 months of age under special circumstances (e.g., to conform with national 
vaccination schedules, outbreak situations, or travel to a region with high prevalence of 
measles). It contains measles, mumps, rubella, varicella virus vaccine (live) as the active 
substances and it is to be given intramuscularly (IM) or subcutaneously (SC).
Further information about the evaluation of ProQuad™ benefits can be found in 
ProQuad™’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/proquad
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of ProQuad™, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about ProQuad™'s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of ProQuad™ are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ProQuad™. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important 
identified risks
Disseminated disease caused by Oka/Merck varicella vaccine virus strain
Secondary transmission of Oka/Merck varicella vaccine virus strain in susceptible individuals 
leading to disseminated disease
Important 
potential risks
Missing 
information
None
None
 
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Table II.B.1:
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Important Identified Risk: Disseminated Disease Caused by 
Oka/Merck Varicella Vaccine Virus Strain
The evidence from the literature and from spontaneous post-marketing reports supports a causal 
relationship between vaccination with varicella virus vaccine live (Oka/Merck), a component of 
ProQuad™, and disseminated Oka/Merck VZV in immunocompromised or immunocompetent 
individuals.
Immunocompromised patients are at greater risk of disseminated disease caused by vaccination with 
Oka/Merck varicella virus, a component of ProQuad™; however, it has been documented that cases 
of disseminated disease can also occur in immunocompetent patients. Administration of ProQuad™ is 
contraindicated in patients with primary or acquired immunodeficiency states.
Risk minimisation
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures
Contraindications, Special Warnings and Precautions for Use, and Undesirable Effects sections of the 
Product Information
Table II.B.2:
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Important Identified Risk: Secondary Transmission of Oka/Merck 
Varicella Vaccine Virus Strain in Susceptible Individuals Leading 
to Disseminated Disease
The evidence from the literature and from spontaneous post-marketing reports supports a causal 
relationship between varicella virus vaccine live (Oka/Merck), a component of ProQuad™, and 
secondary transmission of varicella vaccine virus strain in susceptible individuals leading to 
disseminated disease.
Subjects who are theoretically most at risk for secondary transmission of Oka/Merck vaccine-strain 
VZV leading to disseminated disease are susceptible high-risk individuals including: 
immunocompromised individuals; pregnant women without documented positive history of 
chickenpox or laboratory evidence of prior infection; and newborns of mothers without documented 
positive history of chickenpox or laboratory evidence of prior infection
Risk minimisation
measures
Routine risk minimisation measures
Special Warnings and Precautions for Use section of the Product Information
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of ProQuad™.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for ProQuad™.
 
 
