18 February 2013 
EMA/78633/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
ProQuad 
Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine (live)) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000622/A-20/0060 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1. Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella containing vaccines in pregnancy .................. 4 
2.1.2. Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella containing vaccines in immunocompromised 
individuals ................................................................................................................. 5 
2.2. Product information .............................................................................................. 6 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 7 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................... 8 
5. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 9 
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular for 
pregnant women it was considered justified to review whether all monovalent and multivalent measles, 
mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccines should remain contraindicated in pregnant women as 
vaccination in some individual cases may outweigh the risk. 
Published data also indicated that other groups of subjects than pregnant women could benefit from a 
MMRV vaccine (e.g. patients with deficiency or specific pneumococcal antibody deficiency) and 
therefore the contraindication for immunocompromised individuals needed to be reviewed. 
In  view  of  the  above  the  European  Commission  initiated  a  procedure  under  Article  20  of  Regulation 
(EC)  No  726/2004.  The  European  Commission  requested  the  CHMP  on  15  March  2012  to  assess  the 
above  concerns  and  its  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  for  ProQuad,  and  to  give  its  opinion  on  measures 
necessary  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  ProQuad,  and  on  whether  the  marketing 
authorisation for this product should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
ProQuad is a quadrivalent vaccine containing the components of measles, mumps, rubella and varicella 
lives attenuated viruses. ProQuad has been authorised by the European Commission for simultaneous 
vaccination against measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in individuals from 12 months of age since 
April 2006. 
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular when 
inadvertently administrated to pregnant women, it was considered justified to review whether ProQuad 
should remain contraindicated in pregnant women as vaccination in some individual cases may 
outweigh the risk.  
In addition, published data also indicated that some groups of individuals other than pregnant women 
could benefit from a MMRV vaccine and therefore the contraindication for immunocompromised 
subjects needed to be reviewed. 
Evidence from post marketing surveillance and published literature that focused on risk of spontaneous 
abortion, miscarriage, stillbirth, immaturity and low birth weight in women susceptible to measles, 
mumps, rubella and/or varicella, risk of malformation and congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) in 
offspring of such women, and risk of congenital varicella syndrome (CVS) were considered for the 
review of the contraindication on pregnancy. 
Regarding the contraindication on immunocompromised subjects, an assessment of the experience 
with MMRV vaccines concerning safety in subjects with various types of immune deficiencies (e.g. T-
cell defects, sub-class deficiencies etc.) was provided. 
Relevant data is discussed below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
2.1.1.  Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella containing vaccines in 
pregnancy 
Vaccination against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella is contraindicated in pregnant women. 
Therefore, only limited data are available on spontaneous abortion, malformations, congenital rubella 
or varicella syndrome of women vaccinated with MMRV vaccines.  
Data from post marketing surveillance and published literature regarding MMRV vaccines were 
considered by the CHMP.  
Data from the routine pharmacovigilance and enhanced surveillance through the Varicella-Zoster Virus 
(VZV)-Pregnancy Registry have indicated 5 reports of inadvertent exposure with ProQuad within 3 
months before or at any time during pregnancy. Among these 5 reports, 4 cases were reported live 
births to healthy infants without birth defects and 1 case was lost to follow-up. Together with other 
varicella containing vaccines included in the VZV-Pregnancy Registry, no case of CVS following 
vaccination with varicella live attenuated virus vaccines have been reported and no pattern has been 
identified regarding timing of vaccination exposures or clustering by type of individual birth defects. 
However, it was noted by the CHMP that although no evidence of CVS as a consequence of vaccination 
has been reported, data were too limited to draw any conclusion. 
Post-marketing database identified 971 individual case safety reports (ICSRs) for MMR vaccines and 78 
(ICSRs) for monovalent rubella vaccines in women who were pregnant when vaccinated with these 
vaccines. No case of CRS has been identified and the number of congenital malformations or 
spontaneous abortions did not indicate a safety concern related to the inadvertent vaccination with 
MMR vaccines during pregnancy. In addition, three retrospective cases from spontaneous reporting in 
which congenital anomalies were reported in liveborn and where one case had characteristic of CRS 
were provided. However, the cases were also poorly documented. 
The CHMP considered that mumps virus has been shown to infect the placenta and foetus, although 
there is no evidence that mumps vaccines can cause congenital malformations in humans (Plotkin et 
al. 20081). In contrast to rubella and mumps virus, measles virus does not cross the placenta and 
therefore does not infect the foetus.  
The incidence of CRS following inadvertent vaccination of pregnant women has been evaluated through 
rubella registries in the U.S. and Europe and through surveillance for cases during more recent mass 
vaccination campaigns. A total of 680 live births to rubella-susceptible women were evaluated. It was 
shown that none of the infants was found to have CRS. Based on these data a maximum theoretical 
risk for CRS of 0.5% for infants born to mothers vaccinated within three months of pregnancy was 
found, and a maximum theoretical risk of 1.3% for infants born to mothers vaccinated within the first 
20 weeks of pregnancy (Morice et al. 20092). The overall estimated theoretical risk of severe 
malformations attributed to the vaccine strain (Wistar RA 27/3) against rubella varies between 0 and 
1.6% (Bozzo et al. 20113; Watson et al. 19984). 
1 Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA and Offit PA. Mumps vaccine. Vaccines 2008;435-65 
2 Morice A, Ulloa-Gutierrez R, and Avila-Agüero ML. Congenital rubella syndrome: progress and future challenges. Expert 
Rev Vaccines. 2009 Mar;8(3):323-31 
3 Bozzo P, Narducci A, and Einarson A. Vaccination during pregnancy. Can Fam Physician. 2011 May;57(5):555-7 
4 Watson JC, Hadler SC, Dykewicz CA, et al. Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine use and strategies for elimination of 
measles, rubella, and congenital rubella syndrome and control of mumps: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on 
Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR Recomm Rep. 1998 May 22;47(RR-8):1-57 
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Further data are available from surveillance of a mass vaccinations campaign between 2001 and 2008 
for rubella and congenital rubella syndrome elimination in the Americas (Castillo et al.5). More than 
2000 pregnant women were followed-up and classified as susceptible at the time of vaccination. During 
this campaign, no case of CRS due to the vaccine strain was diagnosed.  
When considering the data from studies in the literature and the data from post-marketing surveillance 
the CHMP concluded that although a theoretical risk cannot be excluded, no cases of CRS have been 
reported in more than 3500 susceptible women who were unknowingly in early stages of pregnancy 
when vaccinated against rubella. 
Because of this theoretical teratogenic risk, the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended in 
2011 that vaccination against rubella should be avoided in principle, in pregnant women and women 
who intend to become pregnant should be advised to delay for 1 month following rubella vaccination6. 
Current data indicate that rubella IgM after vaccination peaks around 30 days after vaccination and 
IgG is also detectable.  
Having considered all available data, the CHMP concluded that ProQuad should continue to be 
contraindicated in pregnant women. Taking into account that rubella vaccination induces a fast 
immune response that make post-exposure prophylaxis possible, based on available evidence and as 
reflected in WHO recommendation6, the CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to reduce the 
period post-vaccination where pregnancy should be avoided. The product information is therefore 
amended accordingly to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination 
instead of 3 months. 
2.1.2.  Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella containing vaccines in 
immunocompromised individuals 
Vaccination  of  immunocompromised  individuals  with  live  attenuated  viral  MMRV  vaccines  is  generally 
contraindicated, however some subjects may benefit from vaccination. 
Based on evidence available from clinical trials and post marketing safety surveillance, the CHMP 
acknowledged that ProQuad should remain contraindicated in subjects with severely impaired humoral 
and/or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
agammaglobulinemia. However, individuals with selected or non-specific immune deficiencies such as 
isolated IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease, and 
complement deficiency diseases might benefit from vaccination. Data from literature (Moss W and 
Lederman H. 19987) indicated that these immunocompromised subjects do not appear to be at higher 
risk of complications than the general populations. Moreover, most national immunisation committees 
and expert groups recommend that children with selected immune deficiencies should receive MMRV 
vaccination.  
The CHMP agreed that patients with various IgG subclass deficiencies are not able to develop an 
appropriate antibody response to vaccines including MMRV vaccines and therefore, there is a risk of 
serious adverse events from the use of lives attenuated viral vaccines in this group of patients. The 
contraindication should remain in this specific subpopulation. 
5 Castillo-Solorzano C, Reef SE, Morice A et al. Rubella vaccination of unknowingly pregnant women during mass campaigns 
for rubella and congenital rubella syndrome elimination, the Americas 2001-2008. J Infect Dis 2011;204 Suppl 2:S713-7 
6 World  Health  Organization.  Rubella 
http://www.who.int/wer/2011/wer8629.pdf 29(86) Ref Type: Internet Communication 
vaccines:  WHO  position  paper.301-316.15-7-2011.  Available  on 
7 Moss W, Lederman H. Immunization of the immunocompromised host. Clin Focus Primary Immune Defic. 1998;1:1-8 
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
Because wild-type measles can result in severe disease in HIV-infected children vaccination is 
especially important for HIV-infected children. Severely immunocompromised HIV infected children and 
adults should not receive ProQuad, however there is sufficient evidence that MMRV vaccinations are 
safe for HIV-infected persons who have mild and moderate clinical disease and adequate CD4 counts. 
Therefore, the CHMP proposed a modification of the existing contraindication to specify that for HIV, 
the WHO classification of HIV-related disease in adults and children published in 2006 should be 
applied as follows : 
“Immunological criteria for diagnosing advanced HIV in a child younger than five years of age with 
severe HIV infection: 
%CD4+ <25 among those younger than 12 months 
%CD4+ <20 among those aged 12–35 months 
%CD4+ <15 among those aged 36–59 months” 
Therefore, in children with severe HIV infection vaccination is contraindicated. As indicated above, in 
individuals with selected immune deficiencies (e.g. IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, 
chronic granulomatous disease, and complement deficiency diseases), vaccination may be considered, 
if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
In  view  of  the  above,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  current  contraindication  for  use  of  ProQuad  in 
immunocompromised  subjects  should  be  amended  to  clarify  that,  according  to  WHO  guidelines  and 
scientific  data,  for  HIV-infected  patients  age  specific  %CD4+  is  to  be  included.  Moreover,  a  warning 
should be added as vaccination may be considered in subjects with selected immune deficiencies (e.g. 
IgG  subclass  deficiencies,  congenital  neutropenia,  chronic  granulomatous  disease,  and  complement 
deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
2.2.  Product information 
The CHMP recommended the following amendments to be introduced in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflets (PL). 
Summary of Product Characteristics  
Pregnancy 
The section 4.3 (Contraindications) and section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation) of the SmPC 
should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following 
vaccination instead of 3 months.  
Immunocompromised individuals 
The section 4.3 should also reflect that vaccination with ProQuad is contraindicated in subjects with 
severe humoral or cellular (primary or acquired) immunodeficiency and for HIV-infected patients an 
age specific %CD4+ is to be included. 
The section 4.4 should reflect that vaccination may be considered in patients with selected immune 
deficiencies (e.g. IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease, 
and complement deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
Package Leaflet  
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
In line with the recommendation made in the SmPC, the section “Do not use” and “Pregnancy and 
breastfeeding” should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month 
following vaccination instead of 3 months.  
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
ProQuad is a quadrivalent vaccine which is indicated in vaccination of individuals from 12 months of 
age against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella viruses. Vaccination with ProQuad is contraindicated 
in pregnant women and in immunocompromised subjects. 
The CHMP reviewed all available evidence regarding these specific populations, notably data from post-
marketing surveillance including data from a pregnancy registry, published literature and available 
guidance, such as the WHO recommendation. 
Regarding vaccination in pregnant women, it was noted that ProQuad is contraindicated in pregnant 
women and therefore only limited data of spontaneous abortion, malformations, congenital rubella or 
varicella syndrome (CRS or CVS) following vaccination were available. Evidence of transplacental 
transmission of mumps, rubella and varicella wild-type virus is known, however measles viruses do not 
cross the placenta and therefore do not infect the fetus. The evidence to date does not indicate a 
safety concern with respect to spontaneous abortion or congenital malformations related to the 
inadvertent administration of MMRV vaccines in pregnant women. In addition, no cases of CRS or CVS 
have been reported in post-marketing surveillance or in published literature. However, it was noted by 
the CHMP that follow-up data of children of pregnant mothers exposed to monovalent or multivalent 
MMRV vaccines virus were lacking and were too poorly documented to draw any conclusion. 
The CHMP considers that an estimated theoretical risk of CRS or CRV cannot be ruled out. It was also 
noted that available guidance, such as WHO recommendations, takes into account this theoretical 
teratogenic risk and states that rubella containing vaccines should be avoided in principle in pregnant 
women. The WHO recommendations for varicella containing vaccines also states that due to theoretical 
risk to the fetus, pregnancy should be avoided.  
The CHMP concluded that the contraindication of ProQuad in pregnant women remains. However, the 
CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to amend the product information and reflect that 
pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination instead of 3 months, in line with 
current WHO recommendations.  
Regarding vaccination of immunocompromised subjects with ProQuad the CHMP considered that 
although this vaccine should continue to be contraindicated, some individuals may benefit from 
vaccination.   
The CHMP acknowledged that ProQuad should remain contraindicated in patients with severely 
impaired humoral or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
agammaglobulinemia. However, the CHMP concludes that the current contraindication for use of 
ProQuad in immunocompromised subjects should be amended to clarify that, according to WHO 
guidelines and scientific data, for HIV-infected patients age specific %CD4+ is to be included. 
Moreover, a warning should be added as vaccination may be considered in patients with selected 
immune deficiencies (e.g. IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous 
disease, and complement deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
4.  Overall conclusion 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAH, the CHMP concluded that ProQuad 
should remain contraindicated during pregnancy. However, the CHMP was of the opinion that the 
current data were sufficient to amend the product information in order to reflect that pregnancy should 
be avoided for 1 month following vaccination. 
With regard to the immunocompromised patients, the CHMP concluded that in view of the available 
data vaccination with ProQuad should continue to be contraindicated in severely impaired humoral 
and/or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
agammaglobulinemia, however, vaccination may be considered in patients with selected immune 
deficiencies when the benefit outweigh the risk of vaccination. The contraindication in this patient 
population was also further defined by inclusion of age specific %CD4+ for HIV-infected patients. 
The CHMP recommended the amendment to the terms of the marketing authorisation for ProQuad for 
which the revised summary of product characteristics and package leaflet are set out respectively in 
annexes I and IIIB of the opinion. 
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of the SmPC, Annex II and package 
leaflet are set out in Annex II of the opinion. 
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
The CHMP considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for 
ProQuad initiated by the European Commission. 
the CHMP reviewed all available data regarding use in pregnant women and in 
immunocompromised patients of rubella containing vaccines, including the most recent 
publications and data from post-marketing surveillance for monovalent and multivalent 
measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines. 
The CHMP concluded 
• 
• 
• 
that the data provided were too limited and poorly documented to draw any conclusion and 
therefore without any sufficient data ProQuad should remain contraindicated during pregnancy. 
that the data were sufficient to amend the product information to mention that pregnancy 
should be avoided for 1 month (instead of 3 months) following vaccination.  
that vaccination with ProQuad may be considered in patients with selected immune deficiencies 
when the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. The contraindication in this patient 
population was also further defined by inclusion of age specific %CD4+ for HIV-infected 
patients. 
The CHMP has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
ProQuad in accordance to the Product Information set out in annexes I, II, and IIIB.  
Assessment report  
EMA/78633/2013  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
