26 June 2014 
EMA/655900/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report under article 46  
ProQuad 
Measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine, live 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/00622/P046/0053 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. assessment.............................................................................................. 3 
2. Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion And further action if required ............... 5 
Assessment report under article 46  
EMA/655900/2014  
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  assessment 
Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: 
In accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 the MAH provides the final clinical 
study report for the study ‘A Multicenter, Randomized, Open-Label Study to Compare the 
Immunogenicity, Safety, and Tolerability of Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Varicella of Combination 
Vaccine ProQuad with Concomitant Administration of M-M-R II and VARIVAX in Healthy Korean 
Children’. 
Assessment 
Rationale for the study 
The study was planned to support registration of ProQuad in South Korea (Protocol 023). 
Study design 
Study P023 was an open-label study evaluating the immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of a single 
dose of ProQuad in comparison with concomitant vaccination of M-M-R II and VARIVAX in healthy 
children. Blood samples were to be obtained just prior to vaccination (Day 1) and at 6 weeks (between 
Days 35 and 56) after vaccination. The safety follow-up period after each dose was planned to be 28 
days following vaccination using. The study has been conducted in Korea in 2008. 
The intended study population was healthy children, 12 months to 23 months of age, who had a 
negative clinical history for measles, mumps, rubella, varicella, and herpes zoster. Exclusion criteria 
included previous vaccination with measles, mumps, rubella, and/or varicella vaccines (either alone or 
in any combination), and congenital or acquired immune deficiency. 
Approximately 360 subjects were planned to be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either ProQuad on 
Day 1, or M-M-R II and VARIVAX concomitantly on Day 1. After 30 subjects were enrolled into this 
study, enrollment was suspended in April 2008 when a U.S. Advisory Committee on Immunization 
Practices (ACIP) Working Group from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was 
established to evaluate the risk of febrile seizures following vaccination with ProQuad. In October 
2009, the ACIP updated their recommendations that for the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and 
varicella vaccines at ages 12 through 47 months, either separate MMR and varicella vaccines or MMRV 
vaccine can be used. At that time, it was not possible to complete enrollment into Protocol 023 before 
the expiry date of the investigational vaccine lot. For this reason, the study was terminated early, and 
only 30 subjects were enrolled. 
The primary objective of study P023 was to demonstrate that the MAHs measles, mumps, rubella, and 
varicella vaccine ProQuad induces antibody response rates that are non-inferior to concomitant 
administration of the combined measles, mumps and rubella vaccine M-M-R II and the monovalent 
varicella vaccine VARIVAX. Secondary objective was demonstration of non-inferiority as regards GMT. 
Primary immunogenicity analyses were performed for the antibody response rates and GMTs at 6 
weeks postvaccination in the group receiving ProQuad and the group receiving M-M-R II and VARIVAX. 
The population for the primary immunogenicity analysis was the PPS.  
Given the limited enrollment, it was not able to formally test the original hypotheses in this study. 
Assessment report under article 46  
EMA/655900/2014  
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
 
Response rates (RR) six weeks after the administration of the study vaccines were summarized and 
the 90% confidence interval (CI) of the difference in proportion was provided. With respect to measles, 
mumps, rubella, and varicella the GMTs six weeks postvaccination of the study vaccines were 
summarized, and the 90% CI of the ratio of GMTs was provided.  
The primary safety variables included vaccine-related SAEs, fever, measles-, rubella-, varicella, zoster-
like rashes and mumps-like symptoms as well as injection site AEs. 
Safety was evaluated for 28 days following vaccination using a Vaccination Report Card (VRC), which 
had to be completed by the parent/guardian. The VRC was reviewed during the final visit on 
approximately Day 42 by study personnel. The parent/guardian was instructed to contact study 
personnel if the subject developed a measles-like rash, a rubella-like rash, a varicella-like rash, a 
zoster-like rash, or symptoms compatible with mumps. 
Results 
Study population 
In total 30 out of the 360 children planned to be enrolled were actually randomized to one of the two 
vaccination groups (ProQuad: 13 children; MMR II/Varivax: 17 children). All children were 12 to 17 
months of age. A total of 28 subjects completed the study. One subject was excluded due to receipt of 
another vaccine within 30 days prior to study start and another subject was lost to follow-up following 
vaccination.  
Immunogenicity 
The immunogenicity analysis from the recruited subjects indicated that the 6-week postvaccination 
response rates and GMTs for measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in the two vaccination groups are 
comparable and reflect the outcome from previous clinical trials.   
Safety evaluation 
The safety profile was comparable between both vaccination groups according to the reported 
frequency of rashes and fever, which was the objective of the trial. The occurrence of injection site AEs 
was reported by 3 subjects in the ProQuad group and none in the MMR II/Varivax group. 
Two non-serious-adverse experiences during the 6-week postvaccination period were reported: one of 
diaper dermatitis and one of skin and subcutaneous tissue disorder. Both were observed in the 
ProQuad group. 
One subject of the MMR II/Varivax group reported two SAEs, because the boy was hospitalized and 
treated for fever and systemic measles-like rash. Onset of fever was at day 10 after vaccination and 
lasted 4 days with moderate intensity, while the rash started on day 11 and was resolved after 7 days. 
Intensity of the rash was not reported. 
Overall, the analysis from the small number of recruited children showed a similar safety profile in both 
vaccination groups, which was observed in correlated trials for the approval of ProQuad. 
Assessment report under article 46  
EMA/655900/2014  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion And further action if 
required 
Study P023 revealed no relevant information regarding the immunogenicity or safety profiles that are 
not reflected in the currently approved product information of ProQuad. Hence, no amendment to the 
approved product information is required. 
  PAC fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
  PAC not fulfilled (not all commitments fulfilled) and further action required: 
Assessment report under article 46  
EMA/655900/2014  
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
