SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Protaphane. For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Diabetes  mellitus  is  a  group  of  metabolic  diseases  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  resulting  from 
defects  in  insulin  secretion,  insulin  action,  or  both.  Acute,  life-threatening  consequences  of  diabetes 
are  hypoglycaemia,  and  hyperglycaemia  with  ketoacidosis  or  non-ketotic  hyperosmolar  syndrome. 
Long-term  complications  of  diabetes  include  retinopathy  with  potential  loss  of  vision,  nephropathy 
leading to renal failure, and peripheral neuropathy causing foot ulcers, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, 
and sexual dysfunction. The disease is also accompanied by an increased incidence of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and cerebrovascular disease. 
Type  1  diabetes,  which  usually  is  of  childhood  or  adolescence  onset,  accounts  for  5  to  10%  of 
diagnosed diabetes; it is characterised by loss of insulin production due to destruction of pancreatic ß 
cells as a result of an autoimmune response or idiopathic causes. Patients with type 1 diabetes depend 
on exogenous insulin for survival. 
Type 2 diabetes, which usually is of adult onset, is by far the more common form of diabetes. In the 
Western  World,  it  constitutes  approximately  90%  of  all  cases  of  diabetes.  Type  2  diabetes  is 
characterised  by  impaired  insulin  secretion,  insulin  resistance,  increased  hepatic  glucose  output  and 
lipid  disorders.  Patients  with  type  2  diabetes  generally  do  not  require  insulin  treatment  for  survival, 
although  a  substantial  number  (20-30%)  of  patients  need  insulin  to  achieve  acceptable  metabolic 
control. 
This  application  seeks  marketing  authorisation  for  insulin  human  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
diabetes mellitus. The active substance of Protaphane is insulin human manufactured by recombinant 
DNA  technology  in  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae.  Protaphane  is  isophane  insulin  formulated  in  a 
suspension where protamine and insulin are brought together in isophane proportions at a neutral pH 
forming an amorphous precipitate. Protaphane is long-acting insulin.  
Protaphane is intended for marketing in the dose strengths 40 IU/ml and 100 IU/ml in the following 
pharmaceutical forms: 
Protaphane 40 IU/ml, 10 ml vial 
Protaphane 100 IU/ml, 10 ml vial  
Protaphane Penfill 100 IU/ml, 3 ml 
Protaphane InnoLet 100 IU/m, 3 ml 
Protaphane NovoLet 100 IU/ml, 3 ml 
Protaphane FlexPen 100 IU/ml, 3 ml 
The  Penfill  presentation  is  a  cartridge  which  is  designed  to  be  inserted  in  a  durable  device.  The 
cartridges should only be used with devices and needles that are compatible with the Penfill products.  
The  InnoLet  presentation  is  a  multi-dose  prefilled  pen  and  delivers  a  maximum  of  50 units per dose in 
increments  of  1  unit.  The  device  is  equipped  with  an  end-of-content  mechanism  that  ensures  that  the 
adjusted  dose  does  not  exceed  the  remaining  content  of  the 3ml cartridge after  multiple use. InnoLet is 
targeted for use by elderly patients with impaired dexterity and/or vision 
The  NovoLet  presentation  is  a  multi-dose  disposable  prefilled  pen,  delivering  2-78  units  per  dose  in 
increments of 2 units. 
The FlexPen presentation is also a multi-dose disposable prefilled pen, delivering 1-60 units per dose in 
increments of 1 unit. For patients, the FlexPen device represents an improvement over the NovoLet device 
in terms of automatic zeroing and delivery of dose in single unit increments.  
1/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Protaphane  is  a  neutral  suspension  of  isophane  insulin  crystals  formulated  for  long  action.  The 
formulation  contains  the  following  agents  for  functions  as  follows:  protamine  sulphate  (protracting 
agent –  forms isophane crystals with the insulin in the formulation), zinc (crystal forming), glycerol 
(preservative)  and  metacresol 
(isotonic),  disodium  phosphate  dehydrate 
(preservative). 
(buffer),  phenol 
Protaphane  is  presented  in  10  ml  vials,  3  ml  cartridges  (Penfill)  and  in  multi-dose  prefilled  pens 
(Innolet, NovoLet and FlexPen). Two strengths exist in vial presentations: 100 IU/ml and 40 IU/ml. 
Only  one  strength  exists  in  the  other  presentations:  100  IU/ml.  All  100  IU/ml  presentations  have 
identical compositions. 
The  10  ml  vial  is  a  glass  container  with  a  laminated  isoprene/bromobutyl  rubber  stopper  (disc)  and 
snap-off cap. The glass container is produced from type I Ph.Eur. colourless glass. 
The  Penfill  cartridges  consist  of  a  3  ml  type  I  Ph.Eur.,  colourless  glass  cartridge  sealed  with  a 
laminated isoprene/bromobutyl rubber stopper (disc) and a bromobutyl rubber plunger.  
Innolet,  NovoLet  and  FlexPen  are  multi-dose  prefilled  pens  made  of  a  plastic  injector  device  fitted 
with 3 ml Penfill cartridges. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  complies  with  Ph.Eur.  monograph 
1999:838 with additional tests as follows: 
Identification by Amino acid composition 
Nitrogen content 
Total viable count (CFU/g) 
DNA content 
Methods  of  analysis  for  the  additional  tests  developed  by  the  applicant  are  fully  described  with 
relevant validations. 
Development Genetics 
Human  insulin  is  produced  using  a  genetically  modified  strain  of  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae.  The 
strain carries a plasmid which codes for the expression of a single chain insulin precursor attached to a 
pre-pro leader region of the yeast mating factor (MFα1) gene. The plasmid is constructed based on the 
yeast 2µ plasmid. 
The  yeast  transformant  used  to  produce  the  insulin  precursor  is  a  transformant  of  Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae carrying the expression plasmid described above. The applicant has presented the complete 
DNA sequence of the plasmid. The sequencing presented is assembled from published sequences and 
in-house sequence determinations as relevant. The gene has also been fully characterised from isolated 
plasmids  from  long-term  production  scale  fermentation  and  cell  bank  (Original  Mother  Culture 
(OMC)). 
Constructional  stability  has  been  investigated  in  production  strain,  prolonged  and  very  long  term 
fermentation and cell bank (OMC). 
Cell bank system 
The cell bank system consists of Original Mother Culture (OMC), New Mother Culture (NMC), MCB 
and  WCB.  Satisfactory  details  of  the  preparation  of  the  different  types  of  cell  banks  have  been 
provided and a clear description given of the numbering and origin of the various cell banks and their 
sublots. 
2/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
Production of active substance 
The encoded product of secretion during fermentation is a single chain insulin precursor consisting of 
the first 29 amino acid residues of the insulin B chain linked with three amino acids to the insulin A 
chain.  This  single  chain  precursor  is  converted  enzymatically  to  an  insulin  methyl  ester,  which  is 
subsequently hydrolysed to yield human insulin, consisting of two chains (A and B) linked together 
with  disulphide  bridges.  The  purification  process  employs  several  chromatography  and  precipitation 
steps  for  isolation  of  the  precursor,  the  intermediates,  and  the  active  substance  respectively.  This 
process is well established and it should be noted that human insulin rDNA has been manufactured by 
the  applicant  over  a  period  of  many  years  during  which  time  a  number  of  improvements  have  been 
made. 
Validation data have been provided for the fermentation, recovery and purification processes. In each 
case, critical parameters in these processes have been identified and investigated. 
Satisfactory  analytical  data  are  provided  for  10  recently  produced  batches  of  human  insulin 
demonstrating a high degree of consistency in the manufacturing process. 
Stability of active substance 
The  applicant  has  provided  results  of  testing  of  20  batches  from  the  ongoing  stability  programme. 
Testing parameters include dry substance, insulin polymer, insulin dimer, A21 desamido insulin, other 
related  substances  and  assay.  The  data  confirm  that  active  substance  is  stable  for  60  months  when 
stored at at the recommended storage temperature. 
Other ingredients 
All ingredients conform to Ph. Eur. apart from metacresol (no monograph in Ph.Eur.), which conforms 
to USP. 
Product development and finished product 
Development Pharmaceutics 
The  protracting  effect  of  protamine  on  insulin  was  originally  discovered  in  1936.  The  concept  was 
improved  in  1946  through  the  development  of  isophane  insulin,  whereby  zinc  ions  together  with 
phenol  and/or  cresol  were  used  to  form  an  insulin-protamine  complex  at  neutral  pH.  In  the  1970s, 
monocomponent porcine and bovine insulin based Protaphane formulations were developed and in the 
1980s,  the  equivalent  monocomponent  human  insulin  containing  Protaphane  product.  In  1987,  in 
association with development of the NovoPen dispensing system, the product stability was improved 
by  fine  tuning  the  formulation.  The  manufacturing  process  was  fine-tuned  thereafter  to  optimise 
insulin  crystal  size.  Finally,  an  adjustment  in  preservative  overage  (to  compensate  for  potential  loss 
during manufacture) for two presentations was introduced in 1993 to make the formulation for all 100 
IU/ml protamine insulin products manufactured by the applicant identical. 
Emphasis  has  been  placed  on  correct  insulin  crystal  size  in  the  product.  This  is  achieved  through  a 
combination of optimised zinc and protamine sulphate concentrations in the formulation and through a 
carefully defined and controlled manufacturing process. 
The preservative content has been optimised with respect to overall chemical stability of the product, 
preservative efficacy and local irritation at the site of injection. Criteria B of the Ph.Eur. antimicrobial 
preservative efficacy test are met.  
Neutral pH is optimal for medical use.  
Compatibility  of  the  container  components  and  product  is  shown  to  be  satisfactory  via  stability 
studies.  
Sterilisation by filtration is essential given the heat sensitivity of the active ingredient.  
Manufacturing process 
Protaphane  is  prepared  by  mixing  solutions  of  ingredients  in  a  sterile  tank.  The  solutions  are  sterile 
filtered into a filling tank resulting in a suspension of protamine insulin human. The precipitate is then 
allowed to crystallise into oblong tetragonal crystals. Filling occurs in a grade A zone and vials and 
3/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
cartridges  are  inspected  individually  by  manual  or  automated  inspection.  Pen  injector  products  are 
assembled thereafter. 
Due to the nature of this application i.e. products marketed under MRP since 1988 and based on the 
extensive  experience  the  applicant  has  with  their  products,  no  new  validation  studies  have  been 
initiated  for  this  application.  An  overview  of  the  processes  used  together  with  a  description  of  the 
critical  production  parameters  is  provided.  Summary  results  have  also  been  provided  for  various 
Protaphane  products  manufactured  at  various  approved  sites  and  in  different  batch  sizes.  Available 
data show a consistent, well-controlled manufacturing process. 
Protaphane complies with the requirements of the following Ph. Eur. monographs: 
01/2002:0854 Insulin Preparations, Injectable 
1997:0833 Insulin Injection, Isophane 
In  addition  to  monograph  tests  the  products  are  tested  by  in-house  methods  for  confirmation  of 
isophanicity, identity and contents of preservatives and for dose accuracy (prefilled injector products 
only). 
Full methodologies have been provided for all in-house methods. A complete justification of the tests 
employed has been provided. 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 3 recently produced batches of each presentation, except 
for  Protaphane  FlexPen  where  only  2  batches  were  available  at  the  time  of  submission.  All  batches 
comply with their respective specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  reports  are  provided  covering  the  different strengths, presentations and  production sites for 
Protaphane. 
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability. These results support the shelf life stated in the SPC. 
Viral safety and TSE risk assessment 
A number of animal derived raw materials are used in the production of human insulin, rDNA. These 
are peptone, beef extract and pepticase which are used in the preparation and storage of cell banks, and 
L-threonine and trypsin used in the purification process to convert human insulin precursor to human 
insulin methyl ester. In addition, protamine sulphate derived from salmon is used as excipient in the 
finished product. 
Pepticase  falls  outside  the  scope  of  the  TSE  Guideline  as  it  is  derived  from  casein  from  milk  from 
healthy cows only and no other ruminant materials are used in its preparation. 
For  peptone  (CEP-2000-175)  and  beef  extract  (CEP-2000-181)  Certificates  of  Suitability  of  the 
EDQM have been submitted. 
L-threonine is sourced from avian feathers and porcine gelatine and trypsin from porcine pancreas. 
The risk of transmission of TSE from Protaphane to human beings has been appropriately addressed in 
accordance  with  CPMP/CVMP  Note  for  Guidance  for  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy via medicinal products (EMEA/410/01). 
Viral safety issues have been addressed and compliance with relevant guidelines are considered to be 
met. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Satisfactory  evidence  is  provided  that  product  manufacture  is  well  controlled,  that  consistency  of 
production  is  achieved  and  that  a  stable  product  results.  The  requirements  of  the  relevant  directives 
and guidelines are met. The pharmaceutical portions of the SPC, package insert and product label are 
supported by the information provided in the dossier. Several minor quality issues will be addressed 
by the applicant on an ongoing (post-approval) basis. 
4/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  preclinical  evaluation  of  the  present  product  is  based  on  the  documentation  for  the  active 
ingredient; insulin human (rDNA). The programme includes recent studies performed with the insulin 
analogue  insulin  detemir.  In  several  of  these  studies  insulin  human (rDNA) was used as a reference 
substance.  
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Primary pharmacology programme. 
The  programme  includes  studies  performed  in  the  eighties  demonstrating  the  similarity  between 
recombinant insulin human and semi-synthetic insulin human, later studies supplementing above studies 
and recent studies where insulin human (rDNA) was used as a reference substance for insulin analogues.  
• 
In vitro studies  
Insulin  is  a hormone composed of two polypeptides  (two  protein chains named A and B chains  having 
respectively  30  and  21  amino-acids).  Two  disulfide  bonds  link  these  two  chains.  The  structure  of  the 
insulin  is  similar  of  those  of  several  other  hormones  or  growth-factors  (including  insulin-like  growth 
factors  IGF-1  and  IGF-2).  IGF-1  and  IGF-2  have  some  affinity  for  the  insulin  receptor,  however,  both 
growth factors have their own receptors. The insulin and IGFs receptors both belong to the tyrosine kinase 
family  receptors.  The  activation  of  the  receptors  is  obtained  when  the  endogenous  ligand  occupies  the 
receptor.  Once  activated  the  signal  transduction  produced  by  these  receptors,  which  mediates  the 
physiological  action  of  the  hormone,  starts  with  an  autophosphorylation  of  the  receptor.  The  in  vitro 
studies  explored  the  affinity  of  insulin  analogues  for  other  receptors  belonging  to  the  tyrosine  kinase 
family. 
The  receptor  binding  activity  of  insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  studied  in  connection  with  the  pre-clinical 
development of the insulin aspart (see Table 1 below). 
Table 1: Determination of the receptor affinity of insulin human (rDNA). 
Affinity for Insulin Receptor 
=100% 
Affinity for IGF1-Receptor 
0.03% 
• 
In vivo studies  
The effect on blood glucose in diabetic rats after subcutaneous administration was studied in diabetic rats 
which received by a single subcutaneous injection either insulin human(rDNA), semi-synthetic insulin or 
vehicle. The effect on blood glucose was measured by blood sampling. Insulin human (rDNA) and semi-
synthetic insulin showed dose and time dependant antidiabetic effect. 
The pharmacological effect of insulin human (rDNA) 40 U/ml was studied in a cross-over assay in rabbits. 
A standard crossover study (British Pharm., 1980) of the hypoglycaemic effect after SC administration in 
Rabbits  (n=36)  was  done.  There  was  no  difference  between  equivalent  preparations  made  from  human 
insulin or semi-synthetic insulin.  
• 
Safety pharmacology programme. 
In  the  Irwin  test,  a  few  mice  showed  a  slight  reduction  in  exploratory  and  spontaneous  activity.  In  the 
Animex  test,  which  is  more  sensitive,  mice  showed  a  decrease  in  motor  activity  at  the  highest  dose  (5 
U/kg). Reduced performance in the rotarod test was also observed in mice at the highest dose (5 U/kg) in 
one study, but no effects were observed at 100 U/kg in a later study. The locomotion activity in rats were 
slightly reduced at 100 U/kg, which was the only dose tested.  
Newer studies support the original ones. 
The  time  from  disappearance  to  reappearance  of  the  righting  reflex  (sleeping  time)  induced  by 
pentobarbital in mice was prolonged after treatment with 5 U/kg. The same applies to hexobarbital after 
treatment with 100 U/kg; the effect was reversed with glucose administration. A dose of 100 U/kg after 
administration of ethanol significantly increased the mortality and sleeping time. No antagonistic effect on 
5/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions in mice was observed at 100 U/kg, and this treatment did not act as 
a pro-convulsant either. Insulin human (rDNA) did not show any inhibitory effects on acetic acid induced 
writhing in mice at 100 U/kg (P-27), indicating absence of analgesic potential. The Body temperature in 
mice  was  unaffected  by  100  U/kg  (P-28).  Neither  insulin  human  (rDNA)  nor  semi-synthetic  insulin 
human  produced  any  “curarizing”  effect  on  neuromuscular  transmission  after  treatment  of  rats  up  to  5 
U/kg IV. No effects attributed to treatment were observed in an in vitro preparation of guinea-pig ileum 
and vas deferens. 
No effects on cardiovascular and respiratory system attributed to treatment were observed in cats and in 
pigs. The gastro-intestinal motility of mice was unaffected. A transient fall in diuresis was observed in rats, 
however, this effect was reversed after SC administration of glucose. A bromsulphtalein-test showed no 
indications  of  pathological  effects  to  liver  parenchyma  in  pigs.  Blood  platelets  of  human  Rich  Platelet 
Plasma were not affected after in vitro treatment with insulin human (rDNA). 
Effects seen in the original and newer safety pharmacology studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Insulin  isophane  preparations  have  been  used  since  1946.  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  isophane 
insulin NPH is already well characterised. In classic trials carried out from 1936 addition of protamine 
and zinc was found to prolong the insulin effect from 2-4 times in the normal rabbit (Scott and Fisher 
1936). 
Toxicology 
The  active  component  of  Protaphane  is  insulin  human  (rDNA).  The  single  doses  toxicity  of  insulin 
human  (rDNA)  was  in  an  early  study  compared  to  semisynthetic  insulin  human  and  Protaphane, 
insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  later  included  as  a  reference  substance  in  a  series  of  repeated  dose  and 
reproduction  toxicity  studies  of  an  insulin  analogue.  Some  other  studies  confirmed  the  lack  of  local 
toxicity and tried to evaluate the possible immunogenicity of the product. 
• 
Single dose toxicity studies. 
Mice  and  Rats  were  given  a  single  dose  of  insulin  human  (rDNA)  subcutaneously  at  dosage  up  to 
4000  U/kg.  In  higher  dosage  groups  insulin  human  was  compared  to  semi-synthetic  insulin.  Apart 
from few sporadic hypoglycaemic reactions on the day of dosing, no treatment related signs were seen 
Repeated doses toxicity. 
Insulin human (rDNA) 
The subacute toxicity was examined in rats and dogs during a 4 weeks SC study in Wistar Rats and a 13 
weeks SC study in Beagle Dogs.  
Insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  administrated  subcutaneously  for  1  year  to  Sprague  Dawley  Rats.  At 
necropsy, there was an increased incidence of mammary gland cysts and mammary tumours were found at 
microscopic examination. The incidence of total number of mammary tumours as well as fibroadenomas 
and  adenocarcinomas  were,  however,  not  significant  from  the  control  group.  There  were  no  other 
treatment-related effects in any organ, including the pituitary. 
Beagle dogs were given insulin human (rDNA) 1 U/kg twice daily SC for 12 months. Besides one case of 
abnormal weight gain, there were no other important effects of the treatments. 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA), isophane formulation  
The subacute and chronic toxicities of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) were examined in rats and 
dogs.  In  the  3-month  study  Sprague-Dawley  rats  were  given  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA) 
subcutaneously. Apart from severe and fatal cases of hypoglycaemia only a few signs were observed. 
They are all consistent with other studies performed in rats.  
In a 6-month study Sprague Dawley rats received insulin isophane. No deaths were seen. No treatment 
related effects other than well known small changes in some clinical pathology data were found.In the 
3-month  dog  study,  animals  were  given  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  subcutaneously.  All 
animals  survived  the  dosing  period.  Besides  subcutaneous  haemorrhage  and  inflammatory  cell 
6/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
infiltration at injection sites, no treatment related signs were observed. Neither the 6-month nor the 12-
month study showed any drug related toxicity. 
• 
Genotoxicity. 
The genotoxic potential of insulin human (rDNA) was evaluated through a bacterial reverse mutation 
test in 4 strains of Salmonella typhimurium, a clastogenic activity test in cultured human lymphocytes, 
a mutagenic activity test on the HGPRT-locus in chinese hamster V79 cells and a micronucleus test in 
bone marrow erythrocytes. In all the tests insulin human (rDNA) was found non-mutagenic. 
Insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  included  as  reference  substance  in  a  gene  mutation  study  in  mouse 
lymphoma  L5178Y  cells  (TFT-resistance).  Negative  findings  were  obtained  with  no  signs  of 
cytotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity. 
MCF-7  human  breast  cancer  cells  were  incubated  with  different  concentrations  of  insulin  aspart, 
insulin human (rDNA) and an experimental insulin analogue. Dose response curves from seven studies 
were the same for insulin aspart and insulin human (rDNA), whereas the experimental insulin analogue 
had at least 10-times their mitogenic potential. 
In an exploratory 12-month test and in the formal 12-month toxicity study in the Sprague-Dawley rat the 
effects of chronic administration of insulin aspart and insulin human (rDNA) on mammary tissues in the 
Rat were explored. In these studies some animals developed neoplasms of mammary tissue. All animals in 
all  treatment  groups  showed  hyperplasia  of  mammary  glandular  epithelial  cells.  In  both  tests  most 
mammary gland tumours were fibroadenomas all had a typical histological appearance. The small number 
of adenocarcinomas had remained local and had not metastasised. The pituitary glands appeared normal. 
A  study  exploring  the  effects  of  repeated  subcutaneous  injection  of  insulin  aspart  and  insulin  human 
(rDNA) for 52 weeks in rats has been conducted. This study has been performed in Sprague-Dawley rats. 
A dose-related increase in palpable subcutaneous masses has been observed at 30 and 75 U/kg twice daily. 
A statistically significant (p<0.01) increased incidence of female animals bearing mammary gland tumours 
at  75  U/kg/bid  were  found.  The  increase  was  evident  in  benign/malign  combined  as  well  as  in  malign 
tumours  alone.  No  evidence  of  mammary  gland  hyperplasia  or  of  tumours  was  seen  in  the  test  up  to 
12 months in the dog. 
Particularly  under  certain  experimental  conditions  insulin  may  induce  mammary  tumours  in  the  female 
Sprague  Dawley  rat  (a  sensitive  species,  strain  and  sex)  probably  related  to  a  mitogenic  and  growth-
promoting action of insulin mediated by the insulin receptor. 
An increase in the number of benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been shown in Sprague 
Dawley rats. In one 12 month study, there was a statistically significant increase of female animals bearing 
benign and malign mammary gland tumours at the highest dose. There was no increase of mammary gland 
hyperplasia or tumours in the 12 month dog study. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity. 
Fertility  and  Embryo-Foetal  Development  studies  have  been  conducted  in  the  Sprague  Dawley  Rat. 
Fertility was not affected. Males showed slight reduction in the epididymal sperm count. Dams treated 
with high dose (200 U/kg/day) of insulin human (rDNA) showed pre- and post-implantation loss, and a 
specific  pattern  of  anatomical  abnormalities  of  the  foetuses  was  seen.  The  findings  are  regarded  as  a 
consequence of the severe maternal hypoglycaemia. 
The  pre-  and  post-natal  development  of  Sprague  Dawley  rats  born  from  pregnant  females  exposed  to 
insulin human (rDNA) has been studied. Maternal hypoglycaemia with a few deaths and effects on weight 
gain and food consumption were observed in the dams. 
Newborn pups showed slightly increased weight gain, which had become normalised by weaning. There 
were a few other variations in F1 animals but no major effect was found. 
Embryo-foetal development of rabbits born from pregnant females exposed to insulin human (rDNA) has 
also  been  studied.  The  high  doses  of  insulin  led  to  increased  food  consumption  and  accelerated  weight 
gain, which persisted to the end of the experiment. There was a dose-related reduction in plasma glucose. 
7/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
In the mid- and low doses it had recovered by 4h after the first dose. Top-dose group (5 U/kg) showed 
embryonic deaths and related depression of litter size and weight. At 1.5 U/kg and above, foetuses showed 
skeletal abnormalities. These effects were considered to be due to the induced maternal hypoglycaemia. 
In Segments I/II study, fertility was not affected in rats given insulin human (rDNA). Males had a slightly 
reduced  epididymal  sperm  count.  Pre-  and  post-implantation  loss  was  increased  and  a  proportion  of 
foetuses had characteristic abnormalities attributed to reduction of maternal blood glucose. In an embryo-
foetal development study in rabbits, an increase in early embryonic deaths with associated decrease in litter 
size and litter weight was observed at 10 U/kg/day. A dose-dependent increase in foetuses with skeletal 
abnormalities was seen.  
During gestation, abortion and foetal death and malformations were seen, but only during severe maternal 
hypoglycaemia and are already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
• 
Local Tolerance. 
The local toxicity after subcutaneous injection has been studied in pigs. Pigs were given subcutaneous 
injections  of  different  preparations  including  biphasic  dual-acting  insulin  human  30,  Protaphane, 
insulin  human  (rDNA),  i.e.  pure  isophane  insulin  human  NPH,  three  media  preparations  and  0.9% 
saline.    It  was  shown  that  all  insulin  products  and  formulations  caused  identical  changes  including 
light  to  moderate  subcutaneous  mixed  inflammatory  cell  infiltration.  The  response  to  biphasic  dual-
acting  insulin  human  30  and  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  similar  but  slightly  more 
extensive. The saline and all media preparations caused almost no change. 
In  the  same  way,  pigs  received  either  biphasic,  dual-acting  insulin  human  30  or  Protaphane,  insulin 
human  (rDNA).  The  changes  noted  above  were  confirmed.  No  differences  between  the  insulin 
products were seen. 
The local tolerance was studied in rabbits after IM injections of insulin human. It was concluded that 
insulin human (rDNA) caused damages which were similar to those found after injection of isotonic 
saline solution. 
A test for local irritation in rabbits showed that there were no differences in the damages caused by 
isotonic saline solution and by insulin human (rDNA) products. 
• 
Immunotoxicity studies. 
Insulin antibodies, even in moderate and low amounts, may prevent rapid rise in free blood insulin, thereby 
leading  to  higher  postprandial  glucose  levels,  or  cause  increased  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  when  insulin  is 
released from circulating insulin antibody complexes. The purity of the injected insulin has been shown to 
be  of  crucial  importance  on  the  amount  of  insulin  antibody  formed.  Thus,  5-times  crystallised  porcine 
insulin induces more insulin antibodies than the same preparation containing mono component insulin.  
The immunogenicity of insulin human (rDNA) has been studied in Rabbits. Freund’s adjuvant and 20 U of 
respectively insulin human (rDNA), semi-synthetic insulin and 5 times crystallized porcine insulin were 
injected intramuscularly to groups of rabbits twice a week. Serum insulin binding was estimated until 97 
days.  No  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  immunogenicity  of  insulin  human  and  semi-
synthetic insulin was found, whereas they both were demonstrated to be significantly less immunogenic 
that 5-times crystallized porcine insulin. It was concluded, that insulin human fulfils the demand of low 
potential to induce insulin antibodies in accordance with other mono component insulins. 
There was no statistically significant difference between the immunogenicity in rabbits of insulin human 
and semi-synthetic human insulins. These insulins were found to be significantly less immunogenic than 5 
times crystallised pork insulin. The potential for human antibody production against insulin human is thus 
considered to be low. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment. 
Insulin human (rDNA) is considered readily degradable; hence does not suggest any environmental 
risk for clinical use. The containers and devices in which it is supplied are appropriate for disposal by 
the means normally employed for simple medical devices. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
8/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
The main purpose in the studies for primary and secondary pharmacodynamics was to demonstrate the 
similarity between the new insulin human (rDNA) and marketed semi-synthetic variant. Effects seen 
in the safety pharmacology studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
As the majority of the insulin human preparation is of same composition as the semi-synthetic insulin 
preparations,  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  the  original  preclinical  programme. 
Linearity  concerning AUC/dose was confirmed in different  species, meaning that there was no drug 
accumulation. 
No specific safety pharmacology studies on Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) have been carried out. 
Effects seen in the original and newer safety pharmacology studies on insulin human (rDNA) can all 
be  related  to  hypoglycaemia.  The  toxic  effects  seen  in  the  single  dose  and  repeated  dose  toxicity 
studies were attributed to the hypoglycaemic activity and thus an exaggerated pharmacological effect 
caused by the high doses of the insulin. Increased weight, depressed activity, convulsions and death 
were some of these effects. 
No  specific  studies  were  conducted  on  toxicity  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA),  as  the  active 
component is insulin human. However, some experiments where Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) 
was used as a reference substance to the testing of  insulin analogue  the results do not give reason for 
new safety concerns. 
The noted effects on embryos and foetuses were only seen at severe maternal hypoglycaemia and are 
already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
All conducted genotoxicity studies were negative for mutagenic potential. An increase in the number 
of  benign  mammary  adenomas  and  fibroadenomas  has  been  shown  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats.  It  is 
concluded  that  the  increased  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  seen  in  rats  is  probably  caused  by 
mitogenic and growth-promoting action via the insulin receptor, but is probably also related to the fact 
that Sprague Dawley rats are especially sensitive and were given large doses. There was no increase of 
mammary gland hyperplasia or tumours in the 12-month dog study. 
Finally,  a  test  for  local  irritation  in  rabbits  showed  that  there  were  no  differences  in  the  damages 
caused by isotonic saline solution and by Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). The potential for human 
antibody production against recombinant human insulin is thus considered to be low. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Diabetes is a group of metabolic disorders characterised by hyperglycaemia due to defects in insulin 
secretion and/or insulin action. The two most common forms of diabetes mellitus are type 1 and type 2 
diabetes. Type 1 diabetes is characterised by an absolute deficiency of insulin due to destruction of the 
pancreatic β-cells. Although the rate of β-cell destruction is variable, all type 1 diabetic patients will 
eventually  require  exogenous  insulin  for  survival.  In  contrast,  type  2  diabetes  is  characterised  by 
insulin  resistance,  relative  impairment  of  insulin  secretion  and  increased  hepatic  glucose  output.  In 
general,  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  do  not  require  exogenous  insulin  for  survival.  Nevertheless, 
during  the  course  of  the  disease,  a  large  minority  of  these  patients  will  be  treated  with  exogenous 
insulin to correct persistent hyperglycaemia. 
The  goal  of  insulin  treatment  is  to  mimic  the  physiologic  pattern  of  insulin  secretion,  which  under 
normal conditions consist of a basal secretion and meal related short peaks. The most commonly used 
insulin regimen is the so-called basal-bolus regimen in which basal insulin requirements are provided 
by one or two injections of long-(intermediate) acting insulin and mealtime requirements are provided 
by  meal  related  injections  of  fast-/rapid-acting  insulin  human/insulin  analogues.  Instead  of  separate 
injections of long- (intermediate) acting and fast-acting insulins, the two insulin preparations may be 
mixed (by the patient or as ready-made premixed insulin) before injection. It is generally accepted that 
the basal-bolus regimen offers the best glycaemic control. However, many patients, especially type 2 
diabetic patients who produce significant amounts of insulin themselves, may be adequately controlled 
on  twice-daily  injections  of  long-(intermediate)  acting  insulins  or  mixtures  of  fast-acting  and  long-
(intermediate) acting insulins.  
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) is isophane insulin formulated as a suspension where protamin and 
insulin are brought together in such proportions (isophane proportions) at a neutral pH that it forms a 
crystalline  protamine  insulin  suspension.  Therefore,  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  is  a  long 
9/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
acting insulin. The approximate action profile following a subcutaneous injection shows that the onset 
of  action  is  obtained  approximately  1  hour  and  a  half  after  the  injection.  The  maximum  effect  is 
obtained between 4 and 12 hours and the duration of the effect can last up to 24 hours. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics in healthy subject 
Three  pharmacodynamic  and/or  pharmacokinetic  studies  form  the  main  documentation  for  the 
pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). All studies included 
healthy subjects only.  
Table 2:  Clinical pharmacology studies. 
Study 
NN304/DCD/ 
001/D 
Population 
(Number of subjects)
Healthy young male 
subjects (11 subjects)
Design 
Dose regimens 
Open-labelled, randomised, 
5-period cross-over, single-
centre 
Single doses of Protaphane, -insulin 
human 0.3 U/kg and insulin analogue,  
NN304/DCD/ 
4/A 
Healthy young male 
subjects (10 subjects)
Double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, 5-period 
cross-over, single-centre 
Single doses of Protaphane, insulin 
human (rDNA) 0.3 and 0.6 U/kg, 
insulin analogue, and placebo. 
NN304/1028 
Healthy young male 
subjects (16 subjects)
Open-labelled, randomised, 
4-period cross-over, single-
centre 
Single doses of Protaphane, insulin 
human (rDNA) 0.2 U/kg s.c., fast-
acting insulin human 0.075 U/kg i.v., 
and insulin analogue i.v. 
All  these  studies  were  conducted  as  part  of  the  clinical  development  programme  for  an  insulin 
analogue, in which Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) was used as a comparator and not target of the 
primary analyses. 
Individual studies 
Study  NN304/DCD/001/D  is  an  open-labelled  randomised  5-period  crossover  trial  comparing  the 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of an insulin analogue at ascending dose levels to 
those of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) during euglycaemic clamps in healthy male volunteers. 
This  study  compared  the  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  an  insulin  analogue 
with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  using  the  euglycaemic  clamp  technique.  Eleven  healthy 
subjects  were  given  single  doses  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  0.3  U/kg.  The  insulin  was 
administered  subcutaneously  in  the  abdominal  wall.  Figure  1  depicts  the  glucose  infusion  rate  after 
administration of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) 0.3 U/kg. As can be seen, the maximum effect of 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) is observed about 3-6 hours after injection. At the end of the study 
period, the glucose infusion rate was still well over baseline level. 
10/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Figure 1:  Mean  Glucose  infusion  rate  profile  after  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  SC 
(Study NN304/DCD/001/D). 
The study NN304/DCD/4/A is a double-blind randomised placebo-controlled 5-period crossover trial 
aimed at comparing the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of an insulin analogue with 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) including placebo during euglycaemic glucose clamps in healthy 
male volunteers. 
insulin  human  (rDNA)  0.3  and  0.6  U/kg.  This 
The objective of this study was to compare the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of 
the  insulin  analogue  with  isophane  insulin  human  NPH  using  the  euglycaemic  clamp  technique.  A 
placebo treatment was included as well. Ten healthy subjects were given single doses of Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) 0.3 and 0.6 U/kg and placebo on separate study days. The insulins were given 
subcutaneously in the abdominal wall. Figure 2 shows the glucose infusion rate after administration of 
Protaphane, 
the 
pharmacodynamic  results  obtained  after  the  administration  of  the  two  doses  of  Protaphane,  insulin 
human  (rDNA)  .  The  effect  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  peaks  about  8-10  h.  This  was 
observed  a  little  earlier  with  the  highest  dose.  The  mean  area  under  the  glucose  infusion  rate  curve 
(determined  between  0  and  24  hours  of  administration)  for  the  highest  dose  of  Protaphane,  insulin 
human  (rDNA)  is  nearly  double  that  seen  for  the  lowest  dose  suggesting  of  a  dose-response 
relationship. The Glucose infusion rate values for the two doses of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) 
were still well greater than the placebo level and the baseline level at the end of the study period. 
table  also  summarises 
11/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2:  Glucose  infusion  rates  after  injection  of  Protaphane, insulin  human (rDNA) 0.3  and 
0.6 U/kg, and placebo. (Study NN304/DCD/4/A). 
GIR(mg/(min*kg))
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-100
100
300
NPH-High
Pharmacokinetics 
500
700
Elapsed Time (min)
NPH-Low
900
Placebo
1100
1300
1500
BIAsp-1069/03JUN02/gir.sas/gir.cgm
Pharmacokinetic  data  concerning  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  were  obtained  from  the  same 
(studies  NN304/DCD/001/D, 
pharmacodynamic 
NN304/DCD/4/A and NN304-1028 see Table 3).  
in  healthy  volunteers 
studies  performed 
• 
Absorption and bioavailability 
Study  NN304/DCD/4/A showed that as expected, for  two  parameters the mean area under the time-
concentration curve (measured between 0 and 24 hours, denoted by AUC0-24) and the highest insulin 
concentration  value  observed  in  plasma  (denoted  by  Cmax)  the  values  for  exogenous  insulin  were 
significantly  higher  for  the  highest  dose  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  as  compared  to  the 
lowest dose administered to the subjects, approximately 1.7-fold and 1.5-fold, respectively. Mean time 
to peak concentration was about 5 hours for both doses. In addition, the exogenous insulin levels had 
not returned to baseline levels at the end of the study period (see Figure 3). 
12/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3:  Summary  of 
  Protaphane, 
insulin  human 
(rDNA)  results 
from  Study 
NN304/DCD/4/A. 
13/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Figure 3:  Exogenous 
insulin  profiles  after  Protaphane, 
insulin  human  (rDNA)  (Study 
NN304/DCD/4/A). 
• 
Bioavailability 
The  objective  of  the  study  NN304-1028  was  to  measure  the  relative  bioavailability  of  Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) administered subcutaneously. In a randomised crossover design sixteen healthy 
males were given single doses of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) 0.2 U/kg SC, fast-acting insulin 
human  (rDNA)  0.075  U/kg  as  a  30-min  IV  infusion.  Blood  samples  for  plasma  glucose,  total 
insulinand C-peptide were drawn for 12 h after IV dosing and 24 hours after SC dosing. 
The  estimated  bioavailability  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  49%  (95%  confidence 
interval = [38 ; 62%] based on an ANOVA analysis. Other pharmacokinetic results included mean tmax, 
which was about 7 hours for Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) subcutaneously. 
• 
Distribution 
No formal distribution studies were performed with Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). Insulin is not 
bound to plasma proteins unless circulating antibodies directed against insulin are present.  
• 
Elimination 
Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  cannot  be  administered  intravenously,  thus  clearance  after 
intravenous  administration  could  not  be  studied.  As  the  half-life  of  intravenously  injected  insulin 
human  (rDNA)  is  relatively  short,  the  terminal  half-life  of  insulin  human  (rDNA)  following 
subcutaneous  injection  is a measure  of the terminal absorption rather than the  elimination  of insulin 
from  plasma  per  se.  The  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  insulin  human  (rDNA)  following  SC 
injection of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) has not been calculated in the listed studies. 
14/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
Metabolism of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) was not formally investigated. Protaphane, insulin 
human (rDNA) is absorbed as standard insulin human (rDNA). From previously published data it is 
known that insulin is catabolised by various proteases. The degradation products are not active. 
Excretion 
Excretion  of  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  not  formally  investigated.  As  insulin  is 
eliminated by metabolism, excretion of unchanged drug is minimal or non-existent. 
• 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Patients with impaired renal or hepatic function 
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  any  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal/hepatic function.  
Pregnancy and lactation 
No studies have been performed. Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of complications during 
pregnancy and congenital malformations in the baby. Optimising metabolic control before and during 
pregnancy can reduce this risk. For most of the patients with type 2 diabetes and all patients with type 
1 diabetes, insulin is the only way of optimising metabolic control. Insulin can be administered during 
pregnancy and lactation. 
• 
Interaction studies. 
No formal interaction studies have been performed.  
• 
Conclusion on pharmacokinetic studies. 
Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  is  a  long-acting  human  insulin.  It  is  a  suspension  of  crystalline 
protamine  insulin.  Onset  of  action  is  within  1½  h,  and  the  peak  effect  is  reached  after  about  3-12 
hours. This corresponds quite well with the kinetic results. The duration of action seems to be around 
24  h  or  even  more.  The  absolute  bioavailability  was  estimated  at  49%.  There  are  no 
pharmacodynamic/kinetic  data  specifically  on  Protaphane,  insulin human (rDNA) with regard  to the 
effect of age, gender, ethnic origin, hepatic and renal impairment. As with all subcutaneously injected 
insulins,  the  terminal  elimination  half-life  is  determined  by  absorption  rather  than  elimination.  The 
terminal elimination half-life of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) has not been documented. Insulin 
human  (rDNA)  is  eliminated  through  degradation  in  various organs  and tissues. There  are  no active 
metabolites.  The  numerous  products,  which  interact  with  insulin  on  the  dynamic  level  by  affecting 
glucose metabolism, are identified. There are no known pharmacokinetic interactions. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus  with  insulin  has  been  established  for  many  decades.  It  is  a  life 
saving  treatment  for  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  and  is  required  by  many  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes. 
A number of different insulin regimens have been proposed for treatment of diabetes. It is generally 
accepted that the so-called basal-bolus insulin regime (one or two injections of NPH insulin covering 
basal  insulin  requirements  in  combination  with  three  injections  of  fast-/rapid-acting  insulin  to  cover 
meal-related insulin requirements) generally yields the best glycaemic control in diabetes. However, a 
number of patients, especially patients with type 2 diabetes can be adequately regulated by twice daily 
injections of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) with or without concomitant injection of fast-/rapid-
acting insulin. 
The application is based on recently performed studies where Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) has 
been used in clinical trials performed to compare the efficacy and safety of Protaphane, insulin human 
(rDNA)  with  other  insulin  analogues,.  Some  older  studies  have  been  performed  to  characterise  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  insulin  human  and  to  demonstrate  efficacy  and  safety  of  genetically 
engineered  insulin  human  (rDNA)  as  compared  to  semi-synthetic  produced  human  insulin  with 
particularly clinical and laboratory assessments of direct toxicity, and immunisation or allergy caused 
by possible contaminants. Finally since an important post-marketing experience with human insulins 
15/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
has  been  gathered  considering  that  these  products  have  been  marketed  since  1988  some  additional 
safety data have been included and submitted in Periodic Safety Update Reports. 
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials). 
Table 4:  Phase III trials 
Study 
BiAsp - 1069 
Population 
(Number of 
subjects) 
Design 
Objective 
Type 2 diabetic 
patients 
(403 patients). 
Multinational randomised 
controlled double blind 
parallel groups trial. 
INS/UK/002/UK 
Type 2 diabetic 
patients 
(73 patients). 
Open, randomised, cross-
over study. 
NN304-1038 
Type 1 diabetic 
patients 
(59 patients). 
Multicentre open 
randomised cross-over 
trial. 
NN304/DCD/006/D  Type 1 diabetic 
patients 
(22 patients). 
Multicentre uncontrolled 
open trial. 
Efficacy and safety comparison 
of twice daily biphasic, dual-
acting insulin aspart 30 or 
Protaphane, insulin human 
(rDNA) in subjects with type 2 
diabetes 
Compare twice daily Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) and once 
daily long-acting insulin in a 
formulation of zinc crystals in 
non-insulin dependent diabetic 
subjects. 
Compare the blood glucose 
lowering effect of an insulin 
analogue with Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) in type 1 
diabetes subjects. 
Titration study of an insulin 
analogue in a basal bolus regime 
in type 1 diabetic patients. 
Study Bi-Asp-1069 
• 
The study Bi-Asp-1069 has been conducted with patients with type 2 diabetes. This study was aimed 
at comparing the efficacy and safety of biphasic dual-acting insulin aspart 30 administered twice daily 
and  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes.  It  is  a  multinational 
randomised double-blind controlled parallel group trial. 
1.  Description of the study 
The primary objective of the trial was to compare the glycaemic control of biphasic dual-acting insulin 
aspart 30 with that of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) in patients with type 2 diabetes. Secondarily 
the study compared the safety profile of both products (biphasic dual-acting insulin aspart 30 with that 
of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA)). 
The trial was a multinational randomised controlled double-blind parallel groups study. The patients 
enrolled in the study consisted of male and female patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (as defined by 
WHO  criteria)  aged  18  years  old  or  more.  Additional  inclusion  criteria  included  a  body  mass  index 
(denoted by BMI) ≤ 35.0 kg/m2, and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) ≤ 11.0 %. Both insulin naïve 
patients  and  patients  treated  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  (monotherapy  or  combination 
with oral hypoglycaemic agents) were included. 
The  patients  were  randomised  to  receive  twice  daily  injections  (subcutaneously)  of  either  biphasic 
dual-acing  insulin  aspart  30  or  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA).  Both  Protaphane,  insulin  human 
(rDNA)and biphasic dual acting insulin aspart 30 were administered immediately before breakfast and 
dinner (usually Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) in this type of insulin regimen is administered 30 
minutes  before  the  meals).  Insulin  experienced  patients  received  their  usual  pre-trial  dose  of 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) or a corresponding dose of biphasic dual-acting insulin aspart 30. 
Insulin naïve patients were initially treated with a starting dose of 8 to 16 IU per day. For both types of 
16/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
patients  insulin  doses  were  adjusted  according  to  blood  glucose  measurements  in  accordance  with 
standard diabetes treatment guidelines. 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) measured after 4, 8, 12 and 
16  weeks  of  treatment.  Secondary  parameters  were  derived  from  8-point  blood  glucose  profiles 
obtained after 1, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks of treatment.  
The assessment of the safety profile of the products was based on the collection of all adverse events 
(including  all  hypoglycaemic  episodes)  and  the  measurement  of  different  biological  parameters. 
Episodes  of  hypoglycaemia  were  classified  as  follows:  minor  (symptoms  of  hypoglycaemia  with  or 
without  confirmation  by  measurement  of  blood  glucose  levels), major (symptoms of hypoglycaemia 
that  either  required  third  party  assistance  or  additionally  required  treatment  intervention  with 
intravenous glucose or glucagon. 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
Sample  size  calculations  were  based  on  a  requirement  of  a  power  of  80%  to  detect  a  difference  of 
0.3 percentage points in HbA1c levels. The efficacy analysis was based on the intention-to-treat (ITT) 
population. Supplementary analysis was performed with the per-protocol (PP) population. A repeated 
measures ANOVA was used to analyse the primary efficacy variable. Hypoglycaemic episodes were 
analysed using a log-linear Poisson regression model. 
4 
Study population 
Four  hundred  and  five  patients  were  randomised  in  the  study  and  403  actually  received  the  study 
medication.  Three  hundred  and  ninety  two  patients  completed  the  trial.  Withdrawals  were  equally 
distributed among the two treatment groups. 
The  two  treatment  groups  of  patients  were  comparable  especially  with  regard  to  demographic 
parameters and baseline disease characteristics. The average disease duration of the patients enrolled 
in the study was 10 years. Forty percent were insulin naïve. Baseline HbA1c levels were approximately 
8.8%. Of the insulin naïve patients the vast majority were previously on oral hypoglycaemic agents. 
Only very few patients were truly treatment naïve. In both treatment groups the total daily insulin dose 
increase during the study, more so in the biphasic, dual-acting insulin aspart 30 than in the Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) group. 
5 
Efficacy results 
At 16 weeks HbA1c levels have decreased to approximately 8.2% in both treatment groups. There was 
no significant difference between treatments. The results were similar for both the intent to treat and 
the  per  protocol  analyses  (the  intent  to  treat  population  is  described  in  ICH  E9  as  including  the 
patients who were followed-up, assessed and the data analysed irrespective of their compliance to the 
planned course of treatment. The per protocol population defined in ICH E9 as including the patients 
who  complied  sufficiently  with  the  protocol  to  ensure  that  the  data  obtained  with  these  patients 
reflected the effects of treatment). In both treatment groups, HbA1c exhibited a continuous fall during 
the 16 weeks of treatment without reaching a stable plateau. An analysis of interaction in the ANOVA 
of the effect of pretreatment has been performed. The patients previously treated with a combination 
of NPH-insulin and oral hypoglycaemic agents responded less favourably than patients previously on 
insulin-NPH monotherapy or on oral hypoglycaemic agents monotherapy. There were no differences 
between treatments. Stable HbA1c levels were not reached during the 16 weeks of treatment suggesting 
that the study duration was probably too short to fully evaluate the potential benefits of the treatment 
with Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). 
17/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
Figure  4:  HbA1c  mean  profiles  over  the  16  weeks  of  the  study  measured  in  the  intent  to treat 
population. 
HbA1c (%)
9.0
8.8
8.6
8.4
8.2
8.0
0
2
4
6
8
Week no.
10
12
14
16
BIAsp-1069/03JUN02/fhbamean.sas/fhbamean.cgm
Average blood glucose levels were approximately 11 mmol/l at study entry. There was a continuous 
decrease in average blood glucose levels during the 16 weeks of treatment. At 16 weeks of treatment 
average blood glucose levels were approximately 9.5 mmol/l.  
Figure 5: Development of average blood glucose levels over 16 weeks. 
(mmol/l)
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
0
2
4
6
8
Week no.
10
12
14
16
BIAsp-1069/03JUN02/fbgmean.sas/fbgmean.cgm
The  present  study  demonstrates  that  in  a  subset  of  patients,  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA) 
administered twice daily can improve glycaemic control.  
Study INS/UK/002/UK 
The  study  INS/UK/002/UK  has  been  performed  in non-insulin dependent diabetic patients and was 
aimed at comparing the safety profile of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) with human zinc insulin 
(very long acting insulin).  
1.  Description of the study 
The  study  INS/UK/002/UK  is  an  open  multi-centre  randomised  and  cross-over  study.  The  primary 
objective  was  aimed  at  comparing  the  safety  profile  with  respect  to  the  number  of  hypoglycaemic 
episodes experienced by the patients of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) administered twice daily 
with human zinc insulin (very long-acting insulin) administered once daily. The secondary objectives 
were to compare the efficacy of both regimens in term of metabolic control.  
18/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  consisted  of  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  being  unsatisfactorily 
controlled  (i.e.  with  fasting  blood  glucose  [FBG]  >8.5  mmol)  by  an  oral  hypoglycaemic  agent 
administered at the maximum, with a body mass index (BMI <35kg/m2) and an age between 30 and 80 
years  old.  Patients  with  any  insulin  therapy  6  months  before  inclusion,  with  severe  renal  or  hepatic 
failure or cardiac disease or with rapidly progressive retinopathy could not be enrolled in this study.  
Following a run-in period of 8 weeks where patients continued their oral hypoglycaemic therapy, they 
were randomised to either treatment (Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) or zinc insulin) for a period 
of  6  months.  Starting  dose  was  for  both  treatments  0.3  IU/kg  daily  (and  subsequently  adjusted  to 
achieve  a  fasting  blood  glucose  FBG  of  4-7  mmol/l),  divided  equally  between  a  morning  and  an 
evening  dose  (Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA))  or  administered  as  a  single  evening  dose  (zinc 
insulin). After 6 months of treatment patients were switched to the other insulin therapy. 
A sample size of 80 patients was calculated to detect a true treatment difference of 25% in the number 
of  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  with  a  power  of  80%  assuming  that  the  lowest  incidence  of 
hypoglycaemic episodes was 40%. 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  measured  by  the  total  number  of  hypoglycaemic  reactions  during  each 
treatment  period.  The  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  measured  by  the  total  insulin  dose 
administered  to  the  patient,  weight,  quality  of  life  questionnaire  and  overall  treatment  satisfaction 
score in addition to different biological parameters such as HbA1c, glycaemia 7- and 4-point profile, 
HDL and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting insulin, fasting C-peptide. 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
Treatment comparisons in the number of reactions per month were tested using the Wilcoxon Signed 
Rank Test. The sequence effect was tested using the Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test. For efficacy variables 
data results were analysed using analysis of variance appropriate to cross-over design. 
4. 
Study population 
A total of 73 patients were randomised and received study medication. Of these, 68 patients provided 
some follow-up data and could be included in the safety analysis. Sixty patients completed the study 
and  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis.  Thirteen  patients  withdrew  from  the  study,  2  patients 
experienced adverse reactions (unlikely related to study medication), 6 patients withdrew because of 
ineffective therapy (all were treated with insulin NPH at the time), the remaining patients withdrew for 
other reasons. 
A total of 33 patients were treated with the sequence zinc insulin/ Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) 
(28 of them completed the study), and 38 were treated with the sequence Protaphane, insulin human 
(rDNA)/zinc insulin (32 completed the study). 
5. 
Efficacy results 
On  an  efficacy  point  of  view, insulin doses increased  with time  irrespective the treatment  sequence. 
The mean dose of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) was greater than the zinc insulin dose at the end 
of the treatment periods (difference of 4.9 IU). Data on HbA1c were available for 26 patients from the 
group  treated  successively  with  zinc  insulin  and  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  and  for  32 
patients  from  the  other  treatment  sequence  (Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  and  zinc  insulin). 
Decreases  in  HbA1c  were  observed  for  both  groups.  A  significant  difference  of  0.72%  in  favour  of 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) has been observed (normally HbA1c should be inferior to 6.0% of 
total  haemoglobin).  Finally,  blood  glucose  control  generally  was  slightly  better  achieved  with 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). 
• 
Study NN304-1038 
The study NN304-1038 has been performed in type 1 diabetes patients and was aimed at comparing 
the blood glucose lowering effect of an insulin analogue with Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). 
19/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
1.  Description of the study 
This trial was an open multi-centre randomised cross-over trial. After a 2-weeks run-in period the two 
treatment  periods  of  6  weeks  each  followed.  Both  insulin  analogue  and  Protaphane,  insulin  human 
(rDNA) were to be administered in the evening.  
Adult  patients  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus  for  at  least  2  years  and  being  treated  according  to  the 
basal/bolus regimen were enrolled in this study. The non inclusion criteria were the following: patients 
with  proliferative  retinopathy,  patients  requiring  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  dosages  > 
40 IU/day,  impaired  hepatic  or  renal  function,  NYHA  class  III  and  IV  congestive  heart  failure, 
unstable  angina  pectoris  or  recent  myocardial  infarction,  uncontrolled  hypertension,  pregnancy. 
Patients self-monitored their blood glucose. Sixty subjects were to be included. 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  area  under  the  serum  glucose  concentration-time  curve 
between 23:00 and 8:00 (denoted by AUCglu,  23-8). Secondary endpoints were the difference between 
the maximum and the minimum serum glucose between 23:00 and 8:00 (denoted by delta glu, 23-8), the 
shape of the serum glucose profile in the same time interval [parallelism of the curves], the area under 
the  glucose  concentration-time  curve  measured  between  different  period  of  time:  8:00  and  12:00 
(AUC glu, 8-12)  and  12:00  and  22:00  (AUCglu, 12-22).  Other  secondary  endpoints  were  Cmax  (glu,  8-12), 
fructosamine  at  visits  1,2,5,  and  8,  home  monitored  fasting  blood  glucose  (denoted  by  FBG)  on the 
last 4 days of each treatment period, dose of basal insulin 
The  safety  profile  of  the  products  was  assessed  with  the  following  endpoints:  the  frequency  of 
hypoglycaemic  episodes,  number  of  adverse  events,  the  presence  of  antibodies,  haematological  and 
biochemical parameters, vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG), fundoscopy and physical examination. 
3. 
Study population 
Fifty-nine subjects were randomised in the trial and 56 subjects completed the trial.  The reasons for 
premature discontinuation were that 2 cases had a C-peptide level above the inclusion criteria. 
4. 
Efficacy results 
The serum glucose profiles obtained with Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) are depicted in Figure 6 
(see below). 
Figure 6  Serum Glucose profile 
Mean Serum Glucose profiles (+/- 2*SEM)
17
16
15
)
l
14
/
13
12
11
10
l
o
m
m
(
l
e
s
o
c
u
G
m
u
r
e
S
9
8
7
6
5
23:00
08:00
12:00
17:00
22:00
Nominel Time (Basal insulin injected 22.30)
NN304-1038/29MAY02/fig91.sas/fig99.cgm
The daily dose of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) in the last seven days of each treatment phase 
was 0.28 IU/kg (standard deviation 0.09). The total bolus insulin dose of fast-acting insulin human in 
the last seven days of each treatment phase was 0.42 IU/kg. 
20/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) was tested against an insulin analogue. The trial was not blinded 
but it helped to characterise the glucose profile obtained by the basal/bolus treatment with Protaphane, 
insulin human (rDNA) given once daily to cover the basal insulin requirements and fast-acting insulin 
human given to the meals.  
• 
Additional studies 
Some  additional  studies  have  been  conducted  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA).  Study 
NN304/DCD/006/D was a multicentre open and uncontrolled titration study of a insulin analogue in a 
basal/bolus  regimen  in  type  1  diabetic  patients.  The  objective  of  this  trial  was  to  find  out  how  to 
switch patients on a basal/bolus regimen from Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) once or twice daily 
to  an  insulin  analogue  once  daily.  During  the  2-week  run-in  period  patients  were  treated  with 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). This trial confirmed that the serum glucose profile obtained with a 
treatment  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  was  comparably  shaped  to  the  glucose  profile  in 
trial observed in trial NN304-1038. 
• 
Other phase III studies (devices). 
Study 
Innolet-1207 
Population 
(Number of 
subjects) 
Design 
Objective 
Type 2 diabetic 
patients(112 
patients) 
Multicentre open 
randomised comparative 
cross-over study. 
Comparison of the metabolic 
control control by means of 
HbA1c and 4-point blood glucose 
profiles using Innolet and 
vial/syringe in type 2 diabetic 
patients. 
Compare the fructosamine level 
using FlexPen and Novolet 
treatment in patients with type 1 
and type 2 diabetes. 
MS216-1278 
Type 1 and type 2 
diabetic patients 
(113 patients). 
Multicentre open 
randomised comparative 
cross-over trial with two 
6-weeks treatment 
periods. 
The  objective  of  study  Innolet-1207  was  to  compare  the  metabolic  control  obtained  by  the 
administration of different types of insulins administered either with InnoLet or with a syringe. This 
study  was  an  open  comparative  randomised  crossover  trial  conducted  in  elderly  type  2  diabetic 
patients.  A  total  of  112  type  2  diabetes  patients  were  included  and  101  completed  the  study.  The 
treatment duration was 6 weeks with each device. The insulins used in this trial were eitherfast-acting 
insulin  human  (rDNA),  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  or  biphasic  dual-acting  insulin  human 
(rDNA)  30.  The  metabolic  control  was  measured  by  means  of  HbA1c  and  4-point  blood  glucose 
profiles.  Both  treatments  were  estimated  to  be  comparable  with  respect  to  HbA1c  and  4-point  blood 
glucose measurements. 
The incidence of severe adverse reactions was higher among vial/syringe users than in InnoLet users 
(7% vs. 2%). There was no difference regarding the incidence and severity of hypoglycaemic events.  
Finally, the study MS216 (a randomised cross-over open trial) compared the metabolic control and the 
safety achieved with the use of FlexPen vs. NovoLet in type 1 and 2 diabetic patients. The efficacy of 
the different treatments was measured with the fructosamine level, HbA1c, and 4-point blood glucose 
profiles. The insulins used  in this study were  fast-acting insulin human (rDNA), Protaphane, insulin 
human  (rDNA),  dual-acting  insulin  human  (rDNA)  30  or  rapid-acting  insulin  analogues.  A  total  of 
103  patients  were  randomised  in  the  trial  and  99  completed  the  trial.  There  was  no  significant 
difference  of  metabolic  control  between  the  different  devices.  Hypoglycaemic  events  and  adverse 
reactions were comparable for both devices. 
21/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The present data indicates that acceptable glycaemic control can be obtained by the administration of 
Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA) either in a  twice-daily regimen or in a basal-bolus regimen. The 
data did not indicate a different metabolic control when using the various devices that may be used for 
ease of administration in comparison to vial/syringe.  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Four  hundred  and  five  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  participated  in  the  study  Bi-Asp-1069  and  403 
actually received the study medication. Three hundred and ninety two patients completed the trial. The 
study INS/UK/002/UK has also been conducted with non-insulin dependent diabetic patients, a total 
of 73 patients were randomised in this trial and received the study medication. Of these, 68 patients 
provided some follow-up data and could be included in the safety analysis. Sixty patients completed 
the  study  and  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis.  Finally,  the  study  NN304-1038  has  been 
performed  in  type  1  diabetes  patients  and  59  subjects  were  included  in  this  trial.  Fifty-six  patients 
completed the trial.  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
Thirty  six  percent  and  38%  of  patients  who  participated  in  the  study  Bi-Asp-1069  (and  treated 
respectively  with  biphasic  dualacting  insulin  aspart  and  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)) 
reported  one  or  more  adverse  events  in  the  protocol  Bi-Asp-1069.  Most  of  the  adverse  events  were 
considered  unlikely  to  be  related  to  treatment.  Four  patients  in  the  Protaphane  treatment  group 
experienced adverse reactions with a possible or probable causal relationship to trial medication. The 
majority of adverse events were mild to moderate. The most frequently reported adverse events were 
headache and influenza like symptoms. One subject in the Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) group 
was  withdrawn  due  to  allergy  to  protamine.  One  treated  with  Protaphane  were  withdrawn  due  to 
myocardial  infarction;  in  both  cases  relation  to  trial  medication  was  considered  unlikely.  No  deaths 
were  reported  during  the  trial.  Patients  experienced  10  serious  adverse  reactions  while  treated  by 
Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA).  A  few  major  hypoglycaemic  episodes  were  reported.34%  of 
subjects in the Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) group experienced minor hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Overall, the trials revealed no new safety concerns than what is known on insulin. 
The study INS/UK/002/UK had a cross-over design consequently all the patients randomised in this 
trial  received  alternatively  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  and  zinc  insulin  (or  the  contrary). 
Twenty  patients  experienced  a  higher  number  of  hypoglycaemic  reactions  with  Protaphane,  insulin 
human  (rDNA)  than  with  zinc  insulin,  while  on  the  other  hand  34  patients  experienced  more 
hypoglycaemic  reactions  with  zinc  insulin  than  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA).  This 
difference was, however, not statistically significant. 
A total of 220 hypoglycaemic reactions were reported in patients treated with zinc insulin and 171 in 
patients  treated  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA).  More  severe  hypoglycaemic  reactions 
(defined as reactions requiring a third party intervention) were observed for zinc insulin (14) than for 
Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) (only one). Finally, a total of 63 patients experienced 208 adverse 
reactions while receiving zinc insulin compared to 51 patients who experienced 162 adverse reactions 
while treated with Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA). 
Finally  51  subjects  included  in  the  study  NN304-1038  and  treated  with  Protaphane,  insulin  human 
(rDNA)  experienced  556  minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes.  Seven  subjects  experienced  eleven  major 
hypoglycaemic  episodes.  Fifteen  patients  experienced  nineteen  serious  adverse  reactions  in  the 
Protaphane,  insulin  human  (rDNA)  treatment  periods,  nine  of  these  were  respiratory  events.  No 
serious adverse reaction has been observed with the Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) treatment. 
Post-marketing experience 
An extensive marketing experience with human insulins has been gathered since human insulins have 
been  marketed  for  almost  ten  years.  The  periodic  safety  update  reports  submitted  since  1993  that 
between  1  March  1993  to  31  August  1998  a  total  of  21  million  person  years  representing at least  4 
million  individual  patients  have  been  exposed  to  human  insulin.  In  addition,  between  1  September 
22/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
1998  and  30  June  2000  an  estimated  total  of  3.7  million  person  years  representing  approximately  2 
million individual patients may have been exposed to this product. 
Since the report from Teuscher and Berger (Hypoglycaemia unawareness in diabetics transferred from 
beef/porcine  insulin  to  human  insulin.  Lancet  1987,  ii.382-5)  there  had  been  focus  on  diminished 
awareness of hypoglycaemia after changing from animal insulin to human insulin. A review of clinical 
and epidemiological studies prepared by the applicant could not support this hypothesis, an update of 
this paper including literature research up to may 1997 could either. 
The  most  common  reactions  reported  in  the  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  were  hyper-  and 
hypoglycaemia, injection site reaction and –pain, therapeutic response decreased, allergic reaction and 
rash or pruritus. 
Serious  and  unexpected  cases  of  optic  atrophy,  on  limb  malformation  in  a  new-born  baby  (born 
without  limbs  and  with  cardiac  problems,  subsequently  dying)  and  of  thrombocythaemia  have  been 
reported. Twenty two cases reported in Japan (11 of these were classified as serious) of impaired liver 
function  were  received  by  the  company.  No  such  reports  were  received  from  other  countries. 
According  to  evidence  from  some  studies  liver  enzyme  increases  are  most  likely  related  to  diabetes 
mellitus non insulin-dependent/treatment with oral antidiabetic agents but not to insulin. In addition, 
the  hypothesis  of  an  idiosyncratic  reaction  was  abandoned  since  no  other  signs  of  hypersensitivity 
were observed and no eosinophile granulocytes were found in biopsies. 
In  this  period,  two  changes  have  been  made  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics  for  safety 
reasons:  a  more  detailed  description  of  the  symptoms  of  hypo-  and  hyperglycaemia  and  a  more 
detailed description of possible generalised hypersensitivity reactions. Apart from these amendments, 
no regulatory or manufacturer actions have been taken for safety reasons. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Based on the review of the safety data from the vast post marketing experience, no new safety issues 
were identified. The most frequent adverse reactions are hypo-or hyperglycaemia. The safety profile 
of Protaphane, insulin human (rDNA) seems to be well characterised. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  Safety  and  Batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  toxic  effects  seen  in  the  single  dose  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  attributed  to  the 
hypoglycaemic activity  and thus an exaggerated pharmacological effect caused by the high doses of 
the insulin. Increased weight, depressed activity, convulsions and death were some of these effects. No 
specific studies were conducted on toxicity of Protaphane (containing recombinant human insulin), as 
the  active  component  is  similar  to  Actrapid  (containing  recombinant  human  insulin).  An  increase  in 
the  number  of  benign  mammary  adenomas  and  fibroadenomas  has  been  shown  in  Sprague  Dawley 
rats. In one  12 months study, there was a statistically significant increase of female animals bearing 
benign  and  malign  mammary  gland  tumours  at  the  highest  dose.  It  is  concluded  that  the  increased 
incidence of mammary tumours seen in rats is probably caused by mitogenic and growth-promoting 
action  via  the  insulin  receptor,  but  is  probably  also  related  to  the  fact  that  Sprague  Dawley  rats  are 
especially sensitive and were given large doses. It is concluded that newer studies conducted since the 
original  marketing authorisation for insulin  human support the older documentation  and do not give 
reason for new safety concerns. 
23/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Efficacy 
Protaphane  is  a  long-acting  human  insulin.  It  is  a  suspension  of  crystalline  protamine  insulin.  The 
treatment of diabetes mellitus with insulin has been established for many decades. It is a life saving 
treatment for patients with type 1 diabetes and is required by many patients with type 2 diabetes. A 
number  of  different  insulin  regimens  have  been  proposed  for  treatment  of  diabetes.  It  is  generally 
accepted that the so-called basal-bolus insulin regime (one or two injections of NPH insulin covering 
basal  insulin  requirements  in  combination  with  three  injections  of  fast-acting  insulin  to  cover  meal-
related  insulin  requirements)  generally  yields  the  best  glycaemic  control  in  diabetes.  However  a 
number of patients, especially patients with type 2 diabetes can be adequately regulated by twice daily 
injections of NPH insulin with or without concomitant injection of soluble insulin. The present data 
indicates that acceptable glycaemic control can be obtained by the administration of Protaphane either 
in a twice-daily regimen or in a basal-bolus regimen. The data did not indicate a different metabolic 
control when using the various devices that may be used for ease of administration in comparison to 
vial/syringe. 
Safety 
Based on the review of the safety data from the vast post marketing experience, no new safety issues 
were  revealed  that  should  be  included  in  the  present  summary  of  product  characteristics.  The  most 
frequent  adverse  reactions  are  hypo-or  hyperglycaemia.  The  safety  profile  of  Protaphane  is  well 
described and acceptable. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based  on  the  submitted  documentation  on  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and  clinical  data  as 
well  as  the  well-established  use  of  Protaphane,  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  Protaphane  is  considered 
adequately demonstrated.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Protaphane  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus,  the 
initial  stabilisation  of  diabetes,  during  treatment  of  diabetic  ketoacidosis  and  the  hyperosmolar  non 
ketotic  syndrome,  and  during  stress  situations  such  as  severe  infections  and  major  surgery  in 
hyperglycaemic patients. 
24/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
