SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE SUMMARY 
OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS AND PACKAGE LEAFLET PRESENTED  
BY THE EMEA 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS 
OVERALL SUMMARY OF THE SCIENTIFIC EVALUATION  
Protopic is a dermatological medicinal product that contains the calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus at a 
0.1%  and  0.03%  concentration.  Protopic  0.1%  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
atopic dermatitis (AD) in adults who are not adequately responsive to or are intolerant of conventional 
therapies  and  Protopic  0.03%  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  AD  in  adults  or 
children (2 years of age and above) who failed to respond adequately to conventional therapies. 
On 21 April 2005 the European Commission in view of the potential risk of malignancies requested 
the Opinion of the CHMP on the benefit/risk profile of Protopic. Following this request, the CHMP 
reviewed  the  available  data  on  this  safety  issue,  including  post-marketing  reports,  data  from  non-
clinical studies, clinical trials and epidemiological studies.  
Lymphoma is a recognised and listed adverse effect for systemically administered calcineurin inhibitor 
products.  This  effect  is  thought  to  be  mediated  by  the  immunosuppression  caused  as  a  result  of 
systemic treatment with the product. Systemic exposure is limited with the topical use of tacrolimus, 
however a local immunosuppressive effect in the skin cannot be excluded. 
Case  reports  of  malignancies  (including  skin  cancer,  cutaneous  T-Cell  lymphoma  (CTCL),  Non-
Hodking  lymphoma  (NHL)  and  systemic  malignancies)  have  been  received  during  the  clinical 
development  and  post-marketing  experience  in  association  with  the  use  of  Protopic.  The  data 
presented  did  not  show  a  definite  association  with  lymphoma  or  any  malignancy.  However  there 
appeared  to  be  an  increase  in  numbers  of  patients  with  CTCL,  relative  to  what  would  be  expected.  
The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  diagnosis  of  these  skin  malignancies  is  difficult  and  may  mimic  AD. 
However,  having  reviewed  the  available  data,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  not  all  cases  could  be 
considered  to  be  cases  of  pre-existing  malignancy  disease,  and  an  association  with  tacrolimus  could 
not be excluded in some of the cases.  
With regard to the skin cancers, the CHMP concluded that treatment with tacrolimus was not likely to 
have  caused  these  skin  malignancies.  However,  considering  that  tacrolimus  is  effective  through  its 
suppression of T cells which are involved in immune surveillance, it is possible that tacrolimus could 
have an effect on the behaviour of cutaneous lesions which were either pre-malignant or cases of early 
malignancy. The mode of action of tacrolimus is stated to be by inhibition of calcium dependent signal 
transduction pathways in T cells which results in prevention of transcription and synthesis of IL-2, IL-
3,  IL-4,  IL-5  and  other  cytokines.  As  tacrolimus  is  an  effective  immunosuppressant  that  acts  by 
suppressing T lymphocytes in the skin, the CHMP was of the opinion that an effect of tacrolimus on 
the development or progression of a variety of skin lesions could not be excluded. 
After  reviewing  the  available  data  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  balance  of  risks  and  benefits  for 
Protopic  is  considered  favourable.  In  order  to  address  the  safety  concerns  in  relation  to  the  cases  of 
malignancies the CHMP concluded that warnings reflecting the cases of malignancies and the need for 
monitoring of patients treated with Protopic should be included in the product information. In order to 
reduce the likelihood of mis-diagnosis and in order to better ensure the appropriate use of the medicinal 
product, the CHMP emphasised that the product information should reflect that the initial diagnosis and 
initial  prescription  should  be  undertaken  by  physicians  with  experience  in  the  treatment  of  AD. 
Additionally, the CHMP concluded that Protopic should not be used in immunocompromised adults or 
children  and  that  Protopic  should  not  be  applied  to  lesions  that  are  considered  to  be  potentially 
malignant  or  pre-malignant  and  that  lymphadenopathy  present  at  initiation  of  therapy  should  be 
investigated and kept under review.  
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP also expressed concerns about the degree of use of Protopic in children under the age of 2 
(not  approved)  when  the  immune  system  is  still  developing.  Therefore  the  CHMP  requested  that  the 
MAH  should  take  the  appropriate  measures  in  order  to  ensure  that  Protopic  is  not  used  in  this  age 
group.  
In addition, the CHMP concluded that further data are required to better elicit the long-term safety of 
Protopic  in  respect  of  its  association  with  malignancies.  The  CHMP  endorsed  the  ongoing  registry 
study  presented  by  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  -  APPLES  study  (paediatric  registry).  The 
CHMP requested that the MAH should present 6 monthly updates on the status of recruitment of this 
study.  The  CHMP  concluded  as  well  that  the  risk  of  cutaneous  malignancies  should  be  assessed 
through  case-control  studies.  The  CHMP  also  concluded  that  the  potential  role  of  tacrolimus  in  the 
pathogenesis of CTCL should be further investigated through mechanistic studies. 
GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Whereas 
- 
- 
- 
The Committee considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for 
Protopic 
The Committee acknowledged that cases of malignancy (including skin cancer and lymphoma) 
have  been  reported  in  patients  treated  with  Protopic.  In  view  of  the  available  data  (including 
pre-clinical, clinical and epidemiological) the CHMP concluded that a potential association with 
the  use  of  Protopic  cannot  be  ruled  out  and  therefore  further  data  are  needed  to  ensure  an 
acceptable long-term safety profile. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the following information should be included 
in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  relevant  sections  of  the  Package  Leaflet  of 
Protopic: 
•  The  treatment  with  Protopic  should  only  be  initiated  by  physicians  with 
experience in the diagnosis and treatment of atopic dermatitis. 
•  The treatment should be intermittent and not continuous. 
•  A statement to highlight that tacrolimus should not be applied to lesions, which 
are considered to be potentially malignant or pre-malignant. 
•  Protopic should not be used in immunocompromised adults or children. 
•  A  warning  to  advise  that  any  lymphadenopathy  present  prior  to  initiation  of 
therapy should be investigated and kept under assessment.  
•  A statement that Protopic should not be used in children under 2 years. 
•  A statement reflecting the cases of malignancies reported in the post-marketing 
The  CHMP  has  recommended  the  amendment  to  the  terms  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  for 
Protopic  for  which  the  revised  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package  Leaflet  are  set  out 
respectively in annexes I and IIIB. 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
