PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Protopic
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Protopic. The RMP details 
important risks of Protopic, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about the Protopic risks and uncertainties (missing information).
The Protopic Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Protopic should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Protopic should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Protopic 
RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Protopic is authorised for the treatment of moderate to severe AD (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains tacrolimus as the active substance and it is given by topical 
administration.
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Protopic can be found in the 
Protopic EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000374/hu 
man_med_001000.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
No important risks for Protopic have been identified, hence no activities to minimise or 
further characterise risks are defined. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
II.A List of important risks and missing information
No important risks and missing information have been identified for Protopic.
Important risks are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential.
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Protopic.
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation.
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
VI.2.6  II.C Post authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or a specific 
obligation of Protopic.
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Protopic.
Finalised Post authorisation safety studies 
Study short name 
Purpose of the study 
APPLES™ study 
Phase 4, prospective, 
multinational, observational 
cohort study conducted in 
Status 
Finalised 
JOELLE study 
Final report submission 
deadline to EMA 30-Sep-
2019 
Finalised 
Final report submission 
deadline to EMA 30-Sep-
2019 
USA, Canada and Europe (DE, 
IE, UK, PL, AT, FR, NL). 
The study is investigating long-
term safety, primarily risk of 
developing malignancies. 
To assess the risk of skin 
malignancies and lymphoma in 
children and adults using data 
from four European health 
databases (PHARMO Database 
Network in the Netherlands, 
the Danish and Swedish 
national registers, and the 
Clinical Practice Research 
Datalink (CPRD)) in the 
United Kingdom. 
