The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products 
Press office  
London, 3 March 2005 
EMEA/62331/2005  
EMEA PUBLIC STATEMENT  
Efficacy and Safety concerns regarding the co-administration of 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF, Viread1) and didanosine (ddI, Videx2) 
The  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  and  its  Scientific  Committee  for  human  medicines 
(CHMP)  have  been  made  aware  of  new  reports  of  virological  failure  and  emergence  of  resistance 
following  co-administration  of  tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate  and  didanosine.  These  have  been 
observed in several clinical studies3-5 in which tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine were co-
administered  with  a  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  in  HIV-infected  treatment-naïve 
adult patients with high baseline viral load and low CD4 cell counts.  
Similar  reports  have  been  previously  observed  with  this  dual  combination  in  the  context  of  triple 
combination therapy with a nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor and were the subject 
of recommendations by the EMEA on 22 October 2003  
(http://www.emea.eu.int/pdfs/human/press/pus/509403en.pdf).  The  precise  nature  of  any  interaction 
leading to non-response is still not known.  The CHMP cannot exclude that the same findings can be 
observed  in  other  contexts,  as  in  antiretroviral  experienced  patients  and/or  in  combination  with 
protease inhibitors.  
This co-administration was already considered as a safety concern due to the systemic over-exposure 
(40-60%)  of  didanosine  resulting  from  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  tenofovir.  Such  an  over-
exposure may increase the risk for didanosine-related adverse events (e.g. pancreatitis, lactic acidosis).  
Based on the new clinical data the EMEA wishes to point out the following information: 
•  The co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine is not recommended within 
any  antiretroviral  combination  therapy,  and  particularly  in  patients  with  high  viral  load  and  low 
CD4 cell count.  
•  Rare,  sometimes  fatal,  cases  of  pancreatitis  and  lactic  acidosis  have  been  reported  with  the  co-
adminstration of tenofovir and didanosine. 
•  If this combination is considered to be strictly necessary, patients should be closely monitored for 
efficacy and didanosine-related adverse events. 
The  Product  Information  for  Viread  has  now  been  modified  to  reflect  the  above-mentioned 
information and is appended (Annex 2) to this Public Statement. 
See Annex 1 for Reference List   
Media enquiries only please contact:  
Martin Harvey Allchurch 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 27 
E-mail: press@emea.eu.int 
EMEA/62331/2005 
1/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 
REFERENCE LIST 
1 On 05 February 2002, the European Commission issued a marketing authorisation valid throughout 
the European Union for the medicinal product Viread, which contains tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. 
The  marketing  authorisation  holder  responsible  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Gilead  Sciences 
International Ltd.  
Viread is approved for once-daily administration. 
2 The medicinal product Videx, which contains didanosine, was authorised in France on 05 May 1992 
and  subsequently,  in  other  European  Concerned  Member  States,  via  mutual  recognition  procedure 
after  16  May  1997.  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  responsible  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Bristol-Myers Squibb.  
3 Podzamczer D, Ferrer E, Gatell JM, Niubo J, Dalmau D, Leon A, Knobel H, Polo C, Iniguez D, 
Ruiz I. Early virologic failure with a combination of tenofovir, didanosine and efavirenz.  Antiviral  
Therapy 10: 171-177, 2005.   
4  Moyle G, Maitland D, Hand J, Mandalia S, Nelson M, Gazzard B. Early virological failure in 
persons with viral loads >100000cps/ml and CD4 counts <200/mm3 receiving 
didanosine/tenofovir/efavirenz as initial therapy: 12 week results from a randomized comparative 
trial [poster]. 44th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy; 2004 
October 30-November 2; Washington, DC, USA. Poster H-566. 
5 Leon A, Martinez E, Malloloas J, Laguno M, Blanco JL, Fumarola T, Gatell JM.  Early virological 
failure in treatment-naive HIV-infected adults receiving didanosine and tenofovir plus efavirenz or 
nevirapine.  AIDS 19(2): 213-215.   
EMEA/62331/2005 
2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXTRACT FROM VIREAD SPC INCLUDING CO-ADMINISTRATION WITH DIDANOSINE 
CHANGES HIGHLIGHTED AS ADOPTED BY THE CHMP ON 20 JANUARY 2005 
ANNEX 2 
4.4  Special warnings and special precautions for use 
Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine results in a 40-60% increase in 
systemic exposure to didanosine that may increase the risk for didanosine-related adverse events 
(see 4.5). Rare cases of pancreatitis and lactic acidosis, sometimes fatal, have been reported.  
A reduced didanosine dose (250 mg) has been tested to avoid over-exposure to didanosine in case 
of  co-administration  with  tenofovir  disoproxil  fumarate,  but  this  has  been  associated  with 
reports  of  high  rate  of  virological  failure  and  of  emergence  of  resistance  at  early  stage  within 
several tested combinations. Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine 
is therefore not recommended, especially in patients with high viral load and low CD4 cell count. 
If  this  combination  is  judged  strictly  necessary,  patients  should  be  carefully  monitored  for 
efficacy and didanosine related adverse events. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
When didanosine gastro-resistant capsules were administered 2 hours prior to or concurrently with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the AUC for didanosine was on average increased by 48% and 60% 
respectively. The mean increase in the AUC of didanosine was 44% when the buffered tablets were 
administered 1 hour prior to tenofovir. In both cases the pharmacokinetic parameters for tenofovir 
administered with a light meal were unchanged. The co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and didanosine is not recommended (see 4.4). 
EMEA/62331/2005 
3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
