ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pylobactell, 100 mg, Soluble Tablet 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Active substance 
Quantity per tablet 
13C-urea 
100 mg 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Soluble tablet 
A white, biconvex tablet. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only.  
For in vivo diagnosis of gastroduodenal Helicobacter pylori infection. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Pylobactell is not recommended for use in children below the age of 18 years due to 
insufficient data on efficacy. 
The Pylobactell tablet is for oral administration. 
Adults:  The tablet is to be dissolved in water and taken 10 minutes after the start of the breath 
test procedure. 
The patient should fast for at least 4 hours before the test so that the test is taken on an empty 
stomach. If the patient has eaten a heavy meal then it will be necessary to fast for six hours 
prior to the test.  
It is important to follow the instructions for use described in Section 6.6 adequately, otherwise 
the validity of the test result will be questionable. 
4.3  Contraindications 
The test must not be used in patients with documented or suspected gastric infection that 
might interfere with the urea breath test. 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
A positive urea breath test alone does not clinically confirm that eradication therapy is 
indicated.  Alternative diagnosis with invasive endoscopic methods might be indicated in 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
order to examine the presence of any other complicating conditions, eg. gastric ulcer, 
autoimmune gastritis and malignancies. 
In individual cases of atrophic gastritis, the breath test result may have a false positive 
outcome and other tests may be required to confirm the presence of H.pylori. 
If a repeat test is required, it should not be carried out until the following day. 
For patients who do not tolerate the recommended test meal, an alternative test meal should 
be given.  Care should be taken in patients where fasting may have medical implications. 
There are insufficient data on the diagnostic reliability of the Pylobactell test to recommend 
its use in patients with partial gastrectomy and in patients younger than 18 years. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The validity of the test result may be affected if the patient is currently being treated with 
antibiotics or a proton-pump inhibitor or has completed a course of treatment with these 
drugs.  The results may be affected in general by all treatments interfering with H.pylori 
status or urease activity. 
Suppression of H. pylori might give false negative results. Therefore, the test must not be 
used until four weeks without systemic antibacterial therapy and two weeks after last dose of 
acid antisecretory agents. This is especially important after eradication therapy. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
The endogenous production of urea amounts to 25 - 35 g/day.  It is therefore unlikely that the 
dose of 100 mg urea should cause any adverse effect on pregnancy and lactation. 
The Pylobactell test is not expected to be harmful during pregnancy or to the health of the 
foetus / newborn child. Pylobactell can be used during pregnancy and lactation. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
None known. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is 
important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. 
Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose is unlikely to occur in the intended clinical circumstances. No case of overdose has 
been reported. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  Other diagnostic agents 
ATC code:  V04C X. 
In the case of infection with H.pylori, orally ingested 13C-urea is metabolised by the enzyme 
urease which is present in H.pylori. 
H2N(13CO)NH2 + H2O  2NH3 + 13CO2 
The carbon dioxide which is liberated diffuses into the blood vessels and is transported as 
bicarbonate to the lungs where it is then liberated as 13CO2 in exhaled air.  Infection with 
H.pylori will significantly change the 13C/12C - carbon isotope ratio. 
The proportion of 13CO2 in the breath samples may be determined by isotope-ratio-mass 
spectrometry (IRMS) or by another suitably-validated method carried out by any qualified 
laboratory, and stated as an absolute difference (excess) in the value between the pre-urea and 
post-urea breath samples (see Section 6.6). 
The cut off point for discriminating between H.pylori negative and positive patients is set to 
an excess value of 3.5, i.e. <3.5 is negative and 3.5 is positive. 
In comparison with biopsy based techniques for diagnosing H.pylori infection, using data 
from two therapeutic trials, Pylobactell achieved during different conditions (prestudy and 
follow-up visits) sensitivity estimates above 95 % with lower one-sided 95 % confidence limit 
ranging from 93 % to 98 %. The specificity estimates were all above 90 % with 
corresponding lower confidence limits ranging from 85 % to 90 %.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Urea is rapidly absorbed from the gastro-intestinal tract and distributed into extracellular and 
intracellular fluids including lymph, bile, cerebrospinal fluid and blood.  It is reported to cross 
the placenta and penetrate the eye.  It is excreted unchanged in the urine. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
There are no concerns in relation to the clinical use of the product. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Povidone (E1201) 
Microcrystalline Cellulose (E460i)  
Colloidal Anhydrous Silica  
Sodium Benzoate (E211) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years.  The dissolved tablet must be taken immediately. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
The Pylobactell 13C-urea breath test kit contains a sachet containing the Pylobactell tablet, six 
glass tubes with caps and bar code labels, three additional bar code labels, a 30 ml mixing and 
administration glass vial with cap, two straws, a package leaflet and an Analysis Request 
Form.  A security label for re-sealing the kit is also provided. 
The Pylobactell breath test procedure includes the administering of a suitable test meal. This 
is not supplied within the box. 
The Pylobactell tablet container is a heat-sealed PET/aluminium foil/LDPE laminated sachet. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The patient should fast for at least 4 hours before the test so that the test is taken on an empty 
stomach. If the patient has eaten a heavy meal then it will be necessary to fast for six hours 
prior to the test. 
It is recommended that the breath test is performed while the patient is in a seated position. 
Sampling instructions 
t = 0 minutes  Note the time the patient drinks the test meal. 
t = 5 minutes  Collect pre-urea breath samples. Three tubes of breath are to be taken by 
breathing normally through a straw held at the base of a small tube (white top).  The patient 
must expire as the straw is slowly and completely withdrawn from the tube, which is then 
immediately capped.  These breath samples are used to measure the natural level of 13C in the 
carbon dioxide of the breath. 
t = 10 minutes  The Pylobactell tablet is placed in the 30 ml mixing vial and water added to 
the marked line. The bottle is capped and shaken well to dissolve the tablet.  The entire 
contents must be swallowed immediately by the patient, the bottle is refilled with water to the 
line and the entire contents are again swallowed by the patient. 
t = 40 minutes  Collect post-urea (red top) breath samples. Three tubes of breath are to be 
taken, which are used to measure the presence of excess levels of 13C, which will be present if 
the patient is H.pylori positive. 
On completion of the test retain one pre-urea sample (white top) and one post-urea sample 
(red top).  Return two pre-urea and two post-urea samples to the box. Safely discard the 30 ml 
mixing vial.  Complete the Analysis Request Form; attach one of three spare bar code labels 
to the area marked "AFFIX BAR CODE LABEL HERE".  This bar code is the doctor's 
reference number used at the analysing laboratory as a patient identifier; the two spare bar 
code labels are for the doctor's use on the patient notes/files etc. 
After placing the four sample tubes and paperwork into the box, use the security label 
provided to seal the lid of the box, and send to a qualified laboratory for analysis. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The optimal test meal recommended is 200 ml pure undiluted orange juice. 
Analysis of breath samples and testing specification 
The accuracy and precision of the test depends heavily on the quality of the analysis and 
therefore only laboratories having appropriate certification are considered qualified to analyse 
the breath samples. 
Satisfactory specificity and sensitivity have been demonstrated in clinical studies where 
breath was analysed using isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS).  
Breath samples collected during a test must remain in the original containers before analysis 
by IRMS.  
IRMS instruments may be of continuous flow or dual inlet configuration.  
A multi-position autosampler and bar code reader should be used to allow samples to be 
tracked throughout the analysis. 
IRMS source parameters and tuning must be optimised daily. 
Instruments must be linear over a wide range of CO2 concentrations, typically 1.0 - 6.0%. 
This should be checked routinely. 
Internal analytical precision must be less than + 0.3 ‰ 13C for 20 replicate analyses of the 
same reference gas sample and remain within 3SD’s of the mean for breath analyses. 
Transfer of the breath sample through the analytical system must be accomplished without 
isotope fractionation. 
The IRMS must possess a triple collector to allow the simultaneous detection of the ions at 
mass/charge ratio 44, 45 and 46 fluctuations in the oxygen isotope content. 
There must be provision for correction of instrumental drift during an analysis. 
Reference gases must be standardised against an appropriate international standard to allow 
inter-laboratory comparison of results. 
Alternatively, any other suitably-validated method may be used, carried out by any 
objectively qualified laboratory.  
Explanation of results:- 
 13C:- Difference in parts per thousand (‰) with respect to an accepted international 
standard. 
Excess 13C:- Difference between pre- and post-urea sample measurements. 
H. pylori status: -< 3.5 excess 13C = Negative    
    > 3.5 excess 13C = Positive 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Richen Europe S.R.L 
VIA San Cristoforo 
78-20090 
Trezzano Sul Naviglio (Ml) 
Italy 
Tel: +39 327 972 2938 
Email: richencortexeurope@pec.it 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/98/064/001  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 
Date of latest renewal:    
07 May 1998 
07 May 2008 
 10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIRMENTS OF 
THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH 
REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF 
THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Idifarma Desarrollo Farmaceutico S.L. 
Polígono Mocholí 
C/ Noáin, No.1 
31110 Noáin 
Navarra, 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product 
are set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under  Article 107c(7) 
of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines 
web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Not applicable 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON/CARDBOARD BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Pylobactell, 100 mg, soluble tablet 
13C-urea 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One tablet contains: 100 mg 13C-urea  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Povidone (E1201), Microcrystalline Cellulose (E460i), Colloidal Anhydrous Silica, Sodium 
Benzoate (E211). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
The kit contains: 
A sachet containing one Pylobactell 100 mg soluble tablet. 
Six glass tubes, with caps and bar code labels. 
30 ml mixing and administration glass vial with cap. 
Two straws. 
Package Leaflet. 
Analysis Request Form. 
Security Label and three additional bar code labels. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Diagnostic test kit 
FOR ORAL ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE 
STORED OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  {MM/YYYY} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not store above 25C 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Richen Europe S.R.L 
VIA San Cristoforo 
78-20090 
Trezzano Sul Naviglio (Ml) 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/98/064/001  
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Pylobactell 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
SACHET LABEL  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF 
1. 
ADMINISTRATION 
Pylobactell, 100 mg, soluble tablet 
13C-urea 
Oral 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
To be dissolved in water and taken orally. Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP {MM/YYYY} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5.  
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
One tablet 
6.  
OTHER 
Richen Europe S.R.L 
VIA San Cristoforo 
78-20090 
Trezzano Sul Naviglio (Ml) 
Italy 
EU/1/98/064/001 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL KIT ITEM: MIXING AND ADMINISTRATION VIAL 
LABEL 
Fill to line with water 
Dissolve tablet from sachet 
Shake well to dissolve 
When dissolved, drink entire contents 
Refill with water to line, shake bottle and drink 
Discard this bottle after use 
Do not return with kit 
ADDITIONAL KIT ITEM: SECURITY LABEL 
LABEL 
Seal lid of box before returning samples for analysis 
15 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
Pylobactell 100mg soluble tablet 
13C-Urea 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their symptoms are the same as yours.If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 
4. 
What is in this leaflet:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Pylobactell is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Pylobactell 
How to use Pylobactell 
Possible side effects 
How to store Pylobactell 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  WHAT PYLOBACTELL IS AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Pylobactell is a breath test for determining the presence of the bacterium, Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) in the gut (stomach and adjacent bowel) which may be the reason for your stomach (gastric) 
condition.  
Your doctor has recommended that you have a 13C-Urea breath test, for one of the following reasons: 
  Your doctor wants to confirm whether you are suffering from H. pylori infection to help diagnose 
your condition. 
  You have already been diagnosed with H. pylori and have been taking medication aimed to clear 
up the infection. Your doctor now wants to find out if the treatment has worked. 
This medicine is for diagnostic use only. 
How does the test work? 
All foods contain a substance called carbon 13 (13C), in varying amounts. This 13C can be detected in 
the carbon dioxide that you breathe out of your lungs. The actual amount of 13C in the breath will 
depend on the type of food that you have eaten. 
You will be asked to drink a "test meal". This will help keep the test 13C-urea solution in your 
stomach. 
Following the meal, 3 samples of your breath will be taken. These samples will be analysed to 
measure the normal amount of 13C in the carbon dioxide in your breath. 
You will then drink the Pylobactell 13C-urea solution. If H. pylori is present and active in your 
stomach, these bacteria will break down the 13C-urea and this is detected in the carbon dioxide in your 
breath. 
A further 3 samples of your breath will then be taken 30 minutes later. 
The amount of 13C in these samples will be compared to your normal level. If there is a significant 
increase in the amount of 13C, this will let your doctor know that active H. pylori is present.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE YOU USE PYLOBACTELL 
DO NOT use Pylobactell if you: 
- 
- 
are allergic to 13C-urea or to any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in Section 6). 
suffer from any medical condition that you think may affect, or be affected by, the test.  
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Pylobactell if: 
  part of your stomach has been removed (partial gastrectomy) as the reliability of the test has 
not been proven in these patients 
  you have or suspect you have a gastric infection 
  you have long term stomach problems (atrophic gastritis) as the breath test may give the 
wrong result and other tests may be required to confirm the presence of H. pylori. 
fasting (not taking food) may have medical implications for you 
 
  you are under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Pylobactell 
Please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Do not take the test if: 
  You have taken antibiotics or medication to treat Helicobacter pylori within the last 28 days 
  You have taken proton pump inhibitors in the last 14 days 
  You have taken H2 antagonists or antacids on the same day of the test. 
Do not stop taking medication without the advice of your doctor. 
Taking Pylobactell with food and drink 
You should fast for at least 4 hours before the test so that the test is taken on an empty stomach. If you 
have eaten a heavy meal it will be necessary to fast for six hours before the test. 
You can drink water during the fasting period. 
If fasting is a problem e.g. for diabetic patients, please tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pylobactell can be used during pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
This test should not affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
3. 
HOW TO USE PYLOBACTELL  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
The test will take about 45 minutes. A supply of drinking water will be needed. 
It is recommended that the breath test is performed while you are in a seated position. 
You must not smoke before or during the test.  
The test procedure involves the following steps: 
(A brief form of these instructions is included on the back of the Analysis Request Form) 
1. 
Fasting:  
You should fast for 4 hours before taking the test (See Section 2 Taking Pylobactell with food 
and drink) 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Test Meal:  
Drink the recommended test meal. This is not included in this kit but may have been supplied 
separately. If no test meal has been supplied, the most suitable test meal is 200 ml of pure 
undiluted orange juice. If you cannot take the recommended test meal, an alternative test meal 
should be taken. Your doctor will advise you. 
Wait 5 minutes 
Pre-test Breath Samples (3 White Capped Tubes) 
i. Remove the cap from the tube 
ii. Breathe out through your mouth, using a straw, into the sample tube. 
iii. Gradually remove the straw from the tube as you breathe out. 
iv. Immediately replace the cap. 
v. Repeat with remaining white capped tubes. 
It is not necessary to blow hard into the tubes, just breathe normally and cap them quickly. 
Try to avoid getting saliva in the tubes. 
Preparing the 13Carbon-urea solution 
Open the tablet sachet and empty the tablet into the mixer vial. 
Add water to the mark on the vial and replace the cap. 
Gently shake the vial to dissolve the tablet. 
Drink the solution. Note the time upon drinking. 
Fill the vial to the mark again with water and drink. 
Wait 30 minutes from the time of drinking the Pylobactell 13C-urea solution. Do not smoke, 
eat or drink during this time. This is important for the proper functioning of the test.  
Post-test Breath Samples (3 Red Capped Tubes) 
Using the red-capped, take samples of your breath as before (see step 4). 
Analysis Request Form 
Fill out the analysis request form with patient details on the left hand side of the form and the 
doctor’s name and address on the right hand side. 
9. 
Test is now complete 
  Put your breath samples and the completed Analysis Request Form back into the carton and 
send to the address supplied by your doctor. Your doctor will tell you when the results of your 
test will be available and who to contact for these results. 
Dispose of the empty sachet, mixing vial and straws as normal waste, but keep this leaflet for 
reference. 
If a repeat test is required, it should not be carried out until the following day. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS 
No side effects to Pylobactell have been reported. 13C and urea are harmless naturally occurring 
substances which are found in your body.  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
system listed in Appendix V.  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
HOW TO STORE PYLOBACTELL 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not store the kit above 25°C. 
The tablet must be taken when dissolved. 
Do not use Pylobactell after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after EXP. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
6. 
CONTENTS OF THE PACK AND OTHER INFORMATION 
What the Pylobactell tablet contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is 13C-urea. Each tablet contains 100 mg of 13C-urea 
The other ingredients are povidone (E1201), microcrystalline cellulose (E460i), colloidal 
anhydrous silica and sodium benzoate (E211).  
Each Pylobactell Breath Test kit contains: 
  1 Sachet containing 1 tablet. 
  6 glass tubes, 3 with white caps and 3 with red caps.  
  30 ml glass mixing tube with cap. 
  2 straws. 
  Package Leaflet  
  Analysis Request Form. 
  Security Label and 3 additional bar code labels. 
The contents of this kit are sufficient for a single test. If you need to repeat the test, a new kit will be 
required and it should not be carried out until the following day. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Richen Europe S.R.L 
VIA San Cristoforo 
78-20090 
Trezzano Sul Naviglio (Ml) 
Italy 
Tel: +39 327 972 2938 
Email: richencortexeurope@pec.it 
Manufacturer 
Idifarma Desarrollo Farmaceutico S.L., Polígono Mocholí, C/ Noáin, No.1, 31110 Noáin, Navarra, , 
Spain. 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of breath samples and testing specification 
The accuracy and precision of the test depends heavily on the quality of the analysis and therefore only 
laboratories having appropriate certification are considered qualified to analyse the breath samples. 
Satisfactory specificity and sensitivity have been demonstrated in clinical studies where breath was 
analysed using isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS).  
Breath samples collected during a test must remain in the original containers before analysis by IRMS.  
IRMS instruments may be of continuous flow or dual inlet configuration.  
A multi-position autosampler and bar code reader should be used to allow samples to be tracked 
throughout the analysis. 
IRMS source parameters and tuning must be optimised daily. 
Instruments must be linear over a wide range of CO2 concentrations, typically 1.0 - 6.0%. This should 
be checked routinely. 
Internal analytical precision must be less than + 0.3 ‰ 13C for 20 replicate analyses of the same 
reference gas sample and remain within 3SD’s of the mean for breath analyses. 
Transfer of the breath sample through the analytical system must be accomplished without isotope 
fractionation. 
The IRMS must possess a triple collector to allow the simultaneous detection of the ions at 
mass/charge ratio 44, 45 and 46 to allow for fluctuations in the oxygen isotope content. 
There must be provision for correction of instrumental drift during an analysis. 
Reference gases must be standardised against an appropriate international standard to allow inter-
laboratory comparison of results. 
Alternatively, any other suitably-validated method may be used, carried out by any objectively 
qualified laboratory.  
Explanation of results:- 
 13C:- 
Difference in parts per thousand (‰) with respect to an accepted international 
standard  
Excess 13C:- 
            Difference between pre- and post-urea sample measurements 
H. pylori status: - 
< 3.5 excess 13C = Negative    
> 3.5 excess 13C = Positive 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS REQUEST FORM: 
Pylobactell [13Carbon] -UREA BREATH TEST (13C-UBT) for Helicobacter pylori  
ANALYSIS REQUEST FORM - Please complete in block capitals 
Please state clearly address for return of results: 
Centre:   
Patient Name: 
Date of Birth:            
Patient Reference:     
Date of Test:            
Referring Doctor:     
AFFIX BAR-CODE LABEL HERE 
PLEASE PLACE BAR-CODE LABEL ON PATIENT RECORDS, IF APPLICABLE 
M.A. Number: EU/1/98/064/001 
Marketing Authorisation Holder:  
Richen Europe S.R.L 
VIA San Cristoforo 
78-20090 
Trezzano Sul Naviglio (Ml) 
Italy 
MEDICATION RECORD 
Medical History - has the patient 
taken : 
Type 
&Date 
Mins
TEST CHECK LIST 
Test Check List
Time
(i) antibiotics in the last 28 days? 
If so, please indicate type and 
when last taken 
(ii) proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) 
in the last 14 days? 
If so, please indicate type and 
when last taken. 
(iii) eradication therapy in the last  
28 days?  
If so, please indicate when 
treatment ended 
(iv) other medication (if 
applicable) 
(v) patient fasted for   hours  
Please note that (i) - (iii) will affect 
result of test. 
Laboratory use only
Date received:         
Analytical file reference:   
t = 0
t = 5
Note time patient drinks test 
meal 
Collect Pre-Urea samples 
(White Caps - 3 times) 
t = 10
Patient to drink urea solution, 
then fill bottle to line again and 
drink.   
t = 40
Collect Post-Urea samples (Red 
Caps -   3 times). 
Check Bar-code label and all details 
entered on Analysis Request 
Form.   
1 x Pre/Post sample reserved in 
store.   
2 x Pre/Post samples + this 
form for return to a qualified 
laboratory.
Comments:   
22 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Laboratory code:  
Samples logged on by :   
23 
 
