SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures,  which 
have  been  finalised  before  1  October  2001.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Pylobactell is an orally administered in vivo diagnostic product, designed to investigate patients’ status 
with regard to gastroduodenal Helicobacter pylori infection. 
The  active  substance  in  this  product  is  100mg  13C-urea,  i.e.  urea  labelled  with  the  non-radioactive 
stable isotope 13C. It is presented in the form of a soluble tablet to be dissolved in water prior to oral 
administration.  The  diagnostic  principle  is  based  upon  the  urease  activity  of  Helicobacter  pylori.  In 
the  case  of  gastroduodenal  Helicobacter  pylori  infection,  the  13C-urea  is  metabolised  by  urease  and 
13CO2  is  liberated  in  the  exhaled  air.  Breath  samples  are  collected  and  the  13CO2  /  12CO2  ratio  is 
determined; it is this ratio that provides a quantitative indicator of Helicobacter pylori infection. Since 
other  urease-producing  bacteria  are  seldom  found  in  the  gastric  flora,  the  detection  of  13CO2  in  the 
breath above a certain limit is indicative of the presence of duodenal Helicobacter pylori infection. 
Two  clinical  trials  in  a  total  of  366  patients  have  been  described.  In  these  trials  a  high  diagnostic 
efficiency  of  the  breath  test  following  ingestion  of  13C-urea  was  shown,  independent  of  use  after  or 
before Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy, and with due regard to the specified parameters of test 
meal, dosage and cut-off point of the assay. The clinical studies reported in the dossier used isotope 
ratio  mass  spectrometry  (IRMS)  to  analyse  breath  samples,  although  any  other  objectively  qualified 
method  may  be  applied,  provided  it  is  suitably  validated  for  use  with  this  product  by  a  competent 
laboratory. 
None of the clinical studies performed with the product reported side effects due to 13C-urea. In view 
of  the  fact  that  urea  is  intrinsically  present  in  the  body  and  only  a  small  additional  amount  is  to  be 
administered in the form of this product, it is considered to be safe. 
Although Pylobactell is a diagnostic test to detect Helicobacter pylori infection with a high specificity 
and sensitivity, differential diagnosis with invasive endoscopic methods might be indicated in order to 
examine  the  presence  of  any  other  complicating  conditions,  e.g.  ulcer,  autoimmune  gastritis  and 
malignancies.  It  should  also  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  performance  of  the  test  would  be  affected  by 
treatments, which  may interfere with Helicobacter pylori status or urease activity, e.g. antibiotics or 
proton pump inhibitors, and these restrictions are set out in the SPC. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Pylobactell  is  submitted  as  multi-component  test  kit,  for  the  in  vivo  diagnosis  of  gastroduodenal 
Helicobacter pylori infection. 
Composition 
The active substance is presented in the form of an uncoated, soluble, oral tablet containing 100 mg of 
13C-urea  and  small  amounts  of  pharmaceutically  well-accepted  excipients.  Other  elements  in  the  kit 
enable the efficient administration of the tablet and collection of breath samples to be sent for analysis. 
Pharmaceutical Development and Product Manufacture 
The aim of the development studies was to achieve a simple and rapidly dissolving formulation so that 
the  urea  is  presented  to  the  gastroduodenal  flora  in  solution.  A  tablet  dosage  form  was  chosen,  in 
which the active ingredient is directly compressed with the excipients. The tablet is to be dissolved in 
domestic drinking water immediately prior to administration, and this justifies the use of the standard 
term ‘soluble tablet’ in this case. The resulting solution is almost tasteless. 
1/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance is hygroscopic and therefore precautions are taken to reduce humidity during the 
manufacturing process. In addition, this has determined the choice of container system and each tablet 
is  individually  packed  in  a  heat-sealed  PET/aluminium  foil/LDPE  laminated  sachet  for  maximum 
protection from  moisture, although urea is known to be chemically very stable in this regard and no 
significant degradation can be expected.  
A simple direct-compression process carries out manufacture of the tablet, and these are transported to 
another site for assembly of the total test kit. 
GMP Statement 
See Section II.1 of this report.  
Active Substance 
13C-urea is synthesised by a simple one-stage process, which has been known and published since the 
1960’s,  using  13CO,  sulphur  and  ammonia.  The  18O  content  of  13CO  is  controlled  to  a  satisfactory 
level, as this may carry through to the active substance and product, and may in theory influence the 
result of the breath test. 
The manufacturer of the active ingredient is different from the MA applicant, and therefore a DMF has 
been provided during the evaluation phase. Satisfactory high quality has been demonstrated in terms 
of batch analyses. It complies with the PhEur monograph for Urea with appropriate additional tests, in 
particular the isotopic purity with regard to the 13C-label is specified as equal to or greater than 99%. 
Satisfactory stability has also been shown. 
Finished Product Control 
The  tablet  is  tested  for  description,  identification  of  urea  by  LC  (&  MS  with  regard  to  13C-urea), 
thickness, diameter, and average weight, uniformity of weight, hardness, moisture, disintegration time, 
urea  assay  (LC)  and  ammonia  content,  by  validated  methods.  A  test  for  microbial  contamination 
according to Ph Eur is also included in the specifications. 
Information  on  the  solubility  of  the  tablet  under  the  conditions  of  the  test  (i.e.  in  tap  water,  with 
shaking) indicates that dissolution is complete in  2-3 minutes. This is considered to be so rapid that 
routine control in the specification is not necessary. 
Stability of the Finished Product 
Urea  is  a  chemically  stable  substance,  and  13C  is  a  stable  non-radioactive  isotope  of  carbon,  so  no 
problems were anticipated with the chemical and isotopic aspects of stability. Dissolution rate does not 
change significantly when the product is stored as defined in the SPC. 
The stability studies presented in the dossier confirm this general view. Samples from earlier stability 
studies were reanalysed using a newly developed method for the determination of related degradation 
products  e.g.  biuret.  The  results  support  the  proposed  shelflife  of  2  years,  and  the  shelflife 
specification includes suitable limits for biuret and ammonia. 
The company is committed to providing the stability results of the first three production scale batches 
on an ongoing basis, when available, for further confirmation. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
In summary, approx. 1.1% of expired CO2 is in the form of 13CO2. The daily intake of 13C amounts to 
2.7 g.  The  daily  production  of  urea  in  man  is  about  30 g.  Normal  plasma  concentrations  of  urea  are 
100–500 mg/l (1,7-8,2 mmol/l). The total body urea pool can range from 700 to 2000 mg and is not 
likely  to  be  influenced  by  the  single  oral  intake  of  100  mg  of  13C-urea.  Calculations  show  that  the 
endogenous  13C-urea  pool  ranges  from  7  to  22  mg  in  a  70  kg  adult.  Total  daily  intake  of  13C  is 
estimated at approx. 3g and so a single oral intake of 100 mg of 13C-urea is not likely to be significant 
in terms of safety risk. 
The evidence presented points to the conclusion that there are no safety concerns arising from the 13C-
label, urea or 13C-urea itself, at the doses and dosage frequency proposed in the SPC for this product. 
2/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The core of the documentation supporting the diagnostic properties of the Pylobactell test consists of a 
retrospective analysis of test results collected in two clinical studies of clarithromycin in combination 
with omeprazole for eradication of H. pylori in patients with duodenal ulcers. 
Based on an analysis of test results from 950 visits by 366 patients, a high sensitivity and specificity 
are reported.  
The  performance  of  the  test  during  different  test  meals  was  studied  in  a  clinical  trial  in  which  six 
different alternative meals were compared to the standard test. 
The  study  population  was  limited  to  patients  with  duodenal  ulcers.  No  children  or  patients  with 
atrophic gastritis or gastric resection are included. 
Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacokinetics 
The dossier on clinical pharmacology is based on a literature survey of the dynamics and kinetics of 
13C-urea relevant to the performance of the test procedure, based on the conversion of urea to CO2 by 
H.pylori urease, according to the following simplified scheme: 
CO(NH2)2 
+ 
H2O 
(cid:198) 
CO2 
+ 
2NH3 
Possible problems, which could arise through the presence of other bacteria than Helicobacter pylori, 
are discussed. In the studies referred to, the urease activity of washed mucosa was measured. Mucosa 
of the stomach as well as from different parts of the bowel was used although activity was highest in 
the stomach. The influence of other sources of urease that occur elsewhere in the gut, for example in 
the contents of the jejunum, has been discussed. 
Non-Helicobacter bacteria have usually a much lower activity of urease, if ever. Other Helicobacter 
species  also  possess  some  urease  activity  and  could  in  theory  give  a  false  positive  result  if  these 
organisms  are  present  in  the  stomach.  This  is  considered  to  be  not  a  substantial  problem  since  they 
may also cause a disease that responds to the same modes of treatment as Helicobacter pylori itself. 
Concerning  the  possible  presence  of  H.  Heilmanii,  it  is  known  that  this  organism  causes  gastritis, 
however  of  a  milder  grade  than  H.  Pylori.  As  it  has  not  been  possible  to  culture  H.  Heilmanii  in 
humans, it has not been possible to compare urease activity between the two organisms. 
In order to maximise the performance, some test parameters should be carefully adhered to in order to 
increase  the  contrast  between  Helicobacter  pylori  positive  and  negative  patients  so  that  the 
discrimination  between the  two  groups of  patients also  increases. This can  be  achieved by choosing 
the optimal 
- dose of 13C-urea, 
- test meal (quality and quantity), 
- threshold level of the increase of 13CO2/12CO2-ratio in breath and 
- time schedule for the actions 
- baseline breath sample 
- test meal, 
- 13C-urea-drink and 
- second breath sample. 
In order to avoid distortions caused by food-derived CO2, patients should rest during the test period.  
A significant increase in the ratio  13CO2/12CO2 is measurable after 30 minutes and the second breath 
sample is therefore recommended 30 minutes after taking the baseline breath sample.  
Analysis of CO2 in breath: 
The increase of 13CO2/12CO2-ratio is called the isotopic excess or “excess”, also referred to as  
δ 13C. Clinical studies referred to in the dossier have used isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS) to 
3/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
determine  this  excess,  and  summary  analytical  details  are  given  in  the  SPC,  although  alternative 
suitably validated methods may also be used. 
Dose 
The basis for the dose recommendation (100 mg 13C-urea ) rests chiefly on published evidence that the 
overall excretion characteristics of 13CO2 over the range 75-350 mg of 13C-urea are similar.  
Test meal 
The introduction of a test meal aims at delaying gastric emptying, in order to prolong the contact time 
between  Helicobacter  pylori  and  urea.  Literature  reports  substantiating  the  value  of  the  test  meal  in 
general  have  been  submitted,  and  a  clinical  trial  has  focussed  on  the  effect  of  this  variable  on  the 
outcome of the test. 
Time interval 
A significant increase in the ratio  13CO2/12CO2 is measurable after 30 minutes and the second breath 
sample is therefore recommended 30 minutes after taking the baseline breath sample.  
Cut-off value 
The  increase  of  13CO2/12CO2-ratio  of  3.5  has  been  set  as  threshold  between  Helicobacter  pylori 
positive  and  Helicobacter  pylori  negative  subjects.  After  evaluating  the  two  clinical  trials,  this 
threshold  has  been  obtained  retrospectively  in  order  to  optimise  and  balance  both  sensitivity  and 
specificity.  
Influence of food and exercise 
Ingestion of 13C-isotopes by daily food is known to have a significant influence on the 13CO2/12CO2 in 
breath. This is why by examining the 13CO2 increase in breath after the administration of 13C-labelled 
urea the measuring of the breath's baseline value is necessary in order to register only the 13C-excess in 
CO2 produced by the metabolised 13C-urea. 
After the intake  of food  enriched  with  13C  and exercise the  13CO2/12  CO2-ratio increases.  This is the 
result  from  the  differences  in  13C-content  of  fat  and  carbohydrate.  These  differences  are  bigger  in 
people with  a diet that  contains  many carbohydrates derived from  plants,  (maize,  cane sugar). Also, 
the production of CO2 derived from food, especially that from carbohydrates increases with exercise. 
To  avoid  distorted  values  resulting  from  differences  in  13C-content  in  food,  in  fat  and  carbohydrate, 
the level of exercise before the first and the second sample should be similar. 
In  order  to  standardise  these  variables,  the  SPC  advises  performing  the  test  under  fasted  conditions, 
after a standard meal, and in a sitting position for most of the test, i.e. at rest. 
Efficacy 
In general, the applicant’s Expert Report correctly reflected clinical trial data.  
The clinical data supporting this application fall into three parts: 
• 
• 
• 
Data from two multicentre clinical trials 
Data from routine clinical use of the test in a single centre 
Test meal study 
Data from two multicentre clinical trials 
Primarily  designed  to  evaluate  clarithromycin  in  combination  with  omeprazole  in  the  healing  of 
duodenal  ulceration  and  the  eradication  of  Helicobacter  pylori.  To  be  included  in  the  analysis,  the 
patients had to have at least one visit with a UBT (urea breath test) as well as at least one biopsy-based 
test. 366 patients who altogether provided data from 950 visits fulfilled this requirement.  
It is notable that the pharmaceutical form used was a powder. No clinical trials have been performed 
with the soluble tablet, which is the subject of this application, Pylobactell. However, bioequivalence 
between the two forms is accepted since both are administered to the patient in the form of a solution. 
Study protocols have been provided with reference to the statistical part of the breath test, and a full 
study report has been submitted.  
4/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
In general, most patients had more than one visit. Only those visits were evaluated where the breath 
test was performed as well as gastric biopsy (CLO, histology and/or culture). Each patient served as 
his/her own control. Patients had to have an empty stomach before the breath test was carried out. 
(1)  GCP 
Considering the study protocols and study report together with a certificate from the sponsor led to the 
overall conclusion that the two multicentre studies have been performed according to GCP. 
(2) 
Patients' characteristics 
In the clinical trials only Helicobacter pylori positive patients were included and followed up during 
and after their eradication therapy. Therefore no untreated Helicobacter pylori negative patients were 
tested  there.  It  was  accepted  that  this  does  not  seem  to  decrease  the  trials’  value.  Considering  the 
population studied, statements concerning the restriction of the test to patients over the age of 18 years 
and patients with partial gastrectomy are included in the SPC. 
(a)  Data from routine clinical use of the test in a single centre 
Uncontrolled  study.  Data  from  674  tests  in  514  patients  have  been  collected.  The  increase  of 
13CO2/12CO2 excess, post urea, ranged from –0.5 to 96.1 with the majority of tests being either clearly 
negative  or  positive.  The  tests  in  which  there  were  anomalies  between  test  results  or  in  which  the 
increase of  13CO2/12CO2-ratio was in the range 3.5 to 5 were listed in the Expert Report. These cases 
could  be  explained  adequately,  for  example  by  interactions  with  omeprazole  and  antibiotics.  These 
data  merely  demonstrate  that  patients  in  clinical  practice  have  been  investigated  with  a  urea-based 
breath test, and have not played a major part in establishing the satisfactory efficacy and safety of this 
product.  
(b) 
Test meal study 
Paired  data  on  129  human  volunteers  to  assess  the  test  meal  used  to  delay  gastric  emptying  and 
possible  effect  of  endoscopy  prior  to  performing  the  breath  test.  Almost  exclusively  performed  on 
Helicobacter  pylori  positive  patients.  To  validate  the  use  of  different  test  meals  to  delay  gastric 
emptying during the UBT procedure six alternative meals were compared with proprietary brands of 
the  standard  test  meal  -  50  ml  Calogen  and  50  ml  Ensure  (25  g  long-chain  triglycerides,  7  g 
carbohydrates, 275 kcal). One hundred and twenty-nine subjects were recruited from patients with a 
positive  CLO-test  at  routine  gastrointestinal  endoscopy  (n=71),  from  patients  attending  for  routine 
UBT  (n=51)  and  from  the  staff  of  the  clinic  where  the  study  was  performed  (n=7).  The  test  was 
performed  on  two  consecutive  days  using  the  standard  meal  or  one  of  the  alternative  meals  in  a 
randomised order. The breath samples were collected at 20, 30 and 40 minutes after the administration 
of  13C-urea.  Twenty-one  patients  were  given  Calogen  and  Ensure  on  both  test  days.  The  alternative 
test meals were (number of subjects): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
100 ml full cream milk (n=13) 
100 ml butterscotch flavour Calogen (n=17) 
4 g citric acid made up to 100 ml with water (n=12) 
200 ml pure orange juice (n=56) 
200 ml pure orange juice with 2.4 g added citric acid (n=13) 
100 ml pure orange juice with 100 ml water (n=6) 
The  main question to be answered was whether the use of different test  meals will  affect the breath 
test procedure and subsequently change the H. pylori test result of the patient. 
It is evident that there is a close association between the magnitude of the δ13C excess value and the 
difference  between  the  test  meals,  i.e.  the  higher  the  absolute  30-minute  value,  the  higher  the 
difference at 30 minutes. 
Taking  all  patients  together  (disregarding  the  actual  test  meal)  it  is  demonstrated  that  the  variability 
between the test meals is dependent on the level of the δ13C excess with only minor differences close 
to the cut-off point, indicating a low risk for a change of the H. pylori status between different meals. 
Orange juice can be recommended as an alternative to the standard meal. 
5/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and their clinical relevance: 
i) 
Comparison with a ‘gold standard’ 
All  the  clinical  data  originally  provided  by  the  applicant  have  been  recalculated  using  biopsy-based 
techniques as a ‘gold standard’.  
The individual test results were compared to the H. pylori status at each visit. For each diagnostic test 
the number of positive, negative, false positive and false negative results were determined against H. 
pylori status, using three different methods. From this, the sensitivity and specificity values for each 
individual diagnostic test were calculated. The methods are detailed below: 
a. 
b. 
c. 
If  all  biopsy-based  tests  carried  out  at  a  visit  were  positive,  then  the  visit  was  classified 
Positive for the presence of H. pylori 
If  all  biopsy-based  tests  carried  out  at  a  visit  were  negative,  then  the  visit  was  classified 
Negative for the presence of H. pylori. 
Any visit in which anomalies occurred between the biopsy-based tests used was evaluated by 
three different methods: 
1. 
If two biopsy based tests were positive, then any negative response was described as 
False negative and the H. pylori status classified Positive 
If two biopsy-based tests were negative then any positive response was  described as 
false positive and the H. pylori status classified as Negative 
If  there  were  only  two  biopsy  based  tests  available  and  one  test  indicated  a  positive 
response, then the negative response was classified as false negative and then the H. 
pylori status classified as Positive. 
2. 
3. 
If only one biopsy based test indicated a positive response, then the negative responses 
were  described  as  false  negative  and  then  the  H.  pylori  status  was  classified  as 
Positive 
If two or more of the tests were positive, then any negative responses were described 
as  false  negative  and  the  H.  pylori  status  described  as  Positive  (provided  successive 
visits did not indicate the contrary). 
If only one test indicated a positive response, then following visits must have clearly 
shown  a  positive  H.  pylori  status  in  order  for  that  visit  to  be  assessed  as  H.  pylori 
positive. If the following visits clearly indicated a negative H. pylori status, then the 
visit  was  classified  as  H.  pylori  negative  (provided  no  further  treatment  was 
administered). 
The  following  table  depicts  the  estimates  of  specificity  and  sensitivity  for  the  three  methods.  For 
estimates based on at least 100 observations the lower one-sided 95% confidence limit is given within 
parenthesis. 
Specificity (%) 
Sensitivity (%) 
(95% lower conf. limit) 
(95% lower conf. limit) 
method 1  method 2  method 3  method 1  method 2  method 3 
Prestudy visit 
75.0 
100.0 
100.0 
4-6w follow-up 
6-m follow-up 
12-m follow-up 
92.7 
(87.6) 
91.3 
(85.2) 
100.0 
92.7 
(87.6) 
91.3 
(85.2) 
100.0 
94.3 
(89.6) 
94.3 
(89.0) 
100.0 
98.0  
(96.3) 
97.8 
(95.0) 
94.6 
(90.0) 
100.0 
95.1 
(92.8) 
97.8 
(95.0) 
94.6 
(90.0) 
100.0 
98.3 
(96.7) 
100.0 
(98.3) 
100.0 
(97.6) 
100.0 
6/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  for  the  three  methods  are  very  similar,  demonstrating  some  degree  of  robustness.  All 
reliable  specificity  estimates  (based  on  more  than  100  observations)  are  between  91.3%  and  94.3%, 
and  all  sensitivity  estimates  are  above  95%.  Thus,  good  diagnostic  properties  during  different 
conditions have been demonstrated. The above sensitivity and specificity estimates are reflected in the 
SPC. 
ii) 
The cutoff value, 3.5 
A  detailed  substantiation  of  the  cut-off  value  of  the  test  did  not  emerge  from  the  clinical  trial  data 
described above. Instead, a review of published references was undertaken to assess 13C excess cut-off 
values  and  other  parameters  used  by  other  investigators.  In  a  retrospectively  designed  study,  the 
results from seven multi-national studies were analysed (1229 tests). Additionally, 1815 and 935 tests 
from  clinical  trials  and  routine  clinical  data  were  added  into  the  database.  These  studies  had  used 
similar  protocols  and  the  effect  of  using  an  excess  13C  cut-off  value  of  3.5  rather  than  5.0  was 
investigated. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis of this total database indicated that a 
cut-off value of 3.5 excess provided the greatest specificity and sensitivity when employing a Calogen 
& Ensure test meal, 100 mg 13C urea and 30 minutes post-urea breath sampling. On this basis, a cut-
off  point  of  3.5  is  considered  an  optimal  balance,  which  leads  to  increased  sensitivity  without 
decreasing the specificity. 
Safety 
None of the studies reported in the dossier reported side effects due to 13C urea. 
In general, as neither the 13C isotope nor urea has any pharmacological or toxicological effects, the test 
may be repeated in the same individual, within the limitations imposed in the SPC. 
5. 
Conclusions 
Satisfactory quality of Pylobactell has been demonstrated, allowing a 2 year shelf life when stored at 
room temperature, (below 25oC). 
In  view  of  the  fact  that  urea  is  intrinsically  physiologically  abundant  and  only  a  small  additional 
amount is to be administered under the conditions of this test, it is considered that any additional risk 
is negligible. None of the clinical studies performed reported side effects due to 13C-urea. 
The Pylobactell  13C-urea breath test procedure is a non-invasive method to detect gastroduodenal H. 
pylori infection. The clinical trials reported show a high efficacy of procedure with regard to variables 
such  as  test  meal,  dosage  and  cut  off-point,  independent  of  use  after  or  before  therapy  of  H.  pylori 
infection.  The  average  sensitivity  and  specificity  for  the  procedure,  compared  to  biopsy-based 
techniques was > 95% and > 90% respectively. The standardisation of the breath test as defined in the 
SPC makes this method suitable for general clinical use especially in patients with known gastritis or 
gastroduodenal ulcer disease. 
The  breath  test  reflects  H.  pylori  status  and  can  be  used  as  a  control  after  an  eradication  therapy. 
However,  for  the  differential  diagnosis  before  H.  pylori  eradication  therapy,  invasive  endoscopic 
examination and histologic analysis of biopsy specimens are essential in order to examine the presence 
of any other complicating conditions (e.g. ulcer, autoimmune gastritis and malignancies). 
The  suppression/eradication of  H. pylori  may lead to false  negative or  positive  results, therefore  the 
test should be used after at least 4 weeks without systemic antibacterial therapy and 2 weeks after the 
last dose of acid antisecretory agents such as proton pump inhibitors. 
7/7 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
