EMA/162307/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005535 
Qaialdo (spironolactone) 
An overview of Qaialdo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Qaialdo and what is it used for? 
Qaialdo is a medicine used to manage refractory oedema (swelling due to fluid build-up that does not 
respond to standard treatments) associated with any of the following conditions:  
• 
congestive heart failure (when the heart does not pump blood as well as it should and fluid builds 
up around the heart and in the legs);  
•  hepatic cirrhosis (liver scarring) with ascites (fluid build-up in the belly) and oedema (fluid build-up 
in the legs, feet and ankles);  
•  malignant ascites (ascites caused by cancer cells spreading to the organs in the belly);  
•  nephrotic syndrome (a group of symptoms associated with kidney damage, such as the presence 
of protein in the urine or oedema);  
• 
essential hypertension (high blood pressure without a known cause).  
It can also be used to diagnose and treat primary aldosteronism, a condition in which the body 
produces too much of the hormone aldosterone, which also results in oedema.  
Qaialdo is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that the medicine is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
containing the same active substance, but Qaialdo is available as a liquid to be taken by mouth while 
the reference medicine is available as tablets. The reference medicine for Qaialdo is Aldactone.  
Qaialdo contains the active substance spironolactone. 
How is Qaialdo used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription, and children should only be treated under 
supervision of a paediatric specialist.  
Qaialdo is available as a suspension (a liquid with solid particles in it) to be taken by mouth once a 
day.  
For more information about using Qaialdo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Qaialdo work? 
The active substance in Qaialdo, spironolactone, works by blocking the effects of aldosterone, a 
hormone that helps control water balance in the body. The medicine blocks specific receptors (targets) 
for aldosterone in the kidneys. This increases the elimination of salt and water in the form of urine 
while keeping levels of potassium from getting too low. This, in turn, reduces oedema. 
What benefits of Qaialdo have been shown in studies? 
Spironolactone has been used in the European Union for several decades to treat refractory oedema. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Qaialdo. The company also 
carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect.  
Because Qaialdo is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
What are the risks associated with Qaialdo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Qaialdo, see the package leaflet.  
Because Qaialdo is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s.  
The most common side effects with Qaialdo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
hyperkalaemia (high blood potassium levels, which can cause tiredness, muscle weakness, feeling sick 
and heart rhythm disturbances). Gynaecomastia (breast growth in men) and breast pain are seen in up 
to 1 in 10 males. 
Why is Qaialdo authorised in the EU? 
Qaialdo has been shown to be comparable to the reference medicine. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Aldactone, the benefits of Qaialdo outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Qaialdo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Qaialdo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Qaialdo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Qaialdo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Qaialdo 
Qaialdo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 May 2023.  
Further information on Qaialdo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Qaialdo .  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023 
Qaialdo (spironolactone)  
EMA/162307/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
