EMA/816327/2017  
EMEA/H/C/003918 
EPAR summary for the public 
Qarziba1 
dinutuximab beta 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Qarziba. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Qarziba. 
For practical information about using Qarziba, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Qarziba and what is it used for? 
Qarziba is a cancer medicine used to treat neuroblastoma, a cancer of nerve cells, in patients over 1 
year of age. 
It is used in 2 groups of patients who have high-risk neuroblastoma (which has a high chance of 
coming back): 
• 
• 
patients who have had some improvement with previous treatments, which included blood stem-
cell transplantation (a transplant of blood-producing cells); 
patients whose neuroblastoma has not improved with other cancer treatments or has come back. 
If the neuroblastoma has come back after previous treatment, it should be stabilised (stopped from 
getting worse) before treatment with Qarziba is started. Qarziba is used together with another 
medicine called interleukin-2 (aldesleukin) in some cases where previous treatments have not worked 
well enough.  
Because the number of patients with neuroblastoma is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Qarziba was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 8 November 2012.  
1 Previously known as Dinutuximab beta Apeiron and Dinutuximab beta EUSA. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                       
The medicine contains the active substance dinutuximab beta. 
How is Qarziba used? 
Qarziba is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. Each course of treatment with the medicine is given 
for 5 or 10 days every 35 days. It is given for a total of 5 courses. The recommended dose depends on 
the patient’s weight and height.  
The doctor may need to reduce or delay doses if certain side effects occur, or stop treatment 
altogether if side effects are severe. 
Treatment with Qarziba should not be started unless the patient has satisfactory results in certain 
blood tests of liver, lung, kidney and bone marrow function.  
Treatment must be supervised by a doctor experienced in the treatment of cancer. It must be given in 
hospital by a doctor or nurse who can manage severe allergic reactions and who has full resuscitation 
services immediately available if needed. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For further information, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Qarziba work? 
Qarziba is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to 
a structure called GD2 that is present in high amounts on the surface of neuroblastoma cells, but not 
normal cells.  
When Qarziba attaches to the neuroblastoma cells, it makes them a target for the body’s immune 
system (the body’s natural defences), which then kills the cancer cells. 
What benefits of Qarziba have been shown in studies? 
Studies have shown that Qarziba is effective at increasing survival in patients with neuroblastoma. 
Two studies analysed data from 88 children and adults with neuroblastoma that had not improved with 
other cancer treatments or had come back. Patients were treated with Qarziba plus interleukin-2 and 
another medicine called isotretinoin. In these studies, 70% and 78% of the patients whose 
neuroblastoma had not improved with other treatments were still alive 2 years after treatment. Of the 
patients with neuroblastoma that had come back, 42% and 69% were still alive 2 years after 
treatment. 
In a third study, 370 children with high-risk neuroblastoma that had improved after other treatments 
were given Qarziba and isotretinoin with or without interleukin-2. At the start of treatment some of 
these patients had no sign of neuroblastoma and some still had some sign of the disease. Of the 
patients who had no sign of neuroblastoma, 71% were still alive 3 years after treatment and the 
results were similar whether the treatment included interleukin-2 or not. Of the patients who had some 
sign of neuroblastoma, 63% of those given interleukin-2 were still alive 3 years after treatment 
compared with 54% of patients who did not receive interleukin-2. 
In these studies, outcomes with Qarziba compared favourably with those previously seen in patients 
treated for neuroblastoma without Qarziba.  
What are the risks associated with Qarziba? 
The most common side effects with Qarziba (which may affect more than 7 in 10 people) are pyrexia 
(fever) and pain. Other side effects (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are hypersensitivity 
Qarziba 
EMA/816327/2017 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
(allergy), vomiting, diarrhoea, capillary leak syndrome (leakage of fluid from blood vessels that can 
cause swelling and a drop in blood pressure) and hypotension (low blood pressure). 
Qarziba must not be used in patients with severe or widespread graft-versus-host disease (when 
transplanted cells attack the body).  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Qarziba, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Qarziba approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) noted the lack of treatment 
options to prevent high-risk neuroblastoma from coming back. 
Taken together, data on outcomes with Qarziba show that the medicine is effective. However, more 
data are needed to fully understand the medicine’s effectiveness.  
Although treatment with Qarziba can cause serious side effects, the safety of the medicine is 
considered acceptable.  
Therefore the CHMP decided that Qarziba’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it 
be approved for use in the EU. 
Qarziba has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Qarziba for ethical reasons. As dinutuximab is a 
recommended treatment for high-risk neuroblastoma, it would not be ethical to carry out a trial in 
which some patients were given placebo (a dummy treatment). Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this summary will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Qarziba? 
Since Qarziba has been approved under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets Qarziba 
will monitor the safety of the medicine using a patient registry and provide yearly updates. The 
company will also perform tests to obtain more information on how the medicine is processed by the 
body and how the immune system responds to the medicine. Results of a study looking at the effect of 
giving Qarziba together with interleukin-2 will be provided by the company. In addition, the company 
will report on the 5-year survival rates of patients who took part in studies. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Qarziba? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Qarziba have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Qarziba 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Dinutuximab beta Apeiron on 8 May 2017. The name of the product was changed to Dinutuximab beta 
EUSA on 4 August 2017 and to Qarziba on 27 November 2017.  
The full EPAR for Qarziba can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Qarziba, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Qarziba 
EMA/816327/2017 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Qarziba can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated on 12-2017. 
Qarziba 
EMA/816327/2017 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
