EMA/861969/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005155 
Qdenga (dengue tetravalent vaccine [live, attenuated]) 
An overview of Qdenga and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Qdenga and what is it used for? 
Qdenga is a vaccine that helps protect against dengue disease. The vaccine can be given to adults, 
adolescents and children from 4 years of age.  
Dengue disease is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus, leading to mild, flu-
like symptoms in most people. However, a small number of patients develop severe disease, with 
potentially fatal bleeding and organ damage.  
This vaccine contains attenuated (weakened) versions of dengue virus serotypes (varieties) 1, 2, 3 and 
4. 
How is Qdenga used? 
This vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used in accordance with official 
recommendations. 
The vaccine is given as an injection under the skin of the upper arm. The vaccination course consists of 
2 injections given 3 months apart.  
For more information about using this vaccine, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare 
provider. 
How does Qdenga work? 
Dengue disease is caused by infection with dengue virus, which is transmitted to humans through the 
bite of mosquitos. This vaccine contains attenuated versions of the 4 virus serotypes. These versions 
cannot cause the disease, but they ‘teach’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to defend 
the body against the virus. 
When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system identifies the attenuated serotypes as foreign 
and makes antibodies against them. When a person is later exposed to the virus, the immune system 
recognises it and can quickly make many more antibodies, which then neutralise the virus before it can 
cause dengue disease. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Qdenga have been shown in studies? 
This vaccine was shown to be effective at preventing fever due to dengue disease in children and 
adolescents in the 12 months following the second injection. In a main study in 8 countries in Latin 
America and the Asia Pacific region, about 20,000 children between the age of 4 to 16 years were 
given Qdenga or placebo (a dummy injection). The study showed a reduction by 80% in the number of 
fever cases caused by confirmed dengue disease in those who received the vaccine (61 cases in 
12,700 children) compared with those given placebo (149 cases in 6,316 children).  
The vaccine also reduced hospitalisation due to dengue by 90%. In the 18 months after receiving the 
second injection, 0.1% (13 out of 12,700) of children given the vaccine were hospitalised because of 
confirmed dengue, compared with 1.0% (66 out of 6,316) of children given placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Qdenga? 
The most common side effects with Qdenga (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are pain and 
redness at the injection site, headache, muscle pain, feeling generally unwell and weakness. Up to 1 in 
10 people may experience fever. These side effects, which are usually of mild to moderate severity and 
resolve within a few days, are less frequent after the second dose of the vaccine than after the first. 
This vaccine must not be used in people who had a hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction to a previous 
dose of Qdenga. It must also not be used in individuals with a weakened immune system because of a 
disease, medicines that affect the immune system or HIV infection. The vaccine must not be used in 
women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Qdenga, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Qdenga authorised in the EU? 
Qdenga provides protection against fever and hospitalisation resulting from dengue disease caused by 
any of the 4 dengue virus serotypes. Side effects are mostly mild to moderate in severity and 
disappear within a few days.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Qdenga’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Qdenga? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Qdenga have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Qdenga are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Qdenga are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Qdenga 
Qdenga received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 5 December 2022. 
Further information on Qdenga can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Qdenga   
This overview was last updated in 12-2022. 
Qdenga (dengue tetravalent vaccine [live, attenuated]) 
EMA/861969/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
