Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for QINLOCK 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for QINLOCK. The RMP details 
important risks of QINLOCK, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about QINLOCK's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
QINLOCK's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how QINLOCK should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for QINLOCK should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
QINLOCK's RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
QINLOCK is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumours (GIST) who have received at least 3 or more kinase inhibitors including imatinib 
(see Product Information for the full indication). It contains ripretinib as the active substance and 
it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of QINLOCK’s benefits can be found in QINLOCK’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/qinlock.  
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterize the risks  
Important risks of QINLOCK, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about QINLOCK's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including periodic safety updated report (PSUR) assessment - so that 
immediate action can be taken, as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of QINLOCK is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of QINLOCK are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of QINLOCK. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome  
Hypertension  
Cardiac failure 
Important potential risks 
Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Phototoxicity 
Missing information 
Use in patients with severe renal impairment 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPES) also known as hand-foot skin 
reaction (HFSR) is a common adverse reaction of TKIs.  
In Study DCC-2618-03-001, PPES occurred in 22.4% (19 of 85) of patients treated 
with ripretinib 150 mg daily. All events were mild or moderate in severity. PPES 
was not seen in patients treated with placebo in the study.  
Non-clinical studies also showed signs of potential adverse effects on skin (300 
mg/kg/day in rats and 10 mg/kg/day in dogs). 
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and nature of an adverse 
reaction that is expected to occur in clinical practice. Nonclinical findings may be 
relevant for humans and in the absence of clinical data suggest a potential safety 
concern that awaits clinical confirmation. 
Some cancer therapies, including tyrosine kinase inhibitors, are recognized to cause 
PPES and therefore patients treated with these therapies are at increased risk.  
Patients whose jobs require a significant amount of walking or hand friction are at 
greater risk of developing these skin toxicities and use of caustic cleaning solutions 
and hot water are also contributors (Smith and Abou-Alfa, 2010). The severity of 
PPES is related to pressure, friction and heat, and tends to be more severe in 
younger, ‘more-active’ patients (Edmonds et al., 2012). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Dose modifications for Grade 2 and Grade 3 PPES in SmPC Section 4.2 
•  Treatment guidance in SmPC Section 4.4 and in package leaflet section 4 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 
•  Package leaflet section 4 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Hypertension  
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Hypertension occurred in 15.3% (13 of 85) of patients treated with ripretinib 
150 mg daily and 4.7% (2 of 43) of patients treated with placebo in Study 
DCC-2618-03-001. Hypertension was severe (Grade 3) in 6 (7.1%) patients treated 
with ripretinib.  
Nonclinical studies also suggested an effect on blood pressure. 
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and nature of an adverse 
reaction that is expected to occur in clinical practice. Nonclinical findings may be 
relevant for humans and in the absence of clinical data suggest a potential safety 
concern that awaits clinical confirmation. 
The potential risk group for hypertension or its complications are patients with 
uncontrolled hypertension. Other risk factors for hypertension include increased 
age, a family history of hypertension, African heritage, increased weight or obesity, 
physical inactivity, tobacco use, high salt intake and low potassium dietary intake, 
increased alcohol consumption, stress, and certain chronic conditions including 
kidney disease, diabetes and sleep apnoea (Mayo Clinic, 2019). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Dose modifications and medical management of Grade 3 hypertension and to 
permanently discontinue ripretinib for Grade 4 hypertension in SmPC Section 
4.2  
Risk minimisation measures 
•  Warning on the actions to take in SmPC Section 4.4 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 
•  Package leaflet section 4 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important identified risk: Cardiac Failure  
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are recognised to cause cardiac dysfunction. 
Cardiac failure events occurred in 1.2% (1 of 85) of patients treated with ripretinib 
150 mg daily during the double-blind treatment period in Study DCC-2618-03-001 
and none in placebo treated patients. All of the event was of Grade 3 severity. 
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and nature of an adverse 
reaction that is expected to occur in clinical practice. 
Patients with a history of cardiac disease appear to be at increased risk, a 
population that should be under constant monitoring for their underlying condition. 
Risk factors for cardiac failure include hypertension, coronary artery disease, 
myocardial infarction, diabetes, sleep apnoea, congenital heart defects, valvular 
heart disease, viral infection, alcohol use, tobacco use, obesity, and irregular 
heartbeats (Mayo Clinic, 2020). 
Certain medications may lead to cardiac failure including diabetes medications 
rosiglitazone (Avandia) and pioglitazone (Actos), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs); certain anaesthesia medications; some anti-arrhythmic 
medications; certain medications used to treat high blood pressure, cancer, blood 
conditions, neurological conditions, psychiatric conditions, lung conditions, 
urological conditions, inflammatory conditions and infections; and other 
prescription and over-the-counter medications (Mayo Clinic, 2020). Tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors are recognised to cause cardiac dysfunction and therefore patients 
treated with these therapies are at increased risk. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Guidance to discontinue ripretinib in case of Grade 3 or 4 left ventricular 
systolic dysfunction in SmPC Section 4.2 and 4.4 
•  Warning to assess ejection fraction prior to initiating ripretinib and during 
treatment as clinically indicated in SmPC Section 4.4 
•  SmPC Section 4.8  
•  Package leaflet section 4 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important potential risk: Embryo-foetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
There are no data available for ripretinib exposure in pregnant women. Use of 
ripretinib during pregnancy has not been evaluated in the clinical development 
programme.  
In animal embryo-foetal toxicity studies ripretinib was teratogenic in rats, with 
malformations observed in the cardiovascular and skeletal systems. 
Nonclinical findings may be relevant for humans and in the absence of clinical 
data suggest a potential safety concern that awaits clinical confirmation. 
Females of childbearing potential and males with partners of reproductive 
potential must be informed that QINLOCK may cause foetal harm, and must 
ensure effective contraception during treatment and at least 1 week after the final 
dose of QINLOCK 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Recommendation to advise women to avoid pregnancy while taking ripretinib 
unless clearly necessary, to verify the pregnancy status prior to initiating 
ripretinib and during the treatment, and to use effective contraception during 
treatment (with a barrier method of contraception if systemic contraceptive 
steroids are used) for at least 1 week after the final dose in SmPC Section 4.4 
and Section 4.6 and in package leaflet section 2 
•  Information on non-clinical findings in Section 5.3 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important potential risk: Phototoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The nonclinical data suggested that ripretinib and metabolite DP-5439 exhibit the 
potential for ultraviolet (UV)-induced phototoxicity in an in vitro assay.  
In integrated analysis pool 3 data only 1% (4 of 392) of patients experienced 
adverse events related to photosensitivity. Majority (3 of 4) of these patients 
(0.8%, 3 of 392) experienced mild events; and only 1 patient (0.2%) experienced 
event of moderate intensity. None of the photosensitivity events were considered 
as serious or were reported with severe intensity.  
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and nature of an adverse 
reaction that is expected to occur in clinical practice. Nonclinical findings may be 
relevant for humans and in the absence of significant clinical data suggest a 
potential safety concern that needs further clinical confirmation. 
No major risk factors were identified. However, patient’s exposure to strong 
sunlight, sunlamps, and other sources of ultraviolets radiation and the absence of 
prophylactic skin care (e.g., SPF ≥ 30, hypoallergenic moisturizing creams or 
ointments for dry skin, and gentle skincare with fragrance-free soaps and 
detergents) can increase the chances of occurrence of photosensitivity reactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Recommendation to patients to avoid or minimise exposure to direct sunlight, 
sunlamps, and other sources of ultraviolet radiation due to the risk of 
phototoxicity associated with ripretinib; and advise patients to use measures 
such as protective clothing (long sleeves and hat) and sunscreen with high 
SPF in SmPC Section 4.4 and in package leaflet section 2 
Risk minimisation measures 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Missing information: Use in patients with severe renal impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Information that only limited clinical data are available in patients with severe 
renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) and that a recommended dose of 
ripretinib has not been established in patients with severe renal impairment in 
SmPC Section 4.2 and 5.2 and in package leaflet section 3 
•  Restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
 
 
 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
ripretinib. 
II.C.2 
There are no studies required for QINLOCK. 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
References for the RMP Summary 
Edmonds K, Hull D, Spencer-Shaw A, Koldenhof J, Chrysou M, Boers-Doets C, et al. Strategies 
for assessing and managing the adverse events of sorafenib and other targeted therapies in the 
treatment of renal cell and hepatocellular carcinoma: recommendations from a European nursing 
task group. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2012; 16: 172-84. 
Mayo Clinic. Heart failure. (Internet) Available at https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-
conditions/heart-failure/symptoms-causes/syc-20373142 Accessed 18 May 2020. [Mayo Clinic, 
2020] 
Mayo Clinic. High blood pressure (hypertension). (Internet) Available at 
https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/high-blood-pressure/symptoms-causes/syc-
20373410 Accessed 03 Dec 2019. [May Clinic 2019] 
Smith W and Abou-Alfa GK. Nursing management of hand-foot syndrome and hand-foot skin 
reaction. Lab Med J. 2010; 58-A: S63-5. 
 
 
