SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 April 2003. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date please refer to module 8B.  
Introduction 
1. 
The  active  substance  in  Quadramet  is  samarium  [153Sm]  lexidronam  pentasodium  INN,  i.e.  153Sm 
complexed with EDTMP (ethylenediaminetetramethylenephosphonic acid), also referred to as  153Sm-
EDTMP.  
The clinical indication for Quadramet relates to the relief of bone pain in patients with multiple painful 
osteoblastic  skeletal  metastases.  In  this  therapeutic  context  there  are  other  radiopharmaceuticals, 
which  are  authorised  with  similar  indications,  e.g.  32P  and  89Sr,  although  Quadramet  has  been 
developed  in  an  attempt  to  utilise  several  advantages  over  theses  radioisotopes.  For  example,  153Sm 
has a shorter physical half-life than 89Sr , which has a half-life of 50 days and which also has a slow 
onset of pain relief and a prolonged myelosuppressive effect. A potential benefit of samarium [153Sm]-
EDTMP  in  comparison  with  32P  is  its  lower  beta  energy  and  lack  of  incorporation  into  normal 
metabolic pathways. 
153Sm itself has a half-life of 46.3 hours, emits ß-radiation with therapeutic properties and γ-radiation 
whose energy allows its visualisation by γ-camera. The ligand EDTMP is a tetraphosphonate chelator 
with  a  high  affinity  for  skeletal  tissue  and  concentrates  in  areas  with  high  metabolic  turn-over  in 
intimate association with hydroxyapatite. 
Therefore  as  expected,  Sm-EDTMP  has  a  high  uptake  in  bone,  low  uptake  in  soft  tissue  and  rapid 
excretion of non-localised activity via the urine. However, the ligand also has affinity for free calcium 
in  the  plasma,  and  in  order  to  counteract  this  effect,  the  formulation  of  Quadramet  contains  added 
calcium.  This  is  considered  to  be  safer  without  changing  the  biodistribution  of  the  product.  At  pH 
above 6 all of the calcium is bound to EDTMP and does not significantly contribute to the plasma free 
calcium pool on injection of the product.  
The  proposed  dose  of  153Sm-EDTMP  in  the  indication  is  37  MBq  per  kg  body  weight  (1  mCi/kg), 
equivalent  to  1.4  mg/kg  of  Ca/Na-EDTMP.  The  product  is  to  be  administered  by  slow  intravenous 
injection  through  an  established  intravenous  line  over  a  period  of  one  minute  (intravenous  bolus). 
Repeat dose administration should be based on an individual patient's response to prior treatment and 
on  clinical symptoms. A minimum interval  of  8 weeks should be allowed  between doses, subject to 
recovery of adequate bone marrow function. 
In a relevant patient population for the proposed indication (prostatic and breast cancer with skeletal 
metastases and bone pain) with relevant efficacy end-points Quadramet in a dose of 1 mCi/kg resulted 
in pain relief in approximately 60-65% of treated patients with a median duration of 3-4 months. 
The risk benefit ratio is considered to be favourable, and in addition, the rapid urinary excretion of the 
radioactivity should be of benefit both to the patient and the environment. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Active substance 
Samarium [153Sm] lexidronam pentasodium INN, equivalent to approx. 20-46 µg/ml samarium 
Pharmaceutical development: 
The company in the dossier outlined the ideal characteristics of a radiotherapeutic bone agent and the 
reasons  behind  the  choice  of  isotope  and  chelating  agent  were  discussed.  It  is  clear  that  the  nuclear 
properties of 153Sm make it suitable for use in radiotherapy.  
An  initial  prototype  preparation  consisted  of  153Sm  -Na-EDTMP,  i.e.  as  the  sodium  salt  only. 
However, the chelating properties of EDTMP produced a reduction in blood calcium levels and led to 
1/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the development of a 153Sm -Ca/Na-EDTMP complex which, due to the presence of added calcium in 
the formulation, prevented the fall in plasma calcium levels and was therefore considered to be safer. 
The  addition  of  calcium  to  the  formulation  reduces  the  potential  toxicity  of  the  formulation  in  this 
regard without changing the biodistribution. 
Method of preparation 
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  by  mixing  filtered  samarium  [153Sm]  chloride  solution  with 
filter-sterilised Ca/Na-EDTMP solution for several minutes followed by dispensing and autoclaving at 
121oC.  Batch  size  is  adjusted  according  to  orders.  In-process  controls  are  applied  to  radioactive 
concentration, volume and a check on autoclave parameters. 
In general, process validation and in-process control measures should provide an adequate assurance 
of sterility and compliance with specification. During manufacture, filter integrity testing is performed 
before  and  after  filtration  by  the  bubble  point  method  and  bioburden  limits  prior  to  filtration  are 
controlled at a limit in compliance with current European guidelines.  
Batch results show satisfactory consistency within specifications. 
Packaging materials: 
Vials and stoppers are washed with purified water. Vials are sterilised in the oven at 250ºC for at least 
60 minutes, stoppers are autoclaved at 121°C for at least 20 minutes. 
This provides adequate assurance of sterility. 
Control of active substance and other starting materials 
Samarium  [153Sm]-EDTMP  is  not  isolated  as  such.  Structural  analysis  studies  (NMR-1H,  NMR-13C, 
FAB-MS, energy dispersive analysis, elemental analysis, gravimetric analysis and titration) have been 
carried  out  on  the  nonradioactive  samarium  complex  and  later  compared  to  153Sm-EDTMP,  sodium 
salt  with  identical  results.  The  samarium-EDTMP  complex  consists  of  one  atom  of  samarium 
quantitatively  chelated  by  one  molecule  of  EDTMP.  At  pH  above  6  all  of  the  calcium  is  bound  to 
EDTMP  and  does  not  significantly  contribute  to  the  plasma  free  calcium  pool  on  injection  of  the 
product. 
Impurities have been synthesised and HPLC retention times and relative response factors determined. 
Studies  show  that  high  levels  of  radiolytic  impurities  have  no  effect  on  biodistribution  of  the 
153Sm-EDTMP complex, and furthermore the presence of degradants of EDTMP results in no change 
in the radiochemical purity of the product. The affinity of samarium is greater for EDTMP than for the 
degradation products. Toxicity studies have been performed on a preparation containing high levels of 
degradation products. 
153SmCl3 solution 
Specifications  and  routine  tests  include  radionuclidic  identity  and  purity,  samarium  content  and 
radioactive  concentration.  The  relative  amount  of  radionuclidic  impurities  varies  with  duration  of 
irradiation  of  the  initial  samarium  oxide  target.  Nuclear  transformations  leading  to  the  isotope  and 
radionuclidic  impurities  (152Eu,  154Eu  and  156Eu)  have  been  studied  and  the  impact  on  dosimetry  has 
been reliably estimated. 
EDTMP.H2O 
Suitable  information  has  been  given  on  the  preparation  and  control  of  this  material.  A  satisfactory 
validated assay is performed, and the determination of impurities by 31P-NMR has also been validated. 
Two potential related substances have been identified although these appear at levels below the limit 
of reliable quantification and present no toxicological significance for the finished product. 
Packaging material 
(a) 
The  immediate  packaging  consists  of  PhEur  type  I  glass  vials  and  teflon-coated  chlorobutyl/natural 
rubber stoppers, which comply with the PhEur monograph for rubber closures. 
2/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control tests on the finished product 
Analytical  methods  have  been  described  and  validated,  and  the  specification  has  been  improved 
during the review process.  
The  samarium  complex  is  identified  chromatographically  and  radionuclidic  identity  is  adequately 
established.  Concerning  radionuclidic  purity,  the  applicant  has  proposed  a  satisfactory  specification, 
although they have also promised to keep the specification for gamma-contaminants under review in 
the light of large scale batch experience. 
Radiochemical purity is established as ≥99%. 
The radioactive concentration limits are defined as 1300 MBq/ml ±10% at calibration. 
The  specification  is  completed  by  microbiological  tests  and  tests  for  chemical  impurities,  and  is 
considered  to  characterise  the  product  in  a  way  that  should  indicate  uniform  and  consistent 
performance in vivo. 
Stability 
General Comment 
Radiation emanating from the  153Sm induces radiolytic degradation of the EDTMP ligand in addition 
to  those  impurities  arising  from  preparation  of  the  active  substance  and  product.  These  related 
impurities have been identified. 
Active substance 
Studies under long term and accelerated conditions have indicated no changes except a small increase 
in impurity content. Seen  in connection with the pronounced degradation of EDTMP in the finished 
product, the limits for impurities in the active substance are acceptable. A satisfactory retest period has 
been established. 
Finished product 
Five batches have been studied. As expected, the content of EDTMP decreased, both during the 4 days 
and  the  6  hours,  accompanied  by  a  corresponding  increase  in  the  amount  of  chemical  impurities.  A 
slight decrease was also seen in pH (max 0.5 pH unit). 
Regarding  container  compatibility  there  were  no  differences  in  pH,  radiochemical  purity  and 
radioactive concentration whether stored in the upright or upside down position. 
The company has committed itself to reassess the shelf-life specifications when results from industrial 
scale batches are available. 
Based on these stability studies, the product is distributed frozen in dry ice and should be stored frozen 
at -10 to -20ºC by the user, in the original packing. It should be used within 6 hours of thawing and 
should  not  be  refrozen  after  thawing.  The  applicant  claims  that  low-temperature  storage  reduces 
radiolytic degradation products and there is acceptable evidence for this claim.  
Proposed limits for related impurities in the product  have  been justified  and  qualified by toxicology 
studies  described  in  Part  III  of  the  dossier,  carried  out  on  artificially-degraded  material  having  a 
comparable impurity profile to the product in therapeutic use.  
In general, the shelf-life and storage conditions cited in the SPC are considered to be justified. 
GMP statement 
See section II.1 of this report. 
3/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Overview of part III of the dossier: toxico-pharmacological aspects 
An Expert Report, Textual Summaries, Tabulated Summary Reports and literature references or study 
reports,  adequately  supports  the  marketing  application.  All  pivotal  safety  studies  were  conducted  in 
GLP compliance, and in general the documentation was of good quality. 
Studies describing the non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology of samarium [153Sm]-EDTMP, have 
utilised a  non-radioactive formulation  of Sm-EDTMP as  either the sodium  salt (Sm-Na-EDTMP) or 
the  calcium/sodium  salt  (Sm-Ca/Na-EDTMP).  The  use  of  a  non-radioactive  formulation  in  the 
examination of pharmacological and toxicological effects is justified because  
1) 
2) 
high doses are generally required to elucidate the total pharmacologic and toxicologic profile of 
a  new  agent,  by  using  a  radioactive  formulation  in  such  high  doses,  the  effect  of  the 
radioactivity would overshadow all other pharmacologic and toxicologic effects; and  
153Sm-EDTMP is present in a very small concentration compared to the other components of the 
clinical formulation.  
The 153Sm-EDTMP complex was selected on the basis of its high tropism for bone, like all phosphonic 
acid  complexes,  but  also  because  of  its  high  blood  clearance,  fast  urinary  excretion  and  absence  of 
metabolism. Strong, fast bone uptake occurs with a lesion-to-normal bone uptake ratio of the order of 
5. Over 50% is taken up in 30 minutes with the free fraction being rapidly eliminated by the urinary 
route preventing soft tissue uptake. In the preparation, the complex is present at a relatively low level 
since  there  is  an  excess  of  Ca/Na-EDTMP.  For  this  reason,  some  of  the  toxicological  and 
pharmacological studies were conducted with EDTMP or the sodium or sodium/calcium salt thereof.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic effects relating to the proposed clinical indication 
In one study, dogs with a variety of skeletal neoplasias, mainly osteogenic sarcomas located on distal 
radius, were treated with 153Sm-EDTMP. The data indicate 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a good response in primary lesions with marked ossification, 
in general, small lesions with little lysis and metastatic lesions responded well to treatment, 
periosteal and cortical lesions were less sensitive. 
a poor response of treatment from large lesions showing little calcification, 
Based  on  the  study  it  can  be  considered  that  chelate  uptake  by  bone  tissue  is  important  for  clinical 
efficacy; large tumours may have areas that are not fully exposed to the short-penetrating β-radiation 
resulting in less efficacy, as compared to small tumour sites.  
Safety Pharmacology 
Data on the effects on the skeletal system and the cardiovascular system have been submitted. Other 
organ  systems  (kidney,  CNS  and  respiratory)  have  been  addressed  in  the  single  and  repeated  dose 
toxicity studies, as well as in the pharmacodynamic (re. the proposed indication) section. 
Effects  encountered  were  expected  on  the  basis  of  chemical  and  structural  properties  of  153Sm-
EDTMP;  i.e.,  in  animals,  treatment-related  interferences  were  observed  on  the  mineralisation 
processes in bone and in the phosphorus/calcium metabolism. 
The  Na-Sm-EDTMP  complex  appeared  to  induce  dose-dependent  fall  in  blood  pressure  in 
anesthetised  dogs  at  i.v.  bolus  doses  as  low  as  0.3  mg/kg,  deaths  were  encountered  at  20  mg/kg. 
Higher i.v. infusion doses (20-30 mg/kg) in anesthetised dogs induced decrease in blood pressure and 
tachycardia. In the conscious dog, 10 and 20 mg/kg induced no change in blood pressure or heart rate; 
only at 30 mg/kg was a transient increase in heart rate observed. ECG recordings revealed a T-wave 
inversion  at  low  doses  (≥  3  mg/kg),  then  an  increase  in  the  PR  and  QT-intervals  with  a  decrease  in 
P- and R-wave amplitude. No ECG recordings were conducted in conscious dogs. 
Further comparative studies for cardiovascular safety were conducted with the Na and Ca/Na salts of 
EDTMP  and  showed  dose-related  falls  in  ionised  calcium  and  magnesium  for  both  salts.  It  was 
4/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated that the Ca/Na salt form had a better safety profile, as compared to the Na salt. Gross 
pathological  examination  revealed  no  treatment-related  effects  on  the  cardiovascular  system.  Thus, 
these data provide a reasonable rationale for the development of the Ca/Na salt form, and indicate that 
(very) high doses by rapid intravenous bolus injection may cause cardiovascular effects secondary to 
calcium chelation. 
Drug Interactions 
Concomitant  administration  of  melphalan  and  153Sm-EDTMP  potentiated  toxicity  in  the  rat.  This 
potentiation  was  not  observed  if  administration  of  the  drugs  was  separated  by  a  5-day  interval. 
However, additional  studies in  mice  and rats  indicated that interaction with  melphalan  has  no direct 
relevancy for the proposed clinical use of 153Sm-EDTMP. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  dose  kinetic  studies  were  performed  in  the  rat  and  in  the  rabbit.  No  repeated  dose 
administration  studies  were  performed,  on  the  grounds  that  the  medicinal  product  is  intended  for 
single dose use only. Protein-binding studies were described in the dossier. 
Distribution  studies  in  the  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  monkey  have  been  evaluated,  and  urine  from  these 
animals was analysed in biotransformation studies. 
During  development  of  the  product,  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  mainly  with  the 
Na-formulation. However, a comparative biodistribution study of Na and Ca/Na-formulation showed 
no significant differences between these two formulations in terms of biolocalisation at either 2 or 72 
hours after intravenous administration in the rat. 
A variety of ligands were evaluated in animal studies. Of the 153Sm complexes evaluated, the one that 
gave  the  best  overall  combination  of  high  uptake  in  bone  with  little  or  no  accumulation  in  any  soft 
tissue was the complex formed with EDTMP. Two hours post injection into rats, 58% of the injected 
dose was localised to the skeleton with only 0.2% in the liver. Elimination was equally extensive from 
other soft tissues with only 0.03% remaining in the entire blood volume at the two hour timepoint. 
In  general,  the  data  demonstrate  that  153Sm-EDTMP  has  high  affinity  for  bone,  i.e.,  it  localises  to 
growing  areas  of  bone  matrix,  specifically  the  layer  of  osteoid  undergoing  mineralisation,  and  that 
samarium  is  always  associated  with  calcium  and  phosphorus  in  highly  mineralised  zones.  The  data 
demonstrate  that  fast  urinary  elimination  of  the  administered  fraction  not  undergoing  bone  uptake 
occurs resulting in a rapid blood clearance. The exposure of soft tissues is very limited, and transient. 
Although  limited  documentation  exists,  it  appears  that  153Sm-EDTMP  is  not  metabolised.  This  is  in 
agreement  with  what  is  known  in  relation  to  other  phosphonates.  This  pharmacokinetic  profile 
emphasises the important role of the renal function in the clearance process, and it is suggested that 
injected  activity  of  153Sm-EDTMP  should  be  adjusted  with  regard  to  renal  function.  Renal  failure 
reduces  the  urinary  elimination  of  radioactivity  and  increases  soft  tissue  uptake.  In  general  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  supports  the  clinical  use,  i.e.,  the  specific  accumulation  at  the  site  of  action 
and the rapid blood clearance limiting the potential toxicity. 
Toxicology 
Data relating to single and repeated dose toxicity have been evaluated in the rat, mouse and dog. 
The symptomatology of acute toxicity of  153Sm-EDTMP can be related to the chelating properties of 
EDTMP. Signs of acute toxicity in rats and mice include ataxia, tremors and convulsions. 
Target organs were the phosphorus/calcium metabolism and the kidneys. 
The  adverse  effect  on  the  phosphorus/calcium  metabolism  is  considered  related  to  the  chelating 
properties  of  the  EDTMP  complex.  Points  for  consideration  in  this  regard  may  include  the 
concentration of the solution and the speed of administration, however, the clinical data do not suggest 
that  this  is  a  safety  issue  in  human  therapeutic  use  taken  into  account  the  proposed  pharmaceutical 
composition and the proposed method of administration. 
The  degradation  products,  as  described  above,  cause  the  treatment-induced  adverse  effects  on  the 
kidney. Kidney lesions were observed in single dose toxicity studies in mice and rats at high doses of 
153Sm-EDTMP containing degradation products. 
5/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated dose toxicity studies in dogs helped characterising the kidney lesions. Data from dogs given 
repeated  doses  of  153Sm-EDTMP  enriched  with  degradation  products  for  one  month,  established  a 
NOAEL of 2.5 mg/kg/day. This NOAEL is difficult to extrapolate to the human situation because the 
posology differed from the one proposed for clinical use (repeated daily administration for 1 month as 
compared to single dose (or repeated dose every 8th week) administration in humans). However, the 
NOAEL from this study does demonstrate a high margin of safety, (also supported by data from the 
clinical trials).  
No  Reproduction  toxicity  studies  have  been  performed.  Therefore,  the  SPC  has  appropriate 
contraindications and restrictions. 
Mutagenic- and oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
Non-radioactive Sm-EDTMP with or without degradation products showed no mutagenic potential in 
a battery of in vitro and in vivo test systems. One weakness of the documentation is, however, that no 
test systems were exposed to 153Sm-EDTMP enriched with degradation products. However, this is not 
considered  to  be  a  major  safety  issue  for  three  reasons:  1)  the  product  is  radioactive  per  se,  2)  the 
target human population should be taken into consideration, and 3) the fact that the test systems were 
exposed to at least some degree of degradation products. 
Local Tolerance 
Rabbit studies indicate that accidental perivenous administration should be avoided during clinical use 
because of the risk for producing hematoma. The proposed method of administration in the SPC, i.e. 
intravenous through an established intravenous line, appears to adequately diminish this risk. 
Effects related to the radioactivity of 153Sm 
The only adverse pharmacological effect attributable to administration of 153Sm-EDTMP is reversible 
bone marrow suppression; this is the same safety profile as observed in man. Data in dogs indicate an 
adequate safety margin following single dose administration (single administration of 30 mCi/kg was 
well  tolerated).  The  data  indicate  a  cumulative  bone  marrow  toxicity  after  repeated  administration 
because  in  one  study  (0.5,  1  or  2  mCi/kg),  longer  time  to  normalisation  (6  weeks)  after  4  repeated 
administrations occurred, as compared to time to normalisation after a single dose administration (3-4 
weeks), and, in another study (1 mCi/kg,), bone marrow depression lasted somewhat longer following 
two  doses  than  after  one.  Because  convincing  human  data  on  cumulative  bone  marrow  toxicity  is 
somewhat lacking, it is reasonable that these findings in the dog should be included in the SPC text. 
This  should  emphasise  the  importance  of  blood  count  monitoring  in  patients,  especially  when 
administration is repeated. 
It should be noted that despite the radiation effects on the bone marrow and the secondary changes in 
the haematological profiles, no episodes of infection or bleeding were recorded preclinically. Further, 
it  was  noted  that  at  the  very  high  radioactive  exposure  levels  of  the  bone  marrow  in  the  preclinical 
studies, the potential for effective regeneration still persists. 
In  conclusion,  the  data  obtained  in  dogs  is  in  agreement  with  the  human  data,  i.e.,  secondary  dose-
related, reversible hematotoxicity caused by pharmacologically induced bone marrow depression was 
the primary target of toxicity. Gender-specificity has not been examined in animals. 
Summary of toxic-pharmacological aspects 
Repeat dose toxicity studies in the rat revealed the kidney as the target organ with histopathological 
changes  including  nephrosis,  tubular  dilatation  and  vacuolar  degeneration,  which  persisted 
throughout a 4-week drug-free recovery period. Adverse renal effects also occurred in the dog, with 
evidence  of  reversibility  upon  cessation  of  treatment.  The  other  major  finding  was  haematological, 
characterised  by  decreased  haematocrit  and  haemoglobin  with  evidence  of  reversibility.  In  view  of 
the proposed therapeutic indication these findings are not an impediment to the grant of a Marketing 
Authorisation. 
No  reproductive  toxicity  studies  have  been  conducted.  Due  to  the  radioactivity  the  drug  is 
contraindicated  in  pregnant  women  since  it  is  considered  to  present  a  risk  to  the  foetus.  The  same 
applies  for  lactating  mothers,  although  excretion  of  the  product  in  breast  milk  has  not  been 
investigated. 
6/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The ‘cold’ product with and without degradation products was non-genotoxic. However, due to the 
radioactivity of the samarium isotope, the product obviously presents a genotoxic hazard. Its use is 
acceptable in view of the proposed clinical indication. 
Carcinogenicity studies are not required for this product. Nevertheless EDTMP was evaluated in 2 rat 
studies in which there was evidence of carcinogenicity (pancreatic islet cell adenomas and carcinomas 
in  the  dietary  study,  osteosarcoma  in  the  oral  gavage  study).  The  aetiology  of  these  findings  was 
unknown. They did not present an impediment to the grant of a Marketing Authorisation in view of 
the proposed clinical indication. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Like other phosphonic acid complexes, samarium [153Sm]-EDTMP has an affinity for skeletal tissue 
and concentrates in areas of bone turnover in intimate association with hydroxyapatite. 
The core clinical development programme consisted of the following studies: 
Study 
BA-xxx 
101* 
102 
103 
104 
105 
107 
109 
108 
106/110 
Sm10/11 
Sm12 
Volume 
Ref 
1 
1 
2 
3 
5 
7 
8 
11 
17 
28 
39 
Type of Study 
Doses 
Doses  N = 
Design 
SD 
5 
Pilot, open 
mCi/kg 
2 mCi 
total* 
0.1 - 1.0 
SD/R
D 
22 
Clinical 
1.0 - 3.0 
SD 
52 
Pharmacol. 
0.5 - 1.0 
RD 
19 
1.0, 1.5, 2.0
0.5, 1.0 
0.5 
Pivotal 
0.5 vs 1.0 
SD 
RD 
SD 
SD 
23 
22 
7 
114 
Dose-ranging, 
open 
Dose-ranging, 
open 
Open, Max Tol 
Dose 
Open 
Open 
Dosimetry 
SB, Randomised, 
PG 
Efficacy 
P vs 0.5 vs 
1.0  
SD 
118  DB, Randomised, 
PG 
Studies 
P vs 1.0 
SD 
141  DB, Randomised, 
Miscellaneous 
1.0 
SD 
18 
PG 
Open, 
compassionate use, 
long-term 
* = In study BA-101, patients were given a total dose of 2 mCi (and not on per kg basis) 
P = Placebo 
SB = Single blind 
RD = Repeat dose 
PG = Parallel Group  
SD = Single dose, 
DB = Double blind 
Pharmacodynamics & Pharmacokinetics 
Samarium [153Sm] - EDTMP was shown to localise to bone. It has a favourable bone to soft tissue 
and lesion to normal bone localisation ratio. In clinical studies employing planar imaging techniques, 
QUADRAMET  accumulates  with  a  lesion-to-normal  bone  ratio  of  approximately  5  and  a  lesion-to-
7/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
soft  tissue  ratio  of  approximately  6.  Thus,  areas  of  metastatic  involvement  can  accumulate 
significantly greater amounts of Quadramet than surrounding normal bone. 
Scintiscans  revealed  that  except  for  the  bladder,  selective  concentration  of  the  activity  in  the  body 
could only be seen in the skeleton on both whole body and spot images. 
Ratio of Uptake 
153Sm-EDTMP 
99mTc-HDP 
Lesion to Normal Bone 
Lesion to Soft Tissue 
Normal Bone to Soft tissue 
4.04 ± 2.62 
5.98 ± 3.18 
2.47 ± 1.01 
4.01 ± 1.97 
6.87 ± 4.67 
2.44 ± 1.25 
There was no accumulation of activity in any non-osseous tissue. 
In patients, Quadramet is rapidly cleared from the blood. It is rapidly cleared from the blood into urine 
and the lesional tissue. Total skeletal uptake of Quadramet in studies of 453 patients with a variety of 
primary  malignancies  was  65.5  +  15.5%  of  the  administered  dose.  Urinary  excretion  occurred 
predominantly during the first 4 hours. At 12 hours, 35.3 + 13.6% of the administered dose had been 
excreted into the urine. In view of the β-emission from samarium [153Sm]-EDTMP and its target organ 
dosimetry, the most significant secondary effects are on bone marrow. 
Administration  of  1.0  mCi/kg  dose  was  considered  to  be  optimal  on  the  basis  of  pain  score,  use  of 
analgesics and myelotoxicity. 
Therapeutic efficacy 
The  applicant  has  submitted  three  well-conducted  Phase  III  pivotal  studies  to  provide  the  principal 
evidence of efficacy and safety in the proposed indication. These are: 
BA-108, 
BA-106/110 and  424Sm10/11 
In these three studies, 288 patients received the active drug and 85 received the placebo. 
Patients included had confirmed histological diagnosis of malignancy and of metastatic lesions in bone 
(as evidenced by pain overlying at least one site of enhanced uptake on 99m Tc bone scan). 
BA 108: 
Single-blind, comparative between doses, multicentre, parallel group, randomised 
study of 114 patients with bone metastases from various types of malignancies. 
75M + 39F, mean age 63yr (range 20-83) 
16 weeks total (Single-blind phase was 4 weeks) 
Single dose of 0.5 mCi/kg or 1 mCi/kg 
BA 106/110: 
Double-blind,  3-arm  comparative  (  vs  placebo  &  2  doses  ),multicentre,  parallel 
groups,  randomised  study  of  118  patients  with  bone  metastases  from  various 
malignancies. 
91M + 27F, mean age 63.5yr (range 24-83) 
16 weeks total (Double-blind phase was 4 weeks) 
Single dose of 0.5 mCi/kg or 1 mCi/kg or placebo 
424Sm10/11:  
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, parallel group, randomised study of 
141 patients with hormone refractory bone metastases from prostate carcinoma 
(stage D2) 
mean age 71yr (range 46-86) 
16 weeks total (Double blind phase was 4 weeks) 
Single dose of 1 mCi/kg or placebo 
Three pivotal studies provide evidence of efficacy. The MA applicant has confirmed that the studies 
were conducted according to GCP standards.  
8/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Endpoints of Efficacy 
Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) 
(BA 108, BA 106/110, 424Sm10/11) 
Pain Descriptor Scale (PDS) 
(424Sm10/11) 
Analgesic Use ( AUPC)  
(BA 108, BA 106/110, 424Sm10/11) 
Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) 
(BA 108, BA 106/110) 
Results 
BA 108 
An analysis of the changes from baseline in the AUPC and PGA results demonstrates that samarium 
[153Sm]-EDTMP  at  doses  of  0.5  mCi/kg  and  1.0  mCi/kg  provides  relief  from  pain  associated  with 
osteoblastic bone metastases. The effect is greater and statistically significant at 1.0 mCi/kg dose level. 
However,  even  at  this  dose  level,  there  was  no  obvious  trend  correlating  decrease  in  AUPC  and  a 
decrease in use of opioid analgesics. The onset of pain relief is apparent in evaluations performed at 
2  weeks  after  drug  administration.  In  those  who  have  responded  by  week  4,  the  relief  persists  for 
12  weeks  in  more than half.  The benefit was particularly  evident  for  breast cancer  patients,  at week 
4 on a dose of 1.0 mCi/kg dose. 
BA 106/110 
Analysis  of  the  changes  from  baseline  in  AUPC  and  the  PGA  results  demonstrate  that  samarium 
[153Sm]-EDTMP  at  doses  of  0.5  mCi/kg  and  1.0  mCi/kg  provides  relief  from  pain  associated  with 
osteoblastic bone metastases. The effect is greater and statistically significant at 1.0 mCi/kg dose level. 
The interval to onset of pain relief depends on the parameter by which it is evaluated but it is apparent 
in most evaluations performed at 3 weeks after drug administration. The effect persists at least until 
week 16 in some individuals on this dose.  
424Sm10/11 
This study provides the most convincing evidence on efficacy. Analysis of the changes from baseline 
in VAS-AUPC and PDS-AUPC, together with a demonstrable decrease in the mean opioid analgesic 
use among the patients in the active treatment group suggests that samarium [153Sm]-EDTMP at doses 
of  1.0  mCi/kg  provides  relief  from  pain  associated  with  osteoblastic  bone  metastases.  The  effect  is 
independent  of  opioid  use.  The  difference  between  placebo  and  the  active  drug  was  significant  by 
week  1  (PDS-AUPC)  and  by  week  2  (VAS-AUPC).  The  median  time  to  onset  of  pain  relief  was 
1 week and the median duration of this relief was 4 weeks.  
Safety 
578 patients represented by provide the safety database: 
• 
• 
• 
85 receiving placebo in controlled studies 
288 receiving samarium [153Sm] - EDTMP in comparative studies 
205 receiving samarium [153Sm] - EDTMP in open studies 
Death was reported in 70 (12%) of the 578 patients in the clinical trials programme. Of these, 43 were 
in  the  three  comparative  studies  and  27  in  other  (all  uncontrolled)  studies.  There  were  5  deaths  on 
placebo (5.9%) and 65 deaths on samarium [153Sm]-EDTMP (13.1%). According to the investigators 
this was not linked to Quadramet . The cause of death in 65 of the 495 patients receiving samarium 
[153Sm] - EDTMP was: 
9/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression of disease: 
Progressive disease plus other factors 
Cardiopulmonary causes 
Deaths where thrombocytopenia is 
mentioned 
Deaths where DIC was mentioned 
Deaths where cord compression mentioned  
Deaths where bleeding mentioned 
Suicide 
Aspiration of stomach contents 
Cause unknown 
27 
7 
14 
2 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
4 
The main toxic effect is myelotoxicity but the data confirm that this is readily reversible. The data also 
suggests that the frequency and severity of myelotoxicity are less than that following administration of 
other radionuclides currently available for the proposed indication.  
The intensity of myelotoxicity of samarium [153Sm] - EDTMP is categorised by the National Cancer 
Institute Common Toxicity Grades as follows: 
Toxicity 
Grade 
Haemoglobin 
(g/100ml) 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
≥ 11 
9.5 - 10.9 
8.0 - 9.4 
6.5 - 7.9 
< 6.5 
Total 
WBC 
(Giga/l) 
≥ 4.0 
3.0 - 3.9 
2.0 - 2.9 
1.0 - 1.9 
< 1.0 
Granulocytes 
Platelets 
(Giga/l) 
(Giga/l) 
≥ 2.0 
1.5 - 1.9 
1.0 - 1.4 
0.5 - 0.9 
< 0.5 
≥ 100 
75 - 99 
50 - 74 
25 - 49 
< 25 
The overall frequency of myelotoxicity in the three pivotal studies was as follows: 
Parameter 
Toxicity  
Control 
0.5 mCi/kg 
Grade 
(n=80) 
(n=86) 
1.0 
mCi/kg 
(n=180) 
Haemoglobin 
0-2 
73 (91%) 
76 (88%) 
160 (89%) 
3 
4 
 6 (8%) 
 1 (1%) 
10 (12%) 
 17 (9%) 
 0 
  3 (2%) 
Platelets 
0-2 
80 (100%) 
80 (93%) 
168 (93%) 
3 
4 
 0 
 0 
 3 (3%) 
 3 (3%) 
 10 (6%) 
  2 (1%) 
WBC 
0-2 
80 (100%) 
81 (94%) 
164 (92%) 
3 
4 
 0 
 0 
 5 (6%) 
 15 (8%) 
 0 
  0 
10/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At a dose level of 1.0 mCi/kg, the mean nadir values are as follows: 
WBC 
Platelets  
Haemoglobin 
about 3600/µl 
about 127000/µl 
about 10 g/dl 
The nadir values for WBC and platelets are not at levels that would be associated with infectious or 
haemorrhagic complications. 
The mean times to nadir at a dose level of 1.0 mCi/kg are: 
For WBC 
For platelets 
For haemoglobin  
3-4 weeks 
4 weeks 
7 weeks 
A total of  18 patients in the three  pivotal  studies  cited  at the  beginning of the safety chapter  of this 
report  developed  a  total  of  25  severe  reactions,  possibly  or  probably  associated  with  samarium 
[153Sm]-EDTMP. The most frequent were anaemia (11), leucopenia (2) and pain (2). 
The overall number of patients who discontinued because of adverse events was 30 (5%) of the 578 
patients. Of these, 2 were in the placebo group and the rest on the active treatment. The main events in 
the active treatment group were as follows: 
Cord/root compression 
Haemotoxicity 
Anaemia 
Renal complications 
11  
 6 * 
 2 * 
 3 
* = considered to be drug-related 
When compared to placebo, the only events reported more frequently with samarium [153Sm] - 
EDTMP included : 
Pain  
Nausea and vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Flare 
Urinary tract infection 
Infection 
and other events mentioned in the SPC. 
Conclusion on clinical aspects 
Concerning efficacy, the data generated by the studies summarised above support the conclusions that: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Quadramet  given  by  slow  intravenous  injection  is  effective  in  relieving  pain  from  bone 
metastasis.  
A dose of 1.0 mCi/kg of Quadramet is significantly more effective than placebo.  
Approximately  55%  to  65%  of  patients  experience  pain  relief  at  4  weeks  after  receiving 
1.0 mCi/kg of Quadramet.  
Following  administration  of  Quadramet  at  a  dose  of  1.0  mCi/kg,  the  onset  of  pain  relief  is 
apparent by week 1 or week 2 and the duration of relief is at least 8 weeks (mean duration 3-4 
months).  
Concerning safety, a detailed evaluation of the observations on cord/root compression was performed 
and  this  issue  has  been  addressed  in  the  SPC  under  Section  4.8,  Undesirable  Effects,  together  with 
effects  relating  to  haemotoxicity  and  anaemia.  Initial  data  suggesting  an  increased  mortality  with 
Quadramet treatment were further analysed. The applicant presented the deaths in randomised trials in 
a manner which allowed a variety of more reliable calculations to be made. For example the death rate 
among  patients  who  were  exposed  to  placebo  at  any  time  (a  criterion  comparable  to  that  used  for 
Quadramet  exposure)  was  11.8%,  compared  to  13.1%  in  patients  exposed  to  Quadramet.  This 
reanalysis  confirmed  that  there  was  no  evidence  of  any  relationship  between  death  rate  and  dose  of 
Quadramet.  Clinically,  there  were  no  toxic  effects  on  the  renal  function  in  patients  with  normal 
function  at  baseline;  however,  the  safety  in  patients  with  impairment  of  renal  function  is  unknown. 
11/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore treatment with Quadramet should be adjusted with regard to renal function as proposed by 
the applicant in the SPC. 
5. 
Conclusions 
The  CPMP  considered 
the  Marketing  Authorisation  application  contained  appropriate 
pharmaceutical data as well as preclinical and clinical information to meet quality, safety and efficacy 
standards,  and  consensus  was  reached  to  support  the  Marketing  Authorisation  of  Quadramet  in  the 
following therapeutic indication: 
that 
Quadramet is indicated for the relief of bone pain in patients with multiple painful osteoblastic skeletal 
metastases, which take up technetium [99mTc]-labelled biphosphonates on bone scan. The presence of 
osteoblastic  metastases  which  take  up  [99mTc]-labelled  biphosphonates  should  be  confirmed  prior  to 
therapy. 
12/12 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
