25 March 2022 
EMA/179542/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004282/II/0018/G 
Outcome of assessment on use of Vyxeos liposomal in the 
treatment of relapsed or refractory acute myeloid 
leukaemia  
The European Medicines Agency has finalised its assessment of an application to extend the use of 
Vyxeos liposomal to include the treatment of young patients (aged 1 to 21 years) with acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML) that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded (refractory) to previous 
treatment.  
Although EMA did not recommend this use, it agreed that relevant data from the study submitted with 
the application is to be included in the medicine’s product information so that healthcare professionals 
have access to up-to-date data on the effects of Vyxeos liposomal in young patients (aged 1 to 21 
years) with relapsing or refractory AML. 
What is Vyxeos liposomal and what is it used for? 
Vyxeos liposomal is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with newly diagnosed AML, a cancer of 
white blood cells. It is used when the leukaemia was caused by previous treatments (e.g. for other 
cancers) or is associated with certain changes in the bone marrow known as myelodysplasia. 
The active substances in Vyxeos liposomal are daunorubicin and cytarabine. It is available as an 
infusion (drip) into a vein. 
Vyxeos liposomal has been authorised in the EU since August 2018.  
Further information on Vyxeos liposomal’s current uses can be found on the Agency’s website:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vyxeos-liposomal 
What change had the company applied for? 
The company applied to extend the use of Vyxeos liposomal to the treatment of relapsed or refractory 
AML in young patients (aged 1 to 21 years).  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Vyxeos liposomal work? 
The active substances in Vyxeos liposomal, daunorubicin and cytarabine, have been used together to 
treat leukaemia and other types of cancer for many years. They interfere in different ways with the 
production of new DNA within cells, which means the cells are unable to grow and multiply, and they 
eventually die. 
In this medicine, daunorubicin and cytarabine are contained in tiny fat droplets called ‘liposomes’. The 
liposomes are expected to remain in the patient’s body for longer than conventional daunorubicin and 
cytarabine medicines and to build up in the patient’s bone marrow. The liposomes protect the cancer 
medicines from being broken down early, which is expected to enhance their effect on cancer cells. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
To support its application, the company provided data from a study involving 38 children and 
adolescents with relapsed AML who received Vyxeos liposomal. Patients’ remission of AML was 
analysed after treatment with Vyxeos liposomal. 
What were EMA’s conclusions? 
EMA noted several limitations in the data presented from the main study. While the Agency 
acknowledged that the main measure of effectiveness in the study (remission of AML) is important, it 
was unclear what the long-term benefit in patients with relapsed AML would be. Also, patients were not 
analysed by age group, of which some could have had different treatment options in addition to Vyxeos 
liposomal.  
The company decided to withdraw the applied new indication without addressing the issues identified 
by EMA. Vyxeos liposomal will therefore not be authorised for relapsed or refractory AML in patients 
aged 1 to 21 years old. The prescribing information for Vyxeos liposomal will be updated to include 
relevant data, so that healthcare professionals have access to up-to-date data on the effects of Vyxeos 
liposomal in young patients (aged 1 to 21 years) with AML. 
Does this outcome affect patients in clinical trials / compassionate use 
programmes? 
The company informed the Agency that there are no consequences for patients in clinical trials or in 
compassionate use programmes using Vyxeos liposomal. 
If you are in a clinical trial or compassionate use programme and need more information about your 
treatment, speak with your clinical trial doctor. 
Outcome of assessment on use of Vyxeos liposomal in the treatment of relapsed or 
refractory acute myeloid leukaemia  
EMA/179542/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
