European Medicines Agency 
London, 20 September 2007 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/423515/2007 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON RECOMMENDATION FOR THE REFUSAL OF A 
CHANGE TO THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
for 
NUTROPINAQ 
International non-proprietary name (INN): somatropin 
On  20  September  2007,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
negative  opinion,  recommending  the  refusal  of  a  change  to  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  NutropinAq  10 mg/2 ml  (30 IU)  solution  for  injection.  The  change  concerned  an 
extension of indication to add the long-term treatment of children with severe idiopathic short stature. 
The  company  that  applied  for  authorisation  is  IPSEN  Ltd.  It  may  request  a  re-examination  of  the 
opinion within 15 days of receipt of notification of this negative opinion. 
What is NutropinAq? 
NutropinAq is a solution for injection in a cartridge, which contains the active substance somatropin. 
It is given by injection under the skin, using the injection pen specially designed for the cartridge. 
NutropinAq is already used to treat children in the following situations: 
• 
• 
who fail to grow because of a lack of growth hormone, 
who are short because of Turner syndrome (a rare genetic disorder affecting girls), confirmed by 
chromosome analysis (DNA testing), 
before  puberty,  when  they  fail  to  grow  because  of  longstanding  kidney  disease  (chronic  renal 
insufficiency) up to the time when they receive a kidney transplant. 
• 
NutropinAq is also used to treat adults with growth hormone deficiency, as replacement therapy. The 
deficiency  can  have  started  in  adulthood  or  childhood,  and  needs  to  be  confirmed  by  testing  before 
treatment. 
What was NutropinAq expected to be used for? 
NutropinAq  was  also  expected  to  be  used  to  treat  children  with  ‘severe  idiopathic  short  stature’ 
(severe  growth  impairment  with  no  identifiable  cause).  It  was  to  be  used  as  long-term  treatment  in 
children  who  were  predicted  to  be  short,  in  comparison  with  their  parents’  height,  once  they  had 
reached adulthood, if all possible causes of their short height had been excluded. 
How does NutropinAq work? 
Growth hormone is a substance secreted by a gland located at the base of the brain (pituitary gland). It 
promotes  growth  during  childhood  and  adolescence,  and  also  acts  on  the  way  the  body  handles 
proteins,  fat  and  carbohydrates.  The  active  ingredient  in  NutropinAq,  somatropin,  is  identical  to  the 
human  growth  hormone.  It  is  produced  by  a  method  known  as  ‘recombinant  DNA  technology’:  the 
hormone is made by a bacterium that has received a gene (DNA) that makes it able to produce human 
growth hormone. 
What documentation did the company present to support its application to the CHMP? 
The company presented the results of one main study looking at the effectiveness of NutropinAq in 
118 children with short stature who did not have growth hormone deficiency or any other identifiable 
condition  that  could  cause  their  growth  impairment.  For  the  first  year,  the  study  compared  the 
effectiveness of NutropinAq given three times a week with that of no treatment. After this, the design 
of the study was changed so that the patients received NutropinAq given either three times a week or 
once a day. The main measure of effectiveness was the increase in adult height. This was based on the 
©EMEA 2007 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difference between the height that each child was predicted to reach based on their height and bone 
maturity  before  they  started  to  receive  NutropinAq,  and  their  actual  height  when  they  had  reached 
adulthood. In total, the children received the medicine for up to ten years. 
What were the major concerns that led the CHMP to recommend the refusal of the change to 
the marketing authorisation? 
The CHMP was concerned that only a modest benefit of NutropinAq in severe idiopathic short stature 
had  been  demonstrated,  with  an  average  gain  in  final  adult  height  of  around  6  to  7  cm  in  the  main 
study. In addition, a benefit of the medicine in improving the child’s psychological or social wellbeing 
had not been shown. The Committee raised a concern that the use of NutropinAq for the long periods 
necessary  to  treat  severe  short  stature  might  lead  to  problems  later  in  life,  including  the  potential 
development of tumours or diabetes. 
Therefore, at that point in time, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of NutropinAq in the 
long-term treatment of children with severe idiopathic short stature did not outweigh its possible risks. 
Hence, the CHMP recommended that the change to the marketing authorisation be refused. 
What  are  the  consequences  of  the  refusal  for  patients  in  clinical  trials  or  compassionate  use 
programmes using NutropinAq? 
The  company  informed  the  CHMP  that  there  are  no  ongoing  clinical  trials  with  NutropinAq  in  this 
indication. 
What  is  happening  for  NutropinAq  for  treatment  of  failure  to  grow  due  to  growth  hormone 
deficiency, Turner syndrome or chronic renal insufficiency? 
There  are  no  consequences  on  the  use  of  NutropinAq  in  the  authorised  indications,  for  which  the 
balance of benefits and risks remains unchanged. 
©EMEA 2007 
   Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
         
