26 January 2018 
EMA/45882/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003834/II/03 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for 
Raxone (idebenone) 
Outcome of re-examination 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
negative opinion, recommending the refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Raxone. The change concerned the addition of a new use of Raxone in patients with 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy to slow their gradual loss of breathing ability. The company that applied 
for the change to the authorisation is Santhera Pharmaceuticals (Deutschland) GmbH. 
The applicant requested a re-examination of the initial opinion. After considering the grounds for this 
request, the CHMP re-examined the opinion, and confirmed the refusal of the change to the marketing 
authorisation on 25 January 2018. 
What is Raxone? 
Raxone is a medicine that contains the active substance idebenone; it is available as tablets (150 mg). 
Raxone has been authorised in the EU since September 2015. It is already used to treat Leber’s 
hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), a genetic disease that leads to loss of sight.  
Further information on Raxone’s current use can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
What was Raxone expected to be used for? 
Raxone was also expected to be used to slow down the worsening of breathing function in patients 
with Duchenne muscular dystrophy who are not treated with corticosteroid medicines. Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy is a genetic disease that gradually causes weakness and loss of muscle function.  
Raxone was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine to be used in rare diseases) on 20 March 
2007 for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Raxone work? 
The active substance in Raxone, idebenone, is an anti-oxidant agent that acts on mitochondria (the 
structures inside cells that produce the energy necessary for cells to function). In patients with 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, mitochondria do not work properly and produce toxic forms of oxygen 
that damage muscle cells. Idebenone is thought to help improve production of energy by restoring 
mitochondrial function, thereby preventing cellular damage and loss of muscular function seen in 
patients with the condition. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company provided results from a main study involving 64 patients with Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy who were not being treated with corticosteroids. Raxone was compared with placebo (a 
dummy treatment) and the main measure of effectiveness was the change in PEF (peak expiratory 
flow, the maximum speed a person can breathe out air) after one year of treatment. PEF is an 
indicator of breathing function. 
What were the CHMP’s main concerns that led to the refusal of the change 
to the marketing authorisation? 
At the time of the initial review, the CHMP was of the opinion that the study results provided by the 
company were insufficient to determine the benefit of Raxone in patients with Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy. Although a difference in PEF in favour of Raxone was observed, there was no clear 
improvement in other indicators of breathing function or in muscle strength, motor function or quality 
of life. The Committee also had some concerns about the way the study was conducted and analysed.  
Therefore, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of Raxone in patients with Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy did not outweigh its risks and recommended that the change to the marketing 
authorisation be refused. 
After re-examination, the Committee was still of the opinion that the strength of the data on the 
benefits of Raxone in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy was limited. Concerns still remained 
about the main study, particularly regarding its size, protocol changes and early termination, which 
undermined the robustness of the data. In addition, the CHMP was of the opinion that there was no 
scientific basis for assuming that the estimated effect of Raxone on PEF would continue after the study 
ended, and so for assuming Raxone could be of benefit in slowing the progression of the disease.  
The CHMP therefore maintained its opinion that the benefits of Raxone did not outweigh its risks in this 
indication and recommended that the change to the marketing authorisation be refused. 
What consequences does this refusal have for patients in clinical trials or 
compassionate use programmes? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients currently included in 
clinical trials or compassionate use programmes with Raxone. 
If you are in a clinical trial or compassionate use programme and need more information about your 
treatment, contact the doctor who is giving it to you. 
What is happening with Raxone for treatment of Leber’s hereditary optic 
neuropathy? 
There are no consequences on the use of Raxone in its authorised indication. 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for Raxone (idebenone)  
EMA/45882/2018  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
