13 December 2011 
EMA/946321/20111 
Questions and answers on shortcomings in quality 
assurance at Ben Venue Laboratories 
Interim recommendations for centrally authorised medicines 
The European Medicines Agency is currently reviewing shortcomings in quality assurance identified 
during an inspection at Ben Venue Laboratories, Ohio, USA, where a number of centrally and non-
centrally authorised medicines are manufactured. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) is assessing the impact on the quality of centrally authorised medicines 
manufactured at the site.2 While the assessment is ongoing, the CHMP has recommended, as a 
precaution, the recall of all batches of Busilvex, Ecalta3, Luminity, Velcade, Vidaza and Vistide 
manufactured at Ben Venue, and specific measures for Caelyx, Ceplene and Torisel3 which are not 
being recalled. 
Which medicines are affected by the Agency’s review? 
The Agency’s review covers the following centrally authorised medicines manufactured at Ben Venue 
Laboratories: Angiox, Busilvex, Caelyx, Cayston, Ceplene, Ecalta, Luminity, Mepact, Soliris, Torisel, 
Velcade, Vibativ, Vidaza and Vistide. They are sterile medicines delivered by injection, used to treat 
certain types of cancer, infections, a rare genetic disease and to detect and treat certain heart 
problems.4 
A number of non-centrally authorised medicines are also manufactured at this site and are being 
assessed by EU Member States taking a similar approach to the Agency’s review. If they are marketed 
in several EU countries, this is being coordinated by the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition 
and Decentralised Procedures for human medicines (CMDh). 
1 Procedure numbers: EMEA/H/C/562/A20/0042, EMEA/H/C/654/A20/0013, EMEA/H/C/796/A20/0011, 
EMEA/H/C/1240/A20/0001, EMEA/H/C/799/A20/0045, EMEA/H/C/791/A20/0036, EMEA/H/C/788/A20/0019, 
EMEA/H/C/996/A20/0024, EMEA/H/C/802/A20/0022, EMEA/H/C/539/A20/0056, EMEA/H/C/978/A20/0017, 
EMEA/H/C/472/A20/0013, EMEA/H/C/089/A20/0061, EMEA/H/C/121/A20/0035 
2 The CHMP assessment is being conducted in the context of a formal review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, initiated at the request of the European Commission on 17 November 2011.  
3 Made of two components: a powder or concentrate and a diluent. Only the diluent is manufactured at Ben Venue. 
4 More information on these medicines can be found in the relevant European public assessment reports (EPARs) for each 
medicine: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
Why are these medicines being reviewed? 
A Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) inspection of Ben Venue in November 2011 highlighted several 
shortcomings in the quality-management system in place at Ben Venue, particularly in relation to the 
sterile filling process and possible particle contamination during the manufacturing process.5 During 
the inspection, Ben Venue decided to cease all manufacture and distribution of medicines from its si
te. 
The causes and impact of the possible particle contamination and the sterility assurance problem are 
currently being assessed.  
How is the CHMP assessing the impact on centrally authorised medicines 
produced at this site? 
The CHMP is conducting an assessment on the benefits and risks for each medicine concerned. For 
each product the CHMP has considered whether supply from Ben Venue is essential to meet patients’ 
clinical needs, taking into account the availability of alternative treatments, the quantity of the 
medicine currently in stock in the EU, and the possibility of sourcing the product from alternative 
manufacturers.  
What are the interim recommendations of the CHMP? 
Given the potential risks identified, as a precautionary measure, the CHMP is recommending that only 
products that are absolutely essential for patients and for which no alternative supplier is available 
should continue to be used. On the basis of the currently available information, the CHMP is making 
the following interim recommendations in order to protect public health while the inspection and review 
are being finalised: 
Caelyx, Ceplene and Torisel 
The CHMP considers supplies of Caelyx, Ceplene and Torisel from Ben Venue to be essential for 
patients and that existing stocks in the EU should remain available to them, as Ben Venue is the only 
manufacturing site for these medicines. The Committee is issuing the following recommendations for 
these products:  
 
For Ceplene and Torisel, healthcare professionals are advised to visually inspect any vials for 
particles prior to administration. For Torisel, only the diluent and not the concentrate for infusion is 
manufactured at Ben Venue. Therefore the diluent vial should be inspected. No supply shortage is 
foreseen, but the marketing authorisation holders must identify alternative manufacturing sites to 
guarantee future supply. 
 
For Caelyx, there is an ongoing supply shortage, and the CHMP has issued detailed 
recommendations which have been sent in writing to healthcare professionals.6 Patients already 
receiving Caelyx may continue their treatment for as long as supplies last but no new patients 
should be started on Caelyx.  
5 The November 2011 inspection of the Ben Venue Laboratories manufacturing site was conducted by the Medicines and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and the Agence Française de Sécurité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé 
(AFSSAPS) jointly with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a follow-up to a previous inspection conducted in March 
2011 that had been triggered by the European Medicines Agency as part of a re-inspection program. This inspection had 
already led to the restriction in the importation of some medicines to the EU from the Ben Venue site. 
6 More information can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public 
Assessment Reports. 
Questions and answers on shortcomings in quality assurance at Ben Venue 
Laboratories  
EMA/946321/2011  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Busilvex, Ecalta, Luminity, Velcade, Vidaza and Vistide 
The CHMP recommends, as a precaution, that all batches of Busilvex, Ecalta, Luminity, Velcade, Vidaza 
and Vistide manufactured at Ben Venue be recalled from the EU market. Recalling batches of these 
medicines supplied by Ben Venue will not impact on patients since alternative manufacturers are 
supplying the EU market with these products. Luminity, which is for diagnostic use, has been produced 
but not yet distributed in the EU (stock is currently quarantined by the marketing authorisation 
holder).  
Angiox and Mepact  
The CHMP is not currently recommending any urgent measures. Mepact is unlikely to be affected 
because it is filtered before use and Angiox is manufactured at a site for which no problems have been 
identified to date. 
Cayston, Soliris and Vibativ  
The CHMP is not recommending any urgent measures for these medicines while the review is ongoing 
because supplies from Ben Venue are not currently available on the EU market. 
What are the recommendations for healthcare professionals? 
  Angiox, Ceplene, Mepact and Torisel can continue to be used. For Ceplene and Torisel however, 
healthcare professionals are advised to visually inspect the vials for Ceplene and Torisel diluent for 
particles before giving them to patients. 
  No new patients should be started on Caelyx. Existing Caelyx stocks, while they last, should only 
be used to complete treatment that has already been initiated. In addition, healthcare 
professionals should monitor treated patients intensively and report immediately any relevant 
safety concerns (including sepsis or suspected sepsis) that could be evidence of a quality 
assurance problem with the sterilisation process.6  
 
Pharmacists have been notified of the recall of Busilvex, Ecalta, Luminity, Velcade, Vistide and 
Vidaza in writing. Affected batches should be identified and returned to the supplier. 
What are the recommendations for patients? 
 
 
Patients should report any adverse reactions to their doctor or pharmacist. 
Patients who have any questions or concerns about their treatment should speak to their doctor or 
pharmacist. 
What will happen next? 
These are interim measures issued in order to protect public health while the inspection and the review 
are being finalised. The European Medicines Agency will provide updates as soon as new information 
becomes available. 
Questions and answers on shortcomings in quality assurance at Ben Venue 
Laboratories  
EMA/946321/2011  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
