29 October 2012 
EMA/664564/2012 
EMEA/H/C/089/II/0065/G 
The recommendations in this document were valid during the supply 
shortage of Caelyx which was resolved in April 2013. For the updated 
recommendations see here. 
Questions and answers on updated recommendations on 
the use of Caelyx (doxorubicin hydrochloride) 
The European Medicines Agency has updated its recommendations on the use of Caelyx that were 
issued last year following a shortage of the medicine due to shortcomings in quality assurance 
identified at the manufacturing site, Ben Venue Laboratories. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP) has agreed to the transfer of the sterile operation for Caelyx to a new 
manufacturing site and the supply situation of Caelyx is expected to improve. The CHMP no longer 
considers it necessary to restrict the use of Caelyx to existing patients. It recommends that Caelyx 
may also be used to start treatment. However, priority should be given to existing patients and new 
patients for whom no alternative treatment is available.  
What is Caelyx? 
Caelyx is an anticancer medicine that contains the active substance doxorubicin hydrochloride. It is 
used in the treatment of the following cancers: metastatic breast cancer, advanced cancer of the 
ovary, Kaposi’s sarcoma (a cancer of the blood vessels) in patients with acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS), and multiple myeloma (a cancer of the cells in the bone marrow).  
What were the previous recommendations for Caelyx1? 
On 22 November 2011 the CHMP issued recommendations that no new patients should be started on 
Caelyx. This followed an inspection of Ben Venue Laboratories, where a number of sterile medicines 
including Caelyx were manufactured, which highlighted several problems in quality assurance of the 
sterilisation process of these medicines. As Ben Venue was the only manufacturing site for Caelyx and 
all manufacture and distribution of medicines ceased after the inspection, a shortage in the supply of 
Caelyx followed. The CHMP recommended that Caelyx is an essential medicine for patients who have 
already started treatment with it and existing Caelyx stocks should therefore be used to complete 
treatment that had been initiated.   
1 http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Medicine_QA/2011/11/WC500117926.pdf  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
A review2 of Caelyx and other medicines manufactured at Ben Venue followed, which, in the case of 
Caelyx, led the CHMP to recommend on 15 March 2012 the transfer of the manufacturing operation to 
an alternative site. 
What are the new recommendations on use for Caelyx? 
The CHMP has agreed to the transfer of the sterile operation for Caelyx vials for injection to a new 
manufacturing site. Any Caelyx for which the sterile operation was carried out at Ben Venue is being 
withdrawn from the market and is being replaced by Caelyx supplied by the new manufacturing site. 
Based on information provided by the company, the supply of Caelyx is expected to improve and the 
CHMP no longer considers it necessary to restrict the use of Caelyx to existing patients. It recommends 
that Caelyx may also be used to start treatment. However, priority should be given to existing patients 
and new patients for whom no alternative treatment is available.  
To ensure that any patient who has started or will start treatment with Caelyx is able to complete a full 
course of treatment, a new web-based ordering and reservation system, ‘Caelyx Managed Access’, is 
being introduced to help manage the allocation of the medicine in the EU.  
What are the recommendations for patients and healthcare professionals? 
•  New patients may be started on Caelyx. However, priority should be given to existing patients and 
new patients for whom no alternative treatment is available.  
•  Healthcare professionals will need to use Caelyx Managed Access to order Caelyx for their patients. 
A letter is being sent out to healthcare professionals in EU with further details. 
Further information on Caelyx can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
2 http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Medicine_QA/2012/03/WC500124203.pdf  
Questions and answers on updated recommendations on the use of Caelyx 
(doxorubicin hydrochloride)  
EMA/664564/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
