European Medicines Agency 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/384759/2008 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON RECOMMENDATION FOR THE REFUSAL OF 
A CHANGE TO THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
for 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop 
International non-proprietary name (INN): docetaxel 
On 24 July 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a negative 
opinion, recommending the refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop concentrate and solvent for solution for infusion. The change 
concerned an extension of indication to add the treatment of patients with operable breast cancer 
whose tumours overexpress HER2 in combination with trastuzumab, with or without carboplatin. The 
company that applied for authorisation is Aventis Pharma S.A. It may request a re-examination of the 
opinion within 15 days of receipt of notification of this negative opinion. 
What is Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop? 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop is a concentrate and solvent, which are made up into a solution for 
infusion (drip into a vein). It contains the active substance docetaxel. 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop is an anticancer medicine. It is used in breast cancer that is advanced or 
‘metastatic’ (has spread to other parts of the body), and in breast cancer that can be treated with 
surgery. In these patients, Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop is used in addition to surgery to remove the 
tumour, together with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (other anticancer medicines). 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop is also used in advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in 
prostate cancer, in metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma (a type of stomach cancer) and in advanced head 
and neck cancer. 
What was Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop expected to be used for? 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop was also expected to be used to treat breast cancer that can be treated 
with surgery when the cancer has been shown to be ‘expressing’ large amounts of HER2: this is a type 
of cancer that produces (expresses) a specific protein called HER2 in large quantities on the surface of 
the tumour cells. 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop was expected to be used in addition to surgery to remove the tumour in 
the following treatment combinations: 
• 
in combination with trastuzumab (another anticancer medicine), following treatment with 
doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide; 
in combination with trastuzumab and carboplatin (another anticancer medicine). 
• 
How is Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop expected to work? 
The active substance in Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop, docetaxel, belongs to the group of anticancer 
medicines known as the ‘taxanes’. Docetaxel blocks the ability of cells to destroy the internal 
‘skeleton’ that allows them to divide and multiply. With the skeleton still in place, the cells cannot 
divide and they eventually die. Docetaxel affects not only cancer cells, but also non-cancer cells such 
as blood cells, which can cause side effects. 
What documentation did the company present to support its application to the CHMP? 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop has been studied in one main study involving over 3,000 women with 
HER2-expressing breast cancer that could be treated with surgery. The study compared the 
effectiveness of the following treatment combinations, which were used in addition to surgery: 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
the combination of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide for 12 weeks, followed by 
Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop for 12 weeks, either alone or in combination with trastuzumab; 
• 
the combination of Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop, trastuzumab and carboplatin for 18 weeks. 
In both groups, trastuzumab treatment was continued for a year. The main measure of effectiveness 
was how long the patients survived until their cancer came back. 
What were the major concerns that led the CHMP to recommend the refusal of the change to 
the marketing authorisation? 
The CHMP was concerned that it was not possible to establish the benefits of the treatment 
combinations including Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop when used in addition to surgery, because of the 
way the single main study was designed. The CHMP was also concerned that the company did not 
provide sufficient clinical evidence to justify the use of the combination of Taxotere/Docetaxel 
Winthrop, carboplatin and trastuzumab. 
Therefore, at that point in time, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of Taxotere/Docetaxel 
Winthrop in the treatment of patients with operable breast cancer whose tumours overexpress HER2 in 
combination with trastuzumab, with or without carboplatin, did not outweigh its risks. Hence, the 
CHMP recommended that the change to the marketing authorisation be refused. 
What are the consequences of the refusal for patients in clinical trials using Taxotere/Docetaxel 
Winthrop? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients currently included in 
clinical trials with Taxotere/ Docetaxel Winthrop. If you are in a clinical trial and need more 
information about your treatment, contact the doctor who is giving it to you. 
What is happening for Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop for the treatment of other types of breast 
cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma and head and neck 
cancer? 
There are no consequences on the use of Taxotere/Docetaxel Winthrop in its authorised indications, 
for which the balance of benefits and risks remains unchanged. 
   Page 2/2 
         
 
 
 
 
 
