24 May 2012 
EMA/CHMP/337123/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000165/A20/078 
Questions and answers on the review of MabThera 
(rituximab) 
Outcome of a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
On 24 May 2012, the European Medicines Agency completed a review of MabThera following the 
detection of Leptospira licerasiae bacteria in bioreactors used in the manufacture of its active 
ingredient. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that 
there are no risks to public health and that the benefits of the MabThera continue to outweigh its risks. 
The Committee agreed with the corrective measures put in place at the manufacturing site and 
recommended that the medicine’s marketing authorisation be maintained. 
What is MabThera? 
MabThera is a medicine used to treat non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(types of cancer), and rheumatoid arthritis (a disease that causes inflammation of the joints). It 
contains the active substance rituximab, a monoclonal antibody designed to target B-lymphocytes, a 
type of white blood cell.  
MabThera has been authorised in the EU since June 1998 and is marketed in all EU Member States. 
More information about MabThera can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
Why was MabThera reviewed? 
In December 2011, the EMA was informed by Roche that L. licerasiae bacteria had been detected in 
some bioreactors used in the manufacture of the active ingredient of MabThera at its site in Vacaville, 
USA. The bacterial contamination was detected by routine microscopic examination during the early 
(pre-harvest) stages of production, in May and again in August 2011. The bacteria were not detected 
in later stages of production, or in the finished product, and all material in which the bacteria had been 
detected was discarded. 
L. licerasiae is a bacterial species that can cause leptospirosis, a water-borne infection transmitted 
from animals to humans. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On 15 December 2011, at the request of the European Commission, the CHMP started a review of the 
medicine and its manufacture with a view to issuing a recommendation on whether its marketing 
authorisation should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn across the EU. 
Which data has the CHMP reviewed? 
The CHMP reviewed the available quality data provided by the company on the detection of 
L. licerasiae. The CHMP also requested an inspection of the Vacaville site to investigate the cause and 
nature of the contamination. The inspection involved a thorough assessment of laboratories, 
warehouses as well as manufacturing and utility facilities. The inspectors also evaluated the quality 
management systems at the site. 
What are the conclusions of the CHMP? 
The CHMP concluded that L. licerasiae was most likely introduced into the cell culture media used in 
the bioreactors, and that personnel acting as external carriers and/or the media preparation process 
were possibly to blame. 
The Committee noted that batches of active substance produced from cultures which tested positive for 
the bacteria at pre-harvest are not being further processed. Adequate corrective and preventive 
measures have also been introduced at the Vacaville site, which should minimise any potential 
contamination and improve the detection of the bacteria. 
The Committee also noted that the findings were not associated with any clinically relevant risk for 
patients treated with MabThera, as no bacteria were detected in the active substance, or in the finished 
product. In addition, the manufacturing process is considered robust enough to eliminate any bacteria 
or proteins released by the bacteria. 
Having considered all available data, the Committee concluded that the benefits of the medicine 
continue to outweigh its risk and recommended the maintenance of its marketing authorisation subject 
to certain conditions. These conditions include the requirement of the company to develop a more 
sensitive test for detecting the bacteria and to submit further data on the corrective measures in place 
at the Vacaville site. 
A European Commission decision on this opinion will be issued in due course. 
Questions and answers on the review of MabThera (rituximab)  
EMA/CHMP/337123/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
