EMA/433352/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004030 
29 June 2018 
Positive opinion on the marketing authorisation for 
Nerlynx (neratinib) 
Outcome of re-examination 
On 28 June 2018 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nerlynx for the treatment of 
patients with a type of breast cancer called early-stage hormone-receptor positive, HER2-positive 
breast cancer. The company that applied for authorisation is Puma Biotechnology Ltd. 
On 22 February 2018, the CHMP had originally adopted a negative opinion for Nerlynx for broader use 
in HER2-positive early breast cancer. At the request of the applicant, the CHMP started a re-
examination of its opinion. Following the re-examination, the CHMP adopted a final positive opinion on 
28 June 2018, but in a restricted patient population.  
What is Nerlynx? 
Nerlynx is a medicine that contains the active substance neratinib. It is to be available as tablets. 
What is Nerlynx expected to be used for? 
Nerlynx is expected to be used to treat adults with early breast cancer who have undergone surgery, 
to reduce the risk of their cancer coming back. Nerlynx is expected to be given for one year, following 
treatment with another medicine, trastuzumab, for the same purpose. It is intended for use only in 
breast cancers that produce high levels of a protein called HER2, which helps cells to divide and grow 
(HER2-positive breast cancer), and that also have receptors (targets) for the female sex hormones 
(hormone-receptor positive breast cancer). 
How does Nerlynx work? 
The active substance in Nerlynx, neratinib, is a type of cancer medicine called a tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor. It attaches to the HER2 protein on the cancer cells, and so blocks its action. Because HER2 
helps cancer cells to grow and divide, blocking it helps to stop them growing and prevent the cancer 
coming back. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company provided the results from one main study involving 2,840 women with early breast 
cancer with high levels of HER2 who had already received treatment that included trastuzumab. In 
these women, daily treatment with Nerlynx for a year was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of women who had lived without the 
cancer coming back at the end of the 2-year study. 
What were the CHMP’s main concerns that led to the initial negative 
opinion? 
The CHMP noted that a greater proportion of women given Nerlynx in the study lived for 2 years 
without their disease coming back than women given placebo (around 94% versus 92% respectively). 
However, it was uncertain that this difference in benefit would be seen in clinical practice. 
Furthermore, Nerlynx causes side effects in the digestive system, particularly diarrhoea, which affected 
most patients and might be severe and difficult to manage. The Committee therefore concluded that 
the benefits were not enough to outweigh the risk of side effects and recommended that Nerlynx be 
refused marketing authorisation. 
What happened during the re-examination? 
During the re-examination the CHMP looked again at all the data and considered whether there would 
be a group of patients where the benefits outweighed the risks. 
What were the conclusions of the CHMP following the re-examination? 
Following its review of the data and discussion within the Committee, the CHMP noted that benefits 
seemed to be largely confined to patients whose cancer was hormone-receptor positive.  
The Committee therefore concluded that the benefits of the medicine would outweigh its risks if the 
medicine’s use were restricted to treatment of early breast cancer that not only had high levels of 
HER2 but was also hormone-receptor positive. Measures would need to be put in place to manage 
Nerlynx’ side effects. 
The summary of the positive opinion of the CHMP is available on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Pending EC decisions. 
Positive opinion on the marketing authorisation for Nerlynx (neratinib)  
EMA/433352/2018  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
