22 December 2011 
EMA/990270/2011 
Questions and answers on ongoing review of aliskiren-
containing medicines 
Interim advice while review is ongoing 
The European Medicines Agency is currently reviewing1 aliskiren-containing medicines, following the 
early termination of a study investigating aliskiren. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) is assessing the impact of data from the study on the benefit-risk balance of these 
medicines. While the review is ongoing, as a precautionary measure, the CHMP recommends that 
doctors should not prescribe aliskiren-containing medicines to diabetic patients in combination with an 
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB). Treatment of 
patients already taking aliskiren should be reviewed at their next scheduled (non-urgent) appointment. 
What are aliskiren-containing medicines? 
Aliskiren-containing medicines are used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. 
‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Aliskiren is a renin inhibitor. It blocks the activity of a human enzyme called renin, which is involved in 
the production of a substance called angiotensin I in the body. Angiotensin I is converted into the 
hormone angiotensin II, which is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). 
By blocking the production of angiotensin I, levels of both angiotensin I and angiotensin II fall. This 
causes vasodilation (widening of the blood vessels), so that the blood pressure drops. 
Eight aliskiren-containing medicines are authorised in the European Union (EU) since 2007: Rasilamlo, 
Rasilez, Rasilez HCT, Rasitrio, Riprazo, Riprazo HCT, Sprimeo, Sprimeo HCT. Some of these medicines 
(Rasilamlo, Rasilez HCT, Rasitrio, Riprazo HCT and Sprimeo HCT) are combinations of aliskiren with 
other antihypertensive medicines. Aliskiren-containing medicines are available as tablets and marketed 
in all EU Member States, except Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania.2 
Why are these medicines being reviewed? 
On 19 December 2011, the marketing authorisation holder for aliskiren-containing medicines, Novartis 
Europharm Ltd., informed the Agency of its decision to terminate the ALTITUDE study early. The study 
1 The CHMP assessment is being conducted in the context of a formal review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, started at the request of the European Commission on 20 December 2011.  
2 More information on aliskiren-containing medicines can be found in the relevant European public assessment reports 
(EPARs) for each medicine: www.ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
was designed to determine whether aliskiren, on top of conventional treatment including an ACE 
inhibitor or ARB, reduces the risk of disease and death from heart and circulatory or kidney problems 
in patients with type 2 diabetes and renal impairment and /or cardiovascular disease. In most patients 
arterial blood pressure was adequately controlled. 
Termination of the study was recommended by the independent Data Monitoring Committee 
overseeing it, because the results showed that there was no benefit from aliskiren, and patients 
treated with it experienced a significantly higher number of cardiovascular and renal problems than 
patients given placebo. This particularly involved stroke, renal complications, hyperkalaemia (high 
blood potassium levels) and hypotension (low blood pressure). 
What is the current status of discussions at the CHMP? 
The CHMP is currently assessing the available data from the ALTITUDE study, which are however 
limited, and has asked the company to provide additional information from this and other ongoing 
studies with aliskiren. While the review is ongoing, the CHMP, as a precautionary measure, has given 
advice to patients and healthcare professionals. 
What is the advice for patients and healthcare professionals? 
  Doctors should not prescribe aliskiren-containing medicines to diabetic patients in combination with 
ACE inhibitors or ARBs. Alternative treatment options should be considered if needed. 
  Doctors should review the treatment of patients taking aliskiren at a routine (non-urgent) 
appointment, and if patients are diabetic and are also taking ACE inhibitors or ARBs, aliskiren 
should be stopped and alternative treatments considered. 
 
Patients should not stop any of their treatment before speaking to their doctor, because stopping 
anti-hypertensive medication without medical supervision can put them at risk. They are advised to 
discuss their treatment with their doctor at their next scheduled (non-urgent) appointment. 
 
Patients in clinical trials with aliskiren should contact their study site for guidance on their 
medication. 
 
Patients who have any questions or concerns about their treatment should speak to their doctor or 
pharmacist at a routine appointment. 
What will happen next? 
These recommendations are issued in order to protect public health while the review is being finalised. 
The European Medicines Agency will issue further advice as necessary. 
Questions and answers on ongoing review of aliskiren-containing medicines  
EMA/990270/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
