25 February 2021
EMA/126141/2021 
EMEA/H/C/004781/X/0014/G
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for 
Elebrato Ellipta (fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / 
vilanterol)
The European Medicines Agency has recommended the refusal of a change to the marketing 
authorisation for Elebrato Ellipta. The change concerned an extension of indication to add treatment of 
patients with asthma.
The Agency issued this opinion on 25 February 2021.
The company that applied for the change to the authorisation, GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services 
Limited, may ask for re-examination of the opinion within 15 days of receiving the opinion.
What is Elebrato Ellipta and what is it used for?
Elebrato Ellipta is a medicine for relieving the symptoms of moderate to severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the 
lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing.
Elebrato Ellipta has been authorised in the EU since November 2017. 
It contains the active substances fluticasone furoate, umeclidinium and vilanterol. It is available as an 
inhalation powder, which the patient inhales through the mouth using an inhaler device.
Further information on Elebrato Ellipta’s uses can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/elebrato-ellipta
What change had the company applied for?
The company applied for an extension of indication to add the maintenance treatment in adult patients 
with asthma whose symptoms could not be controlled well enough with a combination of inhaled 
corticosteroid and a long-acting beta-2 agonist.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
How does Elebrato Ellipta work?
Elebrato Ellipta contains three active substances, which work in different ways to widen the airways 
and improve breathing.
Fluticasone furoate is a corticosteroid. It works in a similar way to naturally occurring corticosteroid 
hormones, reducing the activity of the immune system by attaching to receptors (targets) in various 
types of immune cells. This reduces the release of substances involved in the inflammation process, 
such as histamine, thereby reducing inflammation and helping to keep the airways clear and allowing 
the patient to breathe more easily.
Umeclidinium is a muscarinic receptor antagonist. It works by blocking muscarinic receptors, which are 
involved in the contraction of muscles. When umeclidinium is inhaled, it causes the muscles of the 
airways to relax.
Vilanterol is a long-acting beta-2 agonist. It works by attaching to beta-2 receptors in some types of 
muscle cells. When inhaled, vilanterol activates the beta-2 receptors in the airways. This causes the 
muscles of the airways to relax, helping to keep the airways open and allowing the patient to breathe 
more easily.
What did the company present to support its application?
The company presented one main study comparing Elebrato Ellipta with a combination of only 
fluticasone furoate and vilanterol in 2,436 patients. These patients all had asthma that was not well 
controlled despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroids and a long-acting beta-2 agonist. The study 
looked at the change in FEV1 (the maximum volume of air they could breathe out in one second) after 
24 weeks of treatment.
What were the main reasons for refusing the change to the marketing 
authorisation?
The European Medicines Agency considered that an improvement in lung function alone is not enough 
to show that a medicine is suitable for treating asthma. The main study did not clearly show that the 
medicine was effective at reducing asthma attacks or controlling symptoms. 
Therefore, the Agency’s opinion was that the benefits of Elebrato Ellipta in the treatment of asthma did 
not outweigh its risks. Hence, the Agency recommended refusing the change to the marketing 
authorisation.
Does this refusal affect patients in clinical trials?
The company informed the Agency that there are no ongoing studies with Elebrato Ellipta in asthma 
patients in the EU.
What is happening with Elebrato Ellipta for treatment of COPD?
There are no consequences for Elebrato Ellipta in COPD.
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for Elebrato Ellipta (fluticasone 
furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol) 
EMA/126141/2021 
Page 2/2
