29 May 2020 
EMA/147694/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004051/II/0013 
Questions and answers on the use of Trumenba in 
children between 1 and 9 years of age 
The European Medicines Agency has finalised its assessment of an application to extend the use of 
Trumenba to children between 1 and 9 years of age for the prevention of invasive meningococcal 
disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis group B. 
Although EMA’s human medicines committee (CHMP) did not recommend this extension, it agreed that 
relevant data from the study submitted with the application be included in the medicine’s product 
information. 
What is Trumenba and what is it used for? 
Trumenba is a vaccine used to protect individuals from 10 years of age against invasive meningococcal 
disease caused by a group of bacteria called Neisseria meningitidis group B. 
Invasive disease occurs when these bacteria spread through the body causing serious infections such 
as meningitis (infection of the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord) and septicaemia 
(blood infection). 
Trumenba is available in a pre-filled syringe and is given by injection into a muscle, preferably in the 
shoulder. Treatment consists of 2 or 3 doses at intervals of several months. An additional booster dose 
may be given to people at greater risk of invasive meningococcal disease.  
Trumenba has been authorised in the EU since May 2017. Further information on Trumenba’s current 
uses can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/trumenba   
What change had the company applied for? 
The company applied to extend the use of Trumenba to children between 1 and 9 years of age. 
How does Trumenba work? 
Vaccines work by preparing the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to defend itself against a 
disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the bacterium 
contained in the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. When the person is then 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
exposed to the bacterium, these antibodies together with other components of the immune system will 
be able to kill the bacteria and help protect against the disease.  
Trumenba contains two proteins that are found in the outer coats of N. meningitidis group B bacteria. 
These proteins are fixed onto a compound containing aluminium (adsorbed), which helps to stabilise 
them, allowing the immune system to respond to them. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented the results of two studies. The first study involved 396 children between 1 and 
2 years of age, and the second involved 371 children between 2 and 9 years of age. All children were 
given 3 doses of the vaccine and production of protective antibodies against N. meningitidis group B 
was measured one month after the last injection.  
What were EMA’s conclusions? 
Based on the review of the information and the company’s response to the Agency’s questions, the 
Agency had some concerns and was of the opinion that Trumenba could not be authorised for use in 
children between 1 and 9 years of age. 
The Agency was concerned that the proposed vaccination schedule was inadequate to ensure sufficient 
protection against N. meningitidis group B in children of this age group as the level of antibodies 
declined shortly after vaccination. An additional dose seemed to be required to ensure lasting 
protection, and more data were needed to support such use.  
Although Trumenba will therefore not be authorised in this age group, the prescribing information for 
Trumenba will be updated to include information from these studies and about a decline in antibodies 
after 3 doses of the vaccine in children between 1 and 9 years of age.  
Does this outcome affect patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the Agency that there are no consequences for patients in clinical trials using 
Trumenba. 
Questions and answers on the use of Trumenba in children between 1 and 9 years of age  
EMA/147694/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
