26 April 2023 
EMA/186960/2023 
EMEA/H/C/004675/II/0020 
Outcome of assessment on use of Epidyolex (cannabidiol) 
The European Medicines Agency has finalised its assessment of an application to change the marketing 
authorisation for the epilepsy medicine Epidyolex. The change would have removed the requirement to 
use Epidyolex with another medicine called clobazam in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and 
Dravet syndrome.  
What is Epidyolex and what is it used for? 
Epidyolex is a medicine used with clobazam to treat epilepsy in patients with Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome or Dravet syndrome. It is also used with other epilepsy medicines in patients with tuberous 
sclerosis complex (TSC).  
Epidyolex has been authorised in the EU since September 2019. It contains the active substance 
cannabidiol and is available as a liquid to be taken by mouth.  
Further information on Epidyolex’s uses can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/epidyolex  
What change had the company applied for? 
When used in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or Dravet syndrome, Epidyolex is given in 
combination with clobazam. The company applied for a change so that Epidyolex could be used without 
clobazam.  
How does Epidyolex work? 
Although the way it works is not clearly understood, the active substance in Epidyolex, cannabidiol, is 
thought to act on targets that play a role in the movement of calcium in the cells. As this is important 
for the transmission of electrical signals in some nerve cells, and seizures are caused by excessive 
electrical activity in the brain, altering the movement of calcium is expected to reduce or prevent the 
seizures in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome or TSC. Cannabidiol is also 
thought to act on adenosine, a chemical messenger in the brain that plays an important role in 
suppressing seizures.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company did not present any clinical study data in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or 
Dravet syndrome which had not been previously evaluated by the Agency. The company presented 
new analyses of some data from the four main studies which EMA’s human medicines committee 
(CHMP) had already assessed at the time of the initial authorisation of Epidyolex. The analyses looked 
at outcomes in groups of patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or Dravet syndrome who did not 
receive clobazam during the studies. 
The company also submitted supportive data on the use of Epidyolex without clobazam for the 
treatment of TSC (which was already assessed by CHMP when Epidyolex was authorised for the 
treatment of TSC), and real-world data on the use of Epidyolex without clobazam for Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome and Dravet syndrome collected from patients, caregivers and health insurance databases. 
What were EMA’s conclusions? 
The Agency considered that the benefits of Epidyolex when used without clobazam have not been 
convincingly demonstrated. No new clinical data were submitted and the new analyses provided were 
not considered reliable or robust enough to show that Epidyolex will be effective on its own.  
Epidyolex will therefore not be authorised for use without clobazam in the treatment of Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome and Dravet syndrome. 
Outcome of assessment on use of Epidyolex (cannabidiol)  
EMA/186960/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
