25 October 2013 
EMA/655170/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002173/II/11 
Questions and answers 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an application 
for Xgeva to be used in patients with castration-resistant 
prostate cancer at high risk of spreading to the bones 
On 24 October 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) finalised its 
assessment of an application to extend the use of Xgeva to include the treatment of patients with 
‘castration-resistant’ prostate cancer at high risk of spreading to the bones. The CHMP was of the 
opinion that the benefits of Xgeva had not been shown to outweigh its risks in these patients. 
What is Xgeva? 
Xgeva is a medicine used to prevent bone complications in adults with a solid tumour that has spread 
to the bone. These complications include fractures (breaks in the bone), spinal compression (when the 
spinal cord is compressed by the bone), or complications requiring radiotherapy (treatment with 
radiation) or surgery.  
Xgeva contains the active substance denosumab and is given as an injection under the skin. 
What was Xgeva expected to be used for? 
The company applied for Xgeva to be used in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer at high 
risk of spreading to the bones. Castration-resistant prostate cancer is cancer of the prostate (a gland 
of the male reproductive system) that continues to worsen despite medical or surgical castration 
(treatments that stop the production of male hormones). In many men with castration-resistant 
prostate cancer the cancer will eventually spread to the bones and Xgeva was expected to help delay 
or prevent this spread and so improve outcomes in these patients. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7129   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented data from a main study of 1,432 men with castration-resistant prostate cancer 
at increased risk of bone metastases who were treated with either Xgeva or placebo (a dummy 
treatment). The main measure of effectiveness in the study was how long the patients lived without 
the cancer spreading to the bones.  
What was the conclusion of the CHMP? 
During its evaluation of the application, the CHMP concluded that the effect of Xgeva in delaying the 
spread of castration-resistant prostate cancer to the bones was small: in the main study after more 
than two years of treatment, Xgeva reduced the cases where the cancer spread to the bones by about 
5 percentage points (47% of Xgeva patients versus 52% of placebo patients). Although the company 
identified a subgroup of patients where the effect of Xgeva seemed to be somewhat higher, the CHMP 
was of the view that the 10% reduction after 1½ years of treatment that was seen in this subgroup 
might have been an overestimation and may not outweigh its known risks. It was therefore not 
possible to conclude that the benefits of Xgeva in delaying the spread of castration-resistant prostate 
cancer would outweigh the risks. 
As a result of the CHMP provisional opinion, the company decided not to pursue its application to 
extend the use of the medicine. The CHMP’s evaluation did, however, lead to some minor updates in 
the product information for Xgeva. 
What are the consequences for patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the CHMP that it was consulting on next steps concerning patients that are still 
receiving Xgeva in the main study. Patients in the study who have any question should speak to their 
doctor. 
Further information about Xgeva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an application for Xgeva to be used in 
patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer at high risk of spreading to the bones  
EMA/655170/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
