22 September 2011 
EMA/770558/2011  
EMEA/H/C/001026/II/0005/G 
Questions and answers 
Outcome of extension of indication application for Victoza 
(liraglutide) 
New data to be included in product information but no addition of new 
indication 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) finalised the 
assessment of an application to add a new indication for Victoza. Although the CHMP did not consider 
the study results that were submitted as part of the application sufficient to recommend the addition of 
a new indication for Victoza, the Committee concluded, that the new data were of importance to 
healthcare professionals involved in treating type 2 diabetes and recommended that they be included 
in the product information for Victoza. 
What is Victoza? 
Victoza is a medicine that contains the active substance liraglutide. It is available as a solution for 
injection in pre-filled pens. 
It is used in adults who have type 2 diabetes (non-insulin-dependent diabetes) to control their blood 
glucose (sugar) levels. Victoza is approved for use together with antidiabetes medicines taken by 
mouth (metformin, sulphonylureas and thiazolidinediones). Victoza has been authorised since June 
2009. 
What was Victoza expected to be used for? 
Victoza was to be used in combination with basal insulin (intermediate or long-acting insulin such as 
insulin detemir) in patients with type 2 diabetes who are not satisfactorily controlled on Victoza and 
metformin alone. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8668   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented data from a study in 323 patients with type 2 diabetes where treatment with 
Victoza plus insulin detemir (a long-acting insulin) and metformin was compared to treatment with 
Victoza and metformin alone.  
The main measure of effectiveness was the change after six months in levels of a substance in the 
blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What was shown in the study? 
The study found that patients who received insulin detemir in addition to Victoza and metformin had 
bigger decreases in Hb1Ac than patients who were using Victoza and metformin alone (a decrease of 
0.54 % compared to 0.2%). Patients who were using Victoza with insulin detemir had a higher rate of 
hypoglycaemic episodes (low blood sugar levels). 
What was the conclusion of the CHMP?  
The study compared treatment with Victoza, insulin detemir and metformin with using Victoza and 
metformin alone. The study only tested the effects of adding insulin detemir to Victoza and metformin 
and not those of Victoza when added to insulin detemir and metformin. The CHMP considered that the 
study should have included another group of patients taking insulin detemir and metformin only. The 
CHMP was of the view that the study design was inappropriate and did not support the addition of a 
new indication to the marketing authorisation of Victoza for “treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in 
combination with insulin”.  
Although the CHMP did not consider the results sufficient to add a new indication for Victoza, the 
Committee concluded that the new data were of importance to healthcare professionals involved in 
treating type 2 diabetes and recommended that they be included in the product information for 
Victoza. 
The full European Public Assessment Report for Victoza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
Outcome of extension of indication application for Victoza (liraglutide)  
EMA/770558/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
