24 April 2012 
EMA/CHMP/113837/2012 Rev. 1 
EMEA/H/C/000854/A20/0029 
EMEA/H/C/000154/A-20/0057 
EMEA/H/A-31/1318 
Questions and answers on the review of  
orlistat-containing medicines  
Outcome of procedures under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The European Medicines Agency has completed a review of orlistat-containing medicines, following 
concerns about the possible risk of severe liver injury with these medicines. The Agency’s Committee 
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) has concluded that the benefits of orlistat continue to 
outweigh its risks, and recommended that the marketing authorisations be maintained with minor 
amendments to the product information to ensure the same information on very rare liver-related side 
effects is provided for all orlistat-containing medicines. 
What is orlistat? 
Orlistat is an anti-obesity medicine, which does not affect appetite. Orlistat blocks the action of 
gastrointestinal lipases (enzymes that digest fat). When these enzymes are blocked, they cannot 
digest some fats in the diet, and this allows about a quarter of the fat eaten in the meal to be passed 
out in the stools undigested. The body does not absorb this fat and this helps the patient reduce their 
weight. 
Two orlistat-containing medicines hold an EU-wide marketing authorisation. Xenical was authorised in 
1998 and is available as capsules (120 mg) which can only be obtained with a prescription. Alli was 
authorised in 2007 and is available as capsules (60 mg) and chewable tablets (27 mg) which can be 
obtained without a prescription (‘over-the-counter’).  
A number of generic orlistat-containing medicines have also been authorised via national procedures in 
Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Portugal, Slovakia, the Netherlands, 
and the United Kingdom.  
Why was orlistat reviewed? 
Since 2001 it has been recognised that some patients taking orlistat could experience very rare liver-
related side effects. This risk has been closely monitored by the CHMP and measures to manage the 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
known risks were put in place. The product information for orlistat-containing medicines lists hepatitis, 
cholelithiasis (gall stones) and a change in liver enzyme levels as potential liver-related side effects.  
Xenical and Alli are together estimated to have been used by over 53 million people worldwide, with 
over 20 million in the EU. Since authorisation, there have been some reports of severe liver problems 
in users of these medicines. Recent safety monitoring showed that from August 2009 to January 2011 
four cases of severe liver injury were reported in patients using Xenical where the role of orlistat could 
not be excluded, including one fatal case of liver failure and one case leading to liver transplantation. 
Overall, from 1997 to January 2011, 21 cases of severe liver toxicity were reported where Xenical was 
considered a possible cause, although other factors that could have caused the liver injury were 
present. There were 9 reports of liver failure in people using Alli since it was marketed in May 2007 
until January 2011, although in some cases there were other possible explanations and in some cases 
there was insufficient information to assess the cause.  
Therefore, the CHMP considered it necessary to assess whether the evidence gathered over time on 
the risk of severe liver problems had altered the benefit-risk balance of orlistat-containing medicines. 
Consequently, the European Commission asked the CHMP to issue an opinion on orlistat and on 
whether the marketing authorisation for orlistat-containing medicines should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or withdrawn across the EU. 
Which data has the CHMP reviewed? 
The CHMP reviewed the available data on the risk of liver injury and other side effects with orlistat, 
including post-marketing surveillance, data from the studies supporting the marketing authorisations 
and population-based studies in the published literature. The Committee also reviewed information 
requested from the companies that market orlistat-containing medicines, including the estimated 
number of people using these medicines and an analysis of the observed number of reports of severe 
liver problems compared with the expected background rate of liver problems in these people.  
What are the conclusions of the CHMP? 
The CHMP considered that there was no strong evidence that orlistat increased the risk of severe liver 
injury, and there was no known mechanism by which orlistat was expected to cause liver disorders. 
The Committee concluded that the number of reported severe liver reactions in orlistat users was low 
and below the background rate expected in these people, given the large number of users. A pattern 
was not seen in the type of liver problems reported, and in most cases there were other factors which 
were likely to increase the risk of liver injury such as existing health problems or the use of other 
medicines. The CHMP also noted that published population-based studies suggest that obesity may be 
associated with a higher risk of liver disease. The Committee considered that while there may be very 
rare cases of serious liver injury for which orlistat cannot be excluded as a possible cause, the cases do 
not provide good evidence of a causal link.  
Based on the evaluation of the currently available data and the scientific discussion within the 
Committee, the CHMP concluded that the benefits of orlistat continue to outweigh its risks, and 
therefore recommended that the marketing authorisations be maintained for orlistat-containing 
medicines. It noted that the product information for Xenical already listed ‘hepatitis that may be 
serious’ as a side effect of unknown frequency, and recommended that the product information for all 
orlistat-containing medicines should be harmonised to include this information. The product 
information for Alli, which currently lists ‘hepatitis’, will be updated accordingly. The Committee also 
agreed on minor amendments to the package leaflet for all orlistat-containing medicines to ensure they 
Questions and answers on the review of  
orlistat-containing medicines  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
give the same information, including a description of the symptoms of hepatitis to alert patients to 
these symptoms. 
The amended information to doctors and patients are detailed here.  
What are the recommendations for patients and prescribers? 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Patients and prescribers are reminded that the benefits of orlistat-containing medicines continue to 
outweigh the risks. These medicines should continue to be used as before.  
Patients and prescribers should be aware that certain liver-related problems, including very rare 
serious reactions such as hepatitis, have been reported and are listed in the product information 
for orlistat-containing medicines as possible side effects. There remains no clear evidence that 
orlistat causes these reactions. 
Patients should note that symptoms of hepatitis can include yellowing skin and eyes, itching, dark 
coloured urine, stomach pain and liver tenderness (indicated by pain under the front of the rib 
cage), sometimes with a loss of appetite. Patients should stop taking orlistat and inform their 
doctor if they experience any of these symptoms.  
Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor or pharmacist at a routine 
appointment. 
The European Commission issued a decision for Orlistat Art. 31 on 24 April 2012. 
The current European public assessment report for Alli can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
The current European public assessment report for Xenical can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
Questions and answers on the review of  
orlistat-containing medicines  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
