16 December 2016 
EMA/848709/2016  
EMEA/H/C/II/0037 
Questions and answers 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an extension of 
indication application for Inovelon (rufinamide) 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded the review of an application to 
extend the use of the epilepsy medicine Inovelon to children aged 1 to 4 years. The CHMP considered 
that the data available at this point in time were not sufficient to recommend this change. However, 
the Committee considered that the data could be important for healthcare professionals and 
recommended their inclusion in Inovelon’s product information. 
What is Inovelon? 
Inovelon is used for treating Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, a rare type of epilepsy that usually affects 
children but can continue into adulthood. It is currently approved only for children aged 4 years or 
older. Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is one of the most severe forms of epilepsy in children. Its signs and 
symptoms include multiple types of seizures (fits), abnormal electrical activity in the brain, learning 
disability and behavioural problems.  
Inovelon was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine to be used in rare diseases) on 20 October 
2004 for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here. 
Inovelon contains the active substance rufinamide and has been authorised since January 2007.  
What was Inovelon expected to be used for? 
The company that markets Inovelon applied for it to be used to treat Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in 
children aged 1 to 4 years. 
How does Inovelon work? 
The active substance in Inovelon, rufinamide acts by attaching to special channels on the surface of 
brain cells (sodium channels), which control their electrical activity. By attaching to these channels, 
rufinamide prevents them from becoming activated. This dampens down the activity of the brain cells 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
and prevents abnormal electrical activity from spreading through the brain. This reduces the likelihood 
of a seizure occurring. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented data from a study in which 37 children aged between 1 and 4 years with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome received either Inovelon or another epilepsy medicine in addition to their 
existing treatment. The study investigated the safety of Inovelon and also its impact on the child’s 
behavioural and emotional development assessed by the patient’s parent or guardian on a 
standardised scoring system.  
The company also proposed a way to make predictions on the use of Inovelon in children aged 
between 1 and 4 years based on existing data in patients aged 4 years and older. 
What was the conclusion of the CHMP? 
While the study showed that the safety of Inovelon in patients aged 1 to less than 4 years was 
consistent with the known safety profile in older children, the CHMP concluded that the study was too 
small to make conclusions on the medicine’s effectiveness. Regarding the data that the company used 
to make predictions for use in children aged 1 to less than 4 years, the CHMP considered that further 
analyses were needed in order to make dosing recommendations in the younger age group. The CHMP 
therefore concluded that based on the currently available data, Inovelon could not be approved for 
patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome aged less than 4 years. 
However, the CHMP considered that including the data obtained in these children in Inovelon’s product 
information could help the healthcare professionals who manage them. 
What are the consequences for patients in clinical trials? 
There are no consequences of the outcome of this application on patients currently in or who may be 
joining clinical trials with Inovelon. If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your 
treatment, contact the doctor who is giving it to you. 
What is happening with Inovelon for the treatment of other diseases? 
There are no consequences on the use of Inovelon in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome aged 4 
years and over. 
More information about Inovelon is available on EMA’s website. 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an extension of indication application for 
Inovelon (rufinamide)  
EMA/848709/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
