30 May 2013 
EMA/323929/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000521/II/0014 
Questions and answers 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an extension of 
indication application for Lysodren (mitotane) 
On 30 May 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) finalised its assessment 
of an application to modify the approved use of Lysodren, which would have extended its use in the 
treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma to include ‘non-functional’ disease. The CHMP did not consider 
the data submitted to be sufficient to recommend this change. However, the Committee concluded that 
new information relating to blood concentrations of the medicine and side effects should be included in 
the prescribing information.  
What is Lysodren? 
Lysodren is an orphan medicine (a medicine used in rare diseases) that contains the active substance 
mitotane. It is available as tablets (500 mg). It is used to treat the symptoms of advanced adrenal 
cortical carcinoma (cancer of the adrenal cortex, the outer layer of the adrenal gland, which is 
responsible for producing steroid hormones). It is used when the cancer cannot be removed by 
surgery, is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body) or has relapsed (returned after 
treatment). 
What was Lysodren expected to be used for? 
Lysodren is currently indicated to treat the symptoms of ‘functional’ adrenal cortical carcinoma, which 
is when the tumour produces excess levels of steroid hormones, causing related symptoms (such as 
Cushing’s syndrome). The prescribing information contains a statement that Lysodren’s effects have 
not been established in ‘non-functional’ adrenal cortical carcinoma (when hormone production is not 
altered and the only symptoms are caused by the size of the tumour). Lysodren was expected to be 
used in non-functional as well as functional adrenal cortical carcinoma, and therefore the company was 
requesting to remove this statement from the prescribing information.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8668   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented the results of one main study involving 304 patients with advanced 
adrenocortical carcinoma (166 with functional disease and 138 with non-functional disease). The study 
compared two treatment regimens where Lysodren was given with other anticancer medicines: one 
consisted of Lysodren together with etoposide, doxorubicin and cisplatin, while the other consisted of 
Lysodren together with streptozocin.  
What were the conclusions of the CHMP? 
The CHMP concluded that the data provided was not sufficient to determine the effects of Lysodren in 
patients with non-functional disease. It was not possible to assess whether the treatment’s effect in 
terms of controlling the disease was caused by Lysodren or not, as the study was not designed to 
demonstrate this. Moreover, relevant data on the sub-group of patients with non-functional disease 
were not provided. Therefore, there was not enough evidence to support the proposed change to the 
prescribing information.  
At the same time, the newly submitted results provided further information on the relationship 
between the amount of the medicine in the blood and its effects, and on certain side effects seen in 
patients treated with Lysodren. Therefore, the CHMP recommended including the relevant data in the 
prescribing information for Lysodren.  
What consequences does this refusal have for patients in clinical trials or 
compassionate use programmes? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no ongoing clinical trials or compassionate use 
programmes with Lysodren in patients with non-functional disease.  
What is happening with Lysodren for treatment of functional adrenal 
cortical carcinoma? 
There are no consequences for the use of Lysodren in its authorised indications. 
The full European Public Assessment Report for Lysodren can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
Questions and answers on the outcome of an extension of indication application for 
Lysodren (mitotane)  
EMA/323929/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
