European Medicines Agency 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/154142/2009 
Questions and answers on recommendation for the refusal of the marketing 
authorisation 
for 
Cayston 
International non-proprietary name (INN): aztreonam 
On 19 March 2009, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
negative opinion, recommending the refusal of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cayston 75 mg powder and solvent for nebuliser solution, intended for the treatment of chronic airway 
infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) bacteria in adults with cystic fibrosis. 
The company that applied for authorisation is Gilead Sciences International Limited. They may 
request a re-examination of the opinion within 15 days of receipt of notification of this negative 
opinion. 
What is Cayston? 
Cayston is a powder and solvent that are made up into a nebuliser solution. It contains the active 
substance aztreonam. 
What was Cayston expected to be used for? 
Cayston was expected to be used to treat chronic (long-term) airway infections caused by 
P. aeruginosa bacteria in adults with cystic fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease that affects 
the glands in the lungs, gut and pancreas that secrete fluids such as mucus and digestive juices. 
Cayston was to be used to improve the patient’s lung function and to reduce respiratory (breathing) 
symptoms. 
Cayston was expected to be used with a nebuliser (a special machine that changes the solution into an 
aerosol that the patient can breathe in). 
How is Cayston expected to work? 
In cystic fibrosis, the patient’s lungs produce too much thick mucus which is not cleared away. The 
excess mucus encourages the growth of bacteria. In patients with cystic fibrosis, P. aeruginosa 
infections usually start in the first 10 years of life and can cause long-term lung problems. 
The active substance in Cayston, aztreonam, is an antibiotic that belongs to the group ‘beta-lactams’. 
It works by attaching to certain types of protein on the surface of the P. aeruginosa cells. This prevents 
the bacteria from building the walls that surround their cells, which kills the bacteria. 
Aztreonam has been available as an injection since the 1980’s. In Cayston, the aztreonam is available 
as a lysine salt. This makes it possible for the antibiotic to be given directly into the lungs without 
causing irritation. 
What documentation did the company present to support its application to the CHMP? 
The effects of Cayston were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
Cayston was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving a total of 375 
patients with cystic fibrosis. The average age of the patients was about 26 years and they were treated 
for four weeks. In one study, the main measure of effectiveness was how long it took before the 
patient needed to use another antibiotic because of respiratory symptoms. In the other study, the main 
measure of effectiveness was the reduction in respiratory symptoms. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What were the major concerns that led the CHMP to recommend the refusal of the marketing 
authorisation? 
The CHMP was concerned that there was insufficient evidence of the medicine’s long-term benefits 
and after repeated courses of treatment in different age groups. In addition, there was insufficient 
long-term data on the medicine’s safety and the risk of bacterial resistance. 
At that point in time, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of Cayston in the treatment of 
chronic airway infections due to P. aeruginosa in adults with cystic fibrosis did not outweigh its risks. 
The Committee also decided that not all criteria for granting a conditional marketing authorisation 
were met. Hence, the CHMP recommended that Cayston be refused marketing authorisation. 
What are the consequences of the refusal for patients in clinical trials or compassionate use 
programmes using Cayston? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients currently included in 
clinical trials or compassionate use programmes with Cayston. If you are in a clinical trial or 
compassionate use programme and need more information about your treatment, contact the doctor 
who is giving it to you. 
   Page 2/2 
         
 
 
