19 April 2012 
EMA/254587/2012 
EMEA/H/C/002202/A20/0008 
Questions and answers on the review of Gilenya  
Outcome of a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
On 19 April 2012, the European Medicines Agency completed a review of Gilenya, following cases of 
death and serious cardiovascular events (problems related to the heart and blood vessels) in patients 
who had recently started treatment with the medicine. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products 
for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that the benefits of Gilenya continue to outweigh its risks but 
recommended changes to the product information to strengthen the warnings and ensure close 
monitoring of all patients following the first dose.  
What is Gilenya? 
Gilenya is a medicine used to treat adults with highly active multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a disease of 
the nerves, in which inflammation destroys the protective sheath surrounding the nerve cells. Gilenya 
is used in the type of MS known as ‘relapsing-remitting’, when the patient has attacks (relapses) in 
between periods with decreased symptoms (remissions). It is used when the disease has failed to 
respond to beta-interferon (another type of medicine used in MS), or is severe and getting worse 
rapidly. Gilenya is available as capsules. It is the only disease-modifying MS treatment available to be 
taken by mouth. 
The active substance in Gilenya, fingolimod, blocks the action of a receptor called ‘the sphingosine-1-
phosphate receptor’ on T cells (a type of immune cell involved in inflammation). This stops the 
movement of T cells from the lymph nodes to the brain and spinal cord, thus limiting the damage to 
nerve cells. 
Gilenya has been authorised in the European Union (EU) since March 2011 and has been marketed in 
16 EU Member States1 as well as Norway. In total, more than 30,000 patients have received Gilenya 
worldwide. 
The current European public assessment report for Gilenya can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
1 Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, 
Sweden, the Netherlands and United Kingdom. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Why was Gilenya reviewed? 
On 12 December 2011, the company that markets Gilenya, Novartis Europharm Ltd., informed the 
Agency of the unexplained sudden death of a patient in the United States of America within 24 hours of 
taking Gilenya for the first time. 
While no cases of sudden or unexplained death had been reported in clinical studies at the time of its 
authorisation, it was known that Gilenya causes a transient bradycardia (a short-lived decrease in 
heart rate) and might be associated with atrioventricular block (a type of heart rhythm disorder). 
Warnings on these important cardiovascular effects had been included in the medicine’s product 
information and doctors had been recommended to observe patients for signs and symptoms of 
bradycardia for at least six hours after the first dose (or when the last dose had been administered 
more than two weeks earlier).  
On 18 January 2012, the CHMP started a review of Gilenya following the reported death, to assess the 
need for further measures to ensure the safe use of the medicine. While the review was ongoing, the 
CHMP issued temporary recommendations to doctors, including the recommendation to monitor 
patients continuously with ECG (a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart) for six hours 
after taking the first dose. Doctors were also advised to consider extending the monitoring of patients 
who developed any clinically relevant heart problem (such as bradycardia or atrioventricular block).2 
Which data has the CHMP reviewed? 
The CHMP reviewed the available safety data from clinical studies and post-marketing surveillance, 
including data on cardiovascular problems following the first dose of Gilenya. The Committee also 
looked at the circumstances surrounding the reported cases of death. In total, 15 cases of sudden or 
unexplained death in patients treated with Gilenya were assessed by the Committee. Most of the 
deaths and cardiovascular problems had occurred in patients with a history of cardiovascular problems 
and/or taking other medicines. However, the data reviewed were not conclusive as to whether Gilenya 
was the cause of the deaths.  
What are the conclusions of the CHMP? 
The CHMP considered that there is clear evidence of the benefit of Gilenya in relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis. However, considering that certain patients have an increased risk of cardiovascular 
problems, particularly those with a history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular problems (problems 
with the blood supply to the brain), and those who are taking other medicines that lower the heart 
rate, the Committee concluded that Gilenya is not recommended in these patients. However, if 
treatment is nonetheless considered necessary, advice from a cardiologist should be sought and an 
extended monitoring, at least overnight, is recommended after the first dose. 
The CHMP also noted that the maximum effect of Gilenya on decreasing the heart rate occurred within 
six hours after the first dose in most patients, and that this decrease in heart rate can be reversed, if 
necessary, by giving atropine or isoprenaline. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the 
product information be amended to further strengthen the warnings on the cardiovascular effects of 
the medicine and to ensure close monitoring of all patients, particularly during the six hours after the 
first dose. In addition, if patients develop any relevant heart problem during the six-hour monitoring, 
the monitoring should be extended at least overnight. 
2http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/public_health_alerts/2012/01/human_pha_detail
_000050.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d126&source=homeMedSearch&category=human 
Questions and answers on the review of Gilenya  
EMA/254587/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
                                               
 
Based on the evaluation of the currently available data and the scientific discussion within the 
Committee, the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk balance for Gilenya remains positive.  
A communication will be distributed to doctors at national level to inform them of the changes to the 
use of Gilenya. The amended information to doctors and patients is detailed here.  
What are the recommendations for patients? 
 
Patients are advised to report any symptoms that could suggest they have a heart problem (such 
as chest pain, nausea, palpitations, weakness or dizziness) to their doctor, as soon as possible. 
 
Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor.  
What are the recommendations for prescribers? 
 
Treatment with Gilenya is not recommended: 
 
in patients with a history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease. However, if treatment 
with Gilenya is considered necessary, advice from a cardiologist should be sought regarding 
the appropriate heart monitoring for these patients when starting treatment. Monitoring should 
be at least overnight; 
 
in patients taking certain antiarrhythmic medicines (medicines used to restore normal cardiac 
rhythm); 
 
in patients taking certain medicines that lower the heart rate. However, if treatment with 
Gilenya is considered necessary, advice from a cardiologist should be sought as to whether 
these patients should be switched to a different medicine that does not lower the heart rate, or 
whether they should be continuously monitored overnight by ECG after the first dose. 
  When starting treatment with Gilenya, doctors should: 
  before the first dose, check the patient’s blood pressure, heart rate, as well as their heart by 
ECG.  
  after the first dose, check the patient’s blood pressure and heart rate every hour for six hours. 
  Doctors are recommended to continuously monitor the patient’s heart function by ECG for six 
hours after the first dose. 
  Doctors are recommended to extend monitoring after the six-hour period if: 
  at the end of the six-hour period the heart rate is at its lowest since taking the first dose. In 
this case, the monitoring should be extended for at least two more hours and until the heart 
rate increases again; 
  patients develop any clinically relevant heart problem (such as bradycardia or atrioventricular 
block). If so, doctors are advised to extend the monitoring period at least overnight and until 
resolution. 
A European Commission decision on this opinion will be issued in due course. 
Questions and answers on the review of Gilenya  
EMA/254587/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
