16 February 2012 
EMA/105039/2012  
EMEA/H/C/002084  
Questions and answers on the expression of the strength 
for Halaven (eribulin) 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) has agreed that a letter should 
be sent to healthcare professionals in the EU to clarify the way the strength of this medicine is 
expressed in the product information. This is expected to avoid misunderstanding and ensure that 
patients are given the correct dose.  
What is Halaven? 
Halaven is an anticancer medicine that contains the active substance eribulin. Halaven is used to treat 
breast cancer that is advanced or that has spread to other parts of the body. Halaven has been 
authorised in the European Union since March 2011 and is marketed in the following EU countries: 
Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. 
What is the concern with Halaven?  
Halaven contains eribulin in the form of a salt called ‘eribulin mesilate’, which releases the active 
substance, eribulin. The strength of Halaven is expressed in the product information in terms of the 
active substance, eribulin, in line with EU guidelines. However, the strength of Halaven is often 
expressed in terms of the salt in the scientific literature as well as in the prescribing information used 
in some countries, including the United States of America (USA).  
The Agency is concerned that the expression of strength in the EU product information could be 
misunderstood by healthcare professionals to be referring to ‘eribulin mesilate’ rather than to eribulin, 
which could potentially lead to the wrong dose being given to patients.  
What action is being taken? 
The CHMP has agreed that a letter should be sent to healthcare professionals in the EU reminding them 
that the EU product information expresses the strength in terms of the active substance and not in 
terms of the salt. This is expected to avoid misunderstanding and ensure that patients are given the 
correct dose.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7129   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, the Agency will continue to closely monitor the safety of Halaven. To date, no 
safety reports have been received that could be attributed to misinterpretation of the dosing 
instructions.  
What are the recommendations for healthcare professionals? 
  Doctors are reminded that the recommended dose in the EU is 1.23 mg/m2, which is expressed in 
terms of active substance (eribulin).  
  Doctors are also reminded that in some countries, like the USA, and in the main clinical study with 
Halaven (EMBRACE), the dose is expressed as the salt, ‘eribulin mesilate’. 
  As for all medicines, healthcare professionals should report any adverse events suspected to be 
associated with Halaven. 
The current European public assessment report for Halaven can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. 
Questions and answers on the expression of the strength for Halaven (eribulin)  
EMA/105039/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
