European Medicines Agency 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/398628/2008 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
for 
CEPLENE 
International non-proprietary name (INN): histamine dihydrochloride 
On 24 July 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) recommended the 
granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Ceplene  0.5 mg/0.5 ml  solution  for 
injection intended as maintenance therapy in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). 
On  19  March  2008,  the  CHMP  had  adopted  a  negative  opinion  for  Ceplene.  At  the  request  of  the 
applicant,  the  Committee  started  a  re-examination  of  its  opinion.  Following  the  re-examination,  the 
CHMP adopted a final positive opinion on 24 July 2008. 
What is Ceplene? 
Ceplene is a solution for injection that contains the active substance histamine dihydrochloride. 
What is Ceplene to be used for? 
Ceplene  is  to  be  used  as  maintenance  treatment  in  combination  with  interleukin-2  (an  anticancer 
medicine) in adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), a type of cancer affecting the white blood 
cells. It is to be used during the patients’ first ‘remission’ (a period without symptoms of the disease 
after the first course of treatment). 
Ceplene was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 11 April 2005 for the treatment of AML. 
How does Ceplene work? 
The active substance in Ceplene, histamine dihydrochloride, is an immune modulator, meaning that it 
alters  the  activity  of  the  immune  system  (the  body’s  natural  defences).  It  is  a  form  of  histamine,  a 
naturally-occurring  substance  in  the  body  that  is  involved  in  many  processes.  In  the  treatment  of 
AML,  it  is  thought  to  work  by  protecting  immune  system  cells  from  damage.  This  improves  the 
effectiveness of interleukin-2, a medicine that stimulates the immune system to attack cancerous cells. 
When Ceplene is given with interleukin-2, it increases the length of time until AML comes back. 
What documentation did the company present to support its application to the CHMP? 
The effects of Ceplene were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
The effectiveness of Ceplene was studied in one main study involving 320 adults with AML who were 
in remission following leukaemia treatment. Ceplene was given in combination with interleukin-2 and 
compared  with  no  treatment.  The  main  measure  of  effectiveness  was  the  length  of  time  until  the 
disease came back or the patient died. 
What  were  the  major  concerns  that  initially  led  the  CHMP  to  recommend  the  refusal  of  the 
marketing authorisation? 
The CHMP was concerned that the single main study did not provide sufficient evidence to allow the 
approval  of  Ceplene,  because  the  study’s  results  were  not  considered  to  be  compelling  enough.  In 
addition, the Committee noted that the evidence presented in support of the application was limited, 
especially with regards to how the combination of Ceplene and interleukin-2 works. 
Therefore,  at  that  point  in  time,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  benefits  of  Ceplene  in 
combination  with  interleukin-2  did  not  outweigh  its  risks  in  the  maintenance  of  remission  in  adults 
with AML. Hence, the CHMP recommended that Ceplene be refused marketing authorisation. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What happened during the re-examination? 
During  the  re-examination,  the  CHMP  took  advice  from  a  group  of  experts  specialising  in  the 
treatment of cancer, and looked at additional analyses of the main study’s results that were supplied by 
the company. 
What were the conclusions of the CHMP following re-examination? 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  results  from  the  single  main  study,  even  if  limited,  are  sufficient  to 
demonstrate  the  effectiveness  of  the  combination  of  Ceplene  and  interleukin-2,  but  that  further  data 
from new clinical studies are needed to confirm the effectiveness of the combination of Ceplene and 
interleukin-2 and to understand the role of Ceplene in the combination. 
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the benefits of Ceplene used in combination with interleukin-2 
outweigh  its  risks  as  maintenance  therapy  in  adults  with  AML  and  recommended  that  Ceplene  be 
given  a  marketing  authorisation.  The  Committee  recommended  authorisation  under  ‘Exceptional 
Circumstances’,  because  further  information  is  awaited  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  combination  of 
Ceplene  and  interleukin-2  and  how  the  combination  works.  Every  year,  the  CHMP  will  review  any 
new data that may become available and the marketing authorisation will be updated as necessary. 
   Page 2/2 
         
 
 
 
 
