26 June 2020 
EMA/338421/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005233 
Withdrawal of application for the marketing authorisation 
of Sondelbay (teriparatide) 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. withdrew its application for a marketing authorisation of Sondelbay for the 
treatment of osteoporosis (a disease that makes bones fragile). 
The company withdrew the application on 19 June 2020. 
What is Sondelbay and what was it intended to be used for? 
Sondelbay was to be used for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at 
increased risk of fracture. It was also to be used in men and women who are at an increased risk of 
fractures due to long-term treatment with glucocorticoids (a type of steroid). 
Sondelbay contains the active substance teriparatide and was to be available as a solution for injection 
in prefilled pens. 
How does Sondelbay work? 
Osteoporosis happens when not enough new bone grows to replace the bone that is naturally broken 
down, as may happen in women after the menopause. Gradually, the bones become fragile, and more 
likely to break. Osteoporosis can also occur in both sexes as a side effect of glucocorticoid treatment.  
The active substance in Sondelbay, teriparatide, is identical to part of the human parathyroid hormone 
and acts on osteoblasts (bone-forming cells) in a similar way to stimulate bone formation. It also 
increases the absorption of calcium from food and prevents too much calcium being lost in the urine. 
Sondelbay was a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that it was expected to be highly similar to another 
biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference 
medicine for Sondelbay was Forsteo. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented laboratory studies comparing Sondelbay with Forsteo that were intended to 
show that the active substance in Sondelbay is highly similar to that in Forsteo in terms of structure, 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
purity and biological activity. Because Sondelbay was a biosimilar medicine, the studies on 
effectiveness and safety of teriparatide carried out with Forsteo did not need to be repeated for 
Sondelbay. However, a study was carried out in 50 healthy men and 49 healthy post-menopausal 
women, to show that Sondelbay and Forsteo were distributed in the body in the same way. 
How far into the evaluation was the application when it was withdrawn? 
The application was withdrawn after the European Medicines Agency had evaluated the information 
supplied by the company and prepared questions for the company. After the Agency had assessed the 
company’s responses to the last round of questions, there were still some unresolved issues.  
What did the Agency recommend at that time? 
Based on the review of the data and the company’s response to the Agency’s questions, at the time of 
the withdrawal, the Agency still had some concerns and its provisional opinion was that Sondelbay 
could not have been authorised for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in 
men at increased risk of fracture.  
It was concerned that the distribution of the medicine in the body had not been fully established as an 
inspection revealed problems with the way the main study was carried out. The findings identified 
during the inspection cast doubts on the reliability of the study results, and hence on whether the 
product could be considered highly similar to Forsteo. In addition, the Agency noted that more data 
was needed on how the prefilled pen was to be manufactured and assembled. 
Therefore, at the time of the withdrawal, the Agency’s opinion was that the benefits of Sondelbay did 
not outweigh its risks. 
What were the reasons given by the company for withdrawing the 
application? 
In its letter notifying the Agency of the withdrawal of the application, the company stated that it was 
withdrawing its application because of the issues with the main study comparing the distribution of its 
product and Forsteo in the body. 
Does this withdrawal affect patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the Agency that there are no consequences for patients in clinical trials using 
Sondelbay. 
If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your treatment, speak with your clinical 
trial doctor.  
Withdrawal of application for the marketing authorisation of Sondelbay (teriparatide)  
EMA/338421/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
