15 March 2012 
EMA/178766/2012  
EMEA/H/C/00089/A-20/61 
EMEA/H/C/00796/A-20/11 
Questions and answers on final recommendations on 
Caelyx and Ceplene manufactured at Ben Venue 
Laboratories 
Outcome of procedures under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
On 15 March 2012, the European Medicines Agency completed a review of Caelyx (doxorubicin 
hydrochloride) and Ceplene (histamine dihydrochloride)1, two centrally authorised anticancer 
medicines manufactured at Ben Venue Laboratories, Ohio, USA. The review was initiated following 
shortcomings in quality assurance identified at this site, and follows the finalisation on 22 February 
2012 of the review of the other 12 centrally authorised medicines manufactured at the same site 
(Angiox, Busilvex, Vidaza, Vistide, Velcade, Ecalta diluent, Soliris, Cayston, Luminity, Mepact, Torisel 
and Vibativ)2. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) has 
recommended maintaining the marketing authorisations for Caelyx and Ceplene until new 
manufacturing sites are approved as these medicines are considered essential for patients and no 
alternative suppliers or alternative formulations are currently available.  
Why were these medicines reviewed? 
A good manufacturing practice (GMP) inspection of Ben Venue in November 20113 highlighted several 
shortcomings in the quality management system in place at the site, particularly in relation to the 
sterile filling process and possible particle contamination during the manufacturing process. During the 
inspection, Ben Venue decided to cease all manufacture and distribution of medicines from its site. 
Consequently, on 18 November 2011 the European Commission asked the CHMP to assess the impact 
of these shortcomings on the quality and safety of medicines produced at Ben Venue, and to issue an 
opinion on whether the marketing authorisation for these medicines should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or withdrawn across the EU. 
1 More information on these medicines can be found in the relevant European public assessment reports (EPARs) for each 
medicine: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
2 For more information see: ‘European Medicines Agency gives final recommendations for 12 centrally authorised medicines 
manufactured at Ben Venue Laboratories’. 
3 The November 2011 inspection of the Ben Venue Laboratories manufacturing site conducted by the Medicines and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and the Agence Française de Sécurité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé 
(AFSSAPS) jointly with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was a follow-up to a previous inspection conducted in 
March 2011 that had been triggered by the European Medicines Agency as part of a re-inspection program. This inspection 
had already led to the restriction in the importation of some medicines to the EU from the Ben Venue site. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
What actions have been taken so far? 
The CHMP assessed the causes and impact of the possible particle contamination and the sterility 
assurance problem. Given the potential risks identified, the CHMP issued interim recommendations in 
November4 and December5 2011 recommending that only medicines that are absolutely essential for 
patients’ needs and for which no alternative supplier or formulation is available, such as Caelyx and 
Ceplene, should continue to be used. 
In addition, on 13 January 2012, the UK’s medicines regulatory agency (MHRA) on behalf of the 
European regulatory network issued a restricted GMP certificate to Ben Venue in order to stop the EU 
supply of non-essential medicines from Ben Venue, while allowing the continued supply of essential 
medicines such as Caelyx and Ceplene. 
What are the final recommendations of the CHMP? 
The CHMP has now finalised the assessment for Caelyx and Ceplene and is recommending the 
maintenance of their marketing authorisations as these medicines are considered essential for patients 
and no alternative manufacturers supplying the EU market or alternative formulations are currently 
available. The Committee also considered the fact that no concerns have been raised from the safety 
monitoring of these medicines. The medicines can therefore continue to be manufactured at Ben Venue 
until an alternative manufacturer is approved and supply can be guaranteed. The transfers to 
alternative manufacturing sites will be completed by December 2013 for Ceplene and by December 
2014 for Caelyx. In the case of Caelyx, which is manufactured under sterile conditions the transfer of 
the entire manufacturing operation to a different site is complex and will be done in a stepwise 
approach. As part of this stepwise approach, the transfer of the sterile operations will be done by 
September 2012. 
The interim recommendations made in November4 and December 20115 continue to apply:  
For Caelyx: 
  No new patients should be started on Caelyx. Caelyx manufactured at Ben Venue should only be 
used to complete treatments that have already been initiated. This recommendation remains valid 
until the sterile operations have been transferred to a new manufacturing site and supply can be 
guaranteed from this site. In addition, healthcare professionals should monitor treated patients 
intensively and report immediately any relevant safety concerns (including sepsis or suspected 
sepsis) that could be evidence of a quality assurance problem with the sterilisation process. The 
marketing authorisation holder is required to provide monthly safety monitoring reports and inform 
the Agency promptly in the event that any concerns are detected.  
For Ceplene: 
 
The marketing authorisation holder will continue to visually inspect the vials for particles before 
releasing them.  
For the other 12 centrally authorised medicines produced at Ben Venue, for which the review was 
finalised on 22 February 2012, the CHMP had recommended the following2:  
4 Press release - European Medicines Agency gives interim recommendations to deal with shortcomings in quality assurance 
at Ben Venue Laboratories 
5 Press release - European Medicines Agency gives further interim recommendations on dealing with shortcomings in quality 
assurance at Ben Venue Laboratories 
Q&A - European Medicines Agency recommends precautionary recall of remaining batch of Vistide manufactured at Ben 
Venue Laboratories 
Questions and answers on final recommendations on Caelyx and Ceplene manufactured
at Ben Venue Laboratories  
EMA/178766/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
The suspension of the marketing authorisations for Vibativ and Luminity, which are currently not 
marketed in the EU and for which no alternative manufacturer or formulation is available. The 
suspension will remain in place until the company obtains approval for a GMP compliant alternative 
manufacturing site.  
 
The maintenance of the marketing authorisations with conditions for Busilvex, Vidaza, Vistide, 
Velcade, Ecalta diluent, Soliris, Cayston, Mepact, Torisel and Angiox, for which alternative 
manufacturers are supplying the EU market or alternative formulations6 are available. All 
companies involved are required to submit an application to remove Ben Venue as a manufacturing 
site for these medicines.  
A European Commission decision on this opinion will be issued in due course. 
6 Alternative formulations for Velcade 1 mg and Ecalta diluent are Velcade 3.5 mg and Ecalta without solvent, respectively. 
Questions and answers on final recommendations on Caelyx and Ceplene manufactured
at Ben Venue Laboratories  
EMA/178766/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
