EMA/622207/2018 Rev.1 
EMEA/H/C/003731/II/0011 
Update of 21 September 2018: 
The company that applied to change the marketing authorisation of Blincyto has requested a re-examination 
of the CHMP’s July 2018 opinion. Upon receipt of the grounds for the request, the CHMP will re-examine its 
opinion and issue a final recommendation. 
27 July 2018 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for 
Blincyto (blinatumomab) 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a negative 
opinion, recommending the refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for Blincyto, which is 
used to treat B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). The change concerned an extension of 
use that would allow the medicine to be used in patients with residual cancer cells in the body after 
previous treatment. 
The company that applied for the change to the authorisation is Amgen Europe B.V. It may request a 
re-examination of the opinion within 15 days of receipt of notification of this negative opinion. 
What is Blincyto? 
Blincyto is a cancer medicine currently used to treat a type of blood cancer called B-precursor acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) when the cancer has come back or has not improved with previous 
treatment.  
Blincyto is used in patients who are ‘Philadelphia-chromosome-negative’, which means that the 
patients do not have an abnormal chromosome called the Philadelphia chromosome. 
The medicine has been authorised since November 2015 and contains the active substance 
blinatumomab.  
Further information on Blincyto’s current uses can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blincyto was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine to be used in rare diseases) on 24 July 2009 
for ALL. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here. 
What was Blincyto expected to be used for? 
Blincyto was also expected to be used to treat patients with minimal residual disease (MRD), which 
means they have residual cancer cells in their body after previous treatment with other medicines and 
could therefore be at higher risk of B-precursor ALL returning. 
How does Blincyto work? 
In B-precursor ALL, certain cells that give rise to B cells (a type of white blood cell) multiply too quickly 
and eventually these abnormal cells replace normal blood cells. 
The active substance in Blincyto, blinatumomab, is an antibody that has been designed to recognise 
and attach to a protein (CD19) found on all B cells, including ALL cells. It also attaches to a protein 
(CD3) found on T cells (another type of white blood cell). 
Blincyto therefore acts as a bridge, bringing the T cells and the B cells together and causing the 
activation of T cells, which release substances that eventually kill B cells. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented data from a main study in 116 patients with residual cancer cells who were 
treated with Blincyto. The study did not compare Blincyto with any other treatment. It looked at how 
many patients no longer had residual disease after one treatment cycle. 
What were the CHMP’s main concerns that led to the refusal of the change 
to the marketing authorisation? 
The CHMP noted that although Blincyto helped clear away residual cells in many patients, there is no 
strong evidence that it leads to improved survival in patients.  
Given the uncertainty, the CHMP was of the opinion that the benefits of Blincyto in patients with 
residual B-precursor ALL cells did not outweigh its risks. The CHMP therefore recommended that the 
change to the marketing authorisation be refused. 
What consequences does this refusal have for patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients in clinical trials. 
If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your treatment, contact the doctor who is 
giving it to you. 
What is happening with Blincyto for treatment of other patients with B-
precursor ALL? 
There are no consequences for Blincyto in its authorised use. 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for Blincyto (blinatumomab)  
EMA/622207/2018  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
