29 May 2020 
EMA/235207/2020  
EMEA/H/C/002656/II/0051 
Questions and answers on the use of Vokanamet in 
diabetic kidney disease 
The European Medicines Agency has finalised its assessment of an application to approve a change to 
the indication of Vokanamet (canagliflozin/metformin) to include the treatment of kidney disease in 
patients with type 2 diabetes.  
Although EMA’s medicines committee (CHMP) did not recommend inclusion of this use, it agreed that 
relevant safety data from the study submitted with the application be included in the medicine’s 
product information. 
What is Vokanamet and what is it used for? 
Vokanamet is a medicine used, together with diet and exercise, to treat adults with type 2 diabetes 
whose disease is not satisfactorily controlled with metformin alone, or it is used in combination with 
other diabetes medicines when these medicines together with metformin are not providing adequate 
control of the diabetes. Vokanamet can also be used to replace canagliflozin and metformin given 
separately. 
It contains the active substances canagliflozin and metformin and is available as tablets. 
Vokanamet has been authorised in the EU since April 2014. 
Further information on Vokanamet’s current uses can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vokanamet  
What change had the company applied for? 
The company applied to extend the use of Vokanamet to include the treatment of chronic (long-term) 
kidney disease and albuminuria (protein in the urine) in adults with type 2 diabetes. 
How does Vokanamet work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. This leads to high levels of 
glucose in the blood. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Vokanamet contains two different active substances, which work in different ways: 
• 
canagliflozin works by blocking a protein in the kidneys called sodium glucose co-transporter 2 
(SGLT2). SGLT2 absorbs glucose back into the bloodstream as the blood is filtered in the kidneys. 
By blocking the action of SGLT2, canagliflozin causes more glucose to be removed via the urine, 
thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood. Canagliflozin has also been shown to slow the 
progression of diabetic kidney disease. Canagliflozin as separate tablets has been authorised in the 
EU under the brand name Invokana since November 2013. 
•  Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut. It 
has been available in the EU since the 1950s. 
As a result of the action of both active substances, the blood glucose is reduced and this helps to 
control type 2 diabetes. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented results from a main study, the CREDENCE study, in 4,401 patients with type 2 
diabetes and diabetic kidney disease. The study compared the effects of using canagliflozin (at a dose 
of 100 mg per day) with those of placebo (dummy treatment), in addition to standard treatment of 
diabetic kidney disease, on the kidney and heart. 
What were EMA’s conclusions? 
EMA’s medicines committee (CHMP) noted that the results of the CREDENCE study cannot be 
automatically applied to Vokanamet as the study only looked at canagliflozin and did not focus on the 
combination of canagliflozin and metformin. In addition, the CHMP noted that giving the dose of 
canagliflozin used in the study as the fixed dose combination Vokanamet would mean exceeding the 
maximum recommended dose of metformin if patients had moderately or severely reduced kidney 
function.  
Relevant safety data from the main study will, however, be included in the product information for 
Vokanamet so that healthcare professionals have access to most up to date data on the effects of 
Vokanamet in patients with diabetes. 
Does this outcome affect patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the Agency that there are no consequences for patients in clinical trials using 
Vokanamet. 
Questions and answers on the use of Vokanamet in diabetic kidney disease  
EMA/235207/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
