10 November 2023 
EMA/488713/2023  
EMEA/H/C/002810/II/0039 
Outcome of assessment on use of Moventig (naloxegol) in 
treatment of constipation due to opioids 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has finalised an application to change the way Moventig is 
used, which included a request to extend the medicine’s use to include adults who have been 
previously treated with a laxative regardless of their response to laxative treatment.  
Although the company that markets the medicine decided not to continue with the request to extend 
the medicine’s use, EMA concluded that the product information should be updated to reflect certain 
other changes to the way the medicine is used, based on relevant data submitted with the application. 
What is Moventig and what is it used for? 
Moventig is a medicine used in adults to treat constipation caused by pain relief medicines called 
opioids. It is only used in patients who had an inadequate response to laxatives (defined as having 
symptoms of at least moderate severity on a constipation symptom score).  
Moventig contains the active substance naloxegol and is available as tablets to be taken by mouth. It 
has been authorised in the EU since December 2014. 
Further information on Moventig’s uses can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/moventig. 
What change had the company applied for? 
The company applied for an extension of indication to include use in patients who have previously been 
treated with a laxative, regardless of whether they had an inadequate response to laxative treatment.  
How does Moventig work? 
The active substance in Moventig, naloxegol, is derived from naloxone, a well-known substance that is 
used to block the action of opioids. Opioids relieve pain by attaching to ‘opioid receptors’ in the brain 
and spinal cord. However, these receptors are also found in the gut and when opioids attach to the gut 
receptors, they reduce the movement of the gut and can cause constipation. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Naloxegol is a peripheral mu-opioid-receptor antagonist. This means that it attaches to a specific type 
of opioid receptor called the ‘mu-opioid receptor’ and blocks opioids from binding to these receptors.  
Naloxegol is less able to enter the brain than naloxone, meaning that it can block the mu-opioid 
receptors in the gut but less in the brain. By blocking receptors in the gut, Moventig reduces the 
constipation due to opioids, but does not interfere with their pain relief effects. 
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company did not present new clinical data to support the extension of indication but proposed that 
the new indication may better reflect recommendations from experts and clinical practice.  
The company also presented an analysis of real-world data from three observational studies described 
in the literature that investigated the safety and effectiveness of naloxegol in patients with cancer-
related pain and constipation caused by opioids. In these studies, naloxegol was used with or without 
laxatives. 
What were EMA’s conclusions? 
The authorised use for Moventig was based on clinical studies in patients with non-cancer pain, which 
showed that the effect of naloxegol on constipation was mainly seen in patients who had an inadequate 
response to standard laxative treatment. The Agency noted that the results from the observational 
studies submitted in the present application were also collected from people with an inadequate 
response to laxatives and that the company had not submitted any clinical data relevant to support 
extending the medicine’s use to people who had previously received laxative treatment, regardless of 
whether they had an inadequate response to laxatives. 
At the time of the company’s decision to no longer pursue this extended use, the Agency’s human 
medicines committee (CHMP) was of the opinion that this use could not have been approved. However, 
the Committee concluded that the data the company submitted did allay previous concerns about using 
Moventig together with other laxatives and for treating patients using opioids for cancer pain.  
The EMA has therefore agreed on updating the production information for Moventig to remove a 
recommendation against using the medicine with other laxatives as well as a warning about its use in 
patients with cancer pain. 
Outcome of assessment on use of Moventig (naloxegol) in treatment of constipation 
due to opioids  
EMA/488713/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
