European Medicines Agency 
London, 26 June 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/306731/2008 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ON THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE MARKETING 
APPLICATION 
for 
AFLUNOV 
Common name: Prepandemic influenza vaccine (H5N1) (surface antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted) 
(A/VietNam/1194/2004) 
On 13 June 2008, Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. officially notified the Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) that it wishes to withdraw its application for a marketing 
authorisation for Aflunov, for the prophylaxis of H5N1 avian influenza in adults and the elderly. 
What is Aflunov? 
Aflunov is a vaccine. It consists of a suspension for injection that contains some parts (outer 
membranes) of the influenza (flu) virus strain called A/VietNam/1194/2004. 
What was Aflunov expected to be used for? 
Aflunov was expected to be used in adults and the elderly to protect against flu caused by the H5N1 
strain (type) of the influenza A virus. 
Aflunov is a ‘prepandemic’ vaccine. This is a special type of vaccine that is intended to protect against 
a strain of flu that may cause a future pandemic. A flu pandemic happens when a new strain of flu 
virus appears that can spread easily from person to person because people have no immunity 
(protection) against it. A pandemic can affect most countries and regions around the world. Health 
experts are concerned that the next flu pandemic could be caused by the H5N1 strain of the virus. 
Aflunov was expected to provide protection against this strain, so that it could be used before or 
during a flu pandemic. 
How is Aflunov expected to work? 
Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) how to defend itself 
against a disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the 
flu virus it contains as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. The immune system will be able 
to produce antibodies more quickly when it is exposed to flu virus of the same strain. This helps to 
protect against the disease. 
Aflunov contains small parts of the H5N1 strain of the flu virus. The virus used in the vaccine was 
first inactivated (killed) so that it does not cause any disease. Then, the outer membranes that contain 
the ‘surface antigens’ (proteins on the outer membrane of the virus that the body recognises as foreign) 
were extracted and purified before being included in the vaccine. Aflunov also contains an ‘adjuvant’ 
(a compound containing oil), which is expected to stimulate a better response. 
What documentation did the company present to support its application to the CHMP? 
The effects of Aflunov were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
The main clinical study of Aflunov involved over 4,000 adults. It compared Aflunov’s safety and its 
ability to stimulate the production of antibodies (‘immunogenicity’) with those of a similar vaccine 
against seasonal flu. The comparator vaccine contained different strains of seasonal flu virus, but the 
rest of the components were the same as in Aflunov. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00 Fax (44-20) 75 23 71 29 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How far into the evaluation was the application when it was withdrawn? 
The application was at day 190 when the company withdrew. After the CHMP had assessed the 
responses from the company to a list of questions, there were still some unresolved issues outstanding. 
The CHMP normally takes up to 210 days to evaluate a new application. Based on the review of the 
initial documentation, the CHMP prepares a list of questions at day 120, which is sent to the company. 
Once the company has supplied responses to the questions, the CHMP reviews them and may, before 
giving an opinion, ask any remaining questions at day 180. Following the CHMP’s opinion, it usually 
takes around two months for the European Commission to grant a licence. 
What was the recommendation of the CHMP at that time? 
Based on the review of the data and the company’s response to the CHMP list of questions, at the time 
of the withdrawal, the CHMP had some concerns and was of the provisional opinion that Aflunov 
could not have been approved for the prophylaxis of H5N1 avian influenza. 
What were the main concerns of the CHMP? 
The CHMP was concerned over the way the main clinical study was carried out. An inspection of 
some of the study sites showed that the study had not been conducted in compliance with ‘good 
clinical practice’ (GCP). Consequently, the study results could not be considered reliable and could 
not be used for the evaluation of the vaccine. As a result, the size of the clinical database for the 
assessment of the vaccine’s safety was not sufficient to fulfil the requirements of the EMEA’s 
guidelines on prepandemic vaccines. 
Therefore, at the time of the withdrawal, the CHMP could not conclude on the benefit-risk balance of 
Aflunov. 
What were the reasons given by the company to withdraw the application? 
The letter from the company notifying the EMEA of the withdrawal of the application is available 
here. 
What are the consequences of the withdrawal for patients undergoing clinical trials with 
Aflunov? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for individuals currently included in 
clinical trials with Aflunov. If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your 
treatment, contact the doctor who is giving it to you. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
