19 January 2012 
EMA/43541/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000539 
Questions and answers 
Questions and answers on the ongoing review of Gilenya 
(fingolimod) 
Review follows serious cardiovascular events in patients taking the medicine 
The European Medicines Agency is reviewing1 Gilenya, following cases of death and serious 
cardiovascular events in patients who had recently started treatment with the medicine. While the 
review is ongoing, the Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is advising 
healthcare professionals to intensify monitoring of patients after the first dose.  
What is Gilenya? 
Gilenya is a disease-modifying medicine which is used to treat adults with highly active multiple 
sclerosis (MS). MS is a disease of the nerves, in which inflammation destroys the protective sheath 
surrounding the nerve cells. Gilenya is used in the type of MS known as ‘relapsing-remitting’, when the 
patient has attacks (relapses) in between periods with decreased symptoms (remissions). It is used 
when the disease has failed to respond to beta-interferon (another type of medicine used in MS), or is 
severe and getting worse rapidly. Gilenya is available as capsules. 
The active substance in Gilenya, fingolimod, blocks the action of the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 
on T cells (a type of immune cells involved in inflammation). This stops the movement of T cells from 
the lymph nodes to the brain and spinal cord, thus limiting the damage to nerve cells. 
Gilenya has been authorised in the European Union (EU) since March 2011 and has been marketed in 
11 EU Member States2 as well as Norway. In total more than 30 000 patients have received Gilenya 
worldwide. 
1 The CHMP assessment is being conducted in the context of a formal review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, started at the request of the European Commission on 18 January 2011. 
2 Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Poland, Portugal, Sweden and the United Kingdom. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7129   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
What is the problem with Gilenya?  
On 12 December 2011, the company that markets Gilenya (Novartis) informed the Agency of the 
unexplained sudden death of a patient in the United States of America within 24 hours of taking 
Gilenya for the first time. Six other cases of unexplained death had been reported, three of which were 
sudden. In addition, other reports included three deaths due to heart attack and one due to disruption 
of the heart rhythm. Currently it is not clear whether these were caused by Gilenya or not.  
At the time of its authorisation, no cases of sudden or unexplained death had been reported in studies 
with Gilenya. However, it was known that treatment with this medicine caused a transient bradycardia 
(a decrease in heart rate that is short-lived) and might be associated with atrioventricular block (a 
type of heart rhythm disorder). Warnings on these effects were included in the medicine’s product 
information and on the need for doctors to observe patients for signs and symptoms of bradycardia for 
at least six hours after the first dose (or when the last dose had been administered more than two 
weeks earlier).  
What is the current status of discussions at the CHMP? 
In light of the currently available information and given the known effects of Gilenya on the heart, the 
Committee believes that there is a need to gather further information to assess the risk to patients and 
determine the appropriate action. While the review is ongoing, the CHMP, as a precautionary measure, 
is giving advice to healthcare professionals and patients. 
What is the advice to healthcare professionals? 
  Before starting treatment with Gilenya, all patients should have their heart checked by ECG, a test 
that measures the electrical activity of the heart.  
  After receiving the first dose of Gilenya, all patients should have their heart function continuously 
monitored by ECG for six hours.  
  All patients should also have their blood pressure and heart rate checked every hour for six hours 
after the first dose. 
 
If patients develop any clinically relevant heart problem (such as bradycardia or atrioventricular 
block), doctors are advised to consider extending the monitoring period until it is resolved. 
What is the advice to patients? 
 
Patients are advised to immediately report to their doctor any symptoms that could suggest they 
have a heart problem (such as chest pain, weakness or dizziness). 
 
Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor or pharmacist.  
What will happen next? 
These recommendations are issued in order to protect public health while the review is ongoing. The 
outcome of this review will be made public after it is finalised. The European Medicines Agency will 
issue further advice as necessary. 
The current EU product information for Gilenya can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
Questions and answers on the ongoing review of Gilenya (fingolimod)  
EMA/43541/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
