26 September 2014 
EMA/577647/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000582/II/0059 
Questions and answers 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for 
Avastin (bevacizumab) 
Outcome of re-examination 
On 22 May 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a negative 
opinion, recommending the refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Avastin. The change concerned an extension of indication to add treatment of glioblastoma (an 
aggressive type of brain cancer). 
The applicant requested a re-examination of the opinion. After considering the grounds for this 
request, the CHMP re-examined the initial opinion, and confirmed the refusal of the marketing 
authorisation on 22 September 2014. 
What is Avastin? 
Avastin is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance bevacizumab. It is available as a 
concentrate that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein).  
Avastin has been authorised in the EU since 12 January 2005. It is used, in combination with other 
chemotherapy medicines (medicines to treat cancer), to treat certain types of the following cancers: 
cancer of the colon or rectum (large intestine); breast cancer; lung cancer; kidney cancer; cancer of 
the ovary; cancer of the fallopian tube or the peritoneum (the membrane lining the abdomen). 
What was Avastin expected to be used for? 
Avastin was also expected to be used to treat adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma in 
combination with radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) and temozolomide (another cancer 
medicine). 
How is Avastin expected to work? 
The active substance in Avastin, bevacizumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein), that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein that 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
circulates in the blood and makes blood vessels grow. By attaching to VEGF, Avastin stops cancer cells 
from developing their own blood supply and starves them of oxygen and nutrients, helping to slow 
down the growth of the cancer.  
What did the company present to support its application? 
The company presented the results from one main study with Avastin involving 921 patients with 
newly diagnosed glioblastoma. In the study, patients received Avastin or placebo (a dummy treatment) 
in addition to treatment with radiotherapy and temozolomide. The main measures of effectiveness 
were overall survival (how long the patients lived) and progression-free survival (how long the patients 
lived without their disease getting worse). 
What were the CHMP’s main concerns that led to the refusal of the change 
to the marketing authorisation? 
At the time of the initial recommendation the CHMP noted that the effectiveness of Avastin in 
combination with radiotherapy and temozolomide had not been sufficiently demonstrated. Although 
there was an improvement in progression-free survival, it could not be considered clinically relevant 
because of limitations in the methods available to measure the size of brain tumours. In addition, there 
was no benefit in terms of overall survival. Therefore, at that point in time, the CHMP was of the 
opinion that the benefits of Avastin in the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma did not outweigh 
its risks. Hence, the CHMP recommended that the change to the marketing authorisation be refused. 
During the re-examination, the CHMP looked again at the data from the company and confirmed its 
opinion that the benefits of Avastin had not been sufficiently demonstrated in newly diagnosed 
glioblastoma. Therefore, the CHMP maintained its previous recommendation that the change to the 
marketing authorisation be refused. 
What consequences does this refusal have for patients in clinical trials or 
compassionate use programmes? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients with glioblastoma 
receiving Avastin in clinical trials: patients will continue to receive Avastin in the on-going and future 
clinical trials.   
If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your treatment, contact the doctor who is 
giving it to you. 
What is happening with Avastin for treatment of other cancers? 
There are no consequences on the use of Avastin in its authorised indications. 
The full European Public Assessment Report for Avastin can be found on the Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
Refusal of a change to the marketing authorisation for Avastin (bevacizumab)  
EMA/577647/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
