15 March 2012 
EMA/173541/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000963/A20/29 
Questions and answers on the review of Ixiaro (Japanese 
encephalitis vaccine) 
Outcome of a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
On 15 March 2012, the European Medicines Agency completed a review of the vaccine Ixiaro at the 
request of the European Commission. This followed the identification of a batch of Ixiaro that was less 
potent than expected, which raised concerns that it may not provide adequate protection against the 
Japanese encephalitis virus. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
concluded that the lower potency had no impact on the effectiveness of Ixiaro, and that the benefits of 
the vaccine continue to outweigh its risks. Furthermore, the Committee agreed on measures that the 
company should carry out to ensure that the vaccine continues to provide adequate protection. 
What is Ixiaro? 
Ixiaro is a vaccine used to protect adults against Japanese encephalitis, a disease that causes 
inflammation of the brain and can be fatal.  
Ixiaro contains small amounts of the viruses that cause Japanese encephalitis, which have been 
inactivated (killed) so that they cannot cause the disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the 
immune system recognises the inactivated viruses as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. In 
the future, the immune system will be able to produce antibodies more quickly when it is exposed to 
Japanese encephalitis viruses. The antibodies will help to protect against the disease.  
This vaccine is ‘adsorbed’. This means that the inactivated viruses are adsorbed (fixed) onto aluminium 
compounds to stimulate a better immune response.  
Ixiaro has been authorised in the European Union (EU) since 31 March 2009 and is marketed in 17 EU 
Member States1 as well as Norway and Iceland. The current European public assessment report for 
Ixiaro can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. 
1 Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, 
Portugal, Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden and the UK. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Why was Ixiaro reviewed? 
In 2011, the Agency was informed by the company that markets Ixiaro, Intercell AG, that a batch of 
the vaccine2 had failed a test that measures its activity against the Japanese encephalitis virus (its 
potency). This batch had passed all the extensive tests required in the EU before vaccines are released 
onto the market. However a further test in experimental models after many months of shelf life raised 
concerns that this batch could fail to provide adequate protection against the virus. The company 
therefore stopped further distribution and started a recall of the affected batch in the four EU countries 
where it was marketed (France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom). At the time, the CHMP 
recommended that revaccination with a different batch should be considered for people who had 
received Ixiaro from this batch and were planning to travel to high risk areas  
Consequently, on 1 June 2011, the European Commission asked the CHMP to review the impact of 
these potency results on the effectiveness and safety of Ixiaro and to issue an opinion on whether the 
marketing authorisation for this medicine should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn 
across the EU.3. 
Which data has the CHMP reviewed? 
The CHMP reviewed results of an investigation performed by the company on the root cause of the 
problem, as well as data from clinical studies and post marketing surveillance on the effectiveness of 
the vaccine. 
What are the conclusions of the CHMP? 
The CHMP concluded that the root cause of the lower potency was the unusually high content of other 
metals in one specific lot of aluminium compound used in the manufacture of Ixiaro. This lot of 
aluminium compound was also used in the manufacture of other batches of Ixiaro which were released 
to the market and used in clinical trials. These batches are now expired and not currently in use. The 
Committee noted that no effectiveness problems had been reported with the vaccine, either in the post 
marketing or in clinical studies. Furthermore, no batches of the vaccine, produced using this specific lot 
of aluminium and within expiry date, are currently on the market. 
Based on the evaluation of all available data and the scientific discussion within the Committee, the 
CHMP concluded that the lower potency had no impact on the effectiveness of Ixiaro and that the 
benefit-risk balance for Ixiaro remains positive. To ensure that Ixiaro continues to provide adequate 
protection against the Japanese encephalitis virus, the CHMP agreed that the company should carry 
out a study to establish the acceptable content of other metals in the aluminium compound used to 
manufacture the vaccine. Until then, the company is to release only those batches of Ixiaro that 
comply with more stringent potency requirements at release, and furthermore, potency tests will now 
be required for all batches after release. 
A European Commission decision on this opinion will be issued in due course. 
2 Batch JEV09L37. 
3 See EMA’s press release ‘European Medicines Agency recommends revaccination for some travellers in need of protection 
with Ixiaro’. 
Questions and answers on the review of Ixiaro (Japanese encephalitis vaccine)  
EMA/173541/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
