15 September 2017 
EMA/589782/2017 
EMEA/H/C/4419 
Questions and answers 
Withdrawal of the marketing authorisation application for 
Tigecycline Accord (tigecycline) 
On 12 September 2017, Accord Healthcare Limited officially notified the Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP) that it wishes to withdraw its application for a marketing authorisation 
for Tigecycline Accord, for the treatment of certain complicated infections. 
What is Tigecycline Accord? 
Tigecycline Accord is an antibiotic medicine that contains the active substance tigecycline. It was to be 
available as a powder to make a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
Tigecycline Accord was developed as a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Tigecycline Accord contains 
the same active substance and was intended to work in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union called Tygacil. For more information on generic medicines, 
see the question-and-answer document here. 
What was Tigecycline Accord expected to be used for? 
Tigecycline Accord was expected to be used to treat adults and children older than 8 years with 
complicated infections of the skin and soft tissue (the tissue below the skin), except foot infections in 
people with diabetes. It was also intended to treat complicated infections in the abdomen (belly). 
‘Complicated’ means that the infection is difficult to treat. It was intended for use only when other 
antibiotics were not suitable.  
How does Tigecycline Accord work? 
The active substance in Tigecycline Accord and Tygacil, tigecycline, is one of a group of antibiotics 
called ‘glycylcyclines’. It works against the bacteria that cause infections by blocking the bacteria’s 
ribosomes, the parts of the cell where new proteins are made. Because the medicine blocks the 
production of new proteins, the bacteria cannot multiply and they eventually die. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What did the company present to support its application? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Tygacil, and did not need to be repeated for Tigecycline 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company also provided studies on the quality of Tigecycline Accord. There 
was no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Tigecycline Accord is absorbed similarly 
to the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is 
because Tigecycline Accord is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight 
into the bloodstream. 
How far into the evaluation was the application when it was withdrawn? 
The application was withdrawn after the CHMP had evaluated the initial documentation provided by the 
company and formulated a list of questions. The company had not yet responded to the questions at 
the time of the withdrawal. 
What was the recommendation of the CHMP at that time? 
Based on the review of the data, at the time of the withdrawal, the CHMP had some concerns and was 
of the provisional opinion that Tigecycline Accord could not have been approved to treat complicated 
infections. 
The CHMP’s main concern was lack of compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) by the 
manufacturing site for the medicine’s active substance.  
What were the reasons given by the company for withdrawing the 
application? 
In its letter notifying the Agency of the withdrawal of the application, the company stated that it was 
withdrawing the medicine for marketing reasons because of the issues at the manufacturing site. 
The withdrawal letter is available here. 
What consequences does this withdrawal have for patients in clinical trials? 
The company informed the CHMP that there are no consequences for patients currently included in 
clinical trials using Tigecycline Accord. 
If you are in a clinical trial and need more information about your treatment, contact the doctor who is 
giving it to you. 
Withdrawal of the marketing authorisation application for Tigecycline Accord 
(tigecycline)  
EMA/589782/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
