16 October 2018 
EMA/818158/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Quinolone and fluoroquinolone medicinal products for systemic and inhalation 
use 
INNs: nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin, enoxacin, pefloxacin, 
lomefloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, norfloxacin, 
prulifloxacin, rufloxacin, flumequine 
Procedure number(s):  
EMEA/H/A-31/1452 
Quinsair EMEA/H/A-31/1452/C/002789/0010 
Note:  
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 4 
2.3. Clinical data ......................................................................................................... 8 
2.4. Data on safety ..................................................................................................... 8 
3. Expert consultation and Stakeholders input .......................................... 21 
4. Benefit-risk assessment ........................................................................ 23 
Category 1: no modification of the indications .............................................................. 24 
Category 2 ............................................................................................................... 35 
Category 3: deletion of indications .............................................................................. 39 
Category 4: rewording of indications according to the current medical knowledge ............. 45 
Ciprofloxacin ............................................................................................................ 46 
Lomefloxacin ............................................................................................................ 50 
Pefloxacin ................................................................................................................ 52 
5. Risk management .................................................................................. 56 
5.1. Pharmacovigilance activity ................................................................................... 56 
5.1.1. Non- interventional studies ............................................................................... 56 
5.2. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................. 57 
5.2.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 57 
5.2.2. Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication plan ..................... 57 
6. Condition for lifting the suspension ....................................................... 57 
7. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 58 
References ................................................................................................ 60 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 2/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
In 2016, the FDA finalised a review of disabling and potentially permanent serious side effects of 
systemically applied fluoroquinolones that can occur together and can involve the peripheral and 
central nervous system as well as tendons, muscles and joints. Based on this review, the FDA 
recommended in May 2016 that "serious side effects associated with fluoroquinolone antibacterial 
drugs generally outweigh the benefits for patients with acute sinusitis, acute bronchitis, and 
uncomplicated urinary tract infections who have other treatment options. For patients with these 
conditions, fluoroquinolones should be reserved for those who do not have alternative treatment 
options.”  
The safety review focussed on cases describing disabling symptoms referred to as "Fluoroquinolone-
Associated Disability" (FQAD) and which must have adverse events reported from two or more of the 
following body systems: Musculoskeletal, Senses (vision, hearing, etc.), Neuropsychiatric, Skin, 
Peripheral Nervous System and Cardiovascular; and had to last 30 days or longer after stopping the 
fluoroquinolone. 
Data from the German national database on adverse drug reactions has also revealed a number of 
such potential cases, where serious adverse drug reactions lasted 30 days or longer after stopping the 
fluoroquinolone. Moreover, publications in the past years describe such long-term adverse events.  
A review of long-lasting, disabling, and potentially irreversible serious adverse drug reactions of 
systemic fluoroquinolones, affecting usually more than one body system had not yet been 
systematically evaluated for these medicinal products within previous EU regulatory procedures. While 
these adverse drug reactions are included in the product information of most of the authorised 
medicinal products in EU, the severity and the potential permanence of the effects are currently not 
fully addressed in the labelling of quinolones and fluoroquinolones that are authorised in the EU and 
need further evaluation based on all available data. Considering the nature of disabling and potentially 
permanent serious side effects, such review would also enable an assessment of the impact of this 
safety concern on the overall benefit-risk balance of quinolones and fluoroquinolones for systemic and 
inhalation use and the need for adequate risk minimisation measures. 
On the 1st of February 2017 the German National Competent Authority therefore triggered a referral 
under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data and requested the 
PRAC to assess the impact of the above concerns on the benefit-risk balance of quinolone- and 
fluoroquinolone-containing medicinal products for systemic and inhalation use and to issue a 
recommendation on whether the relevant marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or revoked. 
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Fluoroquinolones and quinolones (hereinafter ‘(fluoro)quinolones’)  are a class of synthetic antibacterial 
agents that have been used in clinical practice since 1961. The earliest substances of this class 
(starting with nalidixic acid) are non-fluorinated, possess only a narrow spectrum of activity against 
Gram-negative bacteria and have generally been replaced in clinical practices by more recent 
antibiotics. The later ones (starting with norfloxacin) possess an increasingly broader spectrum of 
activity; they are fluorinated at C-6 carbon of their basic ring structure, hence so-called 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 3/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fluoroquinolones. These substances inhibit synthesis of bacterial DNA via binding to intracellular 
topoisomerase enzymes and forming drug-enzyme-DNA complexes. 
Fluoroquinolones have been subject to several EU referral procedures. Following review at EU level, 
indications have been restricted for ciprofloxacin (2008), moxifloxacin (2007-2009) and levofloxacin 
(2012).  
This pharmacovigilance referral procedure focuses on the review of the impact of long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions (ADRs) on the benefit-risk balance of 
quinolones and fluoroquinolones for systemic and inhalation use.  
While these ADRs are included in the EU product information of quinolones and fluoroquinolones, the 
severity and persistence of these known ADRs has not yet been systematically evaluated in the EU. 
This EU review assessed the severity and persistence of these long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible ADRs, and evaluated the impact of these safety concerns on the overall benefit risk balance 
of quinolones and fluoroquinolones for systemic and inhalation use and the need for adequate risk 
minimisation measures.     
2.2.   Non-clinical aspects 
The review of available non-clinical data is intended to evaluate the potential causal relationship 
between the use of these substances and the long-lasting, disabling, and potentially irreversible ADRs 
that emerged from the PRAC’s safety evaluation, i.e. tendon disorders, neurotoxicity, neuropathies, 
phototoxicity and vasculitis. The review also takes into account data submitted by the MAHs during the 
procedure. 
The majority of scientific publications focused on ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin and ofloxacin that are the 
fluoroquinolones predominantly used in clinical practice. From the available information, the PRAC 
considered that the potential mechanisms of the abovementioned disorders would be relevant for all 
(fluoro)quinolones (class effect). 
Tendon disorders 
The following mechanisms may be supportive of a causal relationship between (fluoro)quinolones and 
tendon disorders:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
-  Oxidative stress (ROS overproduction) 
Tendon  disorders  during  treatment  with  quinolones  are  thought  to  be  mediated  mainly  via 
oxidative  stress  (Lowes  et  al.  2009).  Many  non-clinical  studies  demonstrated  quinolone-
induced increase in ROS leading to cell damage. ROS overproduction and accumulation results 
in  mitochondrial  DNA  damage,  which  triggers  apoptosis  by  releasing  caspase  activating 
proteins  into  cytosol  leading  to  impairment  of  tendon  tissue.  ROS  have  also  direct  cytotoxic 
effects  on  Extracellular  Matrix  (ECM)  components,  thus,  they  can  oxidize  amino  acids  in 
collagen, changing protein conformation, and enhance MMPs, which in turn may synergistically 
increase toxicity. MMPs have degrading properties, which are important in the homeostasis and 
response to injury of tendon tissue (Pouzaud  et al.  2004). Moreover, it is assumed that aged 
tendons  may  have  low  metabolic  rate  and  depletion  of  ROS  scavenger  systems  that  hinders 
healing (Kaleagasioglu and Olcay, 2012).  
The  direct  cytotoxic  effects  of  ROS  overproduction  on  ECM  components  and  target  cells,  and 
the indirect cytotoxic effects mediated by enhancement of MMPs and mitochondrial dysfunction 
have been postulated to act in synergy as causative factors in quinolone-related ADRs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 4/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Mitochondrial damage 
Mitochondrial  damage  during  quinolones  treatment  may  be  involved  in  tendon,  cartilage  and 
bone  disorders  (Stahlmann  et  al.  2013,  Lowes  et  al.  2009,  Barnhill  et  al.  2012). 
(Fluoro)quinolones  inhibit  activities  of  mitochondrial  electron  transport  chain  complexes  that 
lead  to  inhibition  of  mitochondrial  respiration  and  reduction  of  ATP  production  (Song  et  al. 
2016).  As  the  mitochondria  are  the  major  target  of  oxidative  stress,  quinolone-induced  ROS 
overproduction can further result in oxidative damage to mtDNA in mammalian cells (Kalghatgi 
et al. 2013). Mitochondria participate also in apoptosis by releasing cytochrome c which starts 
the  signalling  pathway  leading  to  activation  of  caspases  resulting  in  apoptosis  and  lesions  of 
affected tissues (Kaleagasioglu and Olcay, 2012).   
- 
Inhibition of tenocytes proliferation 
In vitro studies reported that ciprofloxacin mediates inhibition of cell proliferation (Williams et 
al.  2000)  and  G2/M  cell  cycle  arrest  in  tendon  cells.  Furthermore,  also  mitotic  arrest  with 
misaligned chromosomes has been reported (Tsai et al. 2009a).  
- 
Inhibition of tenocytes migration 
Ciprofloxacin  inhibits  also  tenocyte  migration  in  a  process  that  is  probably  mediated  by 
inhibition of focal adhesion kinase  phosphorylation  (Tsai  et al.  2009a). In this context, it was 
suggested  that  quinolones  impair  also  healing  processes  through  both  mechanisms,  i.e. 
inhibition of tenocyte proliferation and migration to the site of injury (Kaleagasioglu and Olcay. 
2012).   
- 
Enhanced expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) 
In general, MMPs are enzymes with degrading properties that are important in the homeostasis 
and response to injury of tendon tissue. It has been demonstrated that this group of enzymes 
participate  in  tendon  remodelling.  Using  in  vitro  cell  cultures,  researchers  highlighted  the 
mechanism  by  which  quinolones  can  selectively  enhance  MMPs  (e.g.  MMP-1,  MMP-2,  MMP-3, 
MMP-13)  expression  in  tendon  tissue  that  may  lead  to  tendon  ECM  degradation  and  loss  of 
tendon  homeostasis  (Lewis  et  al.  2014,  Corps  et  al.  2003,  Tsai  et  al.  2011)  possibly  making 
the  tendon  more  susceptible  to  rupture.  Animal  studies  also  found  that  (fluoro)quinolones 
affect  type  I  collagen  metabolism  leading  to  collagen  degradation  by  enhanced  enzymatic 
activity of MMPs in tendon cells at the mRNA and proteins levels (Tsai et al. 2011).  
- 
Induced apoptosis 
It  was  demonstrated  that  also  levels  of  apoptosis  markers  such  as  activated  caspase‐3 
increased  after  therapeutic  doses  of  fluoroquinolones  (ciprofloxacin  and  levofloxacin)  in  a 
concentration-  and  time-dependent  manner.  Apoptosis  was  observed  even  at  the  lowest 
levofloxacin  concentration.  Apoptotic  changes  were  further  confirmed  by  electron  microscopy 
and  both  fluoroquinolones  caused  typical  alterations  like  condensed  material  in  the  nucleus, 
swollen cell organelles, apoptotic bodies and bleb formation at the cell membranes (Sendzik et 
al.  2005).  Apoptosis  markers  were  increased  for  example  in  rabbit  meniscus  (Wang  et  al. 
2014), rat annulus fibrosus cells (Bai et al. 2014), human tendon cells or bladder cancer cells 
(Aranha et al. 2002). These side effects might result in ECM degradation and lesion of impaired 
tissue.    
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 5/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other mechanism leading to apoptosis could be the (fluoro)quinolones-induced oxidative stress, 
i.e.  ROS  overproduction  and  associated  mitochondrial  dysfunctions  (Kaleagasioglu  and  Olcay 
2012).  
- 
Chelation of metal ions by quinolones  
Parallels  might  exist 
in 
the  mechanisms  of  chondrotoxicity  and 
tendotoxicity  of 
(fluoro)quinolones,  since  there  are  pronounced  similarities  of  tendon  and  cartilage.  Both  are 
characterised  by  a  low  vascularization  and  similar  matrix  components,  transmembrane  (e.g. 
beta  (1)-integrin  receptors)  and  intracellular  signalling  proteins.  The  possible  explanation  of 
these  toxic  effects  related  to  quinolone  therapy  could  be  the  chelating  properties  of 
(fluoro)quinolones against metal ions (Khaliq et al. 2005, Stahlmann et al. 1995, Goldie et al. 
2016).  Thus,  (fluoro)quinolones  could  be  involved  in  tendinopathy  because  these  drugs  can 
interact with magnesium that is considered a regulator of the integrity of ECM. Chelation of this 
ion  could  then  lead  to  a  deficit  of  this  important  element.  Additionally,  epigenetic  changes 
being mediated by iron chelation and the repression of prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4HA1) and lysyl 
hydroxylase  (LH1)  transcription  as  well  as  inhibition  of  dioxygenase  (HIF  -1α)  mRNA 
translation may result in  tendon toxicity.  (Fluoro)quinolones have  been  shown  to be powerful 
iron chelators being at least as potent as the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine, clinically used 
for the treatment of iron overdose, hemochromatosis, and aluminium toxicity. Iron chelation by 
(fluoro)quinolones (i.a., by ciprofloxacin) resulted in DNA and histone hypermethylation as well 
as  suppression  of  collagen  prolyl  hydroxylation  by  inhibition  of  jumonji  domain  histone 
demethylases  (JMHD),  TETDNA  demethylases,  and  collagen  prolyl  4-hydroxylases  (e.g.  Badal 
et al 2015).   
- 
Ischemia and contribution of poor vascularization in tendon tissue 
It was suggested that tendon rupture may also occur due to a vascular ischemia. 
Neurotoxicity 
The  potential  for  (fluoro)quinolones  to  induce  psychotic  disorders  and  neurotoxicity  has  been 
demonstrated in several in vivo studies describing neurological changes as a potential cause. Possible 
mechanisms  behind  these  effects  seem  to  be  increased  oxidative  stress  along  with  altered  brain 
neurotransmitter levels.  
Some  of  the  neurotoxic  effects  of  (fluoro)quinolones  may  be  attributable  to  their  binding  to  GABA 
receptors  in  the  brain.  Consequent  stimulation  of  CNS  is  thus  caused  by  (fluoro)quinolones  due  to 
prevention  of  normal  binding  of  GABA  with  their  receptors,  together  with  decreased  serotonin  brain 
level and activation of excitatory pathways via NMDA and adenosine receptors in brain (Mandell et al. 
2002,  Kandasamy  et  al.  2012).  These  changes  in  neurotransmitter  levels  may  lead  to  psychiatric 
disorders such as anxiety, depression, insomnia, psychosis, convulsion, etc (Ilgin et al. 2015, Kaur et 
al. 2016, Abdel-Zaher et al. 2012).  
(Fluoro)quinolones-related psychiatric disorders have been also linked to oxidative stress demonstrated 
by  significant  increase  of  oxidative  status  in  brain  of  affected  animals  (Kalghatgi  et  al.  2013, 
Duewelhenke et al. 2007). Increased oxidative stress markers such as MDA, NO as well as decreased 
intracellular  GSH  level  and  GSH-peroxidase  activity  in  animal  brain  (Abdel-Zaher  et  al.  2012)  have 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 6/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
been observed as (fluoro)quinolone-related neurotoxic effects indicating an enhanced oxidative stress 
and weakened antioxidant defence system, possibly leading to psychiatric disorders. 
Another  possible  mechanism  of  (fluoro)quinolone-induced  neurotoxic  effects may  lie  in  a  significantly 
higher  risk  of  apoptosis  in  brain  cortex  tissue  as  recently  observed  (Ilgin  et  al.  2015).  It  was  also 
mentioned  that  neurons,  in  general,  have  an  increased  susceptibility  for  mitochondrial  dysfunction 
because they are highly dependent on energy metabolism including ATP supply from mitochondria and 
increased  demand  for  oxygen  (Pareyson  et  al.  2013,  Cogliati  et  al.  2016).  Mitochondrial  dysfunction 
may  thus  lead  to  ROS  overproduction  and  these  free  radicals  can  further  contribute  to  mitochondrial 
damage leading to many neuropsychiatric disorders.   
Neuropathies 
(Fluoro)quinolones-related  impairments  have  been  linked  to  mitochondrial  diseases  (Kalghatgi  et  al. 
2013,  Duewelhenke  et  al.  2007).  Neurons  have  an  increased  susceptibility  for  mitochondrial 
dysfunction  due  to  their  metabolic  requirement  (Pareyson  et  al.  2013,  Cogliati  et  al.  2016).  Thus, 
mitochondrial  diseases  including  mitochondrial  dysfunction,  defects  in  mitochondrial  respiratory  chain 
complexes,  abnormalities  in  mtDNA  replication  and  maintenance  may  further  result  in  peripheral 
neuropathies (Pareyson et al. 2013).  
Sensory  neuropathy  as  an  isolated  manifestation  or  in  setting  of  a  neurological  disorder  is  another 
possible presentation of mitochondrial diseases. 
Phototoxicity 
Phototoxic reactions associated to (fluoro)quinolones are considered to be a class effect. It was shown 
that photo-activation of (fluoro)quinolones under UVA light  may result in  formation and accumulation 
of intracellular ROS affecting cellular lipid membranes leading to inflammation (Domagala 1994). Other 
possible  mechanism,  however  still  closely  connected  to  ROS  overproduction,  may  lie  in  disturbing 
mitochondrial functions leading to apoptosis (Kaleagasioglu and Olcay 2012, Rawi et al. 2011). 
Vasculitis 
A possible explanation for (fluoro)quinolone-induced vasculitis could be related to type III 
hypersensitivity reaction with deposition of immune complexes and consequent damage to blood 
vessels by neutrophils (van Rossum et al. 2006). This type of delayed immune reaction seems to be 
elicited by IgG-mediated cytotoxic mechanisms and it is linked to T-cell. The observation of T-cell 
infiltrates in drug-related allergic reactions that affect the skin, liver, and kidneys, as well as drug-
specific reactions found in vitro or by skin tests, strongly suggest a cell-mediated pathogenesis 
(Schmid et al. 2006). Other suggested pathophysiological mechanisms of (fluoro)quinolone-induced 
vasculitis are non-immune mediated reactions (Tsai and Yang 2011) including oxidative stress.   
Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Potential mechanisms of toxicity underlying the above described symptoms have been found to be 
multifactorial in a number of non-clinical studies. Among those mechanisms, oxidative stress and 
mitochondrial toxicity have been outlined in the majority of studies and MAHs´ responses. However, 
other possible mechanisms as highlighted above such as inhibition of cell proliferation and migration, 
reduced extracellular matrix, enhanced MMPs expression, apoptosis, ischemia and chelating properties 
of (fluoro)quinolones may be involved. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 7/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical data 
In general terms, (fluoro)quinolones’ place in therapy is determined by international guidelines and 
position papers. Further information on the quinolones and fluoroquinolones’ place in therapy was 
obtained from the EMA Infectious Diseases Working Party (see section on consultation with expert 
group). Due to the high number of differently worded indications across the European SmPCs and the 
related problem of indications that would nowadays be considered too broad or not adequately defined 
according to current medical terms, key efficacy data were taken into account when assessing the risk 
benefit balance of all existing indications. 
2.4.  Data on safety 
Information related to the safety of (fluoro)quinolones has been obtained from different sources: 
 
 
EudraVigilance data 
Post-marketing case reports identified in literature 
  Scientific literature data on disabling adverse drug reactions in quinolones 
 
THIN analysis 
EudraVigilance data 
A search was performed in EudraVigilance database to identify relevant ICRS and perform their 
qualitative review. The following search criteria were used: 
Serious cases where one or more of the 14 (fluoro)quinolones was a suspected drug from 1995 to 
2016 in the European Union with the following characteristics:1 
1)  Seriousness disabling OR 
2)  Reaction outcome Resolved with sequelae OR 
3)  Duration of at least one adverse reaction > or =30 days 
The number of ICSRs returned by each of the three filters is shown in Table 1. 
Table 1 - Number of ICSRs returned by EudraVigilance filters 
Filter 
Number of ICSRs 
Seriousness - Disabling 
Serious - Resolved with sequelae 
Serious - ADR duration >=30 days 
Subtotal 
Number of duplicates 
Total 
1562 
593 
165 
2320 
179 
2141 
This EudraVigilance query returned a total of 2141 case reports.2 These reports where then manually 
coded according to the following methodology: 
1)  Suspected quinolone(s) was/were marked 
2)  Confounding factors were identified (medication, underlying disease, other) 
2 Only EU cases were obtained; non-EU EEA cases are not included in the analysis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 8/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
3)  System Organ Class(es) of relevant ADRs was/were identified 
4)  Disability definition: an adverse event resulted in a substantial disruption of a person's ability 
to conduct normal life functions, i.e., the adverse event resulted in a significant, persistent or 
permanent change, impairment, damage or disruption in the patient's body function/structure, 
physical activities and/or quality of life3; when a case report explicitly contained such 
information (in narrative or list of ADRs) and the length of the ADR(s) was > or =30 days the 
case was classified as “resulting in disability” 
5)  When the information about disability was not explicitly mentioned in the case report but at 
least one ADR lasted > or =30 days the case was classified as “potentially resulting in 
disability”. 
Results of the EudraVigilance search are summarized in Table 2.   
Table 2 – Overall results of qualitative review 
Type of ICSR 
Cases resulting in disability 
Cases potentially resulting in 
disability 
Cases not resulting in disability or not 
potentially resulting in disability or 
lacking information to be evaluated 
Not 
confounded 
Confounded 
Total 
286 
183 
107 
88 
393 
271 
1477 
Total 
469 
195 
2141 
Number and proportions of suspected (fluoro)quinolones are summarized in Table 3. 
Table 3 - Single substance involved (cases resulting in disability) 
Substance 
Nalidixic acid 
Pipemidic acid 
Cinoxacin 
Flumequine 
Norfloxacin 
Enoxacin 
Pefloxacin 
Ofloxacin 
Ciprofloxacin 
Rufloxacin 
Lomefloxacin 
Levofloxacin 
Prulifloxacin 
Moxifloxacin 
Total 
Not confounded 
cases 
Confounded cases 
ICSR 
% 
ICSR 
% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
16 
1 
2 
27 
79 
0 
4 
125 
2 
25 
281 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 
0 
1 
10 
28 
0 
1 
44 
1 
9 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8 
0 
1 
4 
35 
0 
0 
44 
1 
12 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8 
0 
1 
4 
33 
0 
0 
42 
1 
11 
100 
105 
100 
3 https://www.fda.gov/safety/medwatch/howtoreport/ucm053087.htm 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 9/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
                                                
Subsequent statistics consider only the cases “resulting in disability” without any confounding factors 
(n=286). 
Table 4 – Sex (cases resulting in disability not confounded) 
Males  Females  Total 
ICSR 
158 
55,4 
Percentage 
Note: Sex unknown in 1 case 
127 
44,6 
285 
100 
Table 5 - ICSR criteria of seriousness (cases resulting in disability not confounded)  
Death 
Life 
threatening 
Hospitalization  Disabling 
Congenital 
Anomaly 
Other 
1 
44 
ICSR 
Note 1: Percentages were not calculated as multiple criteria are often ticked simultaneously. Also, the disabling criterion was one of 
the filters of the search which obviously biases the distribution.  
Note 2: It is apparent from the table that the EV filters “serious cases resolved with sequelae” and “serious cases with ADR 
duration > or =30 days” brought up only 31 cases on top of the serious disabling. 
255 
73 
2 
0 
Table 6 - Number of SOCs affected (cases resulting in disability not confounded) 
1 SOC 
2 SOCs 
3 SOCs 
4 SOCs  >=5 SOCs 
Total 
ICSR 
181 
42 
20 
25 
18 
286 
Table 7 – Type of SOC(s) affected (cases resulting in disability not confounded) 
System organ class 
Cases  SOC share in % 
Blood and lymphatic 
Immune system 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory 
Gastrointestinal 
Hepatobiliary 
Skin and subcutaneous 
Musculoskeletal 
Renal and urinary 
Reproductive system 
General disorders 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning 
Social circumstances 
Total 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
2 
5 
2 
25 
76 
25 
10 
11 
12 
9 
18 
3 
13 
239 
3 
2 
55 
3 
3 
3 
0 
1 
0 
5 
15 
5 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
1 
3 
46 
1 
0 
11 
1 
1 
1 
519 
100 
Page 10/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
The following Table 8 show results of the analysis of PT MedDRA terms as adverse drug reactions in 
the group of 286 cases resulting in disability not confounded. Only PTs reported more than once were 
further analysed. 
Table 8 – Most commonly reported PTs as ADRs 
PT 
Tendonitis 
Tendon rupture 
Tendon pain 
Arthralgia 
Tendon disorder 
Pain in extremity 
Myalgia 
Pain 
Gait disturbance 
Paraesthesia 
Ageusia 
Anosmia 
Muscular weakness 
Hypoaesthesia 
Burning sensation 
Muscle spasms 
Depression 
Visual impairment 
Tendon discomfort 
Tinnitus 
Dysgeusia 
Dizziness 
Fatigue 
Nausea 
Oedema peripheral 
Sleep disorder 
Number 
104 
69 
60 
56 
43 
40 
38 
32 
26 
23 
16 
16 
16 
15 
14 
14 
13 
13 
12 
12 
11 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 11/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 - Number of incoming ICSRs per year (resulting in disability not confounded) 
In summary, the targeted search of EudraVigilance database retrieved 2,320 (fluoro)quinonole-related 
cases of interest (including 179 duplicates) out of which 393 cases resulted in disability (286 were not 
confounded and 107 were confounded by other factors). A detailed qualitative analysis performed on 
the 286 not confounded cases yielded the following characteristics of the reported cases and ADRs: 
- 
Levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, and norfloxacin were the most commonly 
involved substances 
-  Males were slightly more affected than females (55:45) 
- 
- 
- 
From age of 30 to 89 years the case distribution was approximately even 
In about one third of cases the (fluoro)quinolone was indicated for a mild or potentially mild 
illness 
ADRs from SOCs musculoskeletal (46 %), nervous system disorders (15 %), and general 
disorders (11 %) were most commonly reported. An alternative classification of the ADRs 
yielded the following proportions: tendinopathy 24 %, pain 18 %, nervous system disorders 
12 %, muscle (and bone) disorders 11 %, sense disturbances 10 %, general disorders 9 %, 
arthropathy 8 %, and psychiatric disorders 7 %.  
-  One SOC was affected in 63 % of cases, two SOCs in 15 % of cases, and three or more SOCs 
in 22 % of cases 
Link between frequency of ADR and exposure 
The reporting rate (proportion of cases that are reported out of the total of actual cases) of the “cases 
resulting in disability” is unknown. However, thanks to the exposure data, the yearly number of ICSRs 
can be linked to (fluoro)quinolone consumption to get a better idea of the scale of the problem. The 
calculation is presented in Table 26 for 2014 and in Table 27 for the last five years (2012-2016) using 
extrapolated data (constant consumption based on year 2014). The rate of incoming ICSRs (resulting 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 12/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in disability not confounded) per unit of consumption (1 million DDDs) is calculated using two 
independent data sources: (1) the JIACRA report and (2) the NUI exposure data for a group of EU 
representing about two thirds of EU population. 
Table 9 - Number of reported cases (resulting in disability not confounded) and exposure in 2014 
In countries with NUI exposure data 
Number of cases 
Exposure in millions of DDDs from NUI 
Exposure in millions of DDDs from JIACRA 
No. of reported cases per 1 million of DDDs 
26 
238 
- 
0,109 
Note: Receive date of the case report used to determine year 
NUI exposure data from BE, BG, CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, IT, LT, LV, NL, PT, SE, SI, SK 
In EU 
37 
- 
342 
0,108 
Table 10 - Number of reported cases (resulting in disability not confounded) and exposure 2012-2016 
(5 years) 
Number of cases 
Exposure in millions of DDDs from NUI 
Exposure in millions of DDDs from JIACRA 
No. of reported cases per 1 million of DDDs 
In countries with NUI exposure data 
120 
1188 
- 
0,101 
In EU 
152 
- 
1710 
0,089 
Assumption: exposure for 2012-2016 obtained by multiplying 2014 exposure by 5 
Note: Receive date of the case report used to determine year 
NUI exposure data from BE, BG, CZ, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, IT, LT, LV, NL, PT, SE, SI, SK 
All four calculations indicate that the rate of incoming ICSRs (resulting in disability not confounded) is 
about 1 per 10 million DDDs.  
Post-marketing case reports identified in literature 
A number of published case reports relevant to the topic of long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible ADRs associated with the quinolones use were identified both from EU and non-EU area. 
The level of detail captured by these published case reports is mostly higher than in the cases reported 
directly to EudraVigilance. In terms of tendinopathies, case series included, there have been hundreds 
of published cases with time lag between the first dose and the onset of symptoms ranging from 2 
hours to several months and the durations of disability ranging from days to more than one year. In 
terms of peripheral neuropathy, case series included, dozens of cases have been published with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 13/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
duration of disability ranging from days to years. Multiple cases of long-term serious adverse reactions 
to (fluoro)quinolones have also been published by physicians working in the fields of psychiatry, 
ophthalmology, dermatology and other specialties. At least four cases of patients with ADRs affecting 
several organ systems simultaneously have been published as well. Characteristics of a large majority 
of these published cases reveal a pattern that fits the descriptions of unpublished cases reported 
directly to EudraVigilance from the EU territory. 
Scientific literature data on disabling adverse drug reactions in quinolones 
A summary of data on disabling adverse drug reactions related with quinolones use, obtained from 
scientific literature data is presented below. 
Musculoskeletal disorders 
Many  studies  have  highlighted  the  relationship  between  (fluoro)quinolones  treatment  and 
musculoskeletal  disorders  such  as  tendonitis,  tendon  rupture,  cartilage  damage,  arthralgia,  muscle 
pain, etc. Tendinopathy has been recognized as an uncommon, but potentially disabling adverse effect 
of  quinolones.  (Fluoro)quinolones  can  easily  penetrate  tissues;  myotendinous  junction  may  thus 
predispose tenocytes to elevated drug exposure. Concentrations of quinolones in tissues often exceed 
those in plasma (Horn et al. 2016). 
The  possible  mechanisms  of  (fluoro)quinolones  induced  musculoskeletal  disorders  are  multifactorial, 
mainly via mitochondrial damage and oxidative stress, but also other mechanisms such as inhibition of 
cell  proliferation  and  migration,  reduced  extracellular  matrix,  enhanced  MMPs  expression,  apoptosis, 
ischemia and chelating properties of quinolones, might be involved (see Non-clinical section).  
A  typical  feature  of  (fluoro)quinolone-induced  tendinopathy  is  the  wide  range  of  occurrence  of  the 
symptoms, sometimes very delayed. Indeed, the timeframe of the symptoms occurrence ranged from 
2 hours after the 1st dose to 6 months after the treatment discontinuation (Khaliq and Zhanel 2003). 
There was also a report of tendon disorders occurring 18 months after the (fluoro)quinolones exposure 
(van  der  Linden  et  al.  2001).  (Fluoro)quinolones  have  been  found  to  induce  delayed  mitochondrial 
toxicity and cytotoxicity, providing an evidence  for reported occurrence  of delayed  (fluoro)quinolones 
AEs. Mitochondrial injury may induce oxidative stress as mitochondria are the leading source as well as 
target of intracellular free radicals. Oxidative stress may in turn produce more mitochondrial damage. 
This  can  create  a  cycle  of  oxidative  stress  and  mitochondrial  injury  that  can  be  self-sustaining  or 
progressive,  leading  to  the  emergence  of  new  symptoms  as  clinical  detection  thresholds  are  reached 
(Wefers et al. 2009, Golomb et al. 2015 Kaleagasioglu and Olcay 2012). 
Adikwu  et  al.  (2012)  performed  a  comprehensive  survey  and  review  of  literature  on  reported 
ciprofloxacin induced chondrotoxicity and tendinopathy in humans and animals.  It  was observed  that 
ciprofloxacin is a potential inducer of chrondrotoxicity and tendinopathy which could be potentiated by 
coadministration with corticosteroids. 
Data from  the literature suggest that the  course  of  (fluoro)quinolone-induced  tendon  injury might be 
prolonged  and  manifestation  of  tendon  disorders  might  persist  for  several  weeks  or  months.  The 
rehabilitation  process  require  less  aggressive  approach  than  other  types  of  tendinopathies  and  the 
outcome in some patients may result in permanent disability (Bidell and Lodise 2016, Stahlmann et al 
2010, Lewis et al 2014, Baombe 2016). The review of 98 case reports of tendon injury associated with 
(fluoro)quinolone  use  showed  that  the  time  for  recovery  ranged  from  2  to  600  days,  median:  38,5 
days.  Several  reports  described  recovery  as  "prolonged"  and  in  10%  of  patients  sequelae  were 
reported (Khaliq and Zhanel 2003).  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 14/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arabyat et al. (2015) reviewed reports in the Food and Drug Administration's adverse event reporting 
system for fluoroquinolone-associated tendon rupture. From the 2495 FAERS reports of tendon rupture 
associated with currently approved fluoroquinolones 1555 were associated with levofloxacin, 606 with 
ciprofloxacin, 230 with moxifloxacin, 70 reports with ofloxacin and 30 with norfloxacin as well as 4 with 
gemifloxacin. Almost all the cases were considered serious and the most commonly reported outcomes 
were  hospitalisation  (35,6%)  and  disabling  events  (20,8%).  Summarising  all  FQ,  if  indication  was 
known, the most cases occurred with the indication infection of the respiratory tract, there especially in 
the  indication  sinusitis  followed  by  other  infections  including  cystitis,  diverticulitis,  epididymitis, 
prostatitis, and unspecified bacterial infections. 
Stopping treatment immediately after  the onset of  first symptoms of  (fluoro)quinolones therapy does 
not  ensure  preservation  of  tendon  integrity,  as  the  tendon  may  rupture  or  become  symptomatic 
months  after  the  end  of  the  treatment  (Lewis  et  al  2014).  In  case  of  tendon  rupture,  immobilisation 
from 6 weeks to 6 months is recommended (Tsai and Yang 2011). 
Some  authors  suggest  that  myalgia  may  be  the  most  common  adverse  reactions  associated  with 
(fluoro)quinolones  use  (O-Lee  et  al.  2005).  They  usually  manifest  one  week  after  the  initiation  of 
(fluoro)quinolones therapy typically as a diffuse pain with or without weakness and often resolve within 
1  to  4  weeks  after  the  discontinuation  of  the  medication,  symptoms  that  persisted  more  up  to  6 
months have been also reported. 
Although  the  occurrence  of  tendon  rupture  is  rare  this  risk  should  be  considered  in  the  risk-benefit 
assessment especially when the indication for use is the treatment or prophylaxis of an uncomplicated 
infection. 
Psychiatric disorders 
CNS  effects  of  (fluoro)quinolones  correlate  with  its  binding  to  GABA  receptors  in  the  brain.  This 
interaction  might  prevent  normal  binding  of  GABA  with  their  receptors  causing  stimulation  of  CNS. 
(Fluoro)quinolones may also activate excitatory pathways via NMDA and adenosine receptors in brain. 
CNS symptoms are thus manifested and can explain the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders such as 
anxiety,  depression,  insomnia,  psychosis,  etc.  (Mandell  et  al.  2002,  Kandasamy  et  al.  2012).  The 
altered  brain  neurotransmitter  levels  along  with  oxidative  stress  leading  to  anxiety,  depression  and 
convulsions  have  been  observed  in  some  animal  studies  demonstrating  the  possible  mechanisms  of 
(fluoro)quinolones-associated  neurotoxicity  (Ilgin  et  al.  2015,  Kaur  et  al.  2016,  Abdel-Zaher  et  al. 
2012).  As  mentioned  above,  (fluoro)quinolones-related  psychiatric  disorders  have  been  linked  to 
oxidative stress as well as mitochondrial diseases (Kalghatgi et al. 2013, Duewelhenke et al. 2007). It 
was mentioned that neurons have an increased susceptibility for mitochondrial dysfunction as they are 
highly  dependent  on  energy  metabolism  including  ATP  supply  from  mitochondria  and  increased 
demand  for  oxygen  (Pareyson  et  al.  2013,  Cogliati  et  al.  2016).  Fattal  et  al.  (2006)  identified  19 
confirmed  case  reports  of  mitochondrial  diseases/disorder  with  comorbid  psychiatric  problems, 
including  bipolar  disorder,  major  depressive  disorder,  psychosis,  anxiety  disorders,  and  personality 
changes. The most common physical findings were fatigue, muscle weakness with or without atrophy, 
and  hearing  loss.  A  review  of  literature  performed  by  Anglin  et  al.  (2012)  showed  that  the  most 
common  psychiatric  presentations  in  the  cases  of  mitochondrial  disorders  included  mood  disorder, 
cognitive deterioration, psychosis, and anxiety.  All these evidences suggest that quinolones-mediated 
mitochondrial dysfunctions could explain neurological and psychiatric reactions. 
Review  of  cases  of  psychiatric  adverse  effects  from  the  French  pharmacologic  surveillance  database 
carried  out  by  Doussau  de  Bazignan  et  al.  (2006)  identified  and  reviewed  590  cases,  with  the  most 
frequently  reported  ADRs  of  confusion  (51%),  hallucinations  (27%)  agitation  (13%),  and  delirium 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 15/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(12%).  There  were  also  9  cases  of  mania,  7  cases  of  mental  disorders,  6  cases  of  depression  and  6 
cases  of  personality  disorders.  21,7%  of  cases  were  severe,  necessitating  hospitalisation  or 
prolongation of hospital stay. 
Despite  the  fact  that  CNS-associated  adverse  reactions  are  well  recognised,  published  information 
regarding the duration and outcome of neuropsychiatric ADR are scarce. In the review by Doussau and 
Bazignan  (2006),  the  outcome  was  completely  resolution  for  88,5%  cases,  whereas  in  9,5%  the 
reaction was ongoing or unknown. There were 11 deaths recorded; according to the author, only one 
of  them  was  possibly  associated  with  the  psychiatric  ADR.  Review  of  psychiatric  and  neurological 
adverse  drug  reactions  carried  out  by  Tomé  and  Filipe  (2011)  analysing  145  individual  case  reports 
indicates  that  in  the  majority  of  cases,  patient  recovered  without  sequelae  and  the  events  usually 
disappeared  after  drug  discontinuation.  None  of  the  reported  ADRs  resulted  in  disability;  however, 
51% of the cases did not contain information on the seriousness criterion. Several published individual 
case  reports  were  identified  where  the  aspect  of  the  long-term  persistence  and  disability  might  be 
captured. 
Neuropathies (peripheral, sensory) 
Similarly, to psychiatric disorders, (fluoro)quinolones-related neurotoxicity that may lead to peripheral 
or  sensory  neuropathies  has  been  linked  with  mitochondrial  diseases  (Kalghatgi  et  al.  2013, 
Duewelhenke et al. 2007, Pareyson et al. 2013). 
One of the first publications discussing the possible peripheral disturbances was the review of 37 ADR 
reports from the database of Swedish Drug Information System performed by Hedenmalm and Spigset 
in 1996. Subsequently, publications opposing to the current assumption that neuropathies associated 
with the quinolones are mild and reversible after the drug discontinuation emerged. In the review of 45 
cases suggestive of peripheral neuropathy symptoms published by Cohen (2001), 93% of patients 
experienced symptoms in multiple organ systems. The duration of the symptoms was longer than 3 
months in 71% of cases and longer than 1 year in 58% of cases.  27% of the cases exceed time 
duration of 2 years and one case continued more than 6 years. Severity of the symptoms led 11 
patients to seek medical assistance at emergency departments. 
Francis and Higgins (2014) in their case report and literature review highlight the challenge of 
diagnosing the quinolones associated peripheral neuropathy as the broad spectrum of diffuse and 
confusing symptoms might be present. The same authors conclude that the peripheral neuropathy 
associated with quinolones administration can be severe, debilitating and permanent. 
Analysis of FAERS pharmacovigilance data performed by Ali (2014) stresses the link between the 
quinolones and peripheral neuropathies and showed potential association between the quinolones and 
more severe forms of nerve damage such as Guillain-Barre syndrome. Peripheral neuropathy was 
recorded in 539 reports out of all 46 257 adverse event reports for systemic quinolones, and Guillain-
Barré syndrome was recorded in 48 reports (9% of peripheral neuropathy reports). None of the 
patients who experienced peripheral neuropathy or Guillain-Barré syndrome was recovered from the 
event, and the vast majority of peripheral neuropathy events were of serious outcomes (including all 
Guillain-Barré syndrome reports). Among serious events, six (1.2%) contributed to patient death, and 
137(27.8%) lead to physical disability. The author concludes that unless the benefit of quinolones 
therapy outweighs the risk of peripheral neuropathy, alternative antibacterial agents for which 
peripheral neuropathy is not an identified or potential risk are recommended. 
Skin disorders 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 16/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With regard to the long-lasting or disabling potential of this ADR, only limited data are available, most 
of them being the individual case report publications. 
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) is uncommon but potentially serious adverse reaction, its clinical 
course is usually benign, however fatal case associated with ofloxacin was reported (Pace et al. 
1989). Because of the rare nature of this ADR, no specific recommendations for the management of 
LCV exist (Morgado et al. 2016) 
Generally, in drug induced LCV, resolution of the symptoms follows shortly after the withdrawal of 
offending agent within the days to weeks without the need of treatment. Patient with the joint 
involvement might benefit from NSAIDs treatment; patient with chronic or systemic disease might 
require prednisolone treatment (Martinez -Taboada et al. 1997). 
THIN analysis 
The EMA conducted two population-based nested case-control studies to assess the risk of tendon 
rupture and peripheral neuropathy with systemic exposure to fluoroquinolone (FQ) antibiotics. The 
cohort consisted of adults aged 18 years or over defined from The Health Improvement Network (THIN) 
between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2015 who were issued at least one prescription of co-
amoxiclav or fluoroquinolone antibiotic product with a systemic route of administration.  
The results of the study on tendon rupture revealed that a history of prior tendon rupture and 
concomitant exposure to corticosteroid therapy increase the risk of any tendon rupture. Cumulative FQ 
exposure during the evaluated risk periods appeared to be associated with a duration-related relative 
increase in the risk of tendon ruptures. Duration of use longer than 10 days was associated with risk 
estimates of Achilles tendon rupture of 4.52 (95% CI 2.23-9.14) as compared to estimates of 2.82 
(95% CI 1.77-4.51) if duration of use was ≤10 days. It was additionally shown that the Achilles tendon 
is the most frequent affected tendon. 
The results of the study on peripheral neuropathy indicate that there may be an increased risk of 
peripheral neuropathy associated with intake of fluoroquinolone antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, 
levofloxacin, norfloxacin and ofloxacin).  
2.4.5. Discussion on demonstrated risks 
(Fluoro)quinolones cause long-term, persistent, potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions that can 
substantially disrupt patients’ daily activities, i.e. they are disabling. These ADRs are already present in 
most European product information of (fluoro)quinolones. Their disabling potential presents an 
important harm for patient suffering from mild/non-serious infection or uncomplicated forms of serious 
infections that were otherwise healthy or nearly healthy. 
Long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs affecting musculoskeletal and 
peripheral nervous system 
Assessment of the post-marketing spontaneous and literature data together with the evaluation of 
available non-clinical and clinical information related to the possible underlying mechanisms of long-
lasting, disabling and potentially permanent ADRs provided enough evidence to support causal 
relationship between the (fluoro)quinolones and potentially disabling ADRs affecting musculoskeletal 
and peripheral nervous system such as musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia, myalgia and tendinopathies 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 17/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including tendinitis and tendon rupture, peripheral neuropathy, polyneuropathy, paraesthesia, 
dysesthesia, etc.  
Analysis of EudraVigilance data showed that out of all cases identified as resulting in disability, ADRs 
from SOCs Musculoskeletal and Nervous system disorders were most commonly reported. Out of 286 
cases identified as resulting in disability, in 239 cases (46%) musculoskeletal and in 76 cases (15%) 
nervous system was affected. Most reported adverse reactions were tendon disorders including 
tendonitis, tendon rupture, arthralgia, myalgia and pain in extremity as well as neurologic/psychiatric 
disorders including impairment of senses (e.g. peripheral sensory neuropathy with hypaesthesia, 
paraesthesia, dysgeusia and anosmia, tinnitus, deafness/hypoacusis and dizziness, aphasia, thinking 
disturbance and memory loss). These findings are consistent with the data available from scientific 
literature.  
Regarding the neurological disorders, most of the information on the long-lasting, disabling and 
potentially irreversible character of ADRs already known for (fluoro)quinolones is available from 
analysis of spontaneously reported data (Hedenmalm and Spigset 1996, Cohen 2001, Ali 2014).  
Taking into consideration the limitations inherent to the evaluation of spontaneous data, these 
publications due to the number of evaluated data offer valuable insight into the nature of ADRs related 
to peripheral nervous system. Francis and Higgins (2014) in their literature review explicitly suggest 
that peripheral neuropathy associated with (fluoro)quinolones use can be severe, debilitating and 
permanent.  
Potential irreversibility of peripheral neuropathy was already discussed within the PSUSA procedure for 
moxifloxacin (2017). Based on the information reviewed in this PSUSA (including 50 reports of 
peripheral neuropathy although displaying limited information on irreversibility due to lack of relevant 
information over the long-term follow-up, hundreds of publications on the potential for irreversible 
neuropathies caused by a huge variety of drugs including fluoroquinolones dealing also with the 
potential mechanisms including mitochondrial toxicity, nonsystemic vasculitis, and others) PRAC 
considered that section 4.4 of the SmPC should be amended to emphasise the need of treatment 
discontinuation at first signs of peripheral neuropathy in order to prevent the development of 
irreversible conditions. Additionally, PRAC considered that information for patients regarding the 
location of symptoms should be added.  
CNS effects / Psychiatric disorders 
(Fluoro)quinolones effects on CNS are well recognised being the 2nd most common reported adverse 
drug reactions reported in association with these medicinal products. Also, non-clinical evidence of 
quinolones neurotoxicity is available and their potential role in pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders 
such as anxiety, depression, insomnia, psychosis and others, was described (Mandell et al. 2002, 
Kandasamy et al. 2012). 
However, data on the long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs related to the CNS has 
not been studied systematically and most of the information from the scientific literature can be found 
in publications analysing spontaneous data (Cohen 2001, Doussau de Bazignan 2006, Kaur 2016).  
Analysis of the EV data showed that ADRs from psychiatric disorders SOC were reported for 25 cases 
resulting in disability (5% of all cases). SOC Psychiatric disorders (together with SOC Eye disorders) 
were the 4th most commonly reported SOC. The brief examination of the PTs reported for these 25 
cases revealed that sleeping disorders ("sleep disorder", "insomnia" and "poor quality of sleep") were 
reported in 19 cases (76% of cases from psychiatric disorders), depression ("depression", "depressed 
mood") was reported in 13 cases (52%) and "anxiety" in 8 cases (32%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 18/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the FDA review of disabling and potentially permanent serious side effects neuropsychiatric ADRs 
counted for 68% of 178 cases identified as relevant for the safety review (review 
(http://wayback.archiveit.org/7993/20170113234645/http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AdvisoryCommit
tees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/Drugs/Anti-InfectiveDrugsAdvisoryCommittee/UCM467383.pdf). Of 
note, in cases where insomnia, depression or some other ADR where reported to be the consequence 
of pain, these secondary ADRs were not included into the analysis. Based on this review, the FDA 
included in their final safety communication quinolone-induced central nervous system ADRs to the 
group of ADRs with disabling and irreversibility potential. 
Considering all available information including the non-clinical evidence, there is a reasonable amount 
of evidence pointing to the causal association between (fluoro)quinolones and long-lasting, disabling 
and potentially irreversible reactions that manifest as CNS effects and psychiatric disorders.  
2.4.5.1 Uncertainties about risks 
Risk factors/confounders 
There is still some uncertainty about risk factors related directly to the assessed long-lasting, disabling 
and potentially irreversible ADRs. 
The risk of quinolone-induced tendinopathy can be increased by underlying disease or co-administrated 
medicines. A review of Mandell et al. (2002) mentioned that predisposing factors for tendinopathy are 
corticosteroid therapy, advanced age, renal disease, haemodialysis and transplantation. These findings 
are consistent with Horn et al. (2016) that also proposed other risk factors such as rheumatic disease, 
gout, high doses of quinolones, male gender and age over 60 years. Sport activity and history of 
musculoskeletal disorders should be also considered (Tsai and Yang, 2011). Strenuous physical activity, 
during or after the therapy of quinolones may logically conduce to tendon injury. Moreover, Lewis and 
Cook (2014) suggest that physical exercise can alter the production of matrix metalloproteinases which 
can adversely alter the structure of the extracellular matrix of tendons. In early investigations with 
pipemidic acid it was assumed that joint damage would involve only those joints subjected to static 
stress during therapy. However, subsequent studies demonstrated that lesions can also develop in 
immobilized joints (von Keutz iet al. 2004).  
Based on the different and multiple potential mechanisms of toxicity evaluated for (fluoro)quinolones 
(see non-clinical section) some uncertainties remain on possible risk factors such as BMI for tendon 
ruptures as shown in the THIN study “Association between systemic fluoroquinolone exposure and 
tendon rupture: population-based nested case-control study”. Concomitant medication may also impair 
mitochondrial function or underlying history of mitochondrial impairment. The latter has been shown as 
risk factor for ototoxicity of aminoglycosides (Tang et al. 2002). Additionally, the interplay of the 
different mechanisms of toxicity and their individual contribution to the overall effect of long lasting 
adverse reactions has not yet been elucidated.   
Several studies focusing on (fluoro)quinolone-related neuropsychiatric disorders such as peripheral 
neuropathies, delirium, suicidal ideation, chorea or hemiballism highlighted the risk factors in the 
context of neurotoxic effects. These factors are high dosage of (fluoro)quinolones, female gender, 
young age (˂45 years), renal failure and pre-existence of central nervous system disease (Tomé and 
Filipe 2011, Hedenmalm and Spigset 1996, Ali 2013). Furthermore, drug interaction between NSAIDs, 
theophylline, caffeine and ciprofloxacin have been identified as important factors for toxicity (Ilgin et al. 
2015). It has also been shown that co-administration of the NSAID fenbufen enhances the binding of 
quinolones to GABA receptors leading to clinically significant symptoms (Mandell et al. 2002).  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 19/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the setting of renal dysfunction as well as in the elderly, there is a risk of high blood levels of 
quinolones that could lead to a higher risk of the assessed ADRs. Systematic steroid therapy was 
highlighted by some authors as one of the leading confounded factors that contributed to the risk of 
potential long-lasting tendon disorders. 
Risk factors associated directly with (fluoro)quinolone-induced mitochondrial dysfunction possibly 
leading to multifactorial ADRs, as mentioned in non-clinical part, have not been extensively discussed 
in scientific literature so far, probably due to the low reporting rate of long-lasting, disabling or 
potentially irreversible ADRs. Golomb et al. (2015) mentioned concomitant medication such as 
chemotherapy, HIV protease inhibitors, statins and amiodarone that can amplify the risk of quinolones 
mitochondrial toxicity, however, these conclusions are limited by the low number of case reports 
assessed within this study. A recent publication by Michalak et al. (2017) summarises the underlying 
mechanism of so called “Fluoroquinolone Associated Disability” and tries to identify possible treatment 
approaches, however it does not provide any discussion about risk factors linked directly to the 
underlying mechanism of long-term, disabling or potentially irreversible ADRs.  
Time to onset 
Delayed occurrence of the symptoms is considered a typical feature of quinolone-induced 
tendinopathies and the time frame described in scientific literature ranged from 2 hours after the 1st 
dose to 6 months after the treatment discontinuation (Khaliq and Zhanel 2003). A report of tendon 
disorders occurring 18 months after the quinolones exposure has been published (van der Linden et al. 
2001).  
There is also non-clinical evidence showing that (fluoro)quinolones induce delayed mitochondrial 
toxicity and cytotoxicity (Wefers et al. 2009, Golomb et al. 2015, Kaleagasioglu et al. 2012). 
Differences within class 
Due to the assumed low frequency of the ADRs in question it is not possible to determine to what 
extent some (fluoro)quinolones induce these long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADR 
more than others. As it is apparent from exposure data and the analysis of the 286 not confounded 
disabling cases, the five substances with the highest consumption (ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, 
ofloxacin, norfloxacin, moxifloxacin) are the same substances that are most commonly mentioned as 
suspected. The potential of other (fluoro)quinolone agents, namely cinoxacin, flumequine, pipemidic 
acid, and rufloxacin to induce the same disabling ADRs cannot be ascertained, due to low exposure to 
those substances, but it cannot be ruled out.  
Frequency per unit of exposure 
These long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs have been reported in the EU with the 
frequency of about 1 spontaneous case report (resulting in disability not confounded) per 10 million of 
DDDs (defined daily doses). Given the relatively low number of incoming case reports in comparison 
with the high exposure, actual frequency of these ADRs cannot be determined from available data. The 
signs and symptoms that result in (fluoro)quinolone-related disability are highly varied and may span 
several organ systems in one patient. Standard analyses of drug safety in clinical trials as well as post-
marketing monitoring tools are not well suited to capture long-term impact of these signs and 
symptoms on daily-life activities of individual patients. In addition, the public attention directed at this 
safety issue which is enhanced by the use of the Internet and social media further complicates any 
attempts to reach a reliable estimate of the frequency. However, taking into account the yearly 
exposure of about 350 million DDD in the EU as well as average treatment duration and underreporting 
it is safe to assume that these ADRs are most likely very rare (<1/10,000). 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 20/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation for further research  
Relevant stakeholders, including academia and MAHs, are encouraged to perform further research that 
would further characterize these disabling adverse drug reactions. The research should focus on 
current gaps and uncertainties in knowledge, including but not exclusive to, risk factors associated with 
these specific ADRs, ADRs to fluoroquinolones in the past, treatments for the ADRs, identification of 
possible biomarkers to predict these ADRs and underlying mechanisms of action that could lead to the 
respective reactions. 
3.  Expert consultation and Stakeholders input 
The PRAC requested several consultations with different stakeholders during this review in order to 
collect all the available current information from different sources. 
3.1. Public hearing 
On 13 June 2018, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) held a public hearing on quinolone and 
fluoroquinolone antibiotics to hear the views of patients and the general public on the persistence of 
side effects reported with this group of medicines. 
Sixty-nine participants attended it in person or called in by telephone, including 40 patients and patient 
representatives, 14 healthcare professionals and academics, 13 representatives from pharmaceutical 
industry as well as members of the media. Other members of the public who could not attend sent 
submissions in writing, which were equally taken into account during the review.  
During the hearing, patients described many serious problems they have experienced with a time 
relationship to the use of a (fluoro)quinolone containing product and which led to their sever disability. 
The clinical presentation of the risks associated with (fluoro)quinolones, described by the majority of 
public hearing participants, was in general consistent with the characteristics of musculoskeletal and 
peripheral and central nervous system ADRs identified in EudraVigilance database and scientific 
literature during the referral procedure. The common features presented in all the personal histories 
were the prolonged duration of the adverse drug reactions related to the (fluoro)quinolones use 
ranging from months to years, affection of multiple body systems and multiple sides for each, and 
significant disturbance in everyday-life activities due to the severe fatigue and pain associated with the 
musculoskeletal and nervous system impairments.  
A call for more information to be included in the PIL and SmPC was noted. This is in order to increase 
the awareness of both healthcare professionals and patients about the possible prolonged or persistent 
character of (fluoro)quinolones associated ADRs. Warning of not using (fluoro)quinolones in patients 
who have experienced any serious ADR in the relation to (fluoro)quinolones in the past except for life 
threating infections, were also requested. 
The call for significant restriction of (fluoro)quinolones use, i.e. only for life threatening/severe 
infections, as a last option, hospital use etc., was raised by the majority of general public participants. 
A striking pattern of unjustified use in self-limited or non-bacterial infections was identified repeatedly 
in individual interventions; the absence of proper testing of infectious agent or bacterial sensitivity was 
highlighted.   
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 21/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of the patients highlighted an unawareness of healthcare professionals of the possibility 
that these long lasting/persistent reactions were related to (fluoro)quinolones use and that no 
warnings were given to the patients. Healthcare professionals were generally unaware of the broad 
range and severity of possible symptoms, with exception of Achilles tendon disorders. An information 
campaign was considered necessary to be conducted at the end of this procedure to inform both 
patients and health care professionals on this specific risk.  
Awareness of some cases of exacerbation and prolongation of existing ADRs due to systemic 
(fluoro)quinolones following the subsequent use of topical (fluoro)quinolones without first-hand 
personal experience was mentioned at the margins of patients' interventions. Although topical 
(fluoro)quinolones were not included in the scope of this referral procedure, a further search in 
EudraVigilance on possible cases of long lasting adverse reactions revealed a small number of cases 
most of them with either poor information or other factors not supportive of causality (e.g. 2 case 
reports have also systemic formulations as concomitants). In conclusion there is currently no signal 
from EudraVigilance on the possible link between long lasting ADRs and use of topical formulations.  
However, the mentioned exacerbation of symptoms following topical use of a (fluoro)quinolone is 
addressed with the proposed new warning that (fluoro)quinolones should not be taken if the patient 
has experienced any serious adverse reaction in the past when taking a quinolone or fluoroquinolone 
and might be reflected as part of the national communications and media campaigns. 
From the healthcare professionals and academia side, a call for inclusion of nurses and pharmacist into 
the process was noted, echoed by general public expression of the need to increase the awareness of 
the risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs associated with (fluoro)quinolones 
use in the whole medical community. The proposal of media/educational campaign focused not only on 
the newly identified risk of long-lasting, disabling or potentially irreversible ADRs but also on the 
(fluoro)quinolones place in the rational ATB policy is supported. 
There are still many uncertainties regarding the underlying mechanism, risk factors, diagnostics and 
treatment options. Participants called for further scientific research stimulated by regulatory body.  
More detailed information on the interventions (oral and written) is published at the EMA website.  
3.2. Infectious Disease Working Party (IDWP) 
The PRAC also consulted the IDWP, a WP of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, two 
times during the procedure. 
In the first consultation, the PRAC requested the IDWP to comment on the grouping of indications from 
a therapeutic perspective, the changes in section 4.1 of the SmPC of the medicinal products affected 
and also to provide advice on the identification of the most relevant benefit data informing the review. 
IDWP noted the PRAC’s proposal for grouping of indications, further grouped based on benefit-risk 
categories. The IDWP provided comments on the relative benefit/efficacy of quinolones and 
fluoroquinolones for the indications placed by the PRAC into the different categories. 
During the second consultation the PRAC requested the IDWP for further advice on the most 
appropriate wording for the indications necessitating restrictions and the proposed replacements of the 
too broad and medically incorrect indications from a therapeutic perspective. 
The IDWP recommended that for: 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 22/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Levofloxacin and moxifloxacin, the statements supporting the restricted indications included in 
section 4.1 of the respective SmPCs should be kept as they were and for second-generation agents 
(norfloxacin, ofloxacin, lomefloxacin, pefloxacin, rufloxacin, and ciprofloxacin), the wording proposed 
by IDWP is as follows:   
“In [indication] [name of product] should be used only when it is considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly recommended for the treatment of these infections”. 
IDWP also provided their advice on the proposals from PRAC regarding the replacement of certain 
indications. It was however highlighted that the responses provided had taken into account the general 
properties of these antibacterial agents and that they may not necessarily apply across all approved 
antibacterial agents of this class since they vary in their microbiological and pharmacokinetic 
attributes, which in turn impact on their suitability for use in specific circumstances. 
3.4. Written consultation with Healthcare Professionals and Patients 
In the last stage of the review, the PRAC consulted healthcare professionals to get their views on the 
planned Direct Health Care Professional Communication (DHPC) and the patients on the recommended 
amendments to the package leaflet. The views expressed were taken into consideration by the PRAC. 
3.3. Other stakeholders’ interventions  
The PRAC also reviewed all data submitted by different stakeholders, both before and after the public 
hearing. These included patients, carers, patients associations, healthcare professionals and academia. 
All the data submitted, via written feedback, was carefully reviewed and was reflected in the 
assessment as appropriate. 
4.  Benefit-risk assessment  
(Fluoro)quinolones have been approved in the EU for a great diversity of indications - over one 
hundred indications of various granularities. For the purpose of this review, the indications are grouped 
under heading/cover terms, taking into account all available data, in particular the long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
Depending on the results of benefit/risk assessment, the indications fall in 4 categories: 
  Category 1: The newly identified safety concern does not substantially modify the existing 
benefit/risk balance and no change in the indication is warranted. 
  Category 2: The newly identified safety concern necessitates a restriction of (fluoro)quinolone 
use in these indications. 
  Category 3: The newly identified safety concern changes benefit risk to negative and these 
indications shall be deleted. 
  Category 4: Indications that are considered too broad in view of the evidence available and 
related to some (sub) indications mentioned in categories 1, 2 or 3 above. These indications 
shall be amended. Other indications were found to be incorrectly formulated in medical terms. 
They shall be removed or replaced by accurate medical terms.   
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 23/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 1: no modification of the indications 
In category 1 indications, it is considered that the newly identified safety concern (long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions) has a limited impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of all (fluoro)quinolones. The benefit-risk balance remains positive and its incremental change 
does not warrant any amendment of the indication.   
Table 11 – Category 1 indications: no modification of the indications 
Indication heading 
Complicated urinary tract infections/pyelonephritis 
Prostatitis, epididymo-orchitis 
Urethritis and cervicitis  
Genital tract / gynaecological infections 
Chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in adult patients with cystic 
fibrosis  
Broncho-pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis or in bronchiectasis 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Pneumonia due to Gram-negative bacteria 
Tuberculosis 
Chronic sinusitis 
Malignant external otitis 
Chronic suppurative otitis media 
Complicated skin and skin structure infections / Complicated skin and soft tissue infections 
Gastro-intestinal infections 
Bone and joint infections 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Prophylaxis of invasive infections due to Neisseria meningitidis 
Inhalation anthrax (post-exposure prophylaxis and curative treatment) 
Infection in immunocompromised patients 
For the indications falling within this category 1, the PRAC considered that their benefit overweighs the 
risks, in particular the identified risk of occurrence of long lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
adverse drug reactions. This is in view of the severity of the diseases targeted, their possible serious 
complications including prevention of manifestations of irreversible anatomical or functional lesions, 
the favourable tissue distribution of fluoroquinolones and specificity of the pathogen covered by the 
microbiological spectrum of (fluoro)quinolones.  
Therefore, PRAC concluded that these indications should be maintained.  
The PRAC took the opportunity to review that the wording of the indications is in line with the current 
medical terminology as per antibacterial treatment guidelines (e.g. change of “prostatitis” to “bacterial 
prostatitis” because aetiology of prostatitis is often non-bacterial). These modifications do not affect 
the substance of the indications. Final recommendations on the wording of the indications falling into 
category 1 are displayed in the tables below for individual substances. 
However, for pefloxacin PRAC considered that some of the indications mentioned should be restricted 
as below: 
Pefloxacin 
  Chronic sinusitis (CRS) 
Rhinosinusitis is a group of disorders characterized by inflammation of the mucosa of the nose and the 
paranasal sinuses. CRS is predominantly caused by the following pathogens: Streptococcus 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 24/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenza, Staphylococcus spp., Streptococcus pyogenes, Moraxella 
catarrhalis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, anaerobes, and Chlamydia spp. According to Suh et Kennedy’s 
(2012) article on Treatment options for chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), antibiotics play a role in the 
management of CRS to decrease bacterial load and to treat acute bacterial exacerbations of CRS. Most 
experts agree that antimicrobials for treatment of CRS should provide broad-spectrum coverage.  
Considering the poor pneumococcal susceptibility of pefloxacin, low activity against S. aureus and the 
safety profile of this active substance, PRAC concluded that the use of pefloxacin in the treatment of 
acute exacerbations of chronic sinusitis should be restricted to the patients in whom it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents for the treatment of these infections (last line option).  
 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Fluoroquinolones, either alone or in combination with metronidazole, are recommended for the therapy 
of community acquired intra-abdominal infections based on the current therapeutic guidelines. Empiric 
antibiotic therapy for intra-abdominal infection should be driven by local microbiological results. The 
identified risk of occurrence of long lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions 
have only minor impact on the benefit/risk ratio of pefloxacin for intra-abdominal infections. However, 
pefloxacin has a low spectrum of activity against the indication specific pathogens. Therefore, 
considering insufficient coverage of the pathogens involved in this type of infection, the use of 
pefloxacin should be restricted to the patients in whom it is considered inappropriate to use other 
antibacterial agents for the treatment of these infections (last line option). 
Furthermore, for pefloxacin, PRAC considered that some of the indications mentioned above in Table 
11 should be removed as below: 
Pefloxacin 
  Acute and chronic prostatitis, including severe forms 
The role of pefloxacin in the treatment of bacterial prostatitis is considered as not being demonstrated. 
In case of atypical sexually transmitted pathogens, such as Mycoplasma hominis and Chlamydia 
trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum, pefloxacin antimicrobial activity is low (Gonzales and Henwood 
1989). Apart from that, available data show a poor antimicrobial activity of pefloxacin against 
Pseudomonas (King and Phillips 1986) and no updated susceptibility data on pefloxacin are available as 
the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) has not defined clinical 
breakpoints for pefloxacin 
(http://www.eucast.org/fileadmin/src/media/PDFs/EUCAST_files/Rationale_documents/Ciprofloxacin_r
ationale_1.9.pdf). Thus, the current role of pefloxacin for the management of bacterial prostatitis and 
the benefit of using pefloxacin to treat these infections is unknown. Therefore, the benefit risk-balance 
of this indication is considered negative for pefloxacin. 
 
Exacerbations of broncho-pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis 
In patients with cystic fibrosis, the predominant pathogen causing broncho-pulmonary infections is 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Streptococcus species have only moderate sensitivity to pefloxacin, with 
MIC90 values ranging from 3.1 to 32 mg/L (Gonzalez JP, Henwood JM. Pefloxacin. A review of its 
antibacterial activity, pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic use. Drugs. 1989;37(5):628-68). 
The poor pefloxacin antimicrobial activity against indication specific pathogen precludes its use in this 
indication as there is a high risk of inadequate coverage and resistance development. The current role 
of pefloxacin for the treatment of this indication is considered as not established. Therefore, the benefit 
risk balance of this indication is considered negative for pefloxacin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 25/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis 
The pathogens associated with pyelonephritis consists mainly of E. coli (75% to 95%), with occasional 
other species of Enterobacteriaceae, such as P. mirabilis and K. pneumoniae, and of Staphylococci. No 
updated  data  (e.g.  in  relation  to  the  current  prevalence  of  resistance  in  Enterobacterales  and  other 
Gram-negative bacteria) are  available  regarding  the antimicrobial activity of  pefloxacin, as  no  clinical 
breakpoints were defined by EUCAST. 
Pefloxacin antimicrobial activity against bacterial strains relevant for this indication is low (Hoogkamp-
Korstanje 1997). In addition, pefloxacin has low urinary excretion (34% of pefloxacin dose including its 
active metabolite norfloxacin) (Naber, 2001). Therefore, the benefit-risk balance in using pefloxacin in 
this indication is negative.  
  Malignant external otitis 
Malignant otitis externa (MOE), also known as necrotizing otitis externa, is a severe invasive bacterial 
infection that involves the external auditory canal and skull base. Almost 95% of MOE cases reported 
in the literature are attributed to Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Bovo et al. 2012, Maher 2016). As already 
mentioned pefloxacin has a poor antimicrobial activity against P. aeruginosa (Hoogkamp-Korstanje 
1997), thus, the benefit is very limited. Therefore, the benefit-risk in using pefloxacin in this indication 
is negative.  
PRAC also noted that cinoxacin, flumequine, rufloxacin are not authorised for any of the Category 1 
indications and enoxacin-containing products are not authorised in the EU anymore.  
The PRAC also considered that, for the medicinal products containing the following active substances, it 
is recommended that the wording is aligned as proposed and as relevant: 
Ciprofloxacin 
 Current category 1 indications in 
product information of ciprofloxacin 
Recommended wording of category 1 indications 
Adults 
  Urethritis and cervicitis due to 
bacteria susceptible to 
fluoroquinolones 
  Gonoccocal urethritis and cervicitis due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Bone and joint infections 
 
Infections of the bones and joints 
 
Treatment of infections in 
neutropenic patients 
 
Infection in immunocompromised 
patients 
  Ciprofloxacin may be used in the management 
of neutropenic patients with fever that is 
suspected to be due to a bacterial infection 
Children and adolescents 
  Broncho-pulmonary infections in 
  Broncho-pulmonary infections due to 
cystic fibrosis caused by 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa  
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic 
fibrosis 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 26/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current category 1 indications in 
product information of ciprofloxacin 
Recommended wording of category 1 indications 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
  Complicated urinary tract infections and acute 
and pyelonephritis  
pyelonephritis 
Levofloxacin 
Current category 1 indications in 
product information of levofloxacin 
 
Pyelonephritis and complicated 
urinary tract infections (see section 
4.4) 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic 
bronchitis (last line) 
Moxifloxacin 
Recommended wording of category 1 indications 
  Acute pyelonephritis and complicated urinary 
tract infections (see section 4.4) 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease including bronchitis  
In [indication] [name of product] should be used 
only when it is considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections. 
Current category 1 indications in 
product information of moxifloxacin 
Recommended wording of category 1 indications 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic 
bronchitis (last line) 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease including bronchitis  
In [indication] [name of product] should be used 
only when it is considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections. 
Ofloxacin 
Current category 1 indications in product 
Recommended wording of category 1 
information of ofloxacin 
indications 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 27/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current category 1 indications in product 
Recommended wording of category 1 
information of ofloxacin 
indications 
 
Pyelonephritis and complicated urinary tract 
  Acute pyelonephritis and 
infections 
complicated urinary tract infections 
 
Prostatitis, epididymo-orchitis 
o  Chronic bacterial prostatitis (complicated 
or uncomplicated) 
o  Prostatitis by E. coli 
  Bacterial prostatitis, epididymo-
o  Prostatitis, epididymo-orchitis 
orchitis 
o  Prostatitis, infection of the epididymis 
and the testicle 
o 
severe prostatitis 
 
Pelvic inflammatory disease, in combination 
treatment 
o  Acute pelvic inflammatory disease 
o  Pelvic inflammatory disease, in 
combination treatment 
o  Pelvic region infection in women (in 
combination with other antibiotics) 
 
Pelvic inflammatory disease, in 
combination with other antibacterial 
agents  
o 
Inflammatory pelvic disease, in 
combinations treatment 
o  Upper genital tract infection in women 
(see 4.4) (complicated or 
uncomplicated) 
o  Upper gynaecological tract infections, 
including infections due to susceptible 
strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Sepsis due to above-mentioned genito-urinary 
  Urosepsis 
infections 
(only applicable for i.v. formulation) 
  Uncomplicated cystitis (last line) 
o  Uncomplicated cystitis  
o  Uncomplicated cystitis (should be used 
only when it is considered inappropriate 
to use antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the initial 
treatment of these infections) 
o  Uncomplicated cystitis (XX should only 
be used if antibacterial treatment 
  Uncomplicated cystitis  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 28/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current category 1 indications in product 
Recommended wording of category 1 
information of ofloxacin 
indications 
considered as first choice of treatment is 
deemed unfit/inappropriate) 
  Urethritis (last line) 
o  Urethritis (should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the initial treatment of 
these infections) 
o  Urethritis (XX should only be used if 
antibacterial treatment considered as 
first choice of treatment is deemed 
unfit/inappropriate 
  Bone and joint infections (last line) 
o  Bone and joint infections: such as 
osteomyelitis or septic arthritis. 
(complicated or uncomplicated) 
  Urethritis  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
o 
Infections of bones (osteitis, 
  Bone and joint infections  
osteomyelitis) 
o  Bone and joint infections 
o  Gram negative infection of bones and 
joints 
o  Bone infections (such as osteomyelitis 
and orthopaedic material/implant 
infection, especially when used in 
association with other antibiotics like 
rifampicin 
o  Alternative form of treatment for bones 
and joints infections 
  Severe skin and soft-tissue infections (last line) 
  Acute sinusitis (last line) 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Complicated skin and soft-tissue 
infections  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute bacterial sinusitis  
In [indication] [name of product] 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 29/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current category 1 indications in product 
Recommended wording of category 1 
information of ofloxacin 
indications 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease 
including bronchitis  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (last 
line) 
  Community acquired pneumonia (last line) 
  Community acquired pneumonia  
o  Community acquired pneumonia 
o  Community acquired 
pneumonia (ofloxacin should be used 
only when it is considered inappropriate 
to use antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the initial 
treatment of these infections) 
 
Prevention of infections due to ofloxacin 
susceptible pathogens (prophylaxis of infections, 
in patients with a significant reduction in 
resistance to infections (e.g., in neutropenic 
states) 
  Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis 
o  Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis 
o  Acute non-gonococcal urethritis and 
cervicitis caused by Chlamydia 
trachomatis  
o 
combination therapy for the treatment 
of cervical infections 
 
Gonorrhoea 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
 
Prophylaxis of bacterial infection in 
neutropenic patients 
  Non-gonococcal urethritis and 
cervicitis 
  Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis 
due to susceptible Neisseria 
Page 30/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Gonorrhoea 
gonorrhoeae 
o  Gonococcal and non-gonococcal 
urethritis and cervicitis (complicated or 
uncomplicated) 
o  Uncomplicated urethral and cervical 
gonorrhoea. 
o  Uncomplicated acute gonococcal 
urethritis and cervicitis 
o  Gonococcal urethritis due to susceptible 
strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and 
non-gonococcal urethritis 
 
 
Chlamydia 
Tuberculosis 
  Chronic sinusitis 
  Superinfection of chronic otitis (whatever its 
nature) and cavities after mastodectomy  
  Bacterial gastroenteritis 
o  Bacterial gastroenteritis 
o  Bacterial enteritis 
o 
Intestinal infections 
o  bacterial diarrhoea, which needs 
antibacterial treatment 
  Abdominal and hepatobiliary infection 
  Non-gonococcal urethritis and 
cervicitis 
 
Tuberculosis, in combination 
treatment 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic 
sinusitis  
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Chronic suppurative otitis media 
 
Infections of the gastrointestinal 
tract (e.g. travellers’ diarrhoea) 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
o  Abdominal and hepatobiliary infection 
  Complicated intra-abdmonial 
o 
o 
intra-abdominal infection  
intra-abdominal and bile-ducts 
infections 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 31/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections 
o 
Infections of abdominal cavity, including 
pelvic area  
o  Abdominal cavity infections including of 
the pelvic bone 
o 
Infections of the abdomen and the 
lesser pelvis  
  Cholangitis 
 
Post-exposure prophylaxis and curative 
 
Inhalation anthrax: post-exposure 
treatment of anthrax. 
prophylaxis and curative treatment  
 
Treatment of ofloxacin sensitive prophylaxis of 
bacterial infections in patients with weakened 
resistance (for example neutropenic patients) 
 
Treatment of bacterial infections in 
neutropenic patients 
 
Prophylaxis of bacterial infections in 
neutropenic patients 
The MAHs should further reanalyse the current dosage recommendations, based on PK/PD 
considerations, for the indications, acute exacerbation of chronic sinusitis and infections of the 
gastrointestinal tract (e.g. travellers’ diarrhoea). 
Lomefloxacin 
Current category 1 indications for 
Recommended wording of category 1 
lomefloxacin included in product information 
indications 
  Acute prostatitis 
  Acute bacterial prostatitis 
  Acute pyelonephritis 
  Uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis 
  Uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis 
Norfloxacin 
Current category 1 indications for norfloxacin included 
Recommended wording of category 
in product information 
1 indications 
  Acute urinary tract infections in men 
o  acute urinary tract infections in men 
  Acute urinary tract infection in 
o  acute infection of lower urinary tract 
infections in men 
men 
  Uncomplicated pyelonephritis 
o  uncomplicated pyelonephritis 
o  acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis in 
  Uncomplicated acute 
pyelonephritis 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 32/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current category 1 indications for norfloxacin included 
Recommended wording of category 
in product information 
1 indications 
women 
  Complicated cystitis 
o 
chronic cystitis in women 
 
Prostatitis  
o  prostatitis 
  Complicated acute cystitis 
o 
chronic bacterial prostatitis 
o  Acute prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli 
  Bacterial prostatitis 
  Gonorrhoea 
o  gonorrhoea 
o  uncomplicated gonorrhea 
o  Gonococcal urethritis, pharyngitis, proctitis 
or cervicitis from Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
irrespective of the production of 
  Gonoccocal urethritis and 
penicillinase. 
o  gonococcal urethritis without signs of pelvic 
dissemination, in men 
o 
cervical gonorrhoea without signs of pelvic 
dissemination 
o  urethral and cervical gonorrhoea 
o  Gonorrhea (urethritis and cervicitis) 
  Gastroenteritis 
o  bacterial gastroenteritis 
o  Gastroenteritis 
o  Acute bacterial gastroenteritis 
o  bacterial enteritis 
o  Acute bacterial gastroenteritis after stool 
culture and laboratory confirmation of the 
susceptibility of the causative organism to 
NOROCIN 
cervicitis due to susceptible 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
 
Infections of the 
gastrointestinal tract (e.g. 
travellers’ diarrhoea) 
 
Immunocompromised patients: 
o 
Infections in neutropenic patients (as 
 
Prophylaxis of bacterial 
infections in neutropenic 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 33/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current category 1 indications for norfloxacin included 
Recommended wording of category 
in product information 
1 indications 
prophylaxis). 
patients 
The MAHs should further reanalyse the current dosage recommendations, based on PK/PD 
considerations, for the indication Infections of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g. travellers’ diarrhoea). 
Pefloxacin 
Current category 1 indications for pefloxacin 
Recommended wording of category 1 
included in product information 
indications 
  Chronic sinusitis 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic bacterial 
sinusitis  
In [indication] [name of product] should 
be used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections 
  Gonorrhoea 
  Gonococcal urethritis in humans  
  Gonoccocal urethritis and cervicitis due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoea 
  Severe/Serious gastro-intestinal bacterial 
  Serious gastro-intestinal bacterial 
infections 
infections 
  Salmonella infections (carrier) 
  Germ carrying of salmonellosis 
  Bone and joint infections  
  Bone and joint infections (gram negative 
osteomyelitis) 
  Salmonella infections (carrier) 
  Alternative form of treatment for bone 
  Bone and joint infections 
and joint infections 
 
Infections of bone and joints 
(osteomyelitis caused by gram-negative 
microorganisms)  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 34/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAHs should further reanalyse the current dosage recommendations, based on PK/PD 
considerations, for the indication Serious gastro-intestinal bacterial infections. 
Prulifloxacin 
Current category 1 indications for 
Recommended wording of category 1 
prulifloxacin included in product information 
indications 
  Complicated infections of lower urinary 
tract 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
For all MAs authorised based on an abbreviated dossier, the MAHs are reminded to align their product 
information, when relevant, with the reference medicinal product.  
Category 2  
For the indications falling under category 2, the risk benefit balance is considered impacted by the 
abovementioned safety concern in view of the benefits of (fluoro)quinolones in the concerned diseases, 
as well as the limited severity of some of these conditions and thus the use in these indications needs 
to be restricted.  
Table 12 – Category 2 
Indication heading 
Uncomplicated cystitis 
  Simple uncomplicated acute cystitis 
  Acute cystitis in women 
  Simple uncomplicated acute cystitis in the premenopausal adult 
women 
  Recurrent cystitis in women 
  Acute uncomplicated infection of lower urinary tract (simple cystitis) 
Acute exacerbation of COPD including chronic bronchitis 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease including 
chronic bronchitis 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis  
 
Exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
Acute bacterial sinusitis 
  Acute sinusitis 
  Acute bacterial sinusitis 
Acute otitis media 
In these indications, the affected medicinal products should be used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents that are commonly recommended for the treatment of 
these infections.  
Of note, these restrictions are in addition to the restrictions that were already in place for the relevant 
(fluoro)quinolones at the time of the initiation of the procedure.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 35/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncomplicated cystitis 
Based on the review of available scientific data, cases of uncomplicated cystitis have been often 
described as self-limiting. The recent study by Gágyor et al (2015) showed that two thirds of women 
with uncomplicated urinary tract infection treated with ibuprofen recovered without any antibiotics. 
However, lack of symptoms relief and risk of complications (specifically pyelonephritis) have been 
found to be higher in non-antibiotic group. 
Reviewed European guidelines do not discuss an option of non-antibacterial therapy of urinary tract 
infections. According to Guidelines of the European Association of Urology (Bonkat et al 2017), 
antibiotic therapy should be chosen based on spectrum and susceptibility patterns of the aetiological 
uropathogens, tolerability, ADRs and adverse ecological effects. Nitrofurantoin, fosfomycin, trometamol 
or pivmecillinam are considered drugs of first choice in many countries. The guideline also states that 
despite lower resistance in some areas, fluoroquinolones are not considered first-line choice because of 
adverse effects including negative ecological effects and propensity to selection of resistance.  
Inappropriate use of (fluoro)quinolones is associated with rapidly increasing bacterial resistance to 
these agents (Committee on Infectious Diseases 2006; Murray and Baltimore 2007). (Fluoro)quinolone 
resistance has appeared among commensals and uropathogens in most parts of the world, but 
prevalence rates vary. Recently proposed modification of fluoroquinolone breakpoints by European 
committee on antimicrobial susceptibility testing (EUCAST 2016) indicates increasing resistance to 
fluoroquinolones. The speed which fluoroquinolones lose their activity against invasive E. coli strains 
(isolated mostly from patients with urosepsis) is the fastest of all combinations of antibiotic-pathogen 
reported in EARS-NET during 2001-2015 (ECDC 2017). 
In consideration of the current treatment guidelines, the IDWP recommendation as well as the data 
submitted from the MAHs, there is a consensus that uncomplicated cystitis constitutes a non-severe, 
non-life-threatening indication for which the potential risk outweighs the benefit when using 
(fluoro)quinolones as a first line treatment. During the ongoing referral procedure sufficient evidence 
was collected to support that (fluoro)quinolones can cause long lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse drug reactions. Therefore, in section 4.1 of the SmPC, the indication 
uncomplicated cystitis should be reworded to be restricted to patients in whom it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents suitable for the treatment of these infections (last line 
option). With regard to the fact that treatment of these infections with (fluoro)quinolones is based on 
one dose, no exception from the restriction can be made as long lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible reactions constitute a class effect which may occur even after the first administration.   
Therefore, on the basis of the benefit of using (fluoro)quinolones for the indication of uncomplicated 
cystitis and the known risk profile of (fluoro)quinolones the benefit-risk balance in the indication of 
uncomplicated cystitis is considered changed and (fluoro)quinolones should only be used in patients 
who have no alternative treatment options. 
Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (AECB) and COPD 
Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (AECB) is a combination of increased dyspnoea, increased 
sputum production, coughs and increased sputum purulence (Wedzicha et al 2017). The typical patient 
experiences 2 to 4 episodes of AECB per year (Dever et al 2002). More than 60% of chronic bronchitis 
exacerbations are caused by viral or bacterial agents (Bandi et al 2003; Fuso et al 1995; Matkovic and 
Miravitlles 2013). 
Anthonisen et al (1987) conducted a clinical trial in 173 patients where broad-spectrum antibiotics (7 
to 10 days) were evaluated over placebo. They stratified patients according to the severity of the acute 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 36/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exacerbation. The occurrence of increased dyspnoea, sputum volume, and sputum purulence were 
defined as a Type-1 exacerbation. The occurrence of two of these symptoms were marked as Type 2, 
and only one of the symptoms in addition to other findings (upper respiratory infection, fever without 
other cause increased wheezing; increased cough; or increase in respiratory rate or heart rate by 20 % 
as compared with baseline) was assigned to Type 3 exacerbation. The authors showed the greatest 
difference in success rate between antibiotics and placebo in Type 1 (62.9 % versus 43.0 %) less in 
Type 2 (70.1% versus 60.0 %) and Type 3 (74.2% versus 69.7%) exacerbations. Similarly, 
deterioration of symptoms was decreased by antibiotic treatment in Type 1 (14.3% versus 30.5%) and 
Type 2 (5.2 % and 10.7 %) exacerbations and comparable deterioration of symptoms was reported in 
Type 3 (11.4 % and 12.1 %) exacerbations. 
Nouira et al (2001) evaluated the efficacy of ofloxacin over placebo in COPD patients requiring 
mechanical ventilation. They demonstrated a significant decrease in mortality in ofloxacin group (4 % 
versus 22 %; absolute risk reduction 17.5 %, 95 % CI 4.3-30.7, p=0.01), in the need of additional 
antibiotic therapy (45.9 %, 29.1-62.7, p<0.0001), and in hospital stay (absolute difference 4.2 days, 
95 % CI 2.5-5.9; and 9.6 days, 3.4-12.8, respectively). 
The available meta-analysis of 16 randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials (Vollenweider et al 
2012) showed clear benefit of antibiotic therapy in hospitalised patients with severe exacerbations. In 
patients with mild to moderate exacerbation the effect was not so evident. In patients with severe 
exacerbation, antibiotics statistically significantly reduced the risk of treatment failure (RR 0.77; 95% 
CI 0.65 to 0.91; I2= 47%). Mortality was statistically significantly reduced by antibiotic treatment in 
patients treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) (Peto OR 0.21; 95% CI 0.06 to 0.72; NNTB 6 (96% CI 
3 to 24) but not in hospitalised patients in general ((Peto OR 1.02; 95%CI 0.37 to 2.79). Length of 
hospital stay (in days) was similar in the antibiotics and placebo groups except for the ICU study where 
antibiotics statistically significantly reduced length of hospital stay (mean difference -9.60 days; 95% 
CI -12.84 to -6.36 days).  The incidence of AEs was higher in the antibiotic group (Peto OR 1.53; 95% 
CI 1.03 to 2.27). 
European Respiratory Society in collaboration with American Thoracic Society (Wedzicha et al 2017) 
made a meta-analysis evaluating the use of antibiotics in ambulatory patients with COPD exacerbation. 
They realised that antibiotic therapy decreases treatment failure (27.9 % versus 42.2 %; RR 0.67, 
95% CI 0.51-0.87) and prolonged the time to the next exacerbation (difference of medians 73 days, 
p=0.015). However, most patients in the placebo group (58%) avoided treatment failure as well. The 
use of antibiotics was companied by the increased occurrence of AEs (14.6 % versus 7.6 %; RR 1.84, 
95 % CI 0.95-3.57) although most of them were mild. The authors concluded that the patient 
population should be carefully selected when deciding on antibiotic treatment. Patients with purulent 
sputum will likely benefit from the antibiotic treatment; the severity of the disease should also be 
considered. Other guidelines recommend treatment of COPD exacerbations associated with purulent 
sputum (NICE 2016) or fulfilling the specified criteria (GOLD 2014).  
Although (fluoro)quinolones achieve high concentration in lung tissues (Ball 1995; Boselli et al 2005; 
Gotfried et al 2001; Koizumi et al 1994; Soman et al 1999), the potential existence of high bacterial 
loads in patients suffering from AECB is an important risk factor for the selection of resistant mutants. 
Moreover, in pre-existent mutation, the subsequent mutation can lead to the development of 
resistance to the whole group (Davies et al 2003; Mensa and Trilla 2006). Therefore, the local pattern 
of resistance, severity of exacerbation, patient´ s overall condition and possible risks associated with 
(fluoro)quinolones administration should be carefully considered by the health care providers (HCPs). 
Taking into consideration the efficacy data, the risk of developing resistance and the risk profile of 
(fluoro)quinolones together with the new risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 37/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADRs it is concluded that benefit-risk balance is unchanged only in severe episodes of AECB and COPD 
or where other therapeutic options are not effective or tolerable. The use of (fluoro)quinolones is not 
warranted in mild to moderate episodes with alternative treatment options. Therefore the use of 
quinolones in AECB and COPD should be restricted to patients in whom it is considered inappropriate to 
use other antibacterial agents for the treatment of these infections (last line).  
Overall, the benefit-risk balance in the indication of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and COPD 
is considered positive only in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Furthermore, it is 
suggested to reword the indication “Acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis” to “Acute exacerbation 
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease including chronic bronchitis”. 
Acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) 
ABS is generally a non-severe infection associated with high spontaneous cure rates (90%). About 
80% cases of rhinosinusitis occurring in clinical practice are of viral origin and only a negligible 
proportion of these cases (i.e. 0,5-2%) develop to bacterial infection (Gwaltney 1996). It is 
acknowledged that it is extremely difficult to distinguish between viral and bacterial sinusitis in clinical 
practice (Chow et al 2012).  
Ahovuo-Saloranta et al (2014) conducted a complex review assessing the treatment effect of 
antibiotics in treatment of an acute uncomplicated maxillary sinus infection diagnosed clinically or 
radiologically. This review compiled data from sixty-three (63) separate studies that used a variety of 
antibiotics. In clinical trials comparing antibiotic treatment versus placebo, small statistically significant 
effect favouring the use of antibiotics was observed in the risk of treatment failure (lack of full recovery 
or improvement) at 7 to 15 days (5 clinical trials, 1058 patients, RR of 0.66, 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 0.47 to 0.94)). The failure rates were 8.7% and 13.6% in antibiotic and placebo groups, 
respectively. The difference between groups in the full recovery or improvement rates was 10% at 
most in all the eight studies available for this comparison. The average cure or improvement rate in 
the antibiotic groups was 87% (range 78% to 98%) and in the placebo groups 81% (range 6 7% to 
89%). Above that, complications were similar regardless of the treatment used. On the other hand, the 
evaluated studies indicated faster cure rate with antibiotics. However, there was not statistically 
significant difference at 16 to 60 day follow up (RR of 0.63, 95% CI 0.38 to 1.05) in patient without 
radiological sings of maxillary sinusitis (Haye et al 1998). Adverse effects were more common in 
antibiotic than in placebo groups (median of difference between groups 10.5%, range 2% to 23%). 
These data are in line with the meta-analysis published by Karageorgopoulos et al (2008), where the 
authors assessed the efficacy of respiratory (fluoro)quinolones to beta-lactams in treatment of acute 
bacterial sinusitis.  
Regarding the high success rate in placebo treated patients (Ip et al 2005, Ahovuo-Saloranta et al 
2014) and the mild severity of sinusitis in majority of the cases, the benefit of antibiotics should be 
carefully weight against the occurrence of adverse drug reactions and the potential risk of selection of 
resistance. 
Taking into consideration the data mentioned above and based on the risk profile of (fluoro)quinolones, 
including the risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially permanent serious ADRs, (fluoro)quinolones 
should be used only when it is considered inappropriate to use antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the initial treatment of ABS infections.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 38/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute otitis media (AOM) 
AOM is one of the most common infectious diseases in children. At present, AOM is regarded as a 
multifactorial and polymicrobial disease, which usually occurs as a complication of viral upper 
respiratory tract infection (Marom et al 2012). Respiratory viruses could be documented in the 
nasopharyngeal specimens of 90% of the children with AOM (Heikkinen & Chonmaitree, 2003). 
Based on the available guidelines, fluoroquinolones are not routinely recommended for treatment of 
acute otitis media as most of the cases occur in children. In this population, the risk of cartilage 
toxicity associated with administration of fluoroquinolones is well-known and administration of 
fluoroquinolones should be initiated only after a careful benefit/risk evaluation. Based on the available 
data, overall 70-90% of children suffering acute otitis media reach spontaneous resolution within 7-14 
days (Rosenfeld and Kay 2003). Nevertheless, some fluoroquinolones - especially newer ones (i.e. 
levofloxacin and moxifloxacin) - have been shown to be effective therapeutic option in multidrug-
resistant etiological agents of acute otitis media.  
Being one of the most common paediatric diseases, AOM with its spontaneous cure rate above 80% 
might be considered as a non-serious and in-most cases self-limited infection. According to current 
guidelines, amoxicillin is recommended as a first line therapy with several other treatment options for 
patients with hypersensitivity to penicillin.  
Studies have also shown that bacterial genetic material coding for fluoroquinolone resistance can be 
transferred horizontally from normal oral flora, such as viridans group streptococci (Streptococcus 
mitis, Streptococcus oralis). Since frequent exposure to fluoroquinolones may allow resistance 
mutations to transfer from this oral flora to S. pneumoniae (Bell 2006), it is recommended that the use 
be reserved for cases where conventional antibiotics are likely to be ineffective (Leibovitz 2006; 
Leibovitz et al 2003; WHO 2008). 
(Fluoro)quionolones therapy might be beneficial in patients with recurrent and/or non-responsive cases 
of AOM caused by the multidrug-resistant etiological agents where other conventional antibiotics are 
likely to be ineffective. 
When the antibiotic therapy is indicated in AOM, amoxicillin is a first-line drug and there are several 
options for those who cannot be given oral penicillins. Children with AOM reach spontaneous resolution 
in many cases; therefore benefit of antibiotics in this indication is not clear. The combination of feared 
arthrotoxicity in children and potential bacterial resistance explosion leads to the fact that 
fluoroquinolones are not recommended routinely for AOM. However, since some newer 
fluoroquinolones (e.g. moxifloxacin, levofloxacin) are effective against multidrug-resistant etiological 
agents of AOM, they should be reserved for cases of recurrent/nonresponsive AOM.  
In the light of newly identified risk of long-lasting, disabling or potentially permanent ADRs, the overall 
benefit-risk balance in the indication of otitis media (acute) has changed and should be only used in 
patients who have no alternative treatment option. 
Category 3: deletion of indications 
The indications falling within the category 3 are considered to have a benefit-risk balance negative, 
taking into account the abovementioned safety concern and in view of the benefits of 
(fluoro)quinolones in the concerned diseases.  
Table 13 – Category 3 indications  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 39/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication heading 
Pharyngitis-Tonsillitis 
 
 
Pharyngitis 
Tonsillitis 
Laryngitis  
Acute bronchitis 
Prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea 
 
 
Prophylaxis of infectious gastroenteritis (traveller’s diarrhoea) 
Prevention of traveller’s diarrhoea 
Preoperative preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis 
spreading to bone 
Septicaemia 
Selective decontamination of gastrointestinal tract in patients with compromised immune 
system 
Prevention of exacerbations in women with recurring urinary tract 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequent, recurrent urinary infection prophylaxis 
Long term prophylaxis of recurrent urinary infections 
Prophylaxis of frequently repeating infections of urinary tract infections 
Prevention of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prophylaxis of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
 
Prophylaxis after surgeries or interventions in the urogenital system 
o  prophylaxis after surgeries or interventions in the urogenital system 
o  Prophylaxis of recurrent urinary infections following trans-urethral surgery or trans-
rectal prostatic biopsy 
Vaginal infections 
Meningitis 
Infection of cerebrospinal fluid 
Endocarditis 
Nosocomial pneumonia 
External otitis 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 40/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharyngitis-Tonsillitis 
Based on the available data, approximately 90% cases of pharyngitis and 70% cases of tonsillitis in 
adults and children are of viral origin (Zoorob et al 2012). As for the cases of pharyngitis of bacterial 
aetiology, the most common pathogen causing bacterial acute pharyngitis is Streptococcus pyogenes.  
Due to possible risks of severe post-streptococcal complications (e.g. rheumatic fever or 
glomerulonephritis), bacterial tonsillitis and pharyngitis should be treated by antibiotics. Treatment 
with several other antimicrobial agents including amoxicillin, cephalosporines (1st generation), 
clindamycin, clarithromycin, azithromycin, erythromycin and others has been reported to result in 
streptococcal eradication (Pelucchi et al 2012). Thus, there are alternative medications available in 
case penicillin could not be administrated and patterns of antimicrobial resistance should be always 
considered by HCPs.  
According  to  evaluated  data,  (fluoro)quinolones  reach  a  good  target  tissue  concentration  (Agence 
Française de Sécurité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé 2003; Antibiotic Steering Committee 2016; Dinis 
et al. 2004; Esposito et al 1990; Gotfried et al 2001; Soman et al 1999; Tapiainen et al 2016; Zoorob 
et al 2012).  Nevertheless,  (fluoro)quinolones  are  not sufficiently  effective  against relevant  pathogens 
which  are  commonly  presented  in  patients  with  pharyngitis  and/or  tonsillitis.  Moreover,  increasing 
resistance  of  these  pathogens  to  fluoroquinolones  and  a  possibility  of  disabling  ADRs  in  this  mostly 
non-severe condition needs to be considered. Therefore, fluoroquinolones are not a suitable treatment 
option for this indication. 
The  benefit-risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  pharyngitis  and/or  tonsillitis  of  bacterial  origin  is 
therefore considered negative. 
Laryngitis  
Infectious laryngitis is mostly a self-limiting viral disease (caused by parainfluenza, rhinovirus, 
influenza and adenovirus) that does not respond to antibiotic therapy (Higgins, 1974). The self-limiting 
nature of symptoms was confirmed in by Schalén et al (1985, 1993). According to available 
international guidelines, antibiotics should not be routinely prescribed (Agence Française de Sécurité 
Sanitaire des Produits de Santé 2003; Antibiotic Steering Committee 2016; Tapiainen et al 2016; 
Zoorob et al 2012). Taking into consideration the predominant viral aetiology of laryngitis, its mostly 
self-limiting nature, increasing resistance of common microorganisms to (fluoro)quinolones and the 
identified risk of occurrence of long lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions, 
the benefit/risk balance of (fluoro)quinolone use in laryngitis is considered negative. 
Acute bronchitis 
Generally, it is thought that most bronchial infections are of viral origin, although this has been 
questioned (Macfralane et al. 1994). Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae and 
Moraxella catharralis were isolated from sputum samples in up to 45% of patients with acute bronchitis 
(Macfarlane et al. 1993) but their role is difficult to distinguish because of potential oropharyngeal 
colonization in healthy individuals (Laurenzi et al. 1961; Smith and Lockwood 1986).  
According to the current evidence and in line with the European guidelines (Woodhead et al. 2005, 
2011), there is a modest benefit in using antibiotics for acute bronchitis in otherwise healthy 
individuals. As generally known, elderly frail patients and patients with comorbidities have been shown 
to be more sensitive to adverse effects (Moore and O’Keeffe 1999; Stahlmann and Lode 2010).  
Taking  into  consideration  the  frequently  viral  aetiology  of  acute  bronchitis,  its  mostly  self-limiting 
nature, increasing resistance of common microorganisms to (fluoro)quinolones and the potential risk of 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 41/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disabling  ADRs,  the  benefit/risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  acute  bronchitis  is  considered 
negative.  
Prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea 
Most cases of travellers’ diarrhoea are self-limiting and resolve spontaneously within 3-5 days. 
Antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended for most travellers (CDC 2017; Hill et al 2006; Public Health 
Agency of Canada 2015; Riddle et al 2016). Based on the evaluation of available guidelines and 
position papers, the prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea should be limited to high-risk short-term 
travellers only.  
Based on the increasing resistance of pathogenic microorganisms to (fluoro)quinolones, the association 
of (fluoro)quinolones with C. difficile-associated diarrhoea, their other well-known risks in addition to 
the risk of rare, nevertheless persistent and disabling ADRs, the benefit/risk balance of 
(fluoro)quinolones in the prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea is considered negative. 
Preoperative preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis spreading 
to bone 
Chronic cholesteatomatous OM requires surgery, usually in the form of tympanomastoidectomy 
(tympanoplasty+mastoidectomy) in order to eradicate cholesteatoma, a usual underlying cause of 
chronic infection (Mittal et al. 2015). According to Verschuur et al (2004), the surgery in ears with 
preoperative suppuration (such as chronic otitis media with or without cholestaeatoma) is classified as 
clean-contaminated or dirty surgery (i.e. potentially contaminated). 
The benefit of systemic antibiotic prophylaxis in general in the clean-contaminated ear surgery is 
currently not sufficiently substantiated and the benefit over topical antibiotics is not proven. Problems 
related to the use of (fluoro)quinolones in surgical prophylaxis must always be considered, including 
the development and dissemination of resistant pathogens and the occurrence of adverse drug 
reactions due to (fluoro)quinolones, including the risk of potentially disabling ADRs. Having considered 
the above, the PRAC considered that the benefit-risk balance of (fluoro)quinolones in preoperative 
preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis spreading to bone is negative. 
Septicaemia 
Septicaemia  is  a  severe  and  life-threatening  disease  associated  with  high  mortality.  Overall, 
septicaemia  is  non-specific  and  is  generally  a  secondary  condition  (a  consequence)  to  a  primary 
infection.  The  therapy  should  be  targeted  to  the  primary  infection  taking  into  account  PK/PD 
characteristics of the treatment and site of the infection. Therefore, septicaemia is not acceptable as a 
stand-alone  indication  as  per  the  Note  for  Guidance  (CPMP/EWP/558/95  rev  2).  Thus,  the  indication 
septicaemia should be deleted. 
The risk/benefit balance of (fluoro)quinolone use in septicaemia as stated is considered negative and 
the indication should be deleted.  
Selective decontamination of gastrointestinal tract in patients with compromised immune 
system 
Regarding  the  indication  “Selective  decontamination  of  gastrointestinal  tract  in  patients  with 
compromised immune system” the benefit of using (fluoro)quinolones is extremely limited. Indeed, the 
PRAC  could  not  identify  any  solid  evidence  on  the efficacy  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  this  indication. 
Based  on  the  lack  of  scientific  evidence  on  efficacy  and  the  recommendation  of  the  IDWP,  the 
benefit/risk balance  of (fluoro)quinolone use  in  “Selective  decontamination  of  gastrointestinal tract in 
patients with compromised immune system” is considered negative.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 42/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention of exacerbations in women with recurring urinary tract infections (UTI) 
Recurrent UTIs are common among young, healthy women, even though they generally have 
anatomically and physiologically normal urinary tracts (Hooton 2001).  
According to the European Association of Urology EAU guideline (Bonkat et al 2017), prevention of 
uncomplicated rUTIs includes counselling and behavioural modifications. Antimicrobial prophylaxis can 
be given only after counselling and behavioural modification has been attempted and when non-
antimicrobial measures have been unsuccessful.  
Indeed, increasing resistance to (fluoro)quinolones among uropathogens is of concern and should be 
taken into account when considering their place in prophylaxis of recurrent cystitis.  Inappropriate use 
of (fluoro)quinolones is associated with rapidly increasing bacterial resistance to these agents 
(Committee on Infectious Diseases 2006; Murray and Baltimore 2007). (Fluoro)quinolone resistance 
has appeared among commensals and uropathogens in most parts of the world, but prevalence rates 
vary. Recently proposed modification of fluoroquinolone breakpoints by European committee on 
antimicrobial susceptibility testing indicates increasing resistance to fluoroquinolones. The speed with 
which fluoroquinolones lose their activity against invasive E. coli strains (isolated mostly from patients 
with urosepsis) is the fastest of all combinations of antibiotic-pathogen reported in EARS-NET during 
2001-2015 (ECDC 2017). 
Taking into consideration the risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs that may 
occur even after the first administration and EAU guideline recommending avoidance of 
(fluoro)quinolones use both in continuous and post-coital prophylaxis due to the increasing resistance, 
the benefit/risk balance of (fluoro)quinolones in the indication of prevention of exacerbations in women 
with recurring urinary tract infection is considered negative. 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
Boader-spectrum antibiotics should not be used for peri-procedural prophylaxis or only cautiously in 
very selective cases (The 2015 European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on Urological 
infections). The agent used for peri-procedural prophylaxis should ideally not be one that may be 
required for treatment of infections. Apart from that, same resistance patterns to pefloxacin are shared 
with other quinolones making pefloxacin not suitable for the use in peri-procedural prophylaxis. 
Considering the high resistance pattern to pefloxacin, possible development of cross resistance to other 
quinolones, and the newly recognised risk of long-lasting and potentially disabling adverse effects, the 
risks of using pefloxacin outweigh its benefits. Therefore, the risks outweigh the benefits in this 
indication and the indication should be deleted.   
Vaginal infections (AV) 
Disruption of the vaginal microbial community may occur following invasion of an exogenous organism 
(mono etiologic diseases such as gonorrhoea or chlamydia), or by overgrowth of one or more 
endogenous commensal species (bacterial vaginosis or aerobic vaginitis). The latter mechanism 
complicates defining the disease, identifying causative agents and distinguishing colonization from 
infection (Rampersaud et al 2012). Vaginal infections cover several clinical units for which the benefit 
of (fluoro)quinolones differs.  
In Aerobic vaginitis (AV) and bacterial vaginosis (BV), the lactobacillary microflora is disturbed, with no 
or sporadic visible remaining lactobacillary morphotypes on microscopy specimens of vaginal fluid of 
affected women. AV is typically marked by either an increased inflammatory response or by prominent 
signs of epithelial atrophy or both (Donders et al 2015). 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 43/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group B streptococci (GBS), Escherichia coli, and Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis are 
the organisms most frequently associated with Aerobic Vaginitis (Rampersaud et al 2012). AV requires 
a treatment based on microscopy findings and a combined local treatment with any of the following 
may yield the best results: antibiotic (infectious component), steroids (inflammatory component) 
and/or oestrogen (atrophy component). In cases with Candida present on microscopy or culture, 
antifungals must be tried first, in order to see if other treatment is still needed. Vaginal rinsing with 
povidone iodine can provide rapid relieve of symptoms but does not provide long-term cure of the 
bacterial loads. Local antibiotics most suitable are preferably non-absorbed and broad spectrum, 
especially covering enteric gram-positive and gram-negative aerobes, like kanamycin. Latter 
colonisations are frequent, but inflammatory infection rare, the use of oral antibiotics in women with 
AV is discouraged (Donders et al 2015; Wang et al. 2016). 
(Fluoro)quinolones are not recommended for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis as they do not cover 
indication-specific pathogens. (Fluoro)quinolones are sometimes recommended in the initial treatment 
of serious and/or complicated cases of aerobic vaginitis (i.e. to control acute symptoms in severe cases 
such as staphylococcal or macular streptococcal vaginitis). Based on the efficacy data, current 
treatment guideline, known risk profile of (fluoro)quinolones including the newly identified disabling 
ADRs and in line with IDWP recommendation (that the benefit of using (fluoro)quinolones in vaginal 
infections is extremely limited), the PRAC considered that benefit-risk balance of (fluoro)quinolones in 
vaginitis is negative.  
Meningitis 
In EU, the indication of meningitis is only authorised for pefloxacin. 
(Fluoro)quinolones have not been extensively studied for the treatment of acute bacterial meningitis 
and therefore there is only sparse data available regarding the use of pefloxacin in patients with 
meningitis that do not allow establishing efficacy. 
Considering potential insufficient coverage of pathogens responsible for meningitis by pefloxacin and 
risks associated with inappropriate treatment of meningitis, the overall benefit/risk balance of this 
indication is considered negative and therefore should be deleted. 
Infection of cerebrospinal fluid 
There is no avalaible data establishing efficacy in this clinical setting. Furthermore, the terminology 
‘Infection of cerebrospinal fluid’ is considered by the PRAC to be incorrect from a medical perspective. 
The benefit-risk balance is therefore negative and the indication should be deleted. 
Endocarditis 
In the EU, the indication endocarditis is approved exclusively for pefloxacin. 
Infective endocarditis is a severe and life-threatening disease associated with high mortality. Typical 
microorganisms that can cause infective endocarditis include Viridans streptococci, Streptococcus 
bovis, HACEK group, Staphylococcus aureus or enterococci.  
After review of the available data, mainly based on animal models (Giamarellou H et al. 1989), efficacy 
of pefloxacin cannot be established.  
Considering potential insufficient coverage of pathogens responsible for endocarditis by pefloxacin and 
risks associated with inappropriate treatment of endocarditis, the overall benefit/risk balance of this 
indication is considered negative.  
Nosocomial pneumonia 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 44/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The poor antimicrobial activity of pefloxacin to Pseudomonas aeruginosa precludes from its use in 
nosocomial pneumonia where P. aeruginosa is a frequent pathogen. Furthermore, activity of ofloxacin 
against relevant pathogens is too limited to justify use in nosocomial pneumonia. In these infections 
complicated course as well as high level of the resistant pathogens should be expected. The overall 
benefit/risk ratio for this indication for is therefore considered negative. 
External otitis 
Acute otitis externa is a cellulitis of the ear canal skin and sub-dermis, with acute inflammation and 
variable oedema. In majority of cases, otitis externa is caused by bacterial infection (Dibb 1991; 
Rosenfeld et al. 2014), however, also other causative agents such as fungal infection or non-infectious 
dermatologic processes should be considered. In case of bacterial otitis externa, the main common 
causative pathogens are Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, often occurring as a 
polymicrobial infection (Dibb 1991; Clark et al. 1997). While the efficacy of topical antibacterial 
therapy was confirmed in clinical trials, the use of systemic therapy is questionable (Freedman 1978; 
Yelland 1993; Cannon 1970) and should be limited to persistent otitis externa or local or systemic 
spread of the infection (Sander 2001).  
In view of the above, the overall benefit-risk balance for this indication is therefore considered 
negative. 
Category 4: rewording of indications according to the current medical knowledge  
Indications in this category are amended as they are either:  
(1)  too broad and encompass too many medical entities in terms of the scientific evidence 
available for (fluoro)quinolone benefit/risk assessment, in view of the Guideline on the 
evaluation of medicinal products indicated for treatment of bacterial infections 
(CPMP/EWP/558/95 rev 2) and in relation to the (sub) indications mentioned in categories 1, 2 
or 3 above. Therefore these broad indications need to be amended.  
(2)  Or the terminologically is incorrect from a medical perspective.  
Table 14 – Category 4 indications that are too broad 
Indication heading 
Infections of kidney, urinary tract and genitals 
Urinary tract infection 
Respiratory infections  
Pneumonia 
Ear, nose and throat infections 
Skin and soft tissue infections 
Genital tract infections 
Gyneacological infections 
Table 15 – Category 4 indications that are incorrectly formulated  
Indication 
Infection of the digestive system and bile ducts 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 45/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
Prophylaxis of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prevention of systemic urinary tract infections 
 Ciprofloxacin 
Current indication for 
ciprofloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the wording below 
o  Urinary tract 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis 
infection 
In [indication] [name of product] should be used only when it 
is considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the treatment of these 
infections. 
  Acute pyelonephritis 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
Levofloxacin 
Current indications 
for levofloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the wording below 
 
skin and soft 
Complicated skin and soft tissue infections / Complicated skin and 
tissue infections 
skin structure infections 
 
skin and soft 
structure 
infections 
Ofloxacin 
In [indication] [name of product] should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the treatment of these infections. 
Current indications for ofloxacin  
  Urinary tract infections 
Indications to be amended in line with 
the wording below 
o  Urinary tract infection 
o  Upper and lower urinary tract infections 
o  Upper and lower urinary tract 
infections, complicated or not 
Infections of the upper and lower 
urinary tract 
o 
o  Upper and lower, acute and chronic 
urinary tract infections 
o  Complicated and uncomplicated urinary 
tract infections (cystitis and 
pyelonephritis) 
o  Upper and lower urinary tract infections 
coming from bacteria such as E. coli, K. 
pneumoniae, Proteus, P. aeruginosa 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute pyelonephritis 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 46/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current indications for ofloxacin  
 
Lower urinary tract infections 
Indications to be amended in line with 
the wording below 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
o  Acute and chronic lower urinary tract 
other antibacterial agents that are 
infections 
  Sinusitis 
o  Sinusitis 
  Respiratory infections 
o  Acute, chronic or recurrent respiratory 
tract infections; superior – acute otitis 
media, otitis externa, sinusitis, 
pharyngitis and laryngitis 
o  Acute, chronic or recurrent respiratory 
tract infections caused by Haemophilus 
influenzae or other Gram-negative or 
multi-resistant pathogens, as well as by 
Staphylococcus aureus 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
  Acute bacterial sinusitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Chronic bacterial sinusitis 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease 
including chronic bronchitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
o  Respiratory tract infections (with the 
  Community-acquired pneumonia 
exception, if infection is of 
pneumococcal origin or is suspected) 
o  Severe respiratory infections caused by 
gram-negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
Lower respiratory tract infections 
o 
 
Pulmonary infections 
o  Pulmonary infections [such as: acute 
exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, 
exacerbation of cystic fibrosis, 
nosocomial pneumonia, pulmonary 
tuberculosis by resistant mycobacteria, 
especially in immunocompromised 
patients (minor anti-tuberculosis 
medicine)] 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease 
including chronic bronchitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Community-acquired pneumonia 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 47/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current indications for ofloxacin  
 
Pneumonia 
o  Pneumonia, especially when caused by 
so-called "problematic" germs such as: 
E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, 
Proteus, Pseudomonas, Legionella or 
Staphylococcus 
o  Pneumonia, above all if it’s caused by 
bacteria such as Escherichia coli, 
Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Proteus, 
Pseudomonas, Legionella or 
Staphylococcus 
 
Bronchial suppurations, in the absence of 
any parenchymal lesion 
 
In chronic bronchitis during recurrent 
exacerbations 
Indications to be amended in line with 
the wording below 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
 
Pulmonary tuberculosis by resistant 
mycobacteria, especially in 
immunocompromised patients 
(minor anti-tuberculosis medicine) 
Community-acquired pneumonia. In 
[indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
Acute exacerbations of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease 
including chronic bronchitis.  In 
[indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
  Bronchial suppurations, in the absence of any 
other antibacterial agents that are 
parenchymal lesion: 
 
In subjects at risk (chronic alcoholism, 
smoking, subjects over 65 years) 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Acute bacterial sinusitis 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Chronic bacterial sinusitis 
  Acute otitis media 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
  Chronic suppurative otitis media 
  Chronic bacterial sinusitis 
  Chronic suppurative otitis media 
 
Ear, nose and throat infections 
o  Ear, nose and throat infections (with 
the exception of acute tonsillitis) 
 
Chronic ear, nose and throat infections 
o  Severe chronic ENT infections caused 
by gram-negative bacilli and 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 48/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indications to be amended in line with 
the wording below 
Current indications for ofloxacin  
susceptible staphylococci 
o  Chronic and recurrent infections of the 
nose, throat and ear, only when caused 
by Gram-negative pathogens, including 
Pseudomonas, or by Staphylococci 
o  Chronic and recurrent infections of 
ears, nose and throat, above all if they 
are caused by gram-negative bacteria 
including Pseudomonas, or if they are 
caused by Staphylococcus 
o  Ear, nose and throat (ENT) infections 
(such as: chronic sinusitis, 
superinfection in chronic otitis, 
prophylaxis of infections following inner 
ear surgery) 
o  Chronic and recurrent 
otorhinolaryngological infections 
 
Genital tract infections 
o 
o 
Infections of genital organs 
Infections of genitals 
o  Severe genital tract infections caused 
by gram-negative bacilli and 
susceptible staphylococci 
 
Gynaecological infections 
  Bacterial prostatitis, epididymo-
orchitis including cases due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Urethritis and cervicitis including 
cases due to susceptible Neisseria 
gonorrhoeae 
  Urethritis and cervicitis including 
cases due to susceptible Neisseria 
o  Gynaecological infections 
gonorrhoeae 
 
Skin and soft tissue infections 
o  Skin and soft tissue infections 
 
Pelvic inflammatory disease 
including cases due to susceptible 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Complicated skin and soft tissue 
o  Gram negative infection of skin and soft 
infections 
tissue 
o  Skin and soft tissues infections or 
infections of traumas from microbes 
such as Ε. coli, K. pneumoniae, 
Enterobacter, P. mirabilis and P. 
vulgaris, Providencia, Citrobacter, P. 
aeruginosa, S. aureus 
In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 49/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lomefloxacin 
Current indications for lomefloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
Urinary tract infections 
  Simple uncomplicated cystitis. In [indication] 
[name of product] should be used only when 
it is considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections 
  Acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis  
Lower respiratory tract infections 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease including chronic bronchitis  
In [indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered inappropriate 
to use antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections.   
Norfloxacin 
Current indications for norfloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
  Cystitis 
o  Cystitis 
o  Acute and chronic cystitis in 
women 
 
Lower urinary tract infections 
o 
Lower urinary tract infections 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis. In 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial 
agents that are commonly recommended 
for the treatment of these infections. 
  Complicated acute cystitis 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis. In 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial 
agents that are commonly recommended 
for the treatment of these infections. 
  Urethritis including cases due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 50/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Urinary tract infections 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis. In 
  Complicated acute cystitis 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial 
agents that are commonly recommended 
for the treatment of these infections. 
  Urethritis including cases due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
(except complicated pyelonephritis)  
  Complicated acute cystitis 
o  Urinary tract infections 
o  Complicated and uncomplicated 
upper and lower urinary tract 
infections: cystitis, pyelitis, 
cystopyelitis 
o  Upper and lower urinary tract 
infections, including cystitis, 
pyelitis and cystopyelitis caused by 
norfloxacin susceptible bacteria 
o  Complicated and uncomplicated 
urinary tract infections 
o  Acute urinary tract infections in 
men 
o  Other lower urinary tract 
infections, including prostatic 
infections, and upper urinary tract 
infections with susceptible 
bacteria, in adults (i.e. other than 
uncomplicated acute cystitis) 
o  Acute (except acute 
pyelonephritis) and chronic 
(except chronic complicated 
pyelonephritis) infections of 
urinary tract caused by sensitive 
microorganisms 
o  Acute and chronic urinary tract 
infections, uncomplicated (cystitis, 
pyelitis) and complicated, 
excluding complicated 
pyelonephritis, acute or chronic 
o  Acute infection of lower urinary 
tract infections in men 
o  Acute lower urinary tract infection 
in men 
  Urinary tract and related infections 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis. In 
tract 
o  Complicated  and  uncomplicated, 
acute  and  chronic,  upper  and 
infections. 
lower  urinary 
These  infections  include:  cystitis, 
pyelitis,  chronic  prostatitis  and 
infections 
to  urological 
surgical  procedures,  neurogenic 
bladder  or  nephrolithiasis  (except 
acute  and  chronic  complicated 
pyelonephritis)  caused  by  bacteria 
sensitive to norfloxacin 
related 
o  Upper  and  lower,  complicated  and 
uncomplicated,  acute  and  chronic 
urinary 
infections.  These 
infections  include  cystitis,  pyelitis, 
those 
chronic  prostatitis  and 
tract 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial 
agents that are commonly recommended 
for the treatment of these infections. 
  Bacterial prostatitis 
 
Epididymo-orchitis including cases due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Urethritis including cases due to 
susceptible Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
  Complicated urinary tract infections 
(except complicated pyelonephritis)  
  Complicated acute cystitis 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 51/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
urinary  infections  associated  with 
urological 
surgery,  neurogenic 
bladder  or  nephrolithiasis  caused 
by bacteria susceptible to [name of 
product] 
tract 
o  Upper  and  lower,  complicated  and 
uncomplicated,  acute  and  chronic 
urinary 
infections.  These 
infections  include  cystitis,  pyelitis, 
pyelocystitis, 
pyelonephritis, 
chronic  prostatitis,  epididymitis 
and  those  urinary  tract  infections 
associated  with  urological  surgery, 
neurogenic 
or 
nephrolithiasis  caused  by  bacteria 
susceptible to [name of product] 
bladder 
Medically incorrect indications 
 
 
Prophylaxis of systemic urinary tract 
infections 
Prevention of systemic urinary tract 
infections 
Pefloxacin 
 
Perioperative prophylaxis in invasive 
urological surgery 
Current indications for pefloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
  Respiratory tract infections 
o  Respiratory infections 
o  Respiratory infection - severe 
infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
Infection of respiratory tract 
(acute exacerbation of chronic 
bronchitis, exacerbation in cystic 
fibrosis, nosocomial pneumonia) 
o 
  Acute bacterial sinusitis. In [indication] 
[name of product] should be used only 
when it is considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections 
  Acute exacerbation of chronic bacterial 
sinusitis. In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections.   
  Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease including chronic 
bronchitis. In [indication] [name of 
product] should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections.   
 
Pulmonary infections 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive 
o  Pulmonary infections (acute 
pulmonary disease including chronic 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 52/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current indications for pefloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, 
exacerbation of cystic fibrosis, 
nosocomial pneumonia) 
 
Ear, nose and throat infections 
o  Ear, nose and throat infections 
o  Ear, nose and throat infection - 
severe infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
o  Ear, nose and throat (ENT) 
infections (such as: chronic 
sinusitis, external otitis) 
o  Ear nose and throat infections 
(such as chronic sinusitis, 
malignant otitis externa)  
bronchitis. In [indication] [name of 
product] should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections.   
  Acute bacterial sinusitis. In [indication] 
[name of product] should be used only 
when it is considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections.   
  Acute exacerbation of chronic bacterial 
sinusitis. In [indication] [name of product] 
should be used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections.   
  Urinary infections 
  Acute uncomplicated cystitis. In 
o  Urinary tract infections 
o  Urinary infection - severe 
infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
o  Urinary tract infections (including 
o 
prostatitis) 
Infections of urinary tract 
(inclusive of prostatitis) 
o  Urinary tract infections (acute or 
recurrent cystitis, acute 
uncomplicated pyelonephritis) 
  Genital tract infections 
o  Genital infections (chronic 
prostatitis) 
o  Genital tract infection - severe 
infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
  Abdominal and hepato-biliary infections 
o  Abdominal infections 
o  Abdominal infections - severe 
infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
o  Hepatobiliary infections 
o  Hepatobiliary infection - severe 
infections caused by gram-
negative bacilli and susceptible 
staphylococci 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections 
  Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis 
including cases due to susceptible 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae   
  Hepato-biliary infections 
  Complicated intra-abdominal infections. In 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 53/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current indications for pefloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
o 
Infections of bile ducts 
  Skin and soft tissue infections 
o  Skin infections 
o  Skin infection - severe infections 
caused by gram-negative bacilli 
and susceptible staphylococci 
o  Skin and soft tissue infections by 
o 
penicillin resistant Staphylococcus 
Infections of skin and soft tissue 
caused by staphylococcus 
resistant to penicillin 
  Complicated skin and soft tissue 
infections. In [indication] [name of 
product] should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections 
Rufloxacin 
Current indications for rufloxacin  
Indications to be amended in line with the 
wording below 
Lower respiratory tract infections 
  Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease including chronic 
bronchitis. In [indication] [name of 
product] should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use 
antibacterial agents that are commonly 
recommended for the treatment of these 
infections 
Urinary tract infections 
  Uncomplicated acute cystitis. In 
[indication] [name of product] should be 
used only when it is considered 
inappropriate to use antibacterial agents 
that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections 
Overall conclusions 
(Fluoro)quinolones are an important class of antibiotics with a broad spectrum of activity against many 
different bacterial strains. According to current evidence and recommendations they should not be 
prescribed as first-line antibacterial agents, except for certain serious conditions and in specific 
situations (e.g. where oral administration is clearly advantageous and/or sensitivity of the causative 
microorganisms have been ascertained). The risk of emerging bacterial resistance to (fluoro)quinolones 
should be decreased by not overusing them and reserving their use only to most severe conditions. 
Generally, the safety profile of (fluoro)quinolones has been well characterized . Most of the adverse 
effects are mild and frequent, others are rare but severe; gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 54/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
etc.) and central nervous system (dizziness, insomnia, confusion, headache etc.) reactions are the 
most common. Some rare but serious adverse reactions have been detected, described and listed in 
product information of different (fluoro)quinolones. These are mainly tendon, muscle and joint 
disorders, neurologic and psychiatric disorders.  
The PRAC has concluded that some of the serious adverse reactions could very rarely be long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible.  
It is considered that this specific risk is a class effect of all (fluoro)quinolones because similar 
biochemical mechanisms seem to underlie these ADRs. For some (fluoro)quinolones agents, no long-
lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse reactions have been reported so far. However, it 
is reasonable to assume that these ADRs could be caused by any agent of the (fluoro)quinolones group 
and would be detected if exposure is sufficiently extensive.    
Although incidence of these reactions seems to be low taking into account to the high consumption of 
(fluoro)quinolones across the EU, their severity must be taken into consideration when evaluating 
benefits and risks of (fluoro)quinolone use in clinical practice. 
For patients suffering from a serious infection caused by a microorganism that is susceptible to these 
antibiotics, fluoroquinolones remain an important treatment option despite the overall risk related to 
the use of these medicinal products including the risk of the long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse reactions.  
However, in case of milder infections, benefit and risk should be carefully weighed and other treatment 
options should always be considered. In such cases, fluoroquinolones should be reserved as a last line 
treatment in patients where other therapeutic options are not effective or are not tolerated.  
In mild and/or self-limiting infections, the modest benefit of (fluoro)quinolones treatment does not 
outweigh the overall risk related to the use of these medicinal products including the risk of long-
lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse reactions as other treatment without such risk 
could be used, or antibiotic treatment is not necessary at all.  
These restrictions, both in the line of treatment as well as deletion of certain indications where the 
benefit-risk balance is negative, are a key measure in order to ensure the appropriate use of 
(fluoro)quinolones.  
Significant amendments of the product information of fluoroquinolone-containing medicinal products 
are proposed to reflect these conclusions. 
Benefit risk balance of four substances (pipemidic acid, nalidixic acid, flumequine and cinoxacin) is 
considered negative. The MAH should submit appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive 
benefit-risk balance of these medicinal products in any indication. For doing so, the MAHs should justify 
the dosage recommendation and consider generate PK/PD data in support. Due to their chemical 
structure and the related pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile (very narrow range of anti-
bacterial activity, high minimal inhibitory concentrations) their benefit is limited based on the current 
available data. It is also noted that these substances are not mentioned in any clinical guidelines and 
their place in the therapeutic armamentarium of urinary / genital / gastro-intestinal infections is not 
justified anymore. Considering the limited benefit and in view of the overall risk related to the use of 
these medicinal products including the risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
reactions, the benefit-risk balance of these medicinal products is negative. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 55/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Risk management 
5.1.  Pharmacovigilance activity 
6.1.1. Detailed follow-up of selected spontaneous reports and PSUR monitoring  
All MAHs are required to perform a detailed follow-up of all incoming spontaneously reported cases of 
prolonged, potentially irreversible, serious suspected adverse drug reactions to fluoroquinolones. 
Reactions that have lasted more than 30 days are of special concern as well as reactions that result in 
a substantial disruption of a person's ability to conduct normal life functions. The follow-up should 
focus on (but should not be limited to) the information about patient´s age and sex, fluoroquinolone 
medication (substance, route of administration, indication, start date, date of last dose), adverse drug 
reaction (start, duration, intensity over time, affection of everyday life activities) and risk factors 
(previous physical activity, renal impairment, recent/concomitant use of statins or corticosteroids, solid 
organ transplantation). In terms of electronic transmission of relevant ICSRs, the following data fields 
should always be attended if sufficient information is available: 
Seriousness criterion E.i.3.2d Disabling / Incapacitating 
E.i.6 Duration of Reaction / Event 
E.i.7 Outcome of Reaction / Event at the Time of Last Observation 
A cumulative review of all these cases of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs with a 
particular focus on risk factors should be performed in 5 years by the MAHs and should be submitted 
as part of the PSURs for MAHs required submitting a PSUR as per EURD list.  
The PSUR submission dates for fluoroquinolones should be harmonised through the EURD list 
in view of the above cumulative review.  
5.1.1.  Non- interventional studies  
Drug utilisation study 
As outcome of the referral procedure, restriction of indications, other changes of the product 
information and a DHPC are being recommended (see section 6.2 below). The implementation of these 
risk minimisation measures is intending to avoid unnecessary and inappropriate use of fluoroquinolone, 
in particular in view of the risk of long-lasting, persistent and potentially irreversible adverse drug 
reaction.  
As such the PRAC considers that the effectiveness of the newly introduced risk minimisation measures 
should be monitored and evaluated by the means of a drug utilisation study (DUS) conducted in order 
to investigate changes in prescribing behaviour in the outpatient setting. This study should take into 
account data available from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and 
should be representative of a broad range of Member States. 
Taking into account the PRAC criteria for impact research, as well as the very high number of products 
and MAHs concerned, and in order to obtain meaningful and reliable results regarding the effectiveness 
of the risk minimisation measures recommended, the PRAC considers that the regulatory actions 
proposed for quinolones and fluoroquinolones medicinal products would benefit from the conduct of an 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 56/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
independent EMA-funded study in accordance with the principles laid down in the PRAC Strategy on 
Measuring the Impact of Pharmacovigilance Activities (Rev 1) (EMA/165407/2017). 
5.2.  Risk minimisation activities  
5.2.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information are necessary in order to reflect and minimise the risk of long-lasting, disabling and 
potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions associated with the use of quinolone- and 
fluoroquinolone-containing medicinal products. Further warnings and precautions of use relating to the 
long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions associated with the use of 
quinolone- and fluoroquinolone-containing medicinal products were also included and other important 
information harmonised. 
These changes include amendments to sections 4.1, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
5.2.2.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication 
plan 
A DHPC is proposed to be sent to the health care professionals, to increase the awareness on the risk 
of long-term, persistent, potentially irreversible ADRs and the associated changes to the product 
information. 
The following specialties are recommended to be targeted: general practitioners, otorhinolaryngologists, 
specialists in internal medicine, pulmonologists, urologists, gynaecologists, intensive care physicians, 
surgeons, dermatologists, ophthalmologists, neurologists, orthopaedists, dentists especially 
periodontists, infectious disease specialists.  
The NCAs should decide which specialties are relevant to receive the DHPC based on the national 
clinical practice. NCAs should also decide whether any other specialty should be added to the above 
stated list. 
6.2.4. Media campaign 
PRAC also concluded that further communication of the outcome of this review to relevant health care 
providers and health organisations, including media campaigns if appropriate could be considered by 
NCAs.  
6.  Condition for lifting the suspension 
For the suspension to be lifted for nalidixic acid, flumequine, pipemidic acid and cinoxacin, the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder shall provide the following: 
 
The MAH should submit appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product in any indication.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 57/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas, 
 
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) considered the procedure under 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data for medicinal 
products containing substances related to quinolones and fluoroquinolones for systemic and 
inhaled use.  
 
The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted for quinolones and fluoroquinolones 
medicinal products with regard to long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs. This 
included the responses submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in writing as well as 
the outcomes of consultations with the Infectious Disease Working Party. In addition, the PRAC 
considered the views of patient organisations, patients, families and carers, and the views of 
healthcare professionals in a public hearing. The PRAC also reviewed all data submitted by 
different stakeholders, both before and after, the public hearing.  
 
The PRAC concluded that some of the serious adverse drug reactions associated with the use of 
quinolones and fluoroquinolones could very rarely be long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible and that these risks are a class effect. 
 
The PRAC concluded that for patients with a serious infection that is susceptible to these 
antibiotics fluoroquinolones remain an important treatment option despite the very rare risk of 
long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse reactions.  
 
The PRAC concluded that in case of milder infections, other treatment options should be 
considered. Therefore fluoroquinolones should be reserved as a last line treatment in patients 
where other therapeutic options are not effective or not tolerated.  
 
The PRAC also concluded that in case of mild and/or self-limiting infections, the benefit of 
quinolones and fluoroquinolones treatment does not outweigh the overall risk related to the 
use of these medicinal products including serious risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
  As a consequence, the PRAC recommended the suspension of the following quinolones 
medicinal products, nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine, as they do not 
retain any indication with a positive benefit-risk. To lift the suspension the MAH should submit 
the appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive benefit-risk balance of the 
medicinal product.  
  Also, the PRAC recommended changes to the product information including the indication and 
further warnings and precautions of use relating to the long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
  Core elements of a direct healthcare professional communication were agreed, together with 
the timelines for its distribution.   
In view of the above, the Committee considers that the benefit-risk balance of the following 
fluoroquinolone medicinal products, pefloxacin, lomefloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, 
moxifloxacin, norfloxacin, prulifloxacin, rufloxacin remains favourable subject to the agreed 
amendments to the product information and other risk minimisation measures.  
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 58/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations for pefloxacin, lomefloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, 
norfloxacin, prulifloxacin, rufloxacin. 
The Committee also considers that the benefit-risk balance of the following quinolone medicinal 
products, nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine is not favourable. 
Therefore, pursuant to Article 116 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the Committee recommends the 
suspension of the marketing authorisations nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine. 
The condition imposed to lift the suspension of the marketing authorisation is set out in section 6 of 
this report. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 59/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Abdel-Zaher, A. O., Afify, A.-H. M., Kamel, S. M., Farghaly, H. M., El-Osely, G. M., & El-Awaad, E. A. M. (2012). 
Involvement of glutamate, oxidative stress and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the convulsant activity of 
ciprofloxacin in mice. European Journal of Pharmacology, 685(1), 30–37. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2012.04.007 
Adachi, J. A., Ericsson, C. D., Jiang, Z.-D., DuPont, M. W., Martinez-Sandoval, F., Knirsch, C., & DuPont, H. L. 
(2003). Azithromycin Found to Be Comparable to Levofloxacin for the Treatment of US Travelers with 
Acute Diarrhea Acquired in Mexico. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 37(9), 1165–1171. 
https://doi.org/10.1086/378746 
Adikwu, M. U., Yoshikawa, Y., & Takada, K. (2004). Pharmacodynamic–pharmacokinetic profiles of metformin 
hydrochloride from a mucoadhesive formulation of a polysaccharide with antidiabetic property in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat models. Biomaterials, 25(15), 3041–3048. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2003.09.073 
Agence Française de Sécurité Sanitaire des Produits de Santé. (2003). Systemic antibiotic treatment in upper and 
lower respiratory tract infections: official French guidelines. Clinical Microbiology and Infection: The Official 
Publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, 9(12), 1162–1178. 
Ahmed, A. I. A., van der Heijden, F. M. M. A., van den Berkmortel, H., & Kramers, K. (2011). A man who wanted to 
commit suicide by hanging himself: an adverse effect of ciprofloxacin. General Hospital Psychiatry, 33(1), 
82.e5-82.e7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2010.07.002 
Ahovuo-Saloranta, A., Rautakorpi, U.-M., Borisenko, O. V., Liira, H., Williams, J. W., & Mäkelä, M. (2014). 
Antibiotics for acute maxillary sinusitis in adults. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, (2), 
CD000243. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD000243.pub3 
Alajbegovic, S., Sanders, J. W., Atherly, D. E., & Riddle, M. S. (2012). Effectiveness of rifaximin and 
fluoroquinolones in preventing travelers’ diarrhea (TD): a systematic review and meta-analysis. Systematic 
Reviews, 1, 39. https://doi.org/10.1186/2046-4053-1-39 
Albert, X., Huertas, I., Pereiro, I., Sanfélix, J., Gosalbes, V., & Perrotta, C. (2004). Antibiotics for preventing 
recurrent urinary tract infection in non-pregnant women. In Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD001209.pub2 
Alcalá, B., Salcedo, C., de la Fuente, L., Arreaza, L., Uría, M. J., Abad, R., … de Batlle, J. (2004). Neisseria 
meningitidis showing decreased susceptibility to ciprofloxacin: first report in Spain. The Journal of 
Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 53(2), 409. https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/dkh075 
Aldred, K. J., Schwanz, H. A., Li, G., McPherson, S. A., Turnbough, C. L., Kerns, R. J., & Osheroff, N. (2013). 
Overcoming Target-Mediated Quinolone Resistance in Topoisomerase IV by Introducing Metal-Ion-
Independent Drug–Enzyme Interactions. ACS Chemical Biology, 8(12), 2660–2668. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/cb400592n 
Al-Humadi, H. W., Al-Saigh, R. J., & Al-Humadi, A. W. (2017). Addressing the Challenges of Tuberculosis: A Brief 
Historical Account. Frontiers in Pharmacology, 8, 689. https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2017.00689 
Ali, A. K. (2014). Peripheral neuropathy and Guillain-Barré syndrome risks associated with exposure to systemic 
fluoroquinolones: a pharmacovigilance analysis. Annals of Epidemiology, 24(4), 279–285. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.12.009 
Almuzara, M. N., Mier, C. de, Barberis, C. M., Mattera, J., Famiglietti, A., & Vay, C. (2002). Arcanobacterium 
hemolyticum: identification and susceptibility to nine antimicrobial agents. Clinical Microbiology and 
Infection, 8(12), 828–829. https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-0691.2002.00535.x 
Ambrožová, H. (2011). Akutní infekce trávicího traktu. Interní Medicína pro Praxi, 13(7–8), 288–291. 
Anglin, R. E., Garside, S. L., Tarnopolsky, M. A., Mazurek, M. F., & Rosebush, P. I. (2012). The Psychiatric 
Manifestations of Mitochondrial Disorders: A Case and Review of the Literature. The Journal of Clinical 
Psychiatry, 73(4), 506–512. https://doi.org/10.4088/JCP.11r07237 
Anthonisen, N. R., Manfreda, J., Warren, C. P., Hershfield, E. S., Harding, G. K., & Nelson, N. A. (1987). Antibiotic 
therapy in exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Annals of Internal Medicine, 106(2), 
196–204. 
Antibiotic Steering Committee. (2016). Antibiotic Guidelines: Obstetric Anti-Infective Prescribing Guidelines. Salford 
Royal NHS Foundation Trust. Retrieved from http://www.srft.nhs.uk/ 
Arabyat, R. M., Raisch, D. W., McKoy, J. M., & Bennett, C. L. (2015). Fluoroquinolone-associated tendon-rupture: a 
summary of reports in the Food and Drug Administration’s adverse event reporting system. Expert Opinion 
on Drug Safety, 14(11), 1653–1660. https://doi.org/10.1517/14740338.2015.1085968 
Aranha, O., Zhu, L., Alhasan, S., Wood, D. P., Kuo, T. H., & Sarkar, F. H. (2002). Role of mitochondria in 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 60/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ciprofloxacin induced apoptosis in bladder cancer cells. The Journal of Urology, 167(3), 1288–1294. 
Arguedas, A., Dagan, R., Leibovitz, E., Hoberman, A., Pichichero, M., & Paris, M. (2006). A Multicenter, Open Label, 
Double Tympanocentesis Study of High Dose Cefdinir in Children With Acute Otitis Media at High Risk of 
Persistent or Recurrent Infection. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 25(3), 211. 
https://doi.org/10.1097/01.inf.0000202138.12950.3c 
Armstrong, C. (2010). Updated Guideline on Diagnosis and Treatment of Intra-Abdominal Infections. American 
Family Physician, 82(6), 694. 
Aslan, A., Altuntas, A., & Titiz, A. (1998). A New Dosage Regimen for Topical Application of Ciprofloxacin in the 
Management of Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media. Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, 118(6), 883–
885. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0194-5998(98)70291-8 
Attia, S. M. (2008). Abatement by naringin of lomefloxacin-induced genomic instability in mice. Mutagenesis, 23(6), 
515–521. https://doi.org/10.1093/mutage/gen045 
Averbuch, D., Orasch, C., Cordonnier, C., Livermore, D. M., Mikulska, M., Viscoli, C., … Akova, M. (2013). European 
guidelines for empirical antibacterial therapy for febrile neutropenic patients in the era of growing 
resistance: summary of the 2011 4th European Conference on Infections in Leukemia. Haematologica, 
98(12), 1826–1835. https://doi.org/10.3324/haematol.2013.091025 
AWMF. (2017). Interdisziplinäre S3 Leitlinie Epidemiologie, Diagnostik, Therapie ävention und Management 
unkomplizierter, bakterieller, ambulant erworbener Harnwegsinfektionen bei erwachsenen Patienten 
Aktualisierung 2017. Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Wissenschaftlichen Medizinischen Fachgesellschaften e.V. 
Retrieved from http://www.awmf.org/uploads/tx_szleitlinien/043-044l_S3_Harnwegsinfektionen_2017-
05.pdf 
Badal S, Her YF, Maher LJ 3rd. (2015) Nonantibiotic Effects of Fluoroquinolones in Mammalian Cells. J Biol Chem. 
2015 Sep 4;290(36):22287-97. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4571980/ 
Bai, Z.-L., Chen, Q., Yang, S.-D., Zhang, F., Wang, H.-Y., Yang, D.-L., & Ding, W.-Y. (2014). Toxic Effects of 
Levofloxacin on Rat Annulus Fibrosus Cells: An In-vitro Study. Medical Science Monitor : International 
Medical Journal of Experimental and Clinical Research, 20, 2205–2212. 
https://doi.org/10.12659/MSM.892610 
Balfour, J. A., & Wiseman, L. R. (1999). Moxifloxacin. Drugs, 57(3), 363–373; discussion 374. 
Ball, P. (1995). Epidemiology and Treatment of Chronic Bronchitis and Its Exacerbations. Chest, 108(2, 
Supplement), 43S–52S. https://doi.org/10.1378/chest.108.2_Supplement.43S 
Bandi, V., Apicella, M. A., Mason, E., Murphy, T. F., Siddiqi, A., Atmar, R. L., & Greenberg, S. B. (2001). 
Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae in the lower respiratory tract of patients with chronic bronchitis. 
American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 164(11), 2114–2119. 
https://doi.org/10.1164/ajrccm.164.11.2104093 
Bandi, Venkata, Jakubowycz, M., Kinyon, C., Mason, E. O., Atmar, R. L., Greenberg, S. B., & Murphy, T. F. (2003). 
Infectious exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease associated with respiratory viruses and 
non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae. FEMS Immunology and Medical Microbiology, 37(1), 69–75. 
Baombe, J. P., & Ford, R. (2016). BET 2: Do fluoroquinolones increase the incidence of tendinopathy? Emerg Med J, 
33(7), 519–522. https://doi.org/10.1136/emermed-2016-205965.2 
Barnhill, A. E., Brewer, M. T., & Carlson, S. A. (2012). Adverse Effects of Antimicrobials via Predictable or 
Idiosyncratic Inhibition of Host Mitochondrial Components. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 56(8), 
4046–4051. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.00678-12 
BASHH. (2011). UK national guideline for the management of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease 2011 (GC Update June 
2011). British Association for Sexual Health and HIV. Retrieved from 
https://www.evidence.nhs.uk/document?id=1629248&returnUrl=Search%3Fpa%3D10%26ps%3D30%26q
%3Dm%2Bguidelines&q=m+guidelines 
Beek, D. van de, Cabellos, C., Dzupova, O., Esposito, S., Klein, M., Kloek, A. T., … Brouwer, M. C. (2016). ESCMID 
guideline: diagnosis and treatment of acute bacterial meningitis. Clinical Microbiology and Infection, 22, 
S37–S62. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cmi.2016.01.007 
Bell, E. A. (2006). Should we be using oral fluoroquinolones for AOM? Retrieved May 18, 2017, from 
http://www.healio.com/infectious-disease/news/print/infectious-disease-news/%7Bed8d495e-b444-4f7c-
bab1-693a021bdfc2%7D/should-we-be-using-oral-fluoroquinolones-for-aom 
Bennett, J. E., Dolin, R., & Blaser, M. J. (2014). Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett’s Principles and Practice of Infectious 
Diseases. 8th edition (8 edition). Philadelphia, PA: Saunders. 
Berbari, E. F., Kanj, S. S., Kowalski, T. J., Darouiche, R. O., Widmer, A. F., Schmitt, S. K., … Osmon, D. R. (2015). 
2015 Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Native Vertebral Osteomyelitis in Adults. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 61(6), e26–e46. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/civ482 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 61/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bhandary, S., Karki, P., & Sinha, B. K. (2002). Malignant otitis externa: a review. Pacific Health Dialog, 9(1), 64–67. 
Bhattacharya, S. K., Bhattacharya, M. K., Dutta, P., Dutta, D., De, S. P., Sikdar, S. N., … Pal, S. C. (1990). Double-
blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial of norfloxacin for cholera. Antimicrobial Agents and 
Chemotherapy, 34(5), 939–940. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.34.5.939 
Bidell, M. R., & Lodise, T. P. (2016). Fluoroquinolone-Associated Tendinopathy: Does Levofloxacin Pose the Greatest 
Risk? Pharmacotherapy: The Journal of Human Pharmacology and Drug Therapy, 36(6), 679–693. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/phar.1761 
Biggs, W. S., & Williams, R. M. (2009). Common gynecologic infections. Primary Care, 36(1), 33–51, viii. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pop.2008.10.002 
Bignell, C., Unemo, M., & European STI Guidelines Editorial Board. (2013). 2012 European guideline on the 
diagnosis and treatment of gonorrhoea in adults. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 24(2), 85–92. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462412472837 
Bleidorn, J., Gágyor, I., Kochen, M. M., Wegscheider, K., & Hummers-Pradier, E. (2010). Symptomatic treatment 
(ibuprofen) or antibiotics (ciprofloxacin) for uncomplicated urinary tract infection?--results of a randomized 
controlled pilot trial. BMC Medicine, 8, 30. https://doi.org/10.1186/1741-7015-8-30 
Blyth, D. M., Markelz, E., & Okulicz, J. F. (2012). Cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis associated with levofloxacin 
therapy. Infectious Disease Reports, 4(1). https://doi.org/10.4081/idr.2012.e11 
Bonkat, G., Pickard, R., Bartoletti, R., Bruyère, F., Geerlings, S., Wagenlehner, F., & Wullt, B. (2017). EAU 
Guidelines on urological infections. European Association of Urology. Retrieved from 
http://uroweb.org/guideline/urological-infections/ 
Bosch, A. A. T. M., Biesbroek, G., Trzcinski, K., Sanders, E. A. M., & Bogaert, D. (2013). Viral and Bacterial 
Interactions in the Upper Respiratory Tract. PLOS Pathogens, 9(1), e1003057. 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.ppat.1003057 
Boselli, E., Breilh, D., Rimmelé, T., Djabarouti, S., Saux, M.-C., Chassard, D., & Allaouchiche, B. (2005). 
Pharmacokinetics and intrapulmonary diffusion of levofloxacin in critically ill patients with severe 
community-acquired pneumonia. Critical Care Medicine, 33(1), 104–109. 
Bovo R, Benatti A, Ciorba A, Libanore M, Borrelli M, Martini A. (2012) Pseudomonas and Aspergillus interaction in 
malignant external otitis: risk of treatment failure. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 32(6):416-9. 
Boyce, T. G. (2017). Overview of Gastroenteritis. Retrieved January 26, 2018, from 
http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/gastrointestinal-disorders/gastroenteritis/overview-of-
gastroenteritis 
Boye, N. P., & Gaustad, P. (1991). Double-blind comparative study of ofloxacin (hoe 280) and trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole in the treatment of patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis and chronic 
obstructive lung disease. Infection, 19(7), S388–S390. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01715834 
Bressolle, F., Gonçalves, F., Gouby, A., & Galtier, M. (1994). Pefloxacin Clinical Pharmacokinetics. Clinical 
Pharmacokinetics, 27(6), 418–446. https://doi.org/10.2165/00003088-199427060-00003 
Budev, M. M., & Wiedemann, H. P. (2010). Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis. Retrieved May 22, 
2017, from http://www.clevelandclinicmeded.com/ 
Burkhardt, O., Kohnlein, T., & Pap, T. (2004). Recurrent Tendinitis after Treatment with Two Different 
Fluoroquinolones. 
Cantón, R., Máiz, L., Escribano, A., Olveira, C., Oliver, A., Asensio, O., … en representación del Grupo Español de 
Consenso del Tratamiento Antimicrobiano en el Paciente con Fibrosis Quística. (2015). Spanish consensus 
on the prevention and treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa bronchial infections in cystic fibrosis patients. 
Archivos De Bronconeumologia, 51(3), 140–150. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arbres.2014.09.021 
Carlson, P., Kontiainen, S., & Renkonen, O. V. (1994). Antimicrobial susceptibility of Arcanobacterium 
haemolyticum. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 38(1), 142–143. 
Carmignani, G., Rose, A. F. de, Olivieri, L., Salvatori, E., Rosignoli, M. T., & Dionisio, P. (2005). Prulifloxacin versus 
Ciprofloxacin in the Treatment of Adults with Complicated Urinary Tract Infections. Urologia Internationalis, 
74(4), 326–331. https://doi.org/10.1159/000084432 
Casparian, J., Luchi, M., Moffat, R., & Hinthorn, D. (2000). Quinolones and tendon ruptures. Southern Medical 
Journal, 93(5), 488–491. 
Castora, F. J., Vissering, F. F., & Simpson, M. V. (1983). The effect of bacterial DNA gyrase inhibitors on DNA 
synthesis in mammalian mitochondria. Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta, 740(4), 417–427. 
CDC. (2017a). CDC Yellow Book 2018: Health Information for International Travel (New to this Edition:). Oxford, 
New York: Oxford University Press. 
CDC. (2017b). Pediatric Treatment Recommendations. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved from 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 62/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
https://www.cdc.gov/antibiotic-use/community/for-hcp/outpatient-hcp/pediatric-treatment-rec.html 
Ceovic, R., & Gulin, S. J. (2015). Lymphogranuloma venereum: diagnostic and treatment challenges. Infection and 
Drug Resistance, 8, 39–47. https://doi.org/10.2147/IDR.S57540 
Chang, H.-N., Pang, J.-H. S., Chen, C. P. C., Ko, P.-C., Lin, M.-S., Tsai, W.-C., & Yang, Y.-M. (2012). The effect of 
aging on migration, proliferation, and collagen expression of tenocytes in response to ciprofloxacin. Journal 
of Orthopaedic Research, 30(5), 764–768. https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.21576 
Chaudhuri, A., Martin, P. M., Kennedy, P. G. E., Andrew Seaton, R., Portegies, P., Bojar, M., … for the EFNS Task 
Force. (2008). EFNS guideline on the management of community-acquired bacterial meningitis: report of 
an EFNS Task Force on acute bacterial meningitis in older children and adults. European Journal of 
Neurology, 15(7), 649–659. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-1331.2008.02193.x 
Chételat, A. A., Albertini, S., & Gocke, E. (1996). The photomutagenicity of fluoroquinolones in tests for gene 
mutation, chromosomal aberration, gene conversion and DNA breakage (Comet assay). Mutagenesis, 
11(5), 497–504. 
Chodosh, S. (1991). Use of quinolones for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. The American 
Journal of Medicine, 91(6), S93–S100. https://doi.org/10.1016/0002-9343(91)90318-R 
Chow, A. W., Benninger, M. S., Brook, I., Brozek, J. L., Goldstein, E. J. C., Hicks, L. A., … Infectious Diseases 
Society of America. (2012). IDSA clinical practice guideline for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis in children and 
adults. Clinical Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, 
54(8), e72–e112. https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/cir1043 
Christiaens, T. C. M., De Meyere, M., Verschraegen, G., Peersman, W., Heytens, S., & De Maeseneer, J. M. (2002). 
Randomised controlled trial of nitrofurantoin versus placebo in the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract 
infection in adult women. The British Journal of General Practice, 52(482), 729–734. 
Chuchalin, A., Zakharova, M., Dokic, D., Tokić, M., Marschall, H.-P., & Petri, T. (2013). Efficacy and safety of 
moxifloxacin in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis: a prospective, multicenter, observational study 
(AVANTI). BMC Pulmonary Medicine, 13, 5. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2466-13-5 
Chui, C. S. L., Wong, I. C. K., Wong, L. Y. L., & Chan, E. W. (2015). Association between oral fluoroquinolone use 
and the development of retinal detachment: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational 
studies. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 70(4), 971–978. https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/dku507 
Cogliati, S., Enriquez, J. A., & Scorrano, L. (2016). Mitochondrial Cristae: Where Beauty Meets Functionality. Trends 
in Biochemical Sciences, 41(3), 261–273. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibs.2016.01.001 
Cohen, J., Powderly, W. G., & Opal, S. M. (2016). Infectious Diseases (Fourth edition). Elsevier Health Science. 
Cohen, J. S. (2001). Peripheral neuropathy associated with fluoroquinolones. The Annals of Pharmacotherapy, 
35(12), 1540–1547. https://doi.org/10.1345/aph.1Z429 
Committee on Infectious Diseases. (2006). The Use of Systemic Fluoroquinolones. Pediatrics, 118(3), 1287–1292. 
https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2006-1722 
Conforti, A., Chiamulera, C., Moretti, U., Colcera, S., Fumagalli, G., & Leone, R. (2007). Musculoskeletal Adverse 
Drug Reactions: A Review of Literature and Data from ADR Spontaneous Reporting Databases. Current 
Drug Safety, 2(1), 47–63. https://doi.org/10.2174/157488607779315516 
Conforti et al. - 2007 - Musculoskeletal Adverse Drug Reactions A Review o.pdf. (n.d.). 
Coonan, K. M., & Kaplan, E. L. (1994). In vitro susceptibility of recent North American group A streptococcal 
isolates to eleven oral antibiotics. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 13(7), 630–635. 
Corps, A. N., Curry, V. A., Harrall, R. L., Dutt, D., Hazleman, B. L., & Riley, G. P. (2003). Ciprofloxacin reduces the 
stimulation of prostaglandin E2 output by interleukin-1β in human tendon-derived cells. Rheumatology, 
42(11), 1306–1310. https://doi.org/10.1093/rheumatology/keg372 
Corps, A. N., Harrall, R. L., Curry, V. A., Hazleman, B. L., & Riley, G. P. (2005). Contrasting effects of 
fluoroquinolone antibiotics on the expression of the collagenases, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-1 and -
13, in human tendon-derived cells. Rheumatology, 44(12), 1514–1517. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/rheumatology/kei087 
Corps, Anthony N., Harrall, R. L., Curry, V. A., Fenwick, S. A., Hazleman, B. L., & Riley, G. P. (2002). Ciprofloxacin 
enhances the stimulation of matrix metalloproteinase 3 expression by interleukin-1beta in human tendon-
derived cells. A potential mechanism of fluoroquinolone-induced tendinopathy. Arthritis and Rheumatism, 
46(11), 3034–3040. https://doi.org/10.1002/art.10617 
Costa-Rodrigues⁎, J., Martins, E., & Fernandes, M. H. (2012). Osteoclastogenic effects of fluoroquinolones on co-
cultures of human osteoclast precursors and MG63 osteoblast-like cells. Bone, 50, S89–S90. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bone.2012.02.265 
Dagan, R., Arguedas, A., & Schaad, U. B. (2004). Potential role of fluoroquinolone therapy in childhood otitis media. 
The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 23(5), 390–398. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 63/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Das, S., & Mondal, S. (2012). Oral Levofloxacin-Induced Optic Neuritis Progressing in Loss of Vision. Therapeutic 
Drug Monitoring; New York, 34(2). Retrieved from 
https://search.proquest.com/docview/954670948/564814B9F58D48C6PQ/2 
Davidson, R., Cavalcanti, R., Brunton, J. L., Bast, D. J., de Azavedo, J. C. S., Kibsey, P., … Low, D. E. (2002). 
Resistance to Levofloxacin and Failure of Treatment of Pneumococcal Pneumonia. New England Journal of 
Medicine, 346(10), 747–750. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa012122 
Davies, T. A., Goldschmidt, R., Pfleger, S., Loeloff, M., Bush, K., Sahm, D. F., & Evangelista, A. (2003). Cross-
resistance, relatedness and allele analysis of fluoroquinolone-resistant US clinical isolates of Streptococcus 
pneumoniae (1998–2000). Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 52(2), 168–175. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/dkg309 
De Bruyn, G., Hahn, S., & Borwick, A. (2000). Antibiotic treatment for travellers’ diarrhoea. The Cochrane Database 
of Systematic Reviews, (3), CD002242. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD002242 
Dechet, A. M., Yu, P. A., Koram, N., & Painter, J. (2008). Nonfoodborne Vibrio Infections: An Important Cause of 
Morbidity and Mortality in the United States, 1997–2006. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 46(7), 970–976. 
https://doi.org/10.1086/529148 
Del Mar, C. B. D., Paul, P. G., & Hayem, M. (1997). Are antibiotics indicated as initial treatment for children with 
acute otitis media? A meta-analysis. BMJ, 314(7093), 1526. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.314.7093.1526 
Desrosiers, M., Evans, G. A., Keith, P. K., Wright, E. D., Kaplan, A., Bouchard, J., … Witterick, I. J. (2011). 
Canadian clinical practice guidelines for acute and chronic rhinosinusitis. Allergy, Asthma & Clinical 
Immunology, 7, 2. https://doi.org/10.1186/1710-1492-7-2 
Destache, C. J., Dewan, N., O’Donohue, W. J., Campbell, J. C., & Angelillo, V. A. (1999). Clinical and economic 
considerations in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. The Journal of Antimicrobial 
Chemotherapy, 43 Suppl A, 107–113. 
Dever, L. L., Johanson, W. G., & Shashikumar, K. (2002). Antibiotics in the treatment of acute exacerbations of 
chronic bronchitis. Expert Opinion on Investigational Drugs, 11(7), 911–925. 
https://doi.org/10.1517/13543784.11.7.911 
Dinis, P. B., Monteiro, M. C., Martins, M. L., Silva, N., & Morais, J. G. (2004). Sinus tissue concentration of 
moxifloxacin after a single oral dose. The Annals of Otology, Rhinology, and Laryngology, 113(2), 142–146. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/000348940411300212 
Domagala, J. M. (1994). Structure-activity and structure-side-effect relationships for the quinolone antibacterials. 
The Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 33(4), 685–706. 
Donders, G. G. G., Ruban, K., & Bellen, G. (2015). Selecting Anti-Microbial Treatment of Aerobic Vaginitis. Current 
Infectious Disease Reports, 17(5), 24. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11908-015-0477-6 
Donskey, C. J. (2017). Fluoroquinolone restriction to control fluoroquinolone-resistant Clostridium difficile. The 
Lancet Infectious Diseases, 17(4), 353–354. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30052-X 
Douros, A., Grabowski, K., & Stahlmann, R. (2015). Safety issues and drug–drug interactions with commonly used 
quinolones. Expert Opinion on Drug Metabolism & Toxicology, 11(1), 25–39. 
https://doi.org/10.1517/17425255.2014.970166 
Doussau de Bazignan, A., Thiessard, F., Miremont-Salamé, G., Conri, C., Haramburu, F., & Centres Régionaux de 
Pharmacovigilance. (2006). [Psychiatric adverse effects of fluoroquinolone: review of cases from the 
French pharmacologic surveillance database]. La Revue De Medecine Interne, 27(6), 448–452. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.revmed.2006.02.003 
Duarte, R., Fuhrich, D., & Ross, J. D. C. (2015). A review of antibiotic therapy for pelvic inflammatory disease. 
International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 46(3), 272–277. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2015.05.004 
Duewelhenke, N., Krut, O., & Eysel, P. (2007). Influence on Mitochondria and Cytotoxicity of Different Antibiotics 
Administered in High Concentrations on Primary Human Osteoblasts and Cell Lines. Antimicrobial Agents 
and Chemotherapy, 51(1), 54–63. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.00729-05 
DuPont, H L, Ericsson, C. D., Mathewson, J. J., & DuPont, M. W. (1992). Five versus three days of ofloxacin therapy 
for traveler’s diarrhea: a placebo-controlled study. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 36(1), 87–91. 
DuPont, Herbert L. (2009). Bacterial Diarrhea. New England Journal of Medicine, 361(16), 1560–1569. 
https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMcp0904162 
ECDC. (2017). ECDC/EFSA/EMA second joint report on the integrated analysis of the consumption of antimicrobial 
agents and occurrence of antimicrobial resistance in bacteria from humans and food-producing animals. 
EFSA Journal, 15(7), n/a-n/a. https://doi.org/10.2903/j.efsa.2017.4872 
Eller, J., Ede, A., Schaberg, T., Niederman, M. S., Mauch, H., & Lode, H. (1998). Infective Exacerbations of Chronic 
Bronchitis: Relation between Bacteriologic Etiology and Lung Function. Chest, 113(6), 1542–1548. 
https://doi.org/10.1378/chest.113.6.1542 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 64/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endimiani, A., Brigante, G., Bettaccini, A. A., Luzzaro, F., Grossi, P., & Toniolo, A. Q. (2005). Failure of levofloxacin 
treatment in community-acquired pneumococcal pneumonia. BMC Infectious Diseases, 5, 106. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2334-5-106 
Enzmann, H., Wiemann, C., Ahr, H.-J., & Schlüter, G. (1999). Damage to mitochondrial DNA induced by the 
quinolone Bay y 3118 in embryonic turkey liver1. Mutation Research/Fundamental and Molecular 
Mechanisms of Mutagenesis, 425(2), 213–224. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0027-5107(99)00044-5 
Ericsson, C. D., DuPont, H. L., & Mathewson, J. J. (1997). Single Dose Ofloxacin plus Loperamide Compared with 
Single Dose or Three Days of Ofloxacin in the Treatment of Traveler’s Diarrhea. Journal of Travel Medicine, 
4(1), 3–7. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1708-8305.1997.tb00765.x 
Esposito, S., D’Errico, G., & Montanaro, C. (1990). Oral ciprofloxacin for treatment of acute bacterial 
pharyngotonsillitis. Journal of Chemotherapy (Florence, Italy), 2(2), 108–112. 
Etminan, M., Brophy, J. M., & Samii, A. (2014). Oral fluoroquinolone use and risk of peripheral neuropathy A 
pharmacoepidemiologic study. Neurology, 83(14), 1261–1263. 
https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0000000000000846 
EUCAST. (2016). Proposed modification of fluoroquinolone breakpoints. The European Committee on Antimicrobial 
Susceptibility Testing. Retrieved from 
http://www.eucast.org/fileadmin/src/media/PDFs/EUCAST_files/Consultation/2016/EUCAST_fluoroquinolon
e_breakpoint_consultation_20160508.pdf 
Evans, M. R., Northey, G., Sarvotham, T. S., Rigby, C. J., Hopkins, A. L., & Thomas, D. R. (2009). Short-Term and 
Medium-Term Clinical Outcomes of Quinolone-Resistant Campylobacter Infection. Clinical Infectious 
Diseases, 48(11), 1500–1506. https://doi.org/10.1086/598932 
Fagon, J. Y., Chastre, J., Trouillet, J. L., Domart, Y., Dombret, M. C., Bornet, M., & Gibert, C. (1990). 
Characterization of distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis. Use of the 
protected specimen brush technique in 54 mechanically ventilated patients. The American Review of 
Respiratory Disease, 142(5), 1004–1008. https://doi.org/10.1164/ajrccm/142.5.1004 
Falagas, M. E., Kotsantis, I. K., Vouloumanou, E. K., & Rafailidis, P. I. (2009). Antibiotics versus placebo in the 
treatment of women with uncomplicated cystitis: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. The 
Journal of Infection, 58(2), 91–102. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jinf.2008.12.009 
Falck, G., Heyman, L., Gnarpe, J., & Gnarpe, H. (1994). Chlamydia pneumoniae (TWAR): a common agent in acute 
bronchitis. Scandinavian Journal of Infectious Diseases, 26(2), 179–187. 
Fattal, O., Budur, K., Vaughan, A. J., & Franco, K. (2006). Review of the Literature on Major Mental Disorders in 
Adult Patients With Mitochondrial Diseases. Psychosomatics, 47(1), 1–7. 
https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.psy.47.1.1 
FDA. (2015). The Benefits and Risks of Systemic Fluoroquinolone Antibacterial Drugs for the Treatment of Acute 
Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS), Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Patients Who Have Chronic 
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (ABECB-COPD), and Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections (uUTI). Food 
and Drug Administration. 
Foy, H. M. (1993). Infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae and possible carrier state in different populations 
of patients. Clinical Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of 
America, 17 Suppl 1, S37-46. 
Francis, J. K., & Higgins, E. (2014). Permanent Peripheral Neuropathy: A Case Report on a Rare but Serious 
Debilitating Side-Effect of Fluoroquinolone Administration. Journal of Investigative Medicine High Impact 
Case Reports, 2(3), 2324709614545225. https://doi.org/10.1177/2324709614545225 
Freeman, C. D., Nicolau, D. P., Belliveau, P. P., & Nightingale, C. H. (1993). Lomefloxacin Clinical Pharmacokinetics. 
Clinical Pharmacokinetics, 25(1), 6–19. https://doi.org/10.2165/00003088-199325010-00002 
Freifeld, A. G., Bow, E. J., Sepkowitz, K. A., Boeckh, M. J., Ito, J. I., Mullen, C. A., … Wingard, J. R. (2011). Clinical 
Practice Guideline for the Use of Antimicrobial Agents in Neutropenic Patients with Cancer: 2010 Update by 
the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 52(4), e56–e93. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/cir073 
Fuso, L., Incalzi, R. A., Pistelli, R., Muzzolon, R., Valente, S., Pagliari, G., … Ciappi, G. (1995). Predicting mortality 
of patients hospitalized for acutely exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The American 
Journal of Medicine, 98(3), 272–277. 
Gágyor, I., Bleidorn, J., Kochen, M. M., Schmiemann, G., Wegscheider, K., & Hummers-Pradier, E. (2015). 
Ibuprofen versus fosfomycin for uncomplicated urinary tract infection in women: randomised controlled 
trial. BMJ, 351, h6544. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.h6544 
Giannella, R. A. (1996). Salmonella. In S. Baron (Ed.), Medical Microbiology (4th ed.). Galveston (TX): University of 
Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK8435/ 
Giannarini, G., Tascini, C., & Selli, C. (2009). Prulifloxacin: clinical studies of a broad-spectrum quinolone agent. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 65/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Future Microbiology, 4(1), 13–24. https://doi.org/10.2217/17460913.4.1.13 
Giordano, P., Weber, K., Gesin, G., & Kubert, J. (2007). Skin and skin structure infections: treatment with newer 
generation fluoroquinolones. Therapeutics and Clinical Risk Management, 3(2), 309–317. 
GOLD. (2014). Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management and Prevention of COPD. Global Initiative for Chronic 
Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD). Retrieved from http://goldcopd.org/ 
Goldie, F. C., Brogan, A., & Boyle, J. G. (2016). Ciprofloxacin and statin interaction: a cautionary tale of 
rhabdomyolysis. BMJ Case Reports, 2016, bcr2016216048. https://doi.org/10.1136/bcr-2016-216048 
Golomb, B. A., Koslik, H. J., & Redd, A. J. (2015). Fluoroquinolone-induced serious, persistent, multisymptom 
adverse effects. BMJ Case Reports, 2015, bcr2015209821. https://doi.org/10.1136/bcr-2015-209821 
Gonzalez, J. P., & Henwood, J. M. (1989). Pefloxacin. Drugs, 37(5), 628–668. https://doi.org/10.2165/00003495-
198937050-00003 
Gosselink, M. P., Schouten, W. R., van Lieshout, L. M. C., Hop, W. C. J., Laman, J. D., & Ruseler-van Embden, J. G. 
H. (2004). Eradication of pathogenic bacteria and restoration of normal pouch flora: comparison of 
metronidazole and ciprofloxacin in the treatment of pouchitis. Diseases of the Colon and Rectum, 47(9), 
1519–1525. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10350-004-0623-y 
Gotfried, M. H., Danziger, L. H., & Rodvold, K. A. (2001). Steady-state plasma and intrapulmonary concentrations 
of levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin in healthy adult subjects. Chest, 119(4), 1114–1122. 
Gotuzzo, E., Seas, C., Echevarría, J., Carrillo, C., Mostorino, R., & Ruiz, R. (1995). Ciprofloxacin for the Treatment 
of Cholera: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Controlled Clinical Trial of a Single Daily Dose in Peruvian Adults. 
Clinical Infectious Diseases, 20(6), 1485–1490. https://doi.org/10.1093/clinids/20.6.1485 
Guerrant, R. L., Van Gilder, T., Steiner, T. S., Thielman, N. M., Slutsker, L., Tauxe, R. V., … Pickering, L. K. (2001). 
Practice Guidelines for the Management of Infectious Diarrhea. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 32(3), 331–
351. https://doi.org/10.1086/318514 
Gürbay, A., Gonthier, B., Signorini-Allibe, N., Barret, L., Favier, A., & Hıncal, F. (2006). Ciprofloxacin-induced DNA 
damage in primary culture of rat astrocytes and protection by Vitamin E. NeuroToxicology, 27(1), 6–10. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuro.2005.05.007 
Gwaltney, J. M. (1996). Acute Community-Acquired Sinusitis. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 23(6), 1209–1223. 
Habib, G., Lancellotti, P., Antunes, M. J., & others. (2015). 2015 ESC Guidelines for the management of infective 
endocarditisThe Task Force for the Management of Infective Endocarditis of the European Society of 
Cardiology (ESC)Endorsed by: European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS), the European 
Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM). European Heart Journal, 36(44), 3075–3128. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/eurheartj/ehv319 
Hangas A, Aasumets K, Nina J. Kekäläinen, Paloheinä M, Pohjoismäki JL, Gerhold JM, Goffart S (2018). Ciprofloxacin 
impairs mitochondrial DNA replication initiation through inhibition of Topoisomerase 2, Nucleic Acids 
Research, 2018 Aug 31. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky793.   
Hall, M. M., Finnoff, J. T., & Smith, J. (2011). Musculoskeletal complications of fluoroquinolones: guidelines and 
precautions for usage in the athletic population. PM & R: The Journal of Injury, Function, and Rehabilitation, 
3(2), 132–142. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmrj.2010.10.003 
Harrell, R. M. (1999). Fluoroquinolone-induced tendinopathy: what do we know? Southern Medical Journal, 92(6), 
622–625. 
Hay, P., Patel, S., & Daniels, D. (2012). UK national guideline for the management of bacterial vaginosis 2012. 
British Association for Sexual Health and HIV. Retrieved from 
https://www.guidelinecentral.com/summaries/uk-national-guideline-for-the-management-of-bacterial-
vaginosis-2012/#section-434 
Haye, R., Lingaas, E., Høivik, H. O., & Odegård, T. (1998). Azithromycin versus placebo in acute infectious rhinitis 
with clinical symptoms but without radiological signs of maxillary sinusitis. European Journal of Clinical 
Microbiology & Infectious Diseases: Official Publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology, 
17(5), 309–312. 
Hayem, G., Domarle, O., Fay, M., Thuong-Guyot, M., Pocidalo, J.-J., & Carbon, C. (1996). Lack of correlation 
between hydrogen peroxide production and nitric oxide production by cultured rabbit articular 
chondrocytes treated with fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agents. Toxicology in Vitro, 10(5), 551–555. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0887-2333(96)00046-X 
Health Protection Agency. (2012). Guidance for public health management of meningococcal disease. 
Heck, J. E., Staneck, J. L., Cohen, M. B., Weckbach, L. S., Giannella, R. A., Hawkins, J., & Tosiello, R. (1994). 
Prevention of Travelers’ Diarrhea: Ciprofloxacin versus Trimethoprim/Sulfamethoxazole in Adult Volunteers 
Working in Latin America and the Caribbean. Journal of Travel Medicine, 1(3), 136–142. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1708-8305.1994.tb00580.x 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 66/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedenmalm, K., & Spigset, O. (1996). Peripheral sensory disturbances related to treatment with fluoroquinolones. 
Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 37(4), 831–837. https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/37.4.831 
Heikkinen, T., & Chonmaitree, T. (2003). Importance of Respiratory Viruses in Acute Otitis Media. Clinical 
Microbiology Reviews, 16(2), 230–241. https://doi.org/10.1128/CMR.16.2.230-241.2003 
Herwaldt, L. A. (1991). Pertussis in Adults: What Physicians Need to Know. Archives of Internal Medicine, 151(8), 
1510–1512. https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.1991.00400080026004 
HeβLinger, B., Hellwig, B., Sester, U., Walden, J., & Berger, M. (1996). An acute psychotic disorder caused by 
pefloxacin: A case report. Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology and Biological Psychiatry, 20(2), 343–
347. https://doi.org/10.1016/0278-5846(95)00314-2 
Higgins, P. G. (1974). Viruses associated with acute respiratory infections 1961-71. The Journal of Hygiene, 72(3), 
425–432. 
Hill, D. R., Ericsson, C. D., Pearson, R. D., Keystone, J. S., Freedman, D. O., Kozarsky, P. E., … Infectious Diseases 
Society of America. (2006). The practice of travel medicine: guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society 
of America. Clinical Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of 
America, 43(12), 1499–1539. https://doi.org/10.1086/508782 
Höffken, G., Lorenz, J., Kern, W., Welte, T., Bauer, T., Dalhoff, K., … Deutschen Gesellschaft für Infektiologie und 
vom Kompetenznetzwerk CAPNETZ. (2009). Epidemiology, diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy and 
management of community-acquired pneumonia and lower respiratory tract infections in adults. Guidelines 
of the Paul-Ehrlich-Society for Chemotherapy, the German Respiratory Society, the German Society for 
Infectiology and the Competence Network CAPNETZ Germany. Pneumologie (Stuttgart, Germany), 63(10), 
e1-68. https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0029-1215037 
Holten, K. B., & Onusko, E. M. (2000). Appropriate Prescribing of Oral Beta-Lactam Antibiotics. American Family 
Physician, 62(3), 611–620. 
Hoogkamp-Korstanje, J. A. (1987). Antibiotics in Yersinia enterocolitica infections. The Journal of Antimicrobial 
Chemotherapy, 20(1), 123–131. 
Hoogkamp-Korstanje, J. A. (1997). In-vitro activities of ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, lomefloxacin, ofloxacin, 
pefloxacin, sparfloxacin and trovafloxacin against gram-positive and gram-negative pathogens from 
respiratory tract infections. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 40(3), 427–431. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/40.3.427 
Hooper, D. (2000). Quinolones. In G. L. Mandell, R. G. Douglas, J. E. Bennett, & R. Dolin (Eds.), Mandell, Douglas, 
and Bennett’s principles and practice of infectious diseases (5th edition, pp. 404–423). Philadelphia: 
Churchill Livingstone. 
Hooton, T. M. (2001). Recurrent urinary tract infection in women. International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 
17(4), 259–268. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0924-8579(00)00350-2 
Horn, J. R., & Hansten, P. D. (2016). Fluoroquinolones and steroids. Pharmacy Times, 82(4). Retrieved from 
https://iths.pure.elsevier.com/en/publications/fluoroquinolones-and-steroids-an-achilles-heel-interaction 
Horner, P. J., Blee, K., Falk, L., Meijden, W. van der, & Moi, H. (2016). 2016 European guideline on the 
management of non-gonococcal urethritis. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 27(11), 928–937. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462416648585 
Ilgin, S., Can, O. D., Atli, O., Ucel, U. I., Sener, E., & Guven, I. (2015). Ciprofloxacin-induced neurotoxicity: 
evaluation of possible underlying mechanisms. Toxicology Mechanisms and Methods, 25(5), 374–381. 
https://doi.org/10.3109/15376516.2015.1026008 
Ip, S., Fu, L., Balk, E., Chew, P., DeVine, D., & Lau, J. (2005). Update on Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis. Agency for 
Healthcare Research and Quality (US). Retrieved from 
https://archive.ahrq.gov/clinic/epcsums/rhinoupsum.htm 
Janier, M., Hegyi, V., Dupin, N., Unemo, M., Tiplica, G. S., Potočnik, M., … Patel, R. (2014). 2014 European 
guideline on the management of syphilis. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology: JEADV, 28(12), 1581–1593. https://doi.org/10.1111/jdv.12734 
Jennette, J. C., & Falk, R. J. (1997). Small-Vessel Vasculitis. New England Journal of Medicine, 337(21), 1512–1523. 
https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199711203372106 
Jensen, J. S., Cusini, M., Gomberg, M., & Moi, H. (2016). 2016 European guideline on Mycoplasma genitalium 
infections. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology: JEADV, 30(10), 1650–1656. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/jdv.13849 
Jensen, Jørgen Skov, & Bradshaw, C. (2015). Management of Mycoplasma genitalium infections – can we hit a 
moving target? BMC Infectious Diseases, 15. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12879-015-1041-6 
Jernberg, E., Moghaddam, A., & Moi, H. (2008). Azithromycin and moxifloxacin for microbiological cure of 
Mycoplasma genitalium infection: an open study. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 19(10), 676–679. 
https://doi.org/10.1258/ijsa.2008.008038 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 67/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Johnson, P. C., Ericsson, C. D., Morgan, D. R., Dupont, H. L., & Cabada, F. J. (1986). Lack of emergence of 
resistant fecal flora during successful prophylaxis of traveler’s diarrhea with norfloxacin. Antimicrobial 
Agents and Chemotherapy, 30(5), 671–674. 
Jonsson, J. S., Sigurdsson, J. A., Kristinsson, K. G., Guthnadóttir, M., & Magnusson, S. (1997). Acute bronchitis in 
adults. How close do we come to its aetiology in general practice? Scandinavian Journal of Primary Health 
Care, 15(3), 156–160. 
Jorgensen, C., Anaya, J. M., Didry, C., Canovas, F., Serre, I., Baldet, P., … Sany, J. (1991). Arthropathies et 
tendinopathie achilléenne induites par la péfloxacine : a propos d’une observation. Revue du rhumatisme et 
des maladies ostéo-articulaires, 58(9), 623–625. 
Jorgensen, J. H., Crawford, S. A., & Fiebelkorn, K. R. (2005). Susceptibility of Neisseria meningitidis to 16 
Antimicrobial Agents and Characterization of Resistance Mechanisms Affecting Some Agents. Journal of 
Clinical Microbiology, 43(7), 3162–3171. https://doi.org/10.1128/JCM.43.7.3162-3171.2005 
Jung, E. Y., Kim, D. W., Lee, D. W., Cho, H. S., Chang, S.-H., & Park, D. J. (2007). Vibrio vulnificus peritonitis after 
eating raw sea fish in a patient undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Nephrology 
Dialysis Transplantation, 22(5), 1487–1487. https://doi.org/10.1093/ndt/gfl736 
Kain, K. C., & Kelly, M. T. (1989). Clinical features, epidemiology, and treatment of Plesiomonas shigelloides 
diarrhea. Journal of Clinical Microbiology, 27(5), 998–1001. 
Kaleagasioglu, F., & Olcay, E. (2012). Fluoroquinolone-induced tendinopathy: etiology and preventive measures. 
The Tohoku Journal Of Experimental Medicine, 226(4), 251–258. 
Kalghatgi, S., Spina, C. S., Costello, J. C., Liesa, M., Morones-Ramirez, J. R., Slomovic, S., … Collins, J. J. (2013). 
Bactericidal Antibiotics Induce Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Oxidative Damage in Mammalian Cells. 
Science Translational Medicine, 5(192), 192ra85. https://doi.org/10.1126/scitranslmed.3006055 
Kandasamy, A., & Srinath, D. (2012). Levofloxacin-induced acute anxiety and insomnia. Journal of Neurosciences in 
Rural Practice, 3(2), 212. https://doi.org/10.4103/0976-3147.98256 
Kaplan, A. (2013). Canadian guidelines for chronic rhinosinusitis: Clinical summary. Canadian Family Physician, 
59(12), 1275–1281. 
Karageorgopoulos, D. E., Giannopoulou, K. P., Grammatikos, A. P., Dimopoulos, G., & Falagas, M. E. (2008). 
Fluoroquinolones compared with beta-lactam antibiotics for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis: a 
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Canadian Medical Association Journal, 178(7), 845–854. 
https://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.071157 
Kato, M., Takada, S., Kashida, Y., & Nomura, M. (1995). Histological Examination on Achilles Tendon Lesions 
Induced by Quinolone Antibacterial Agents in Juvenile Rats. Toxicologic Pathology, 23(3), 385–392. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/019262339502300315 
Kaur, K., Fayad, R., Saxena, A., Frizzell, N., Chanda, A., Das, S., … Southern Network on Adverse Reactions 
(SONAR) project. (2016). Fluoroquinolone-related neuropsychiatric and mitochondrial toxicity: a 
collaborative investigation by scientists and members of a social network. The Journal of Community and 
Supportive Oncology, 14(2), 54–65. https://doi.org/10.12788/jcso.0167 
Kaysin, A., & Viera, A. J. (2016). Community-acquired pneumonia in adults: Diagnosis and management. American 
Family Physician, 94(9), 698–706. 
Khaliq, Y., & Zhanel, G. G. (2003). Fluoroquinolone-Associated Tendinopathy: A Critical Review of the Literature. 
Clinical Infectious Diseases, 1404–1410. https://doi.org/10.1086/375078 
Khaliq, Y., & Zhanel, G. G. (2005). Musculoskeletal Injury Associated with Fluoroquinolone Antibiotics. Clinics in 
Plastic Surgery, 32(4), 495–502. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cps.2005.05.004 
Khan, A. M., Faruque, A. S. G., Hossain, M. S., Sattar, S., Fuchs, G. J., & Salam, M. A. (2004). Plesiomonas 
shigelloides-associated diarrhoea in Bangladeshi children: a hospital-based surveillance study. Journal of 
Tropical Pediatrics, 50(6), 354–356. https://doi.org/10.1093/tropej/50.6.354 
Khan, W. A., Begum, M., Salam, M. A., Bardhan, P. K., Islam, M. R., & Mahalanabis, D. (1995). Comparative trial of 
five antimicrobial compounds in the treatment of cholera in adults. Transactions of The Royal Society of 
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 89(1), 103–106. https://doi.org/10.1016/0035-9203(95)90675-4 
King, A., & Phillips, I. (1986). The comparative in-vitro activity of eight newer quinolones and nalidixic acid. Journal 
of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 18(Supplement_D), 1–20. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/18.Supplement_D.1 
Klastersky, J. (2004). Management of Fever in Neutropenic Patients with Different Risks of Complications. Clinical 
Infectious Diseases, 39(Supplement_1), S32–S37. https://doi.org/10.1086/383050 
Knottnerus, B. J., Grigoryan, L., Geerlings, S. E., Charante, M. van, P, E., Verheij, T. J. M., … ter Riet, G. (2012). 
Comparative effectiveness of antibiotics for uncomplicated urinary tract infections: Network meta-analysis 
of randomized trials. Family Practice, 29(6), 659–670. https://doi.org/10.1093/fampra/cms029 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 68/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Koizumi, F., Ohnishi, A., Takemura, H., Okubo, S., Kagami, T., & Tanaka, T. (1994). Effective monitoring of 
concentrations of ofloxacin in saliva of patients with chronic respiratory tract infections. Antimicrobial 
Agents and Chemotherapy, 38(5), 1140–1143. 
Korean Society for Chemotherapy. (2014). Clinical Guidelines for the Antimicrobial Treatment of Bone and Joint 
Infections in Korea. Infection & Chemotherapy, 46(2), 125–138. https://doi.org/10.3947/ic.2014.46.2.125 
Kozieł, R., Zabłocki, K., & Duszyński, J. (2006). Calcium Signals Are Affected by Ciprofloxacin as a Consequence of 
Reduction of Mitochondrial DNA Content in Jurkat Cells. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 50(5), 
1664–1671. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.50.5.1664-1671.2006 
Kuo, C.-H., Dai, Z.-K., Wu, J.-R., Hsieh, T.-J., Hung, C.-H., & Hsu, J.-H. (2009). Septic arthritis as the initial 
manifestation of fatal Vibrio vulnificus septicemia in a patient with thalassemia and iron overload. Pediatric 
Blood & Cancer, 53(6), 1156–1158. https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.22176 
Kuschner, R. A., Trofa, A. F., Thomas, R. J., Hoge, C. W., Pitarangsi, C., Amato, S., … Taylor, D. N. (1995). Use of 
azithromycin for the treatment of Campylobacter enteritis in travelers to Thailand, an area where 
ciprofloxacin resistance is prevalent. Clinical Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious 
Diseases Society of America, 21(3), 536–541. 
Lai, C.-H., Hwang, C.-K., Chin, C., Lin, H.-H., Wong, W.-W., & Liu, C.-Y. (2006). Severe watery diarrhoea and 
bacteraemia caused by Vibrio fluvialis. Journal of Infection, 52(3), e95–e98. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jinf.2005.05.023 
Lanjouw, E., Ouburg, S., de Vries, H. J., Stary, A., Radcliffe, K., & Unemo, M. (2016). 2015 European guideline on 
the management of Chlamydia trachomatis infections. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 27(5), 333–
348. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462415618837 
Laurenzi, G. A., Potter, R. T., & Kass, E. H. (1961). Bacteriologic Flora of the Lower Respiratory Tract. New England 
Journal of Medicine, 265(26), 1273–1278. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM196112282652601 
Lautenschlager, S., Kemp, M., Christensen, J. J., Mayans, M. V., & Moi, H. (2017). 2017 European guideline for the 
management of chancroid. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 28(4), 324–329. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462416687913 
Lawrence, J. W., Claire, D. C., Weissig, V., & Rowe, T. C. (1996). Delayed cytotoxicity and cleavage of 
mitochondrial DNA in ciprofloxacin-treated mammalian cells. Molecular Pharmacology, 50(5), 1178–1188. 
Lawrence, J. W., Darkin-Rattray, S., Xie, F., Neims, A. H., & Rowe, T. C. (1993). 4-Quinolones cause a selective 
loss of mitochondrial DNA from mouse L1210 leukemia cells. Journal of Cellular Biochemistry, 51(2), 165–
174. https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.240510208 
Leclercq, A., Martin, L., Vergnes, M. L., Ounnoughene, N., Laran, J.-F., Giraud, P., & Carniel, E. (2005). Fatal 
Yersinia enterocolitica biotype 4 serovar O:3 sepsis after red blood cell transfusion. Transfusion, 45(5), 
814–818. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1537-2995.2005.04363.x 
Lee, J. K., Lee, S., Hong, S. K., Byun, S.-S., & Lee, S. E. (2016). Clinical importance of the antibiotic regimen in 
transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy: quinolone versus cephalosporin. BMC Urology, 16, 51. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12894-016-0169-z 
Lee, J. Y., Park, J. S., Oh, S. H., Kim, H. R., Lee, J. N., & Shin, J. H. (2008). Acute infectious peritonitis caused by 
Vibrio fluvialis. Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease, 62(2), 216–218. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2008.05.012 
Leibovitz, E. (2006). The use of fluoroquinolones in children. Current Opinion in Pediatrics, 18(1), 64. 
https://doi.org/10.1097/01.mop.0000192520.48411.fa 
Leibovitz, E., Piglansky, L., Raiz, S., Greenberg, D., Hamed, K. A., Ledeine, J.-M., … Dagan, R. (2003). Bacteriologic 
and clinical efficacy of oral gatifloxacin for the treatment of recurrent/nonresponsive acute otitis media: an 
open label, noncomparative, double tympanocentesis study. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 
22(11), 943. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.inf.0000095468.89866.14 
Leone, R., Venegoni, M., Motola, D., Moretti, U., Piazzetta, V., Cocci, A., … Conforti, A. (2003). Adverse Drug 
Reactions Related to the Use of Fluoroquinolone Antimicrobials: an analysis of spontaneous reports and 
fluoroquinolone consumption data from three italian regions. Drug Safety, 26(2), 109–120. 
https://doi.org/10.2165/00002018-200326020-00004 
Lewis, T., & Cook, J. (2014). Fluoroquinolones and Tendinopathy: A Guide for Athletes and Sports Clinicians and a 
Systematic Review of the Literature. Journal of Athletic Training, 49(3), 422–427. 
https://doi.org/10.4085/1062-6050-49.2.09 
Li, Q., Peng, S., Sheng, Z., & Wang, Y. (2010). Ofloxacin induces oxidative damage to joint chondrocytes of juvenile 
rabbits: Excessive production of reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxidation and DNA damage. European 
Journal of Pharmacology, 626(2), 146–153. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2009.09.044 
Li, X. C., Xiang, Z. Y., Xu, X. M., Yan, W. H., & Ma, J. M. (2009). Endophthalmitis Caused by Vibrio alginolyticus. 
Journal of Clinical Microbiology, 47(10), 3379–3381. https://doi.org/10.1128/JCM.00722-09 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 69/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lichtenberger, P., & Hooton, T. M. (2011). Antimicrobial prophylaxis in women with recurrent urinary tract 
infections. International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 38, 36–41. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2011.09.005 
Lieberthal, A. S., Carroll, A. E., Chonmaitree, T., Ganiats, T. G., Hoberman, A., Jackson, M. A., … Tunkel, D. E. 
(2013). The Diagnosis and Management of Acute Otitis Media. Pediatrics, 131(3), e964–e999. 
https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2012-3488 
Li–min, L., & Min–ming, D. (2008). Management of Otitis Media with Effusion. Journal of Otology, 3(2), 68–75. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1672-2930(08)50017-1 
Lindhusen-Lindhé et al. (2012). Eurosurveillance - Imported laryngeal and cutaneous diphtheria in tourists 
returning from western Africa to Sweden, March 2012. Retrieved September 19, 2017, from 
http://www.eurosurveillance.org/ViewArticle.aspx?ArticleId=20189 
Little, P., Moore, M. V., Turner, S., Rumsby, K., Warner, G., Lowes, J. A., … Mullee, M. (2010). Effectiveness of five 
different approaches in management of urinary tract infection: randomised controlled trial. BMJ, 340, c199. 
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.c199 
Lonati, D., Zancan, A., Pasi, A., Schreiber, A., Giampreti, A., Pignatti, P., … Martinetti, M. (2014). SJS/TEN Overlap 
Associated with Lomefloxacin: Case Report and Molecular Typing Studies. Dermatology; Basel, 229(4), 
319–323. https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.1159/000365188 
Lowes, D. A., Wallace, C., Murphy, M. P., Webster, N. R., & Galley, H. F. (2009). The mitochondria targeted 
antioxidant MitoQ protects against fluoroquinolone-induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial membrane 
damage in human Achilles tendon cells. Free Radical Research, 43(4), 323–328. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/10715760902736275 
Lübbert, C., Wiegand, J., & Karlas, T. (2014). Therapy of Liver Abscesses. Viszeralmedizin, 30(5), 334–341. 
https://doi.org/10.1159/000366579 
Macfadyen, C. A., Acuin, J. M., & Gamble, C. (2006). Systemic antibiotics versus topical treatments for chronically 
discharging ears with underlying eardrum perforations. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, (1), 
CD005608. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD005608 
Macfarlane, J., Prewett, J., Guion, A., Winte, J. H., & Woodhead, M. A. (1994). Community acquired lower 
respiratory tract infection Bacterial infection not uncommon. BMJ, 308(6938), 1239. 
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.308.6938.1239 
Macfarlane, J. T., Macfarlane, R. M., Rose, D. H., Colville, A., & Guion, A. (1993). Prospective study of aetiology and 
outcome of adult lower-respiratory-tract infections in the community. The Lancet, 341(8844), 511–514. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/0140-6736(93)90275-L 
Maher, M. (2016, December 20). Malignant otitis externa. Retrieved January 16, 2018, from 
http://www.clinicaladvisor.com/hospital-medicine/malignant-otitis-externa/article/600408/ 
Mandel, E. M., & Casselbrant, M. L. (2004). Antibiotics for otitis media with effusion. Minerva Pediatrica, 56(5), 
481–495. 
Mandell, L. A., Wunderink, R. G., Anzueto, A., Bartlett, J. G., Campbell, G. D., Dean, N. C., … Whitney, C. G. (2007). 
Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society Consensus Guidelines on the 
Management of Community-Acquired Pneumonia in Adults. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 44(Supplement_2), 
S27–S72. https://doi.org/10.1086/511159 
Mandell, L., & Tillotson, G. (2002). Safety of fluoroquinolones: An update. The Canadian Journal of Infectious 
Diseases, 13(1), 54–61. 
Manhart, L. E., Broad, J. M., & Golden, M. R. (2011). Mycoplasma genitalium: should we treat and how? Clinical 
Infectious Diseases: An Official Publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, 53 Suppl 3, 
S129-142. https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/cir702 
Margolis et al. (2010). The ecology of nasal colonization of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae and 
Staphylococcus aureus: the role of competition and interactions with host’s immune response. Retrieved 
September 19, 2017, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2844402/ 
Marom, T., Nokso-Koivisto, J., & Chonmaitree, T. (2012). Viral–Bacterial Interactions in Acute Otitis Media. Current 
Allergy and Asthma Reports, 12(6), 551–558. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11882-012-0303-2 
Martin, S. J., & Zeigler, D. G. (2004). The use of fluoroquinolones in the treatment of skin infections. Expert Opinion 
on Pharmacotherapy, 5(2), 237–246. https://doi.org/10.1517/14656566.5.2.237 
Martinez-Taboada, M., Victor M., Blanco, M., Ricardo, Garcia-Fuentes, M., Miguel, & Rodriguez-Valverde, M., Vicente. 
(1997). Clinical Features and Outcome of 95 Patients With Hypersensitivity Vasculitis. The American 
Journal of Medicine, 102(2), 186–191. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0002-9343(96)00405-6 
Matkovic, Z., & Miravitlles, M. (2013). Chronic bronchial infection in COPD. Is there an infective phenotype? 
Respiratory Medicine, 107(1), 10–22. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rmed.2012.10.024 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 70/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mattila, L., Peltola, H., Siitonen, A., Kyrönseppä, H., Simula, I., & Kataja, M. (1993). Short-Term Treatment of 
Traveler’s Diarrhea with Norfloxacin: A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study During Two Seasons. 
Clinical Infectious Diseases, 17(4), 779–782. https://doi.org/10.1093/clinids/17.4.779 
Maunz, G., Conzett, T., & Zimmerli, W. (2009). Cutaneous vasculitis associated with fluoroquinolones. Infection, 
37(5), 466–468. https://doi.org/10.1007/s15010-009-8437-4 
McGarvey, W. C., Singh, D., & Trevino, S. G. (1996). Partial Achilles tendon ruptures associated with 
fluoroquinolone antibiotics: a case report and literature review. Foot & Ankle International, 17(8), 496–498. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/107110079601700811 
Mehta, M., Sharma, J., & Bhardwaj, S. (2016). Susceptibility of Urinary Tract Bacteria to Newer Antimicrobial Drugs. 
Open Access Macedonian Journal of Medical Sciences, 4(1), 22–24. 
https://doi.org/10.3889/oamjms.2016.020 
Menichetti, F., & Sganga, G. (2009). Definition and classification of intra-abdominal infections. Journal of 
Chemotherapy, 21 Suppl 1, 3–4. https://doi.org/10.1179/joc.2009.21.Supplement-1.3 
Menon, A., Pettinari, L., Martinelli, C., Colombo, G., Portinaro, N., Dalle-Donne, I., … Gagliano, N. (2013). New 
insights in extracellular matrix remodeling and collagen turnover related pathways in cultured human 
tenocytes after ciprofloxacin administration. Muscles, Ligaments and Tendons Journal, 3(3), 122–131. 
Mensa, J., & Trilla, A. (2006). Should patients with acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis be treated with 
antibiotics? Advantages of the use of fluoroquinolones. Clinical Microbiology and Infection, 12, 42–54. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-0691.2006.01396.x 
Michalak, K., Sobolewska-Włodarczyk, A., Włodarczyk, M., Sobolewska, J., Woźniak, P., & Sobolewski, B. (2017). 
Treatment of the Fluoroquinolone-Associated Disability: The Pathobiochemical Implications. Oxidative 
Medicine and Cellular Longevity, 2017. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1155/2017/8023935 
Migliori, G. B., Zellweger, J. P., Abubakar, I., Ibraim, E., Caminero, J. A., De Vries, G., … Manissero, D. (2012). 
European Union Standards for Tuberculosis Care. The European Respiratory Journal, 39(4), 807–819. 
https://doi.org/10.1183/09031936.00203811 
Miravitlles, M. (2007). Moxifloxacin in the management of exacerbations of chronic bronchitis and COPD. 
International Journal of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, 2(3), 191–204. 
Mittal, R., Lisi, C. V., Gerring, R., Mittal, J., Mathee, K., Narasimhan, G., … Liu, X.-Z. (2015). Current concepts in 
the pathogenesis and treatment of chronic suppurative otitis media. Journal of Medical Microbiology, 64(Pt 
10), 1103–1116. https://doi.org/10.1099/jmm.0.000155 
Mittal, S. O., Machado, D. G., & Jabbari, B. (2012). Orofacial Dyskinesia After Moxifloxacin Treatment—a Case With 
Normal Hepatorenal Function and Review of Literature. Clinical Neuropharmacology, 35(6), 292–294. 
https://doi.org/10.1097/WNF.0b013e31826ba0eb 
Mobbs, K. J., van Saene, H. K. F., Sunderland, D., & Davies, P. D. O. (1999). Oropharyngeal Gram-negative 
bacillary carriage in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: relation to severity of disease. Respiratory 
Medicine, 93(8), 540–545. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0954-6111(99)90152-X 
Mont, M. A., Mathur, S. K., Frondoza, C. G., & Hungerford, D. S. (1996). The effects of ciprofloxacin on human 
chondrocytes in cell culture. Infection, 24(2), 151–155. 
Moore, A. R., & O’Keeffe, S. T. (1999). Drug-Induced Cognitive Impairment in the Elderly. Drugs & Aging, 15(1), 
15–28. https://doi.org/10.2165/00002512-199915010-00002 
Morgado, B., Madeira, C., Pinto, J., & Pestana, J. (n.d.). Leukocytoclastic Vasculitis with Systemic Involvement 
Associated with Ciprofloxacin Therapy: Case Report and Review of the Literature. Cureus, 8(11). 
https://doi.org/10.7759/cureus.900 
Morris, P. (2012). Chronic suppurative otitis media. BMJ Clinical Evidence, 2012. Retrieved from 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3412293/ 
Mosler, P. (2011). Management of Acute Cholangitis. Gastroenterology & Hepatology, 7(2), 121–123. 
Murray, T. S., & Baltimore, R. S. (2007). Pediatric Uses of Fluoroquinolone Antibiotics. Pediatric Annals, 36(6), 336–
342. https://doi.org/10.3928/0090-4481-20070601-09 
Mustafa, M., B Yanggau, B., Lasimbang, H., & Musawwir, R. (2014). Pelvic Inflammatory Disease: Current notions. 
International Journal of Pharmaceutical Science Invention, 03, 39–42. https://doi.org/10.9790/6718-
03083942 
Naber, K. G. (1992). Lomefloxacin versus norfloxacin versus ciprofloxacin in the treatment of complicated urinary 
tract infections. International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 2(1), 33–37. https://doi.org/10.1016/0924-
8579(92)90025-M 
Naber, K. G. (2002). Lomefloxacin versus ciprofloxacin in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis. International 
Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 20(1), 18–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0924-8579(02)00067-5 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 71/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Naber, K. G., Bergman, B., Bishop, M. C., Bjerklund-Johansen, T. E., Botto, H., Lobel, B., … Selvaggi, F. P. (2001). 
EAU Guidelines for the Management of Urinary and Male Genital Tract Infections1. European Urology, 40(5), 
576–588. https://doi.org/10.1159/000049840 
Naheed, A., Kalluri, P., Talukder, K. A., Faruque, A. S. G., Khatun, F., Nair, G. B., … Breiman, R. F. (2004). 
Fluoroquinolone-resistant Shigella dysenteriae type 1 in northeastern Bangladesh. The Lancet Infectious 
Diseases, 4(10), 607–608. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(04)01143-0 
Newton, J. M., & Surawicz, C. M. (2010). Infectious Gastroenteritis and Colitis. In Diarrhea (pp. 33–59). Humana 
Press, Totowa, NJ. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-60761-183-7_2 
Ng, W.-F., & Naughton, M. (2007). Fluoroquinolone-associated tendinopathy: a case report. Journal of Medical Case 
Reports, 1(1), 55. https://doi.org/10.1186/1752-1947-1-55 
Ngo, C. C., Massa, H. M., Thornton, R. B., & Cripps, A. W. (2016). Predominant Bacteria Detected from the Middle 
Ear Fluid of Children Experiencing Otitis Media: A Systematic Review. PLoS ONE, 11(3). 
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0150949 
NICE. (2014). Pneumonia in adults: diagnosis and management. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
(NICE). 
NICE. (2015). Clostridium difficile infection: risk with broad-spectrum antibiotics. National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence (NICE). Retrieved from https://www.nice.org.uk/advice/esmpb1/chapter/Key-points-from-
the-evidence 
NICE. (2016). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in adults. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
(NICE). 
Nicolle, L. E. (2005). Complicated Urinary Tract Infection in Adults. https://doi.org/10.1155/2005/385768 
Nicolle, L. E., Harding, G. K., Thompson, M., Kennedy, J., Urias, B., & Ronald, A. R. (1989). Prospective, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial of norfloxacin for the prophylaxis of recurrent urinary tract infection in 
women. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 33(7), 1032–1035. 
https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.33.7.1032 
Niyogi, S. K. (2005). Shigellosis. Journal of Microbiology, 43(2), 133–143. 
Noel, G. J., Blumer, J. L., Pichichero, M. E., Hedrick, J. A., Schwartz, R. H., Balis, D. A., … Arguedas, A. (2008). A 
randomized comparative study of levofloxacin versus amoxicillin/clavulanate for treatment of infants and 
young children with recurrent or persistent acute otitis media. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 
27(6), 483–489. https://doi.org/10.1097/INF.0b013e318168d2cb 
Nordmann, P., & Jarlier, V. (1990). Serum pharmacokinetics and in vitro antibacterial activity of pefloxacin, 
ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin [in French]. Presse Medicale (Paris, France: 1983), 19(28), 1321–1325. 
Nouira, S., Marghli, S., Belghith, M., Besbes, L., Elatrous, S., & Abroug, F. (2001). Once daily oral ofloxacin in 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation requiring mechanical ventilation: a randomised 
placebo-controlled trial. Lancet (London, England), 358(9298), 2020–2025. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(01)07097-0 
Nwokolo, N. C., Dragovic, B., Patel, S., Tong, C. W., Barker, G., & Radcliffe, K. (2016). 2015 UK national guideline 
for the management of infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 27(4), 
251–267. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462415615443 
Obaji, A., & Sethi, S. (2001). Acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis: what role for the new fluoroquinolones? 
Drugs & Aging, 18(1), 1–11. 
Obeso, S., Rodrigo, J. P., Sánchez, R., López, F., Díaz, J. P., & Suárez, C. (2010). Antibiotic prophylaxis in 
otolaryngologic surgery. Acta Otorrinolaringologica Espanola, 61(1), 54–68. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.otorri.2008.12.006 
Ohyama, M., Furuta, S., Ueno, K., Katsuda, K., Nobori, T., Kiyota, R., & Miyazaki, Y. (1999). Ofloxacin Otic Solution 
in Patients With Otitis Media: An Analysis of Drug Concentrations. Archives of Otolaryngology–Head & Neck 
Surgery, 125(3), 337. https://doi.org/10.1001/archotol.125.3.337 
Okamura, I., Nakamura, Y., Katsurada, Y., Sato, K., Ikeda, T., & Kimura, F. (2016). Successful Corticosteroid 
Treatment for Purpura Fulminans Associated with Quinolone. Internal Medicine, 55(20), 3047–3051. 
O-Lee, T., Stewart, C. E., Seery, L., & Church, C. A. (2005). Fluoroquinolone-Induced Arthralgia and Myalgia in the 
Treatment of Sinusitis. American Journal of Rhinology, 19(4), 395–399. 
Oliphant, C. M., & Green, G. M. (2002). Quinolones: a comprehensive review. American Family Physician, 65(3), 
455–464. 
Onwuezobe, I. A., Oshun, P. O., & Odigwe, C. C. (2012). Antimicrobials for treating symptomatic non-typhoidal 
Salmonella infection. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 11, CD001167. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD001167.pub2 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 72/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Osmon, D. R., Berbari, E. F., Berendt, A. R., Lew, D., Zimmerli, W., Steckelberg, J. M., … Wilson, W. R. (2013). 
Diagnosis and Management of Prosthetic Joint Infection: Clinical Practice Guidelines by the Infectious 
Diseases Society of America. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 56(1), e1–e25. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/cis803 
Ottoline, A. C. X., Tomita, S., Marques, M. da P. C., Felix, F., Ferraiolo, P. N., & Laurindo, R. S. S. (2013). Antibiotic 
prophylaxis in otolaryngologic surgery. International Archives of Otorhinolaryngology, 17(1), 85–91. 
https://doi.org/10.7162/S1809-97772013000100015 
Ouédraogo, G., Morlière, P., Santus, R., Miranda, M. A., & Castell, J. V. (2000). Damage to mitochondria of cultured 
human skin fibroblasts photosensitized by fluoroquinolones. Journal of Photochemistry and Photobiology B: 
Biology, 58(1), 20–25. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1011-1344(00)00101-9 
Pace, J. L., & Gatt, P. (1989). Fatal vasculitis associated with ofloxacin. BMJ : British Medical Journal, 299(6700), 
658. 
Palla, A., Khan, R., Gilani, A., & Marra, F. (2012). Over prescription of antibiotics for adult pharyngitis is prevalent 
in developing countries but can be reduced using McIsaac modification of Centor scores: a cross-sectional 
study. BMC Pulmonary Medicine. Retrieved from http://ecommons.aku.edu/pakistan_fhs_mc_bbs/151 
Pareyson, D., Piscosquito, G., Moroni, I., Salsano, E., & Zeviani, M. (2013). Peripheral neuropathy in mitochondrial 
disorders. The Lancet Neurology, 12(10), 1011–1024. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(13)70158-3 
Patel, A., & Wilson, R. (2006). Newer fluoroquinolones in the treatment of acute exacerbations of COPD. 
International Journal of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, 1(3), 243–250. 
Pelucchi, C., Grigoryan, L., Galeone, C., Esposito, S., Huovinen, P., Little, P., & Verheij, T. (2012). Guideline for the 
management of acute sore throat. Clinical Microbiology and Infection, 18 Suppl 1, 1–28. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-0691.2012.03766.x 
Perry, C. M., Barman Balfour, J. A., & Lamb, H. M. (1999). Gatifloxacin. Drugs, 58(4), 683-696; discussion 697-698. 
Petersen, A. M., Mirsepasi, H., Halkjær, S. I., Mortensen, E. M., Nordgaard-Lassen, I., & Krogfelt, K. A. (2014). 
Ciprofloxacin and probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle add-on treatment in active ulcerative colitis: A double-
blind randomized placebo controlled clinical trial. Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis, 8(11), 1498–1505. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crohns.2014.06.001 
Petersen, W., & Laprell, H. (1998). The “insidious” rupture of the achilles tendon after ciprofloxacin induced 
tendinopathy. A case report. Der Unfallchirurg, 101(9), 731–734. https://doi.org/10.1007/s001130050330 
Petruccelli, B. P., Murphy, G. S., Sanchez, J. L., Walz, S., DeFraites, R., Gelnett, J., … Taylor, D. N. (1992). 
Treatment of traveler’s diarrhea with ciprofloxacin and loperamide. The Journal of Infectious Diseases, 
165(3), 557–560. 
Pfau, A., & Sacks, T. G. (1989). Effective Prophylaxis of Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections in Premenopausal 
Women by Postcoital Administration of Cephalexin. The Journal of Urology, 142(5), 1276–1278. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-5347(17)39055-9 
Pierfitte, C., & Royer, R. J. (1996). Tendon disorders with fluoroquinolones. Therapie, 51(4), 419–420. 
Polverino, E., Goeminne, P. C., McDonnell, M. J., Aliberti, S., Marshall, S. E., Loebinger, M. R., … Chalmers, J. D. 
(2017). European Respiratory Society guidelines for the management of adult bronchiectasis. The 
European Respiratory Journal, 50(3). https://doi.org/10.1183/13993003.00629-2017 
Pouzaud, F., Bernard-Beaubois, K., Thevenin, M., Warnet, J.-M., Hayem, G., & Rat, P. (2004). In Vitro 
Discrimination of Fluoroquinolones Toxicity on Tendon Cells: Involvement of Oxidative Stress. Journal of 
Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 308(1), 394–402. https://doi.org/10.1124/jpet.103.057984 
Public Health Agency of Canada. (2015). Statement on travellers’ diarrhea. Ottawa: Public Health Agency of Canada. 
Qureishi, A., Lee, Y., Belfield, K., Birchall, J. P., & Daniel, M. (2014). Update on otitis media - prevention and 
treatment. Infection and Drug Resistance, 7, 15–24. https://doi.org/10.2147/IDR.S39637 
Rademaker, C. M., Hoepelman, I. M., Wolfhagen, M. J., Beumer, H., Rozenberg-Arska, M., & Verhoef, J. (1989). 
Results of a double-blind placebo-controlled study using ciprofloxacin for prevention of travelers’ diarrhea. 
European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases: Official Publication of the European Society 
of Clinical Microbiology, 8(8), 690–694. 
Ramakrishnan, K., & Scheid, D. C. (2005). Diagnosis and management of acute pyelonephritis in adults. American 
Family Physician, 71(5), 933–942. 
Rampersaud, R., Randis, T. M., & Ratner, A. J. (2012). Microbiota of the upper and lower genital tract. Seminars in 
Fetal and Neonatal Medicine, 17(1), 51–57. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.siny.2011.08.006 
Ramphal, R. (2004). Changes in the Etiology of Bacteremia in Febrile Neutropenic Patients and the Susceptibilities 
of the Currently Isolated Pathogens. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 39(Supplement_1), S25–S31. 
https://doi.org/10.1086/383048 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 73/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rawi, S. (2011). Effect of Ciprofloxacin and Levofloxacin on some Oxidative Stress Parameters in Brain Regions of 
Male Albino Rats. African Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, 5(16), 1888–1897. 
https://doi.org/10.5897/AJPP11.417 
Reveiz, L., & Cardona, A. F. (2015). Antibiotics for acute laryngitis in adults. In Cochrane Database of Systematic 
Reviews. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD004783.pub5 
Richard, G., Klimberg, I., Fowler, C., Callery-D’Amico, S., & Kim, S. (1998). Levofloxacin versus ciprofloxacin versus 
lomefloxacin in acute pyelonephritis. Urology, 52(1), 51–55. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0090-
4295(98)00160-5 
Riddle, M. S., DuPont, H. L., & Connor, B. A. (2016). ACG Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Prevention 
of Acute Diarrheal Infections in Adults. The American Journal of Gastroenterology, 111(5), 602. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/ajg.2016.126 
Riesbeck, K., Bredberg, A., & Forsgren, A. (1990). Ciprofloxacin does not inhibit mitochondrial functions but other 
antibiotics do. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 34(1), 167–169. 
Rimawi, B. H., & Rimawi, R. H. (2013). Gynecological Infections in Immunocompromised Hosts. In M. T. Mascellino 
(Ed.), Bacterial and Mycotic Infections in Immunocompromised Hosts: Clinical and Microbiological Aspects. 
OMICS International. Retrieved from https://www.esciencecentral.org/ebooks/ebookdetail/bacterial-and-
mycotic-infections-in-immunocompromised-hosts-clinical-and-microbiological-aspects 
Riordan, T. (2007). Human infection with Fusobacterium necrophorum (Necrobacillosis), with a focus on Lemierre’s 
syndrome. Clinical Microbiology Reviews, 20(4), 622–659. https://doi.org/10.1128/CMR.00011-07 
Rosell, A., Monsó, E., Soler, N., Torres, F., Angrill, J., Riise, G., … Torres, A. (2005). Microbiologic determinants of 
exacerbation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Archives of Internal Medicine, 165(8), 891–897. 
https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.165.8.891 
Rosenberg, P. S., Alter, B. P., Bolyard, A. A., Bonilla, M. A., Boxer, L. A., Cham, B., … Dale, D. C. (2006). The 
incidence of leukemia and mortality from sepsis in patients with severe congenital neutropenia receiving 
long-term G-CSF therapy. Blood, 107(12), 4628–4635. https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2005-11-4370 
Rosenfeld, R. M., & Bluestone, C. (2003). Evidence-Based Otitis Media. (C. D. Bluestone, Ed.) (2 edition). Hamilton: 
pmph usa. 
Rosenfeld, R. M., & Kay, D. (2003). Natural history of untreated otitis media. The Laryngoscope, 113(10), 1645–
1657. 
Rosenfeld, R. M., Piccirillo, J. F., Chandrasekhar, S. S., Brook, I., Kumar, K. A., Kramper, M., … Corrigan, M. D. 
(2015). Clinical practice guideline (update): Adult Sinusitis Executive Summary. Otolaryngology--Head and 
Neck Surgery: Official Journal of American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, 152(4), 
598–609. https://doi.org/10.1177/0194599815574247 
Rosenstein, N. E., Perkins, B. A., Stephens, D. S., Popovic, T., & Hughes, J. M. (2001). Meningococcal disease. The 
New England Journal of Medicine, 344(18), 1378–1388. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM200105033441807 
Ross, J., Judlin, P., Jensen, J., & International Union against sexually transmitted infections. (2014). 2012 European 
guideline for the management of pelvic inflammatory disease. International Journal of STD & AIDS, 25(1), 
1–7. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956462413498714 
Rovers, M. M., Glasziou, P., Appelman, C. L., Burke, P., McCormick, D. P., Damoiseaux, R. A., … Hoes, A. W. (2006). 
Antibiotics for acute otitis media: a meta-analysis with individual patient data. Lancet (London, England), 
368(9545), 1429–1435. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69606-2 
Saavedra-Lozano, J., Falup-Pecurariu, O., Faust, S. N., Girschick, H., Hartwig, N., Kaplan, S., … LeMair, A. (2017). 
Bone and Joint Infections. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal, 36(8), 788. 
https://doi.org/10.1097/INF.0000000000001635 
Sahoo, S., Aneja, J., & Basu, D. (2016). Recurrent mania consequent to quinolones exposure: A case report and 
review of literature. Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care, 5(1), 163–165. 
https://doi.org/10.4103/2249-4863.184654 
Salam, I., Katelaris, P., Farthing, M. J. G., & Leigh-Smith, S. (1994). Randomised trial of single-dose ciprofloxacin 
for travellers’ diarrhoea. The Lancet, 344(8936), 1537–1539. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-
6736(94)90350-6 
Samarakoon, N., Harrisberg, B., & Ell, J. (2007). Ciprofloxacin-induced toxic optic neuropathy. Clinical & 
Experimental Ophthalmology, 35(1), 102–104. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1442-9071.2007.01427.x 
Samyde, J., Petit, P., Hillaire-buys, D., & Faillie, J. (2016). Quinolone antibiotics and suicidal behavior: analysis of 
the World Health Organization’s adverse drug reactions database and discussion of potential mechanisms. 
Psychopharmacology; Heidelberg, 233(13), 2503–2511. 
https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00213-016-4300-3 
Sandhu, H. S., Brucker, A. J., Ma, L., & VanderBeek, B. L. (2016). Oral Fluoroquinolones and the Risk of Uveitis. 
JAMA Ophthalmology, 134(1), 38–43. https://doi.org/10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2015.4092 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 74/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sartelli, M., Catena, F., Abu-Zidan, F. M., Ansaloni, L., Biffl, W. L., Boermeester, M. A., … Moore, E. E. (2017). 
Management of intra-abdominal infections: recommendations by the WSES 2016 consensus conference. 
World Journal of Emergency Surgery, 12, 22. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13017-017-0132-7 
Sartelli, M., Chichom-Mefire, A., Labricciosa, F. M., Hardcastle, T., Abu-Zidan, F. M., Adesunkanmi, A. K., … Catena, 
F. (2017). The management of intra-abdominal infections from a global perspective: 2017 WSES guidelines 
for management of intra-abdominal infections. World Journal of Emergency Surgery, 12, 29. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13017-017-0141-6 
Sartelli, M., Malangoni, M. A., May, A. K., Viale, P., Kao, L. S., Catena, F., … Yuan, K.-C. (2014). World Society of 
Emergency Surgery (WSES) guidelines for management of skin and soft tissue infections. World Journal of 
Emergency Surgery: WJES, 9(1), 57. https://doi.org/10.1186/1749-7922-9-57 
Sayek, I., & Onat, D. (2001). Pyogenic and amebic liver abscess. In R. G. Holzheimer & J. A. Mannick (Eds.), 
Surgical Treatment: Evidence-based and problem-oriented. Zuckschwerdt. Retrieved from 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK6955/ 
Schalén, L., Christensen, P., Eliasson, I., Fex, S., Kamme, C., & Schalén, C. (1985). Inefficacy of penicillin V in 
acute laryngitis in adults. Evaluation from results of double-blind study. The Annals of Otology, Rhinology, 
and Laryngology, 94(1 Pt 1), 14–17. https://doi.org/10.1177/000348948509400103 
Schalén, L., Eliasson, I., Kamme, C., & Schalén, C. (1993). Erythromycin in acute laryngitis in adults. The Annals of 
Otology, Rhinology, and Laryngology, 102(3 Pt 1), 209–214. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/000348949310200308 
Schalkwyk, J. van, Yudin, M. H., Yudin, M. H., Allen, V., Bouchard, C., Boucher, M., … Schalkwyk, J. van. (2015). 
Vulvovaginitis: Screening for and Management of Trichomoniasis, Vulvovaginal Candidiasis, and Bacterial 
Vaginosis. Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Canada, 37(3), 266–274. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1701-2163(15)30316-9 
Schlenker, C., & Surawicz, C. M. (2009). Emerging infections of the gastrointestinal tract. Best Practice & Research. 
Clinical Gastroenterology, 23(1), 89–99. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bpg.2008.11.014 
Schmid, D. A., Campi, P., & Pichler, W. J. (2006). Hypersensitivity reactions to quinolones. Current Pharmaceutical 
Design, 12(26), 3313–3326. 
Scott, D. A., Haberberger, R. L., Thornton, S. A., & Hyams, K. C. (1990). Norfloxacin for the Prophylaxis of 
Travelers’ Diarrhea in U.S. Military Personnel. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 
42(2), 160–164. https://doi.org/10.4269/ajtmh.1990.42.160 
Segev, S., Rosen, N., Joseph, G., Elran, H. A., & Rubinstein, E. (1990). Pefloxacin efficacy in Gram-negative 
bacillary meningitis. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 26(suppl_B), 187–192. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/26.suppl_B.187 
Segev, Shlomo, Barzilai, A., Rosen, N., Joseph, G., & Rubinstein, E. (1989). Pefloxacin Treatment of Meningitis 
Caused by Gram-negative Bacteria. Archives of Internal Medicine, 149(6), 1314–1316. 
https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.1989.00390060054011 
Seifert, B., Beneš, J., Karen, I., Vojtíšková, J., Lukáš, K., & Hep, A. (2015). Akutní průjem u dospělých. Praha: 
Centrum doporučených postupů pro praktické lékaře, Společnost všeobecného lékařství. Retrieved from 
http://www.medvik.cz/link/MED00186406 
Sendzik, J., Shakibaei, M., Schäfer-Korting, M., Lode, H., & Stahlmann, R. (2010). Synergistic effects of 
dexamethasone and quinolones on human-derived tendon cells. International Journal of Antimicrobial 
Agents, 35(4), 366–374. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2009.10.009 
Sendzik, J., Shakibaei, M., Schäfer-Korting, M., & Stahlmann, R. (2005). Fluoroquinolones cause changes in 
extracellular matrix, signalling proteins, metalloproteinases and caspase-3 in cultured human tendon cells. 
Toxicology, 212(1), 24–36. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tox.2005.04.002 
Sethi, S. (2000). Infectious etiology of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. Chest, 117(5 Suppl 2), 380S–5S. 
Sethi, Sanjay, Evans, N., Grant, B. J. B., & Murphy, T. F. (2002). New strains of bacteria and exacerbations of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The New England Journal of Medicine, 347(7), 465–471. 
https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa012561 
Sethi, Sanjay, Maloney, J., Grove, L., Wrona, C., & Berenson, C. S. (2006). Airway inflammation and bronchial 
bacterial colonization in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. American Journal of Respiratory and 
Critical Care Medicine, 173(9), 991–998. https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.200509-1525OC 
Sethi, Sanjay, Sethi, R., Eschberger, K., Lobbins, P., Cai, X., Grant, B. J. B., & Murphy, T. F. (2007). Airway 
bacterial concentrations and exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. American Journal of 
Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 176(4), 356–361. https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.200703-417OC 
Shakibaei, M., & Stahlmann, R. (2001). Ultrastructure of Achilles tendon from rats after treatment with fleroxacin. 
Archives Of Toxicology, 75(2), 97–102. 
Shams, W. E., & Evans, M. E. (2005). Guide to selection of fluoroquinolones in patients with lower respiratory tract 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 75/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections. Drugs, 65(7), 949–991. 
Shen, B., Achkar, J.-P., Lashner, B. A., Ormsby, A. H., Remzi, F. H., Brzezinski, A., … Fazio, V. W. (2001). A 
randomized clinical trial of ciprofloxacin and metronidazole to treat acute pouchitis. Inflammatory Bowel 
Diseases, 7(4), 301–305. https://doi.org/10.1097/00054725-200111000-00004 
Shen, B., Fazio, V. W., Remzi, F. H., Bennett, A. E., Lopez, R., Brzezinski, A., … Lashner, B. A. (2007). Combined 
ciprofloxacin and tinidazole therapy in the treatment of chronic refractory pouchitis. Diseases of the Colon 
and Rectum, 50(4), 498–508. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10350-006-0828-3 
Shultz, T. R., White, P. A., & Tapsall, J. W. (2005). In Vitro Assessment of the Further Potential for Development of 
Fluoroquinolone Resistance in Neisseria meningitidis. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 49(5), 
1753–1760. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.49.5.1753-1760.2005 
SIGN. (2008). Management of invasive meningococcal disease in children and young people. Scottish Intercollegiate 
Guidelines Network. 
Simonin, M.-A., Gegout-Pottie, P., Minn, A., Gillet, P., Netter, P., & Terlain, B. (2000). Pefloxacin-Induced Achilles 
Tendon Toxicity in Rodents: Biochemical Changes in Proteoglycan Synthesis and  Oxidative Damage to 
Collagen. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 44(4), 867–872. 
Smith, J. M., & Lockwood, B. M. (1986). Commensal or pathogen?--The growing dilemma facing the general 
practitioner. The New Zealand Medical Journal, 99(799), 242–243. 
Smith, K. E., Besser, J. M., Hedberg, C. W., Leano, F. T., Bender, J. B., Wicklund, J. H., … Osterholm, M. T. (1999). 
Quinolone-resistant Campylobacter jejuni infections in Minnesota, 1992-1998. Investigation Team. The 
New England Journal of Medicine, 340(20), 1525–1532. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199905203402001 
Smith, S. M., Fahey, T., Smucny, J., & Becker, L. A. (2014). Antibiotics for acute bronchitis. In Cochrane Database 
of Systematic Reviews. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD000245.pub3 
Smyth, A. R., Bell, S. C., Bojcin, S., Bryon, M., Duff, A., Flume, P., … European Cystic Fibrosis Society. (2014). 
European Cystic Fibrosis Society Standards of Care: Best Practice guidelines. Journal of Cystic Fibrosis: 
Official Journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society, 13 Suppl 1, S23-42. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcf.2014.03.010 
Snapshot. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.2165/00002018-200326020-00004 
Soman, A., Honeybourne, D., Andrews, J., Jevons, G., & Wise, R. (1999). Concentrations of moxifloxacin in serum 
and pulmonary compartments following a single 400 mg oral dose in patients undergoing fibre-optic 
bronchoscopy. The Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 44(6), 835–838. 
Song, M., Wu, H., Wu, S., Ge, T., Wang, G., Zhou, Y., … Jiang, J. (2016). Antibiotic drug levofloxacin inhibits 
proliferation and induces apoptosis of lung cancer cells through inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and 
oxidative damage. Biomedicine & Pharmacotherapy, 84, 1137–1143. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2016.10.034 
SPILF. (2015). Diagnostic et antibiotherapie des infections urinaires bacteriennes communautaires de l’adulte. 
Société de Pathologie Infectieuse de Langue Française (SPILF). Retrieved from 
http://www.infectiologie.com/UserFiles/File/spilf/recos/infections-urinaires-spilf-argumentaire.pdf 
Stahlmann, R, Förster, C., Shakibaei, M., Vormann, J., Günther, T., & Merker, H. J. (1995). Magnesium deficiency 
induces joint cartilage lesions in juvenile rats which are identical to quinolone-induced arthropathy. 
Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 39(9), 2013–2018. 
Stahlmann, Ralf, & Lode, H. (2010). Safety Considerations of Fluoroquinolones in the Elderly: An Update. Drugs & 
Aging; Auckland, 27(3), 193–209. https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.2165/11531490-000000000-00000 
Stahlmann, Ralf, & Lode, H. M. (2013). Risks associated with the therapeutic use of fluoroquinolones. Expert 
Opinion on Drug Safety, 12(4), 497–505. https://doi.org/10.1517/14740338.2013.796362 
Stamm, W. E., & Hooton, T. M. (1993). Management of Urinary Tract Infections in Adults. New England Journal of 
Medicine, 329(18), 1328–1334. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199310283291808 
Starr, O. (2018). Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media. Retrieved January 18, 2018, from 
https://patient.info/doctor/chronic-suppurative-otitis-media 
Steffen, R., Jori, R., DuPont, H. L., Mathewson, J. J., & Stürchler, D. (1993). Efficacy and toxicity of fleroxacin in the 
treatment of travelers’ diarrhea. The American Journal of Medicine, 94(3A), 182S–186S. 
Stein, G. E., & Goldstein, E. J. C. (2006). Fluoroquinolones and Anaerobes. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 42(11), 
1598–1607. https://doi.org/10.1086/503907 
Storsley, L., & Geldenhuys, L. (2007). Ciprofloxacin-induced ANCA-negative cutaneous and renal vasculitis--
resolution with drug withdrawal. Nephrology, Dialysis, Transplantation: Official Publication of the European 
Dialysis and Transplant Association - European Renal Association, 22(2), 660–661. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/ndt/gfl554 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 76/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suh, J. D., & Kennedy, D. W. (2012). Treatment Options for Chronic Rhinosinusitis. Proceedings of the American 
Thoracic Society. Retrieved from https://www.atsjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1513/pats.201003-028RN 
Suresh, A., Rajesh, A., Bhat, R. M., & Rai, Y. (2009). Cytolytic vaginosis: A review. Indian Journal of Sexually 
Transmitted Diseases, 30(1), 48–50. https://doi.org/10.4103/0253-7184.55490 
Sweet, R. L. (2011). Treatment of Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease. Infectious Diseases in Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, 2011. https://doi.org/10.1155/2011/561909 
Talla, V., & Veerareddy, P. (2011). Oxidative Stress Induced by Fluoroquinolones on Treatment for Complicated 
Urinary Tract Infections in Indian Patients. Journal of Young Pharmacists : JYP, 3(4), 304–309. 
https://doi.org/10.4103/0975-1483.90242 
Tan, Y., Lu, K., Deng, Y., Cao, H., Chen, B., Wang, H., … Chen, L. (2012). The effects of levofloxacin on rabbit 
fibroblast-like synoviocytes in vitro. Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology, 265(2), 175–180. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.taap.2012.10.003 
Tanaka, A., Takada, T., Kawarada, Y., Nimura, Y., Yoshida, M., Miura, F., … Liau, K.-H. (2007). Antimicrobial 
therapy for acute cholangitis: Tokyo Guidelines. Journal of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, 14(1), 59–67. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00534-006-1157-6 
Tang, H.-Y., Hutcheson, E., Neill, S., Drummond-Borg, M., Speer, M., & Alford, R. L. (2002). Genetic susceptibility 
to aminoglycoside ototoxicity: How many are at risk? Genetics in Medicine, 4(5), 336–345. 
https://doi.org/10.1097/00125817-200209000-00004 
Tapiainen, T., Aittoniemi, J., Immonen, J., Jylkkä, H., Meinander, T., Nuolivirta, K., … Korppi, M. (2016). Finnish 
guidelines for the treatment of laryngitis, wheezing bronchitis and bronchiolitis in children. Acta Paediatrica 
(Oslo, Norway: 1992), 105(1), 44–49. https://doi.org/10.1111/apa.13162 
Taylor, D. N., Bourgeois, A. L., Ericsson, C. D., Steffen, R., Jiang, Z.-D., Halpern, J., … Dupont, H. L. (2006). A 
RANDOMIZED, DOUBLE-BLIND, MULTICENTER STUDY OF RIFAXIMIN COMPARED WITH PLACEBO AND 
WITH CIPROFLOXACIN IN THE TREATMENT OF TRAVELERS’ DIARRHEA. The American Journal of Tropical 
Medicine and Hygiene, 74(6), 1060–1066. https://doi.org/10.4269/ajtmh.2006.74.1060 
Thuong-Guyot, M., Domarle, O., Pocidalo, J. J., & Hayem, G. (1994). Effects of fluoroquinolones on cultured 
articular chondrocytes flow cytometric analysis of free radical production. The Journal of Pharmacology and 
Experimental Therapeutics, 271(3), 1544–1549. 
Tomé, A. M., & Filipe, A. (2011). Quinolones: review of psychiatric and neurological adverse reactions. Drug Safety, 
34(6), 465–488. https://doi.org/10.2165/11587280-000000000-00000 
Torre-Cisneros, J., San-Juan, R., Rosso-Fernández, C. M., Silva, J. T., Muñoz-Sanz, A., Muñoz, P., … Aguado, J. M. 
(2015). Tuberculosis Prophylaxis With Levofloxacin in Liver Transplant Patients Is Associated With a High 
Incidence of Tenosynovitis: Safety Analysis of a Multicenter Randomized Trial. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 
60(11), 1642–1649. https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/civ156 
Torres, A., & Liapikou, A. (2012). Levofloxacin for the treatment of respiratory tract infections. Expert Opinion on 
Pharmacotherapy, 13(8), 1203–1212. https://doi.org/10.1517/14656566.2012.688952 
Trojánek, M., Dědičová, D., Žemličková, H., Jakubů, V., Malíková, E., Reisingerová, M., … Stejskal, F. (2015). 
Enteric fever imported to the Czech Republic: epidemiology, clinical characteristics and antimicrobial 
susceptibility. Folia Microbiologica, 60(3), 217–224. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12223-014-0348-9 
Tsai, W.-C., Hsu, C.-C., Chen, C. P. C., Chang, H.-N., Wong, A. M. K., Lin, M.-S., & Pang, J.-H. S. (2011). 
Ciprofloxacin up-regulates tendon cells to express matrix metalloproteinase-2 with degradation of type I 
collagen. Journal of Orthopaedic Research, 29(1), 67–73. https://doi.org/10.1002/jor.21196 
Tsai, W.-C., Hsu, C.-C., Chen, H.-C., Hsu, Y.-H., Lin, M.-S., Wu, C.-W., & Pang, J.-H. S. (2009). Ciprofloxacin-
mediated inhibition of tenocyte migration and down-regulation of focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation. 
European Journal of Pharmacology, 607(1), 23–26. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2009.02.006 
Tsai, W.-C., Hsu, C.-C., Tang, F.-T., Wong, A. M. K., Chen, Y.-C., & Pang, J.-H. S. (2008). Ciprofloxacin-mediated 
cell proliferation inhibition and G2/M cell cycle arrest in rat tendon cells. Arthritis & Rheumatism, 58(6), 
1657–1663. https://doi.org/10.1002/art.23518 
Tsai, W.-C., & Yang, Y.-M. (2011). Fluoroquinolone-associated tendinopathy. Chang Gung Medical Journal, 34(5), 
461–467. 
Tsai, Y., Huang, T., Hsu, R. W., Weng, Y., Hsu, W., Huang, K., & Peng, K. (2009). Necrotizing Soft-tissue Infections 
and Primary Sepsis Caused by vibrio vulnificus and vibrio cholerae non-o1. The Journal of Trauma: Injury, 
Infection, and Critical Care, 66(3), 899–905. https://doi.org/10.1097/TA.0b013e31816a9ed3 
Tunkel, A. R., Hartman, B. J., Kaplan, S. L., Kaufman, B. A., Roos, K. L., Scheld, W. M., & Whitley, R. J. (2004). 
Practice Guidelines for the Management of Bacterial Meningitis. Clinical Infectious Diseases, 39(9), 1267–
1284. https://doi.org/10.1086/425368 
Van Der Linden, P. D., Van Puijenbroek, E. P., Feenstra, J., In ‘T Veld, B. A., Sturkenboom, M. C. J. M., Herings, R. 
M. C., … Stricker, B. H. C. (2001). Tendon disorders attributed to fluoroquinolones: a study on 42 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 77/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spontaneous reports in the period 1988 to 1998. Arthritis Care & Research, 45(3), 235–239. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/1529-0131(200106)45:3<235::AID-ART254>3.0.CO;2-7 
van Rossum, A. P., Pas, H. H., Fazzini, F., Huitema, M. G., Limburg, P. C., Jonkman, M. F., & Kallenberg, C. G. M. 
(2006). Abundance of the long pentraxin PTX3 at sites of leukocytoclastic lesions in patients with small-
vessel vasculitis. Arthritis & Rheumatism, 54(3), 986–991. https://doi.org/10.1002/art.21669 
Veeramachaneni, S. B., & Sethi, S. (2006). Pathogenesis of bacterial exacerbations of COPD. COPD, 3(2), 109–115. 
Venekamp, R. P., Burton, M. J., van Dongen, T. M., van der Heijden, G. J., van Zon, A., & Schilder, A. G. (2016). 
Antibiotics for otitis media with effusion in children. In Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. John 
Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD009163.pub3 
Verschuur, H. P., de Wever, W. W. H., & van Benthem, P. P. G. (2004). Antibiotic prophylaxis in clean and clean-
contaminated ear surgery. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, (3), CD003996. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD003996.pub2 
Vollenweider, D. J., Jarrett, H., Steurer-Stey, C. A., Garcia-Aymerich, J., & Puhan, M. A. (2012). Antibiotics for 
exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD010257 
von Keutz, E., Rühl-Fehlert, C., Drommer, W., & Rosenbruch, M. (2004). Effects of ciprofloxacin on joint cartilage in 
immature dogs immediately after dosing and after a 5-month treatment-free period. Archives of Toxicology, 
78(7), 418–424. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00204-004-0551-6 
Wadworth, A. N., & Goa, K. L. (1991). Lomefloxacin. Drugs, 42(6), 1018–1060. https://doi.org/10.2165/00003495-
199142060-00009 
Wang, C., Han, C., Geng, N., Fan, A., Wang, Y., Yue, Y., … Xue, F. (2016). Efficacy of oral moxifloxacin for aerobic 
vaginitis. European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases, 35(1), 95–101. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10096-015-2513-8 
Wang, J. M.-P., & Zahedi, S. (2014). A possible case of levofloxacin-associated amnesia, depression, and 
paresthesia. Connecticut Medicine, 78(4), 229–230. 
Wang, L., Wu, Y., Tan, Y., Fei, X., Deng, Y., Cao, H., … Chen, L. (2014). Cytotoxic effects of the quinolone 
levofloxacin on rabbit meniscus cells. Journal of Applied Toxicology, 34(8), 870–877. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/jat.2903 
Wanner, A., Salathé, M., & O’Riordan, T. G. (1996). Mucociliary clearance in the airways. American Journal of 
Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 154(6 Pt 1), 1868–1902. 
https://doi.org/10.1164/ajrccm.154.6.8970383 
Wedzicha, J. A., Miravitlles, M., Hurst, J. R., Calverley, P. M. A., Albert, R. K., Anzueto, A., … Krishnan, J. A. (2017). 
Management of COPD exacerbations: a European Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society guideline. 
European Respiratory Journal, 49(3), 1600791. https://doi.org/10.1183/13993003.00791-2016 
Wefers Bettink-Remeijer, M., Brouwers, K., van Langenhove, L., De Waard, P. W. T., Missotten, T. O., Martinez 
Ciriano, J. P., & Van Aken, E. (2009). Uveitis-like syndrome and iris transillumination after the use of oral 
moxifloxacin. Eye (London, England), 23(12), 2260–2262. https://doi.org/10.1038/eye.2009.234 
WHO. (2001). Guidelines for the management of sexually transmitted infections (No. WHO/HIV_AIDS/2001.01). 
World Health Organization. 
WHO. (2005a). Sexually transmitted and other reproductive tract infections. A guide to essential practice. World 
Health Organization, Department of Reproductive Health and Research. Retrieved from 
http://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/rtis/9241592656/en/ 
WHO. (2005b). The Treatment of diarrhoea: a manual for physicians and other senior health workers. 4th revision. 
World Health Organization. 
WHO. (2008). Fluoroquinolones in children. Second Meeting of the Subcommittee of the Expert Committee on the 
Selection and Use of Essential Medicines. Geneva: World Health Organization. 
WHO. (2011). Guidelines for the programmatic management of drug-resistant tuberculosis - 2011 update (No. 
WHO/HTM/TB/2011.6). WHO: World Health Organization. 
WHO. (2018). Salmonella (non-typhoidal). Fact sheet. Retrieved January 26, 2018, from 
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs139/en/ 
Wickman, P. A., Black, J. A., Moland, E. S., & Thomson, K. S. (2006). In vitro activities of DX-619 and comparison 
quinolones against gram-positive cocci. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 50(6), 2255–2257. 
https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.00011-06 
Willermain, F., Deflorenne, C., Bouffioux, C., Janssens, X., Koch, P., & Caspers, L. (2010). Uveitis-like syndrome 
and iris transillumination after the use of oral moxifloxacin. Eye; London, 24(8), 1419; author reply 1419-
20. https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/eye.2010.19 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 78/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Williams, R. J., Attia, E., Wickiewicz, T. L., & Hannafin, J. A. (2000). The Effect of Ciprofloxacin On Tendon, 
Paratenon, and Capsular Fibroblast Metabolism. The American Journal of Sports Medicine, 28(3), 364–369. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/03635465000280031401 
Windfuhr, J. P., Toepfner, N., Steffen, G., Waldfahrer, F., & Berner, R. (2016). Clinical practice guideline: tonsillitis I. 
Diagnostics and nonsurgical management. European Archives of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology: Official Journal of 
the European Federation of Oto-Rhino-Laryngological Societies (EUFOS): Affiliated with the German 
Society for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, 273(4), 973–987. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00405-015-3872-6 
Wise, R., Andrews, J. M., Ashby, J. P., & Matthews, R. S. (1988). In vitro activity of lomefloxacin, a new quinolone 
antimicrobial agent, in comparison with those of other agents. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 
32(5), 617–622. https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.32.5.617 
Wise, R., Baldwin, D. R., Andrews, J. M., & Honeybourne, D. (1991). Comparative pharmacokinetic disposition of 
fluoroquinolones in the lung. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 28(suppl_C), 65–71. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jac/28.suppl_C.65 
Wiström, J., Gentry, L. O., Palmgren, A. C., Price, M., Nord, C. E., Ljungh, A., & Norrby, S. R. (1992). Ecological 
effects of short-term ciprofloxacin treatment of travellers’ diarrhoea. The Journal of Antimicrobial 
Chemotherapy, 30(5), 693–706. 
Wiström, J., Jertborn, M., Hedström, S. A., Alestig, K., Englund, G., Jellheden, B., & Norrby, S. R. (1989). Short-
term self-treatment of travellers’ diarrhoea with norfloxacin: a placebo-controlled study. The Journal of 
Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 23(6), 905–913. 
Wiström, J., Norrby, S. R., Burman, L. G., Lundholm, R., Jellheden, B., & Englund, G. (1987). Norfloxacin versus 
placebo for prophylaxis against travellers’ diarrhoea. The Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, 20(4), 
563–574. 
Wolff, M., Regnier, B., Daldoss, C., Nkam, M., & Vachon, F. (1984). Penetration of pefloxacin into cerebrospinal fluid 
of patients with meningitis. Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, 26(3), 289–291. 
https://doi.org/10.1128/AAC.26.3.289 
Woo, P. C. Y., Lau, S. K. P., & Yuen, K. (2005). Biliary tract disease as a risk factor for Plesiomonas shigelloides 
bacteraemia: a nine-year experience in a Hong Kong hospital and review of the literature. The New 
Microbiologica, 28(1), 45–55. 
Woodhead, M., Blasi, F., Ewig, S., Garau, J., Huchon, G., Ieven, M., … Joint Taskforce of the European Respiratory 
Society and European Society for Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases. (2011). Guidelines for the 
management of adult lower respiratory tract infections. Clinical Microbiology and Infection: The Official 
Publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, 17 Suppl 6, E1-59. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-0691.2011.03672.x 
Woodhead, M., Blasi, F., Ewig, S., Huchon, G., Ieven, M., Leven, M., … European Society of Clinical Microbiology 
and Infectious Diseases. (2005). Guidelines for the management of adult lower respiratory tract infections. 
The European Respiratory Journal, 26(6), 1138–1180. https://doi.org/10.1183/09031936.05.00055705 
Workowski, K. A., Bolan, G. A., & Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2015). Sexually transmitted diseases 
treatment guidelines, 2015. MMWR. Recommendations and Reports: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. 
Recommendations and Reports, 64(RR-03), 1–137. 
Yeung, S. M., & Tailor, S. A. N. (2003). Leukocytoclastic Vasculitis Associated with Ciprofloxacin. The Canadian 
Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, 56(3). https://doi.org/10.4212/cjhp.v56i3.508 
You, I.-C., Ahn, M., Yoon, K.-W., & Yoon, K.-C. (2008). A case of Vibrio vulnificus keratitis. Japanese Journal of 
Ophthalmology, 52(2), 131–133. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10384-008-0511-4 
Zaigraykin, N., Kovalev, J., Elias, N., & Naschitz, J. E. (2006). Levofloxacin-induced interstitial nephritis and 
vasculitis in an elderly woman. The Israel Medical Association Journal: IMAJ, 8(10), 726–727. 
Zalacain, R., Sobradillo, V., Amilibia, J., Barrón, J., Achótegui, V., Pijoan, J. I., & Llorente, J. L. (1999). Predisposing 
factors to bacterial colonization in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The European Respiratory 
Journal, 13(2), 343–348. 
Zalmanovici Trestioreanu, A., Green, H., Paul, M., Yaphe, J., & Leibovici, L. (2010). Antimicrobial agents for treating 
uncomplicated urinary tract infection in women. In Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD007182.pub2 
Zaslau, S. (2004). Blueprints Urology. Malden, Mass: Blackwell Publishing. 
Zeidan, S., Esposito, L., Rostaing, L., & Kamar, N. (2013). The Achilles tendon of preventing BK virus nephropathy. 
Transplant Infectious Disease, 15(6), E268–E269. https://doi.org/10.1111/tid.12141 
Žemličková, H., Jakubů, V., Marejková, M., & Urbášková, P. (2014). Resistance monitoring working group: 
resistance to erythromycin, ciprofloxacin, and tetracycline in human isolates of Campylobacter spp. in the 
Czech Republic tested by the EUCAST standard method. Epidemiologie, Mikrobiologie, Imunologie: Casopis 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 79/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spolecnosti Pro Epidemiologii a Mikrobiologii Ceske Lekarske Spolecnosti J.E. Purkyne, 63(3), 184–190. 
Zheng, H., Sun, Y., Lin, S., Mao, Z., & Jiang, B. (2008). Yersinia enterocolitica infection in diarrheal patients. 
European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases, 27(8), 741. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10096-008-0562-y 
Zoorob, R., Sidani, M. A., Fremont, R. D., & Kihlberg, C. (2012). Antibiotic Use in Acute Upper Respiratory Tract 
Infections. American Family Physician, 86(9), 817–822. 
Assessment report  
EMA/818158/2018  
Page 80/80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
