EMA/1805/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002789 
EPAR summary for the public 
Quinsair 
levofloxacin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Quinsair. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Quinsair. 
For practical information about using Quinsair, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Quinsair and what is it used for? 
Quinsair is an antibiotic used for treating long-term lung infection caused by the bacteria Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in adults who have cystic fibrosis. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease in which there is an 
accumulation of thick mucus in the lungs that allows bacteria to grow more easily, causing infections. 
P. aeruginosa is a frequent cause of infections in cystic fibrosis patients. 
Quinsair contains the active substance levofloxacin. Before using Quinsair, doctors should consider 
official guidance on the appropriate use of antibiotics. 
How is Quinsair used? 
Quinsair is available as a nebuliser solution in single-dose containers called ‘ampoules’. It can only be 
obtained with a prescription. 
Quinsair is inhaled using a device called Zirela nebuliser system, which converts the solution in the 
ampoule into a fine mist. The medicine is not to be inhaled with any other device. The recommended 
dose is one ampoule twice a day, ideally 12 hours apart. After 28 days of treatment, the patient stops 
treatment for 28 days, before starting another 28-day treatment. Treatment cycles may be repeated 
for as long as the patient benefits. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Quinsair work? 
The active substance in Quinsair, levofloxacin, belongs to the group of antibiotics known as 
‘fluoroquinolones’. It works by blocking enzymes that P. aeruginosa bacteria use to make copies of 
their DNA during cell multiplication. By doing this, it stops the bacteria that are causing the infection 
from growing and multiplying. 
Levofloxacin is a well-known antibiotic. Systemic formulations of levofloxacin (such as tablets and 
solutions for infusion) have been authorised in the EU since the 1990s. 
What benefits of Quinsair have been shown in studies? 
Quinsair has been investigated in two main studies in patients who had cystic fibrosis with 
P. aeruginosa lung infection. The first study, which involved 330 patients, compared Quinsair with 
placebo (a dummy treatment), while the second, involving 282 patients, compared it with another 
inhaled antibiotic (tobramycin). In both studies, the majority of patients were adults. 
In the first study, Quinsair was shown to be better than placebo at improving the patients’ forced 
expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), adjusted for the patient’s age, height and sex. FEV1 is the 
most air a person can breathe out in one second. Following 28 days of treatment, the patients taking 
Quinsair had an improvement in FEV1 of 1.73%, while for patients taking placebo the improvement in 
FEV1 was of around 0.43%. However, the study failed to show that Quinsair is more effective than 
placebo at increasing the time it took before the patients had an exacerbation (flare-up) of their 
disease. 
The second study showed that Quinsair was at least as good as tobramycin at improving FEV1 
following 1 to 3 treatment cycles. 
What are the risks associated with Quinsair? 
The most common side effects with Quinsair are cough (seen in 54% of patients), dysgeusia (taste 
disturbances, 30%) and tiredness/weakness (25%). For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Quinsair, see the package leaflet. 
Quinsair must not be used in patients with epilepsy and those with a history of tendon disorders 
related to the use of fluoroquinolone antibiotics. It must not be used in pregnant or breastfeeding 
women. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Quinsair approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Quinsair’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
considered that the modest improvement in FEV1 seen with Quinsair meant that it could help to meet 
the need for additional inhaled antibiotics to treat long-term P. aeruginosa infections in cystic fibrosis. 
Regarding safety, Quinsair was well tolerated with side effects similar to those of levofloxacin given 
systemically (throughout the body). Because levofloxacin has a potential risk on cartilage, the use of 
the product was not considered justified in adolescents.  
Quinsair  
EMA/1805/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Quinsair? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Quinsair is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Quinsair, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Quinsair will carry out a study to investigate the long-term 
safety of Quinsair when used in clinical practice in the European Union. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Quinsair 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Quinsair on 26 March 2015.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Quinsair can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Quinsair, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
Quinsair  
EMA/1805/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
