Part VI:  Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  QUINSAIR  (levofloxacin 
hemihydrate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for QUINSAIR. The RMP details important 
risks of QUINSAIR, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about QUINSAIR's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
QUINSAIR's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how QUINSAIR should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  QUINSAIR  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information, 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of QUINSAIR's 
RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
QUINSAIR is authorized for the management of chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
levofloxacin hemihydrate as the active substance and it is given by inhalation twice daily.  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  QUINSAIR’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  QUINSAIR’s 
EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/quinsair  
II. 
Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of QUINSAIR, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about QUINSAIR's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
Page 1 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  QUINSAIR  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks below. 
In addition to these measures, information regarding adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of QUINSAIR is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  QUINSAIR  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered  taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  QUINSAIR.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
•  Tendon disorders (including Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture) 
•  Long-lasting,  disabling,  and  potentially  irreversible  serious 
Important potential risks 
reactions 
•  Aortic aneurysm/ Aortic dissection 
•  Heart Valve Regurgitation 
•  Off label use in <18 years (especially musculoskeletal effects) 
•  Haemoptysis 
•  Hepatotoxicity 
•  Decreased susceptibility to P. aeruginosa 
Page 2 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
•  Long-term safety 
Missing information 
II.B. 
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Tendon disorders (including Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Literature, clinical trials.  
incidence  of  FQ-associated 
Strength  of  evidence:  The 
tendinopathy  or 
tendon  rupture  in  an  otherwise  healthy 
population is estimated to be 0.14% to 0.4%. A study from the 
UK calculated the excess risk for FQ-associated tendinopathy at 
3.2  per  1000  patient  years.  The incidence  of  FQ-associated 
Achilles tendon rupture was estimated as 2.7 per 10,000 patients 
for  ofloxacin  and  0.9  per  10,000  patients  for  ciprofloxacin. 
Ciprofloxacin was reported to be the most common FQ in 90% 
of FQ-associated tendon disorders, with the risk of tendinopathy 
appearing to be dose-dependent [Seeger et al., 2006, Williams, 
3rd.  et  al.,  2000],  [Kashida  and  Kato,  1997].  The  mean  age  of 
patients  with  FQ-associated  tendinopathy  is  64 years,  with  a 
male-to-female  ratio  of  2:1,  and  27-percent  of  patients  have 
bilateral involvement [Kim, 2010]. Symptoms of tendinitis may 
vary from mild aches to local joint stiffness and treatability highly 
depends on the severity of the events. During clinical trials with 
MP-376,  non-serious  events  pertaining  to  the  risk  have  been 
reported. During MPEX-204, MPEX-2017 and MPEX-209, the 
incidence rate of tendinitis in the treatment arm was 0.7% (3/409) 
[95% CI 0.2 to 2.1], which was similar to the placebo group at 
0.7% (1/146) [95% CI 0.0 to 3.8]. During the study MPEX-207, 
there was 1 case of tendinitis assessed as moderate and possibly 
related in a 24-year-old patient 4 days after starting MP-376. The 
adverse  event  lasted  for  one  week,  the  study  drug  was 
discontinued, and the patient recovered. During the study MPEX-
209,  there  was  one  case  of  tendinitis  in  a  26-year-old  patient 
occurring at day 105 during 2nd off-treatment cycle. Tendinitis 
lasted 5 days and was assessed as moderate and possibly related. 
The study drug was discontinued. Another patient aged 31-year-
old  experienced  joint  stiffness  which  occurred  1  week  after 
starting the second cycle of MP-376 and resolved after 2 weeks 
without specific treatment. It was assessed as possibly related to 
study drug. In MPEX-209 EXT, the incidence rate of tendinitis 
was  1.1%  (1/88)  [95%  CI  0.0  -  6.2].  A  41-year-old  patient 
experienced tendinitis at Day 224 (day 1 of the 5th on-treatment 
cycle).  The  tendinitis  lasted  3  months  and  3  weeks.  It  was 
assessed as moderate and unlikely related to the study drug. The 
patient  received  physical  therapy  and  arthroscopy  (surgery).  In 
the meantime, this patient also experienced a mild tendon pain, 
Page 3 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Tendon disorders (including Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture) 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
which lasted 15 days and was assessed as non-serious, mild and 
unlikely related to the study drug.  
The  reported  risk  factors  for  FQ-associated  tendinopathy  and 
tendon  rupture,  which  is  a  dose-dependent  adverse  effect 
[Kaleagasioglu  and  Olcay,  2012], [Williams,  3rd.  et al., 2000], 
[Seeger et al., 2006, Kashida and Kato, 1997], include systemic 
corticosteroid  therapy,  renal  failure,  diabetes  mellitus,  sports 
activity,  history  of  musculoskeletal  disorders  and  age  over  60 
years.  41  percent  of  the  reported  patients  concomitantly  used 
corticosteroids.  Some  patients  had  been  taking  long-term  oral 
corticosteroids.  Others  had  received  a  corticosteroid  injection 
within the past 3 days. Furthermore, patients older than 60 years 
were at a 1.5-fold and a 2.7-fold greater risk for development of 
tendinopathy  and  tendon  rupture,  respectively,  compared  with 
patients less than 60 years of age. End- stage renal disease was 
also  postulated  as  a  risk  factor,  since  12%  of  cases  were 
associated with renal disease alone. Other factors such as obesity, 
hyperlipidemia  and  hyperparathyroidism  are  well  known  risk 
factors for tendinopathy or tendon rupture, and their risk potential 
is possibly exacerbated by concomitant FQ use [Kim, 2010]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.3, 4.4., 4.8 
•  PL section 2 where signs of inflammation of the tendon are 
provided  
•  PL section 4  
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01  
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Important identified risk: Long-lasting, disabling, and potentially irreversible serious reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
FDA 
source:  Literature, 
Evidence 
boxed  warning, 
EudraVigilance  data,  PRAR  Referral  under  Article  31  (of 
Directive 2001/83/EC). 
Strength  of  evidence:  In  2016,  the  FDA  had  finalized  a  safety 
review of disabling and potentially permanent serious side effects 
focusing  on  cases  reporting  of  AEs  from  two  or  more  of  the 
following  body  systems:  Musculoskeletal,  Senses  (vision, 
hearing,  etc.),  Neuropsychiatric,  Skin,  Peripheral  Nervous 
System and Cardiovascular; and lasting 30 days or longer after 
stopping the FQ referred to as FQ associated Disability. Based on 
this  review,  the  FDA  recommended  that  for  some  indications 
Page 4 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Long-lasting, disabling, and potentially irreversible serious reactions 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
(acute sinusitis, acute bronchitis, and uncomplicated urinary tract 
infections) the serious side effects outweigh the benefits for the 
patient and FQs should only be used if no alternative treatment 
options exist. In 2017, data from BfArM national safety database 
revealed a number of such cases triggering, together with some 
published literature articles, the Article 31 Referral in the EU. 
Depending  of  type  of  observed  ADRs,  a  wide  range  of  risk 
factors/  confounders  have  been  mentioned  in  the  scientific 
literature  e.g.  corticosteroid  therapy,  advanced  age,  and  renal 
disease  for  tendinopathy  [Mandell  and  Tillotson,  2002];  high 
dose of FQ, female gender, and pre-existence of central nervous 
system  disease  for  neurotoxic  effects  [Tomé  and  Filipe,  2011, 
Hedenmalm  and  Spigset,  1996,  Ali,  2014].  FQ-induced 
mitochondrial  dysfunction  possibly  leading  to  multifactorial 
ADRs have not been extensively discussed in scientific literature 
so far. Golomb et al. mentioned concomitant medication such as 
chemotherapy, HIV protease inhibitors, statins and amiodarone 
that  can  amplify  the  risk  of  quinolones  mitochondrial  toxicity 
[Golomb et al., 2015], however, these conclusions are limited by 
the  low  number  of  case  reports  assessed  within  this  study.  In 
summary,  risk  factors  related  directly  to  the  long-lasting, 
disabling  and  potentially  irreversible  ADRs  remain  one  of  the 
main  uncertainties  according  to  PRAC  assessment  report 
published in Oct 2018 [PRAC assessment report 2018]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4, 4.8 
•  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Important potential risk: Aortic aneurysm/ Aortic dissection 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Non-clinical and epidemiologic studies, PRAC 
signal validation.  
Strength  of  evidence:  Data  of  epidemiologic  [Lee  et  al.,  2018, 
Pasternak et al., 2018b, Daneman et al., 2015, Pasternak et al., 
2018b, Pasternak et al., 2018a] and non-clinical studies [LeMaire 
et al., 2018] had indicated an increased risk of aortic aneurysm 
and aortic dissection after treatment with FQs as a class leading 
to PRAC signal evaluation in Sep 2018.  
The  non-clinical  study  of  LeMaire  et.  al.  examined  effects  of 
ciprofloxacin  on  aortic  aneurysm  and  dissection  (AAD) 
development in a mouse model comparing mice challenged with 
high-fat diet and low-dose angiotensin infusion (1000 ng/min/kg) 
against  a control  group  of unchallenged mice  with  normal  diet 
Page 5 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Aortic aneurysm/ Aortic dissection 
and  saline  infusion.  Aortic  challenge  itself  induced  moderate 
aortic destruction with development of AAD in 17 of 38 (45%) 
mice and severe AAD in 9 (24%) mice, but no rupture or death. 
Significantly  increased  incidence  of  AAD  in  38  of  48  (79%) 
mice, severe AAD in 32 (67%) mice, and rupture and premature 
death in 7 (15%) were observed in the aortic challenged group 
treated  with  ciprofloxacin  (100mg/kg/d).  As  no  notable  aortic 
destruction  was  observed  in  unchallenged  mice  that  received 
ciprofloxacin, the authors concluded that ciprofloxacin should be 
used with caution in patients with aortic dilatation and at high risk 
of AAD [LeMaire et al., 2018]. 
The cohort study in Sweden by Pasternak et al. investigated the 
risk of aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection associated with oral 
FQ use, as compared with amoxicillin use, within a 60-day period 
from  start  of  treatment  [Pasternak  et  al.,  2018a].  The  study 
addressed  some  of  the  confounding  factors  noted  for  the  two 
previous  studies  by  Daneman  et  al.  and  Lee  et  al.  (e.g., 
confounding  by  indication  by  introducing  an  active  antibiotic 
treatment  arm),  who  both  aimed  at  exploring  any  association 
between  collagen-related  disorders  and  FQs.  However,  the 
authors  also  noted  that  some  residual  confounding  (e.g.,  risk 
factors of smoking) may not have been accounted for. It is of note 
that  the  risk  found  in  this  Swedish  cohort  is  smaller  than  risk 
previously  reported  in  other  studies.  The  authors  found  an 
association during treatment phase which decreased again after 
end  of  therapy  and  suggested  that  an  acute  effect  of  matrix 
metalloproteinase may be the underlying pathomechanism. The 
article  did  not  differentiate  between  different  FQ  and  the 
relevance for inhaled levofloxacin with lower systemic exposure 
is not established. 
The elderly population has been identified to be at higher risk to 
develop  aortic  aneurysm  and  aortic  dissection.  Approximately 
75% of aortic dissections are occurring in patients who are ages 
40 to 70 years, with the majority between the ages of 50 and 65 
years [Levy and Le, 2018]. According to Goldfinger et al. clinical 
aortic  dissection  risk  factors  fall  into  two  broad  categories: 
conditions that contribute to medial degeneration such as Marfan 
syndrome, Loeys-Dietz syndrome, the vascular form of Ehlers-
Danlos  syndrome,  inflammatory  diseases  of  the  aorta,  Turner 
syndrome etc. and those that increase aortic wall stress. The most 
common  condition  that  increases  wall  stress  is  hypertension, 
present in more than two-thirds of patients with aortic dissection 
[Goldfinger et al., 2014], which is more likely to harbor in the 
older  population,  mainly  manifesting  through  arteriosclerosis. 
Further  identified  risk  factors  compromise  of  positive  family 
history,  pre-existing  aortic  aneurysms  smoking,  abrupt  and 
transient  increase  in  blood  pressure (e.g.,  weight  lifting,  use  of 
Page 6 of 16 
Risk factors and risk groups 
  
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Aortic aneurysm/ Aortic dissection 
Risk minimisation measures 
cocaine  etc.)  and  prior  cardiac  surgeries  [Levy  and  Le,  2018, 
Goldfinger  et  al.,  2014].  AAD  is  three  times  more  common  in 
men  than in  women,  although  women tend to present  later  and 
experience worse outcomes [Levy and Le, 2018]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC  section  4.4  and  PL  section  2  where  advise  to 
in  an  emergency 
immediately  consult  a  physician 
department in case of sudden abdominal, chest or back pain 
is provided 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Important potential risk: Heart Valve Regurgitation/ Incompetence 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Non-clinical and epidemiologic studies, PRAC 
signal validation.  
Strength of evidence: In the light of accumulating evidence and 
biological  plausibility  suggesting  an  association  of  FQ  intake 
with collagen-related disorders, Etminan et al. (2019) undertook 
a  disproportionality  analysis  combined  with  an  nested  case 
control (NCC) study which showed an about 2-fold increase in 
risk  of  another  collagen-related  disorder  -  aortic  valve 
regurgitation  (AR)  and  mitral  valve  regurgitation  (MR) 
associated with use of oral FQs compared with other antibiotics 
(amoxicillin or azithromycin).  
A non-clinical study (Guzzardi et al 2019) reported that exposure 
to  ciprofloxacin  led  to  a  collagen  degradation  in  aortic 
myofibroblasts  from  patients  at  higher  risk  for  aortic  disorders 
including aortic regurgitation. This finding is consistent with that 
recorded previously in a mouse model of aortic disease (LeMaire 
et al 2018) and supports the view that FQ-induced degradation of 
connective tissue may be implicated  in the occurrence  of  heart 
valve regurgitation /incompetence. 
Additionally, several medically confirmed cases of regurgitation 
/ incompetence of heart valves (including all four heart valves: 
aortic,  mitral,  tricuspid  and  pulmonary)  have  been  reported  in 
patients  receiving  FQs  with  probable  (n=1)  or  possible  (n=13) 
causal  association.  Four  (4)  of 
these  patients  received 
levofloxacin  with  brand  name  not  specified.  However, 
QUINSAIR can be excluded as it is not approved in the countries 
where the events occurred.  
These  data  suggest  that  FQs  as  a  class  are  at  least  possibly 
causally  associated  with 
the  occurrence  of  heart  valve 
regurgitation/incompetence.  
The  elderly  population  as  well  as  those  patients  taking 
corticosteroids on a regular basis are known to be more at risk for 
Page 7 of 16 
Risk factors and risk groups 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Heart Valve Regurgitation/ Incompetence 
Risk minimisation measures 
developing heart valve regurgitation/incompetence. Factors that 
increase the risk for heart valve regurgitation/incompetence also 
include  a  congenital  heart  valve  disease,  connective  tissue 
disorders  e.g.  Marfan  syndrome  or  Ehlers-Danlos  syndrome, 
Turner  syndrome,  Behcet's  disease,  hypertension,  rheumatoid 
arthritis, and infective endocarditis. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 and PL section 2 where advise to immediately 
consult a physician in an emergency department in case of of 
acute dyspnoea, new onset of heart palpitations, or development 
of oedema of the abdomen or lower extremities. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Important potential risk: Off label use in <18 years (especially musculoskeletal effects) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Literature, non-clinical data, clinical trials. 
Strength of evidence: The prevalence of P. aeruginosa infection 
in CF patients increases with age. However, approximately 20% 
of patients of less than 5 years will be infected. This rises to 30% 
in the patients 6-10 years old and 40% in patients 11-17 years old. 
Quinolones exhibit toxic effects on the immature joint cartilage 
(epiphyseal-articular  complex)  in  all  animal  species  studied. 
Although quinolones can also affect the epiphyseal growth plate 
(in addition to the articular-epiphyseal complex) in new-born or 
very  young  animals,  severe  chondrotoxicity  has  not  been 
observed after the use of quinolones in children. However, most 
human data have been derived from nalidixic acid, norfloxacin, 
and  ciprofloxacin,  which have either  poor tissue  penetration  or 
low  systemic  exposure  [Bauchau  and  Durham,  2004].  During 
clinical trials for QUINSAIR 85 patients < 18 years of age were 
included, however no reports on serious adverse musculoskeletal 
events were reported. 
The risk of arthropathies in adolescent patients has been reviewed 
extensively  in  the  literature.  However,  most  reviews  are  based 
predominately on clinical data derived from studies with systemic 
ciprofloxacin and interpretation is difficult owing to the rarity of 
the  event  and  its  non-specificity  (i.e.  difficulty  of  specific 
diagnosis  with  multiple  causal  possibilities  especially  with 
co-administration of different classes of antibiotics) and the usual 
short duration of therapy with antibiotics. However, the literature 
suggests that the risk of arthropathy in adolescents with FQs is 
low and reversible with management.  
The musculoskeletal safety of FQs in children was explored by 
Adefurin  and  colleagues  in  a  literature  review,  which  included 
Page 8 of 16 
Risk factors and risk groups 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Off label use in <18 years (especially musculoskeletal effects) 
(primarily  ciprofloxacin)  compared 
105  articles  reflecting  the  experience  of  more  than  16,000 
ciprofloxacin-treated paediatric patients. Adefurin and colleagues 
pooled safety data from 23 controlled studies, comprising 6,481 
cases and 17,441 controls [Adefurin et al., 2011]. The analysis 
indicated  a  57%  increased  risk  of  arthropathy  in  patients  who 
received  FQ 
the 
comparator  antibiotics  arm  [OR  1.57,  95%  CI  1.26  to  1.97]. 
Further  analysis  of  five  controlled  studies  that  included  only 
cystic fibrosis patients (227 cases and 391 controls) estimated a 
67%  increased  risk  of  arthropathy  [OR  1.67,  95%  CI  1.13  to 
2.45]. The authors concluded, “there is an estimated risk of one 
musculoskeletal AE in every 62.5 [treated] patients, and a 57% 
increased risk of arthropathy in patients exposed to ciprofloxacin. 
However, the risk of arthropathy is relatively as low as about 1 in 
every 62.5 patients and reversible with management” [Adefurin 
et al., 2011]. 
to 
The  clinical  experience  with  systemic  FQs  is focused  on  acute 
infections  [Adefurin  et  al.,  2011].  Chronic  use  of  FQs  in  the 
pediatric  population  has  not  been  reported  sufficiently  often  to 
draw inferences regarding long-term safety of the class. In adults; 
however, prolonged administration of systemic levofloxacin has 
been  reported  in  tuberculosis,  Hansen's  disease,  and  chronic 
osteomyelitis.  These  reports  have  showed  no  alteration  of  the 
established safety and tolerability profiles of the drug [Greenberg 
et al., 2000], [Richeldi et al., 2002, Bundrick et al., 2003, Marra 
et al., 2005, Senneville et al., 2007, Chauny et al., 2012]. As part 
of  eradication  therapy  for  acute  P. aeruginosa  infections  and 
during  treatment  of  acute  exacerbations,  pediatric  CF  patients 
already  experience  appreciable  systemic  exposure  to  FQs  with 
courses of 500 mg once per day (orally or intravenously) over 10 
to 28 days [Schaad et al., 1989, Valerius et al., 1991, Richard et 
al.,  1997,  Frederiksen  et  al.,  1997,  Smyth  and  Elborn,  2008, 
Langton  and  Smyth,  2014].This  previous  exposure  would  be  a 
confounding  feature  as  it  can  be  a  potential  cause  for 
musculoskeletal  complaints  in  CF  pediatric  patients  .  Other 
systemic antibiotics such as azithromycin can cause similar AEs 
and  complaints.  It  should also  be  noted  that  CF  patients might 
the 
encounter  other  musculoskeletal  AEs  as  a  part  of 
multisystemic disease itself with resultant nutritional, metabolic 
and digestive complications. 
Although  levofloxacin  is  not  commonly  administered  for 
pediatric age group, its use in pediatric patients is reported to be 
safe  according  to  available  study  with  long-term  follow-up  in 
pediatric patients with respiratory tract infections as well as otitis. 
[Yee  et  al.,  2002]  performed  a  retrospective  and  observational 
study to assess the incidence and relative risk of tendon or joint 
Page 9 of 16 
  
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Off label use in <18 years (especially musculoskeletal effects) 
that  occurred  following 
disorders 
the  use  of  ofloxacin, 
levofloxacin, and ciprofloxacin. This study involved greater than 
6,000 children < 19 years of age with history of fluoroquinolone 
exposure  and  a  “control  group”  of  children  exposed  to 
azithromycin,  a  macrolide  antibiotic  which  does  not  have 
known long-term adverse effects on cartilage, tendons or joints. 
The calculated risk for tendon or joint disorders was found to be 
no different in the children treated with FQs when compared to 
those prescribed azithromycin. 
In a study by Noel and colleagues, musculoskeletal abnormalities 
of  systemic  levofloxacin  were  studied  in  2,523  children, 
in 3 efficacy studies and a subset of 2,233 of these children who 
subsequently  participated  in  a  long-term  1-year  surveillance 
study [Noel et al., 2007]. Levofloxacin was well tolerated during 
and for 1 month after therapy, with similar incidences of AEs as 
reported  for  the  patients  randomized  to  non-fluoroquinolone 
antibiotics.  However,  the  incidence  of  at  least  1  of  the  4 
musculoskeletal disorders (arthralgia, arthritis, tendinopathy, gait 
abnormality)  was greater  in  the  levofloxacin-treated  children 
(largely due to reports of arthralgia) at 2 months (2.1% vs 0.9%; 
p=0.04) and 12 months (3.4% vs 1.8%; p=0.03) than in the non-
fluoroquinolone treated children but continued follow-up for 12 
months did not show any joint abnormality or structural injuries, 
respectively.  
levofloxacin  or  comparator 
In a published assessment of the musculoskeletal toxicity 5 years 
after therapy with levofloxacin, Bradley and colleagues reported 
on  the  results  of  a  5-year  follow-up  safety  study  of  children 
treated  with 
in  randomized, 
prospective,  comparative  studies  for  acute  otitis  media  and 
community-acquired pneumonia, which was designed to assess 
the presence/absence  of  cartilage  injury  [Bradley  et  al.,  2014, 
Bradley et al., 2014]. Of the 2,233 subjects participating in the 
12-month follow-up study, 124 of 1,340 (9%) of the levofloxacin 
subjects,  and  83  of  893  (9%)  of  the  comparator  subjects  were 
continued  for  5-year  post  treatment  assessment.  From  children 
identified with a musculoskeletal SAE during years 2 through 5 
post treatment, the number that were “possibly related” to drug 
therapy was equal for both arms: 1 of 1,340 for levofloxacin and 
1  of  893  for  comparator.  Of  all  cases  of  musculoskeletal  SAE 
assessed by the Data Safety and Monitoring Committee at 5 years 
post treatment, no case was assessed as “likely related” to study 
drug.  The  authors  concluded  that  with  no  clinically  detectable 
difference  between 
levofloxacin-  and  comparator-treated 
children  in  musculoskeletal  SAEs  presenting  between  1 and 
5 years  in  these  safety  studies,  risks  of  cartilage  injury  with 
Page 10 of 16 
  
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Off label use in <18 years (especially musculoskeletal effects) 
Risk minimisation measures 
levofloxacin appear to be uncommon, are clinically undetectable 
during 5 years, or are reversible. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1, 5.2 
•  PL section 1, 2 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01  
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Important potential risk: Haemoptysis 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Literature, clinical trial data. 
Strength of evidence: Haemoptysis is a complication commonly 
reported  in  patients  with  CF.  Major  haemoptysis  occurs  in 
approximately 1% of children with CF and 6% of the overall CF 
population [Barben et al., 2003]. A retrospective, observational 
cohort  study  of  the  National  CF  Patient  Registry  between  the 
years 1990 to 1999 in the US reported that nearly 1 in 100 patients 
will  have  this  complication  each  year  [Flume  et  al.,  2005]. 
Massive haemoptysis occurred with an average annual incidence 
of  0.87%  and  in  4.1%  of  patients  overall.  The  median  age  for 
massive  haemoptysis  was 23  years,  and  75%  of  cases  occur in 
patients >18 years of age [Flume, 2009]. An Israeli cohort of 440 
patients  reported  that  9.1%  experienced  hemoptysis  during  the 
study period. The mean age at the first episode of haemoptysis 
was 18.4±7. 4 years. 25% of haemoptysis cases occurred before 
age 13 [Efrati et al., 2008]. 
The fact that the incidence of haemoptysis in clinical trials was 
similar in the MP-376 group compared to the placebo group and 
tobramycin  group  may  be  explained  by  both  the  known 
background  incidence  of  haemoptysis  in  these  patients  and  an 
association with inhaled therapies in general.   
Massive  haemoptysis  is  occurring  more  commonly  in  older 
patients with more advanced lung disease. Flume and colleagues 
reported that the occurrence of massive haemoptysis was more 
prevalent  in  adult  patients.  Only  25%  of  patients  with  this 
complication  had  massive  haemoptysis  prior  to  the  age  of 
18 years, and half of the patients with this complication had their 
first episode between the ages of 18 years and 30 years [Flume et 
al.,  2005].  Patients  with  Staphylococcus  aureus  [OR,  1.3]  and 
diabetes  [OR,  1.1]  had  increased  risk  of  massive  haemoptysis. 
There  was  no  increased  occurrence  by  sex,  but  it  was  more 
prevalent in older patients (mean age, 24.2±8.7 years [±SD]) with 
Page 11 of 16 
Risk factors and risk groups 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
more  severe  pulmonary  impairment.  Similarly,  Efrati  et  al 
reported that pulmonary exacerbation was the precipitating factor 
of haemoptysis in 90% of the cases [Efrati et al., 2008]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4, 4.8 
•  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01  
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Important potential risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Literature, non-clinical data, clinical trial data.  
Strength  of  evidence:  Changes  in  the  liver  function  tests  were 
observed 
in  non-clinical-trials  with  MP-376.  In  general, 
hepatotoxicity  is  a  known  class  effect  for  FQs,  ranging  from 
increased  transaminases  to  cholestatic  hepatitis  and  fulminant 
hepatitis and has been reported with varying frequency with other 
FQs including oral levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin. 
Whilst  clinical  trial  experience  has  not  revealed  any  strong 
evidence of a causal relationship between hepatotoxicity and MP-
376, cases of hepatic necrosis up to fetal hepatic failure have been 
reported with systemically administered levofloxacin, primarily 
in  patients  with  severe  underlying  diseases  (e.g.  sepsis). 
Furthermore,  liver  diseases  are  a  known  risk  factor  for  the 
patient's  underlying  disease,  one  third  of  the  patients  with  CF 
during  long-term  follow-up  are  affected  including  elevated 
transaminases,  hepatosteatosis,  and  biliary  tract  disease.  About 
20 to 60% have hepatic steatosis, 20 to 30% have focal biliary 
cirrhosis with 15% having multilobular biliary cirrhosis, and 15% 
have gall stones. Liver disease was the primary cause of death in 
2.5%, making it the second most common cause of death in CF 
patients [Herrmann et al., 2010]. 
In CF patients, there is evidence of an association between age 
and  hepatobiliary  disease.  Approximately  5-10%  of  the  CF 
patients develop multilobular cirrhosis during the first decade of 
life.  The  incidence  of  liver  disease  in  CF  patients  during  this 
decade  of  life  is  1.8  to  2.5/  100 patient-years  and  significantly 
decreases during the second decade [Debray, 2012]. Globally 30-
40%  of  children  develop  liver  damage  before  age  12.  This 
statement  was  confirmed  by  three  studies,  the  aim  of  the  first 
study [Lindblad et al., 1999] was to evaluate the natural history 
of  CF-associated liver  disease  over a  15-year  period in  a  well-
controlled  population  of  patients  with  CF.  124  patients  were 
Page 12 of 16 
Risk factors and risk groups 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Hepatotoxicity 
followed up by yearly LFTs. Fifteen patients were followed up 
with liver biopsies throughout the whole study period. More than 
50% of the patients had pathological LFTs in infancy, later being 
normalized.  Approximately  25%  of  children  4  years  of  age  or 
older had biochemical markers of liver disease during the study 
period.  In about  10%  of  the  patients,  cirrhosis  or  advanced 
fibrosis was confirmed at biopsy and 4% of patients had cirrhosis 
with clinical liver disease. Severe liver disease developed mainly 
during pre-puberty and puberty. Of the 15 patients prospectively 
followed up with liver biopsies, only 3 had progressive fibrosis. 
In  the  second  study  performed  by  Colombo  C.  et  al.  assessed 
prospectively the incidence and risk factors of this complication, 
and its impact on the clinical course of CF. Between 1980 and 
1990, the authors enrolled 177 CF patients without liver disease 
in  a  systematic  clinical,  laboratory,  ultrasonography  screening 
program of at least a 10-year duration. The results showed that 
during  a  14-year  median  follow-up  (2,432  patient-years), 
48 patients developed liver disease, with cirrhosis already present 
in 5 of them and the incidence rate was 1.8% (95% confidence 
interval:  1.3-2.4),  with  sharp  decline  after  the  age  of  10  years 
[Colombo et al., 2002]. The aim of the third study by Lamireau 
et al. was to describe the prevalence of liver disease in a cohort 
of 241 CF patients [Lamireau et al., 2004]. The results showed 
that the prevalence of liver disease was 18, 29, and 41% after 2, 
5 and  12  years,  respectively,  and  did  not  increase  thereafter 
[Lamireau et al., 2004]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 and PL section 4 where advice to stop 
treatment and contact the doctor if signs and symptoms of 
hepatic  disease  develop  such  as  anorexia,  jaundice,  dark 
urine, pruritus or tender abdomen is provided 
•  SmPC section 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01  
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Important potential risk: Decreased susceptibility to P. aeruginosa 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Evidence source: Literature, clinical trial data. 
Strength  of  evidence:  Treatment  of  signs  and  symptoms  of 
pulmonary infection with antibiotics without complete clearance 
of  organisms  from  the  airway  leads  to  gradual  selection  for 
bacterial strains that are less susceptible to antibiotics. According 
Page 13 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Decreased susceptibility to P. aeruginosa 
to  the  National  Nosocomial  Infections  Surveillance  (NNIS) 
System  [NNIS,  2004],  P. aeruginosa  is  among  the  leading 
pathogens  causing  nosocomial  infections  and  is  the  most 
common cause of pneumonia in the medical intensive care unit. 
With  the  widespread  use  of  FQs,  an  alarming  increase  in  the 
prevalence  of  FQ  resistance  among  P. aeruginosa  strains  has 
been seen [Hsu et al., 2005].  
During the clinical trial program, only very modest decreases in 
levofloxacin  susceptibilities  of  P. aeruginosa  isolates  were 
associated with multiple cycles of MP-376 treatment, and similar 
changes  were  observed  among  patients  not  receiving  MP-376. 
Taken  together,  these  data  indicated  that  cyclic  treatment  with 
QUINSAIR does not substantially increase risk for selection for 
P. aeruginosa  isolates  with  decreased  antibiotic  susceptibility 
among  CF  patients  with  chronic  P. aeruginosa  infection,  for 
whom  standard  of  care 
term  administration  of 
antipseudomonal antibiotics. 
P. aeruginosa  is  one  of  the  most  common  and  important 
opportunist  gram-negative  pathogens  causing  hospital-acquired 
infections [Yang et al., 2015]. In a study performed by [Hsu et 
al.,  2005]  risk  factors  that  were  found  to  be  significantly 
associated  with  the  acquisition  of  FQ  resistant  P. aeruginosa 
were  nosocomial  residence,  diabetes  as  a  co-morbid  condition, 
and  exposure  to  a  FQ  within  30  days  before  isolation  of  the 
organism. Furthermore, P. aeruginosa infection or colonization 
within  the  previous  year,  mechanical  ventilation,  malignant 
disease and history of COPD have been identified as independent 
risk  factors  for  multidrug-resistant  P. aeruginosa  infection 
[Hirsch and Tam, 2010]. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
long 
is 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4.4, 5.1 
•  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
•  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
No risk minimisation measures 
Page 14 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
II C. 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies which are conditions of marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
CLI-LEVFLAA1-01 
Purpose of the study: CF is an inherited, long-term debilitating and life-threatening disease affecting 
approximately 0.8 people in 10,000 in the EU. The accumulation of thick mucus in the lungs in CF 
patients allows bacteria to grow and colonize more easily, causing chronic infections. P. aeruginosa is 
a frequent cause of chronic pulmonary infections in CF patients. The standard of care for treating CF 
patients with P. aeruginosa has been to use inhaled antibiotic therapies chronically in order to improve 
lung function and quality of life and reduce the occurrence of pulmonary exacerbations. QUINSAIR 
is a formulation of levofloxacin (levofloxacin hemihydrate) for aerosol administration intended for the 
management of chronic pulmonary infections due to P. aeruginosa in adult CF patients and was well-
tolerated in clinical studies when administered at 240 mg BID (twice daily) for up to six consecutive 
cycles (N=56 who received up to 6 cycles), each comprising 28 days on treatment and 28 days off 
treatment. QUINSAIR is intended for use as long as the physician considers the patient is receiving 
clinical benefit. Secondary data from the UK CF Registry and in Germany CF Registry, will be used 
in  this  observational  post-authorization  safety  study  (PASS)  to  evaluate  the  long-term  safety  of 
QUINSAIR over a 5-year period. The incidence and occurrence over time of each adverse events of 
special interest (AESIs) concerning hepatotoxicity, haemoptysis and tendon rupture, and the safety of 
off-label use, specifically musculoskeletal events in patients <18 years of age, are to be evaluated in 
this study. In addition, data on discontinuations of treatment due to adverse events (AEs) in all patients 
and  development  of  antimicrobial  resistance  of  P. aeruginosa  isolated  from  QUINSAIR-treated 
patients will be collected. Comparison data will be obtained from patients who are treated with other 
approved inhaled antibiotics e.g. inhaled formulations of tobramycin, aztreonam lysine, colistimethate 
and levofloxacin and not receiving QUINSAIR.  
II.C.2. 
Other studies in post authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for QUINSAIR. 
Page 15 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 16 
  
 
 
 
 
