Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Fluoroquinolones and quinolones (hereinafter ‘(fluoro)quinolones’) are a class of synthetic antibacterial 
agents that have been used in clinical practice since 1961. The earliest substances of this class 
(starting with nalidixic acid) are non-fluorinated, possess only a narrow spectrum of activity against 
Gram-negative bacteria and have generally been replaced in clinical practices by more recent 
antibiotics. The later ones (starting with norfloxacin) possess an increasingly broader spectrum of 
activity; they are fluorinated at C-6 carbon of their basic ring structure, hence so-called 
fluoroquinolones. These substances inhibit synthesis of bacterial DNA via binding to intracellular 
topoisomerase enzymes and forming drug-enzyme-DNA complexes. 
This pharmacovigilance referral procedure focuses on the review of the impact of long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible known adverse drug reactions (ADRs) on the benefit-risk balance 
of quinolones and fluoroquinolones containing products for systemic and inhalation use and the need 
for adequate risk minimisation measures.  
While these ADRs are already included in the EU product information of quinolones and 
fluoroquinolones, the severity and persistence of these known ADRs has not yet been systematically 
evaluated in the EU. 
The PRAC adopted a recommendation on 16 October 2018 which was then considered by the CHMP, 
in accordance with Article 107k of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted for (fluoro)quinolones medicinal products with 
regard to long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs. This included the responses 
submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in writing as well as the outcomes of consultations 
with the Infectious Disease Working Party. In addition, the PRAC considered the views of patient 
organisations, patients, families and carers, and the views of healthcare professionals in a public 
hearing. The PRAC also reviewed all data submitted by different stakeholders, both before and after, 
the public hearing.  
Assessment of the post-marketing spontaneous and literature data together with the evaluation of 
available non-clinical and clinical information related to the possible underlying mechanisms of long-
lasting, disabling and potentially permanent ADRs provided enough evidence to support causal 
relationship between the (fluoro)quinolones and potentially disabling ADRs. 
Risk factors associated with appearance of the assessed ADRs remain one of the main uncertainties 
and further examination of the risk factors should be further explored. Relevant stakeholders, including 
academia and MAHs, are encouraged to perform further research that would further characterise these 
disabling adverse drug reactions. The research should focus on current gaps and uncertainties in 
knowledge, including but not exclusive to, risk factors associated with these specific ADRs, treatments 
for the ADRs, identification of possible biomarkers to predict these ADRs and underlying mechanisms of 
action that could lead to the respective reactions. 
(Fluoro)quinolones have been approved in the EU for a diversity of indications - over one hundred 
indications of various granularities. For the purpose of this review, the indications are grouped under 
heading/cover terms, taking into account all available data, in particular the impact of the long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions on the benefit-risk balance of these 
indications:    
•  Category 1: The newly identified nature of the safety concerns does not substantially modify 
the existing benefit/risk balance and no change to the indication is warranted. 
•  Category 2: The newly identified safety concern necessitates a restriction of (fluoro)quinolone 
use in these indications. 
•  Category 3: The newly identified safety concern changes benefit risk to negative and these 
indications shall be deleted. 
•  Category 4: The Indications are considered too broad in view of the evidence available and 
related to some (sub) indications mentioned in categories 1, 2 or 3 above. These indications 
shall be amended. Other indications were found to be incorrectly formulated in medical terms. 
They shall be removed or replaced by accurate medical terms. 
Category 1: no modification of the indications 
In category 1 indications, it is considered that the newly identified safety concern (long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions) has a limited impact on the benefit-risk 
balance of all quinolones/ fluoroquinolones containing products. The benefit-risk balance remains 
positive and its incremental change does not warrant any amendment to the indication.  
Table 1 – Category 1 indications: no modification of the indications 
Indication heading 
Complicated urinary tract infections/pyelonephritis 
Prostatitis, epididymo-orchitis 
Urethritis and cervicitis  
Genital tract / gynaecological infections 
Chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in adult patients with cystic 
fibrosis  
Broncho-pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis or in bronchiectasis 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Pneumonia due to Gram-negative bacteria 
Tuberculosis 
Chronic sinusitis 
Malignant external otitis 
Chronic suppurative otitis media 
Complicated skin and skin structure infections / Complicated skin and soft tissue infections 
Gastro-intestinal infections 
Bone and joint infections 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Prophylaxis of invasive infections due to Neisseria meningitidis 
Inhalation anthrax (post-exposure prophylaxis and curative treatment) 
Infection in immunocompromised patients 
For the indications falling within this category 1, the PRAC considered that their benefit overweighs the 
risks, in particular the identified risk of occurrence of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
adverse drug reactions. This is in view of the severity of the diseases targeted, their possible serious 
complications including prevention of manifestations of irreversible anatomical or functional lesions, 
the favourable tissue distribution of (fluoro)quinolones and specificity of the pathogen covered by the 
microbiological spectrum of (fluoro)quinolones. 
Therefore, PRAC concluded that these indications should be maintained. 
 
 
However, for pefloxacin PRAC considered that some of the indications mentioned above in Table 1 
should be restricted as below: 
•  Chronic sinusitis (CRS) 
Rhinosinusitis is a group of disorders characterized by inflammation of the mucosa of the nose 
and the paranasal sinuses. Mainly CRS is caused by the following pathogens: Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenza, Staphylococcus spp., Streptococcus pyogenes, Moraxella 
catarrhalis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, anaerobes, and Chlamydia spp. Considering the poor 
pneumococcal susceptibility of pefloxacine and the potential risks, PRAC concluded that the use 
of pefloxacin in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic sinusitis should be restricted to 
the patients in whom it is considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents for the 
treatment of these infections (last line option).  
• 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Considering insufficient coverage of the pathogens involved in these infections, PRAC conclude 
that the use of pefloxacin should be restricted to the patients in whom it is considered 
inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents for the treatment of these infections (last line 
option). 
Furthermore, for pefloxacin PRAC considered that some of the indications mentioned above in Table 1 
should be removed as below: 
Pefloxacin 
•  Acute and chronic prostatitis, including severe forms 
The role of pefloxacin in the treatment of bacterial prostatitis is considered as not being 
demonstrated. In case of atypical sexually transmitted pathogens, such as Mycoplasma 
hominis and Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum, pefloxacin antimicrobial 
activity is low (Gonzales and Henwood 1989). Apart from that, the available data shows a poor 
antimicrobial activity of pefloxacin against Pseudomonas (King and Phillips 1986) and no 
updated susceptibility data on pefloxacin are available as the European Committee on 
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) has not defined clinical breakpoints for pefloxacin 
(http://www.eucast.org/fileadmin/src/media/PDFs/EUCAST_files/Rationale_documents/Ciproflo
xacin_rationale_1.9.pdf). Thus, the current role of pefloxacin for the management of bacterial 
prostatitis and the benefit of using pefloxacin to treat these infections is unknown. Therefore, 
the benefit risk-balance of this indication is considered negative for pefloxacin. 
• 
Exacerbations of broncho-pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis 
In patients with cystic fibrosis, the predominant pathogen causing broncho-pulmonary 
infections is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Streptococcus species have only moderate sensitivity to 
pefloxacin, with MIC90 values ranging from 3.1 to 32 mg/L (Gonzalez JP, Henwood JM. 
Pefloxacin. A review of its antibacterial activity, pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic 
use. Drugs. 1989;37(5):628-68). The poor pefloxacin antimicrobial activity against indication 
specific pathogen precludes its use in this indication as there is a high risk of inadequate 
coverage and resistance development. The current role of pefloxacin for the treatment of this 
indication is considered as not established. Therefore, the benefit risk balance of this indication 
is considered negative for pefloxacin. 
 
 
 
•  Acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis 
The  pathogens  associated  with  pyelonephritis  consists  mainly  of  E.  coli  (75%  to  95%),  with 
occasional other species of Enterobacteriaceae, such as P. mirabilis and K. pneumoniae, and of 
Staphylococci.  No  updated  data  (e.g.  in  relation  to  the  current  prevalence  of  resistance  in 
Enterobacterales  and  other  Gram-negative  bacteria)  are  available  regarding  the  antimicrobial 
activity of pefloxacin, as no clinical breakpoints were defined by EUCAST. 
Pefloxacin  antimicrobial  activity  against  bacterial  strains  relevant  for  this  indication  is  low 
(Hoogkamp-Korstanje  1997).  In  addition,  pefloxacin  has  low  urinary  excretion  (34%  of 
pefloxacin dose including its active metabolite norfloxacin) (Naber  2001). Therefore, the benefit-
risk balance in using pefloxacin in this indication is negative.  
•  Malignant external otitis 
Malignant otitis externa (MOE), also known as necrotizing otitis externa, is a severe invasive 
bacterial infection that involves the external auditory canal and skull base. Almost 95% of MOE 
cases reported in the literature are attributed to Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Bovo et al. 2012). 
It should be noted that pefloxacin has a poor antimicrobial activity against P. aeruginosa, thus, 
the benefit is very limited. Therefore, the benefit-risk in using pefloxacin in this indication is 
negative.  
Category 2: indications to be restricted 
For the indications falling under category 2, the risk benefit balance is considered impacted by the 
abovementioned safety concern in view of the benefits of (fluoro)quinolones in the concerned diseases, 
as well as the limited severity of some of these conditions and thus the use in these indications needs 
to be restricted.  
Table 2 – Category 2 indications 
Indication heading 
Uncomplicated cystitis 
•  Simple uncomplicated acute cystitis 
•  Acute cystitis in women 
•  Simple uncomplicated acute cystitis in the premenopausal adult 
women 
•  Recurrent cystitis in women 
•  Acute uncomplicated infection of lower urinary tract (simple cystitis) 
Acute exacerbation of COPD including chronic bronchitis 
•  Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease including 
chronic bronchitis 
•  Acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis  
• 
Exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
Acute bacterial sinusitis 
•  Acute sinusitis 
•  Acute bacterial sinusitis 
Acute otitis media 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For these indications, the (fluoro)quinolones medicinal products should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents that are commonly recommended for the 
treatment of these infections.  
The recommendation for the restriction to last line is based on the below: 
Uncomplicated cystitis 
Based on the review of available scientific data, cases of uncomplicated cystitis have been often 
described as self-limiting. The recent study by Gágyor et al (2015) showed that two thirds of women 
with uncomplicated urinary tract infection treated with ibuprofen recovered without any antibiotics. 
However, lack of symptoms relief and risk of complications (specifically pyelonephritis) have been 
found to be higher in non-antibiotic group. Reviewed European guidelines do not discuss an option of 
non-antibacterial therapy of urinary tract infections. Inappropriate use of (fluoro)quinolones is 
associated with rapidly increasing bacterial resistance to these agents (Committee on Infectious 
Diseases 2006; Murray and Baltimore 2007). 
It is considered that uncomplicated cystitis constitutes a non-severe, non-life-threatening indication for 
which the potential risk outweighs the benefit when using (fluoro)quinolones as first line treatment. 
Therefore, the benefit-risk balance in the indication of uncomplicated cystitis is considered changed 
and (fluoro)quinolones should only be used in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 
Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (AECB) and COPD 
Taking into consideration the efficacy data, the risk of developing resistance and the risk profile of 
(fluoro)quinolones together with the new risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
ADRs it is concluded that benefit-risk balance is unchanged only in severe episodes of AECB and COPD 
or where other therapeutic options are not effective or tolerable. The use of (fluoro)quinolones is not 
warranted in mild to moderate episodes with alternative treatment options.  
Overall, the benefit-risk balance in the indication of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and COPD 
is considered positive only in patients who have no alternative treatment options.  
Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABS) 
ABS is generally a non-severe infection associated with high spontaneous cure rates (90%). About 
80% cases of rhinosinusitis occurring in clinical practice are of viral origin and only a negligible 
proportion of these cases (i.e. 0,5-2%) develop to bacterial infection (Gwaltney 1996). 
Regarding the high success rate in placebo treated patients and the mild severity of sinusitis in 
majority of the cases, the benefit of antibiotics should be carefully weight against the occurrence of 
adverse drug reactions and the potential risk of selection of resistance. 
Therefore in view of the risk related to the use of (fluoro)quinolones, including the risk of long-lasting, 
disabling and potentially permanent serious ADRs, (fluoro)quinolones should be used only when it is 
considered inappropriate to use antibacterial agents that are commonly recommended for the initial 
treatment of ABS infections.  
Acute otitis media (AOM) 
AOM is regarded as a multifactorial and polymicrobial disease, which usually occurs as a complication 
of viral upper respiratory tract infection (Marom et al 2012). Being one of the most common paediatric 
diseases, AOM with its spontaneous cure rate above 80% might be considered as a non-serious and in-
most cases self-limited infection. (Fluoro)quionolones therapy might be beneficial in patients with 
recurrent and/or non-responsive cases of AOM caused by the multidrug-resistant etiological agents 
where other conventional antibiotics are likely to be ineffective. 
Therefore in view of the risk related to the use of (fluoro)quinolones, including the risk of long-lasting, 
disabling or potentially permanent ADRs, the overall benefit-risk balance in the indication of otitis 
media (acute) has changed and should be only used in patients who have no alternative treatment 
option. 
Category 3: deletion of indications 
The indications falling within the category 3 are considered to have a benefit-risk balance negative, 
taking into account the abovementioned safety concern and in view of the limited benefits of 
(fluoro)quinolones in the concerned diseases. 
Table 3 – Category 3 indications 
Indication heading 
Pharyngitis-Tonsillitis 
• 
• 
Pharyngitis 
Tonsillitis 
Laryngitis  
Acute bronchitis 
Prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea 
• 
• 
Prophylaxis of infectious gastroenteritis (traveller’s diarrhoea) 
Prevention of traveller’s diarrhoea 
Preoperative preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis 
spreading to bone 
Septicaemia 
Selective decontamination of gastrointestinal tract in patients with compromised immune 
system 
Prevention of exacerbations in women with recurring urinary tract 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Frequent, recurrent urinary infection prophylaxis 
Long term prophylaxis of recurrent urinary infections 
Prophylaxis of frequently repeating infections of urinary tract infections 
Prevention of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prophylaxis of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
• 
Prophylaxis after surgeries or interventions in the urogenital system 
o  prophylaxis after surgeries or interventions in the urogenital system 
o  Prophylaxis of recurrent urinary infections following trans-urethral surgery or trans-
rectal prostatic biopsy 
 
 
Indication heading 
Vaginal infections 
Meningitis 
Infection of cerebrospinal fluid 
Endocarditis 
Nosocomial pneumonia 
External otitis 
For these indications, the recommendation for the deletion of the indication is based on the below: 
Pharyngitis-Tonsillitis 
Based on the available data, approximately 90% cases of pharyngitis and 70% cases of tonsillitis in 
adults and children are of viral origin (Zoorob et al 2012). As for the cases of pharyngitis of bacterial 
aetiology, the most common pathogen causing bacterial acute pharyngitis is Streptococcus pyogenes.  
(Fluoro)quinolones do not sufficiently cover the spectrum of pathogens which are commonly identified 
in patients with pharyngitis and/or tonsillitis. Moreover, increasing resistance to (fluoro)quinolones and 
a possibility of disabling ADRs in this mostly non-severe condition needs to be considered. The benefit-
risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  pharyngitis  and/or  tonsillitis  of  bacterial  origin  is  therefore 
considered negative. 
Laryngitis  
Infectious  laryngitis  is  mostly  a  self-limiting  viral  disease  (caused  by  parainfluenza,  rhinovirus, 
influenza  and  adenovirus)  that  does  not  respond  to  antibiotic  therapy  (Higgins,  1974).  Taking  into 
consideration  the  predominant  viral  aetiology  of  laryngitis,  its  mostly  self-limiting  nature,  increasing 
resistance  of  common  microorganisms  to  (fluoro)quinolones  and  the  identified  risk  of  occurrence  of 
long-lasting,  disabling  and  potentially  irreversible  adverse  drug  reactions,  the  benefit-risk  balance  of 
(fluoro)quinolone use in laryngitis is considered negative. 
Acute bronchitis 
Generally, the most bronchial infections are of viral origin. Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus 
influenzae and Moraxella catharralis were isolated from sputum samples in up to 45% of patients with 
acute bronchitis (Macfarlane et al. 1993) but their role is difficult to distinguish because of potential 
oropharyngeal colonization in healthy individuals (Laurenzi et al. 1961; Smith and Lockwood 1986).  
According to the current evidence and in line with the European guidelines (Woodhead et al. 2005, 
2011), there is a modest benefit in using antibiotics for acute bronchitis in otherwise healthy 
individuals.  
Taking  into  consideration  the  frequently  viral  aetiology  of  acute  bronchitis,  its  mostly  self-limiting 
nature, increasing resistance of common microorganisms to (fluoro)quinolones and the potential risk of 
disabling  ADRs,  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  acute  bronchitis  is  considered 
negative. 
 
Prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea 
Most cases of travellers’ diarrhoea are self-limiting and resolve spontaneously within 3-5 days. 
Antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended for most travellers (CDC 2017; Hill et al 2006; Public Health 
Agency of Canada 2015; Riddle et al 2016). Based on the evaluation of available guidelines and 
position papers, the prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea should be limited to high-risk short-term 
travellers only.  
Based on the increasing resistance of pathogenic microorganisms to (fluoro)quinolones, the association 
of (fluoro)quinolones with C. difficile-associated diarrhoea, their other well-known risks in addition to 
the risk of rare, nevertheless persistent and disabling ADRs, the benefit/risk balance of 
(fluoro)quinolones in the prophylaxis of travellers´ diarrhoea is considered negative. 
Preoperative preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis  spreading 
to bone 
The benefit of systemic antibiotic prophylaxis in general in the clean-contaminated ear surgery is 
currently not sufficiently substantiated and the benefit over topical antibiotics is not proven. Problems 
related to the use of (fluoro)quinolones in surgical prophylaxis must always be considered, including 
the development and dissemination of resistant pathogens and the occurrence of adverse drug 
reactions due to (fluoro)quinolones, including the risk of potentially disabling ADRs. Having considered 
the above, the PRAC considered that the benefit-risk balance of (fluoro)quinolones in preoperative 
preparations for chronic cholesteatomatous otitis and chronic otitis spreading to bone is negative. 
Septicaemia 
Septicaemia  is  a  severe  and  life-threatening  disease  associated  with  high  mortality.  Overall, 
septicaemia  is  non-specific  and  is  generally  a  secondary  condition  (a  consequence)  to  a  primary 
infection.  The  therapy  should  be  targeted  to  the  primary  infection  taking  into  account  PK/PD 
characteristics of the treatment and site of the infection. Therefore, septicaemia is not acceptable as a 
stand-alone  indication  as  per  the  Note  for  Guidance  (CPMP/EWP/558/95  rev  2).  Thus,  the  indication 
septicaemia should be deleted. 
The risk/benefit balance of (fluoro)quinolone use in septicaemia as stated is considered negative and 
the indication should be deleted.  
Selective  decontamination  of  gastrointestinal  tract  in  patients  with  compromised  immune 
system 
Regarding  the  indication  “Selective  decontamination  of  gastrointestinal  tract  in  patients  with 
compromised immune system” the benefit of using (fluoro)quinolones is extremely limited. Indeed, the 
PRAC  could  not  identify  any  solid  evidence  on  the  efficacy  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  this  indication. 
Based  on  the  lack  of  scientific  evidence  on  efficacy  and  the  recommendation  of  the  IDWP,  the 
benefit/risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolone  use  in  “Selective  decontamination  of  gastrointestinal  tract  in 
patients with compromised immune system” is considered negative.  
Prevention of exacerbations in women with recurring urinary tract infections (UTI) 
Recurrent UTIs are common among young, healthy women, even though they generally have 
anatomically and physiologically normal urinary tracts (Hooton 2001).  
According  to  the  European  Association  of  Urology  (EAU)  guideline  (Bonkat  et  al  2017),  prevention  of 
uncomplicated rUTIs includes counselling and behavioural modifications. Antimicrobial prophylaxis can 
be  given  only  after  counselling  and  behavioural  modification  has  been  attempted  and  when  non-
antimicrobial  measures  have  been  unsuccessful.  Taking  into  consideration  the  risk  of  long-lasting, 
disabling  and  potentially  irreversible  ADRs  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  (fluoro)quinolones  in  the 
indication of prevention of exacerbations in women with recurring urinary tract infection is considered 
negative. 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
Boader-spectrum antibiotics should not be used for peri-procedural prophylaxis or only cautiously in 
very selective cases (The 2015 European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on Urological 
infections). The agent used for peri-procedural prophylaxis should ideally not be one that may be 
required for treatment of infections. Apart from that, same resistance patterns to pefloxacin are shared 
with other quinolones making pefloxacin not suitable for the use in peri-procedural prophylaxis. 
Considering the high resistance pattern to pefloxacin, possible development of cross resistance to other 
quinolones, and the newly recognised risk of long-lasting and potentially disabling adverse effects, the 
risks of using pefloxacin outweigh its benefits. Therefore, the risks outweigh the benefits in this 
indication and the indication should be deleted.   
Vaginal infections (AV) 
Group B streptococci (GBS), Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis are the 
organisms most frequently associated with Aerobic Vagnitis (Rampersaud et al 2012). AV requires a 
treatment based on microscopy findings and a combined local treatment with any of the following may 
yield the best results: antibiotic (infectious component), steroids (inflammatory component) and/or 
oestrogen (atrophy component). In cases with Candida present on microscopy or culture, antifungals 
must be tried first, in order to see if other treatment is still needed. Vaginal rinsing with povidone 
iodine can provide rapid relieve of symptoms but does not provide long-term cure of the bacterial 
loads. Local antibiotics most suitable are preferably non-absorbed and broad spectrum, especially 
covering enteric gram-positive and gram-negative aerobes, like kanamycin. Latter colonisations are 
frequent, but inflammatory infection rare, the use of oral antibiotics in women with AV is discouraged 
(Donders et al 2015; Wang et al. 2016). 
(Fluoro)quinolones are sometimes recommended in the initial treatment of serious and/or complicated 
cases  of  aerobic  vaginitis  (i.e.  to  control  acute  symptoms  in  severe  cases  such  as  staphylococcal  or 
macular streptococcal vaginitis). Based on the efficacy data, current treatment guideline, known risks 
related to the use of (fluoro)quinolones including disabling ADRs the PRAC considered that benefit-risk 
balance of (fluoro)quinolones in vaginitis is negative. 
Meningitis 
In EU, the indication of meningitis is only authorised for pefloxacin. (Fluoro)quinolones have not been 
extensively studied for the treatment of acute bacterial meningitis and therefore there is only sparse 
data available regarding the use of pefloxacin in patients with meningitis that do not allow establishing 
efficacy. 
Considering potential insufficient coverage of pathogens responsible for meningitis by pefloxacin and 
risks associated with inappropriate treatment of meningitis, the overall benefit-risk balance of this 
indication is considered negative and therefore should be deleted. 
Infection of cerebrospinal fluid 
There is no avalaible data establishing efficacy in this clinical setting. Furthermore, the terminology 
‘Infection of cerebrospinal fluid’ is considered by the PRAC to be incorrect from a medical perspective. 
The benefit-risk balance is therefore negative and the indication should be deleted. 
Endocarditis 
In the EU, the indication endocarditis is approved exclusively for pefloxacin. Infective endocarditis is a 
severe and life-threatening disease associated with high mortality. Typical microorganisms that can 
cause infective endocarditis include Viridans streptococci, Streptococcus bovis, HACEK group, 
Staphylococcus aureus or enterococci.  After review of the available data, mainly based on animal 
models (Giamarellou H et al. 1989), efficacy of pefloxacin cannot be established.  
Considering potential insufficient coverage of pathogens responsible for endocarditis by pefloxacin and 
risks associated with inappropriate treatment of endocarditis, the benefit-risk balance of this indication 
is considered negative.  
Nosocomial pneumonia 
The poor antimicrobial activity of pefloxacin to Pseudomonas aeruginosa precludes from its use in 
nosocomial pneumonia where P. aeruginosa is a frequent pathogen. Furthermore, activity of ofloxacin 
against relevant pathogens is too limited to justify use in nosocomial pneumonia. In these infections 
complicated course as well as high level of the resistant pathogens should be expected. The overall 
benefit-risk ratio for this indication for is therefore considered negative. 
External otitis 
Acute otitis externa is a cellulitis of the ear canal skin and sub-dermis, with acute inflammation and 
variable oedema. In majority of cases, otitis externa is caused by bacterial infection (Dibb 1991; 
Rosenfeld et al. 2014), however, also other causative agents such as fungal infection or non-infectious 
dermatologic processes should be considered. In case of bacterial otitis externa, the main common 
causative pathogens are Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, often occurring as a 
polymicrobial infection (Dibb 1991; Clark et al. 1997). While the efficacy of topical antibacterial 
therapy was confirmed in clinical trials, the use of systemic therapy is questionable (Freedman 1978; 
Yelland 1993; Cannon 1970) and should be limited to persistent otitis externa or local or systemic 
spread of the infection (Sander 2001). In view of the above, the benefit-risk balance for this indication 
is considered negative. 
Category 4: rewording of indications according to the current medical knowledge 
Indications in this category are amended (please refer to Annex III) as they are either:  
(1)  too broad and encompass too many medical entities in terms of the scientific evidence 
available for (fluoro)quinolone benefit/risk assessment, in view of the Guideline on the 
evaluation of medicinal products indicated for treatment of bacterial infections 
(CPMP/EWP/558/95 rev 2) and in relation to the (sub) indications mentioned in categories 1, 2 
or 3 above. Therefore these broad indications need to be amended.  
(2)  or the terminology is incorrect from a medical perspective.  
Table 4 – Category 4 indications that are considered too broad  
Indication heading 
Infections of kidney, urinary tract and genitals 
Urinary tract infection 
Respiratory infections  
Pneumonia 
Ear, nose and throat infections 
Skin and soft tissue infections 
Genital tract infections 
Gyneacological infections 
 
 
Table 5 – Category 4 indications to be reworded according to accurate medical terms  
Indication 
Infection of the digestive system and bile ducts 
Prevention of infection in surgical procedures 
Prophylaxis of systemic urinary tract infections 
Prevention of systemic urinary tract infections 
Details of the amendments/ rewording of category 4 indications mentioned in tables 4 and 5 above are 
provided in Annex III of the CHMP opinion. 
In addition to the amendments to the indications mentioned above, the PRAC recommended other 
changes to the product information including further warnings and precautions of use relating to the 
long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
The PRAC also recommended the suspension of the following quinolones medicinal products, nalidixic 
acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine. The benefit risk balance of four substances (pipemidic 
acid, nalidixic acid, flumequine and cinoxacin) is considered negative. Indeed, due to their chemical 
structure and the related pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile (very narrow range of anti-
bacterial activity, high minimal inhibitory concentrations) their benefit is limited based on the current 
available data. It is also noted that these substances are not mentioned in any clinical guidelines and 
their place in the therapeutic armamentarium of urinary / genital / gastro-intestinal infections is not 
justified anymore. Considering the limited benefit and in view of the overall risk related to the use of 
these medicinal products including the risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible 
reactions, the benefit-risk balance of these medicinal products is negative. To lift the suspension, the 
MAH should submit appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive benefit-risk balance of 
these medicinal products. The MAHs should justify the dosage recommendation and consider 
appropriate PK/PD data in support of the indication. 
Core elements of a direct healthcare professional communication were agreed, together with the 
timelines for its distribution. 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation  
Whereas, 
• 
• 
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) considered the procedure under 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data for medicinal 
products containing substances related to quinolones and fluoroquinolones for systemic and 
inhaled use. 
The PRAC considered the totality of the data submitted for quinolones and fluoroquinolones 
medicinal products with regard to long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible ADRs. This 
included the responses submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in writing as well as 
the outcomes of consultations with the Infectious Disease Working Party. In addition, the PRAC 
considered the views of patient organisations, patients, families and carers, and the views of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
healthcare professionals in a public hearing. The PRAC also reviewed all data submitted by 
different stakeholders, both before and after, the public hearing.  
The PRAC concluded that some of the serious adverse drug reactions associated with the use of 
quinolones and fluoroquinolones could very rarely be long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible and that these risks are a class effect. 
The PRAC concluded that for patients with a serious infection that is susceptible to these 
antibiotics fluoroquinolones remain an important treatment option despite the very rare risk of 
long-lasting, disabling and potentially irreversible adverse reactions.  
The PRAC concluded that in case of milder infections, other treatment options should be 
considered. Therefore fluoroquinolones should be reserved as a last line treatment in patients 
where other therapeutic options are not effective or not tolerated.  
The PRAC also concluded that in case of mild and/or self-limiting infections, the benefit of 
quinolones and fluoroquinolones treatment does not outweigh the overall risk related to the 
use of these medicinal products including serious risk of long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
•  As a consequence, the PRAC recommended the suspension of the following quinolones 
medicinal products, nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine, as they do not 
retain any indication with a positive benefit-risk. To lift the suspension the MAH should submit 
the appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive benefit-risk of the medicinal 
product.  
•  Also, the PRAC recommended changes to the product information including the indication and 
further warnings and precautions of use relating to the long-lasting, disabling and potentially 
irreversible adverse drug reactions.  
•  Core elements of a direct healthcare professional communication were agreed, together with 
the timelines for its distribution.  
In view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the following fluoroquinolone 
medicinal products, pefloxacin, lomefloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, 
norfloxacin, prulifloxacin, rufloxacin remains favourable subject to the agreed amendments to the 
product information and other risk minimisation measures.  
The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations for pefloxacin, lomefloxacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, 
norfloxacin, prulifloxacin, rufloxacin. 
The PRAC also concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the following quinolone medicinal products, 
nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, cinoxacin and flumequine is no longer favourable and should be 
suspended. For lifting the suspension, the PRAC recommended that the MAH should submit the 
appropriate scientific evidence to demonstrate a positive benefit-risk of the medicinal product in any 
indication. 
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation. 
 
 
