EMA/135375/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004860 
Quofenix (delafloxacin) 
An overview of Quofenix and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Quofenix and what is it used for? 
Quofenix is an antibiotic used in adults to treat: 
• 
• 
bacterial infections of the skin and underlying tissues (acute bacterial skin and skin structure 
infections);  
community-acquired pneumonia (an infection of the lungs that is caught outside of hospital). 
It is used when other medicines are not suitable. It contains the active substance delafloxacin. 
How is Quofenix used? 
Quofenix is available as a powder to be made into a solution for infusion (300 mg) and as tablets 
(450 mg). Quofenix is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over one hour every 12 hours. After starting 
with a drip, the doctor may decide to switch to a tablet by mouth once every 12 hours. Treatment is 
given for 5 to 14 days for acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections and 5 to 10 days for 
community acquired pneumonia. 
Quofenix can only be obtained with a prescription and prescribers should take into account official 
guidance on the use of antibiotics. 
For more information about using Quofenix, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Quofenix work? 
The active substance in Quofenix, delafloxacin, belongs to a group of antibiotics called 
fluoroquinolones. Fluoroquinolones work by preventing bacteria involved in skin infections and 
community-acquired pneumonia from making copies of their DNA (genetic material). As a result, the 
bacteria cannot multiply and they die. Quofenix has a different chemical structure to other 
fluoroquinolones, which means that it can enter bacterial cells more easily.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Quofenix have been shown in studies? 
Quofenix was shown to be as effective as alternative antibiotics in two main studies of adults with 
acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections and one study in adults with community-acquired 
pneumonia. The main measure of effectiveness in these studies was whether the infection was cured. 
In the first study involving 660 patients, Quofenix given into a vein was compared with vancomycin 
plus aztreonam (two other antibiotics), both given into a vein. After up to 14 days of treatment, 52% 
of patients treated with Quofenix were cured of their infection, compared with 51% of patients treated 
with vancomycin and aztreonam. 
In the second study involving 850 patients, Quofenix given into a vein for 3 days and afterwards as 
tablets by mouth was compared with vancomycin plus aztreonam given into a vein. After treatment for 
up to 14 days, 58% of patients who received Quofenix were cured of their infection compared with 
60% of patients who received vancomycin and aztreonam. 
For community-acquired pneumonia, one study showed that after 5 to 10 days of treatment 91% of 
the patients receiving Quofenix were cured (342 out of 376), compared with 89% of the patients 
receiving moxifloxacin (330 out of 370). 
What are the risks associated with Quofenix? 
The most common side effects with Quofenix (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are diarrhoea, 
nausea (feeling sick) and hypertransaminasaemia (high blood levels of liver enzymes), which are mild 
to moderate.  
Persistent and disabling side effects have occurred with fluoroquinolone antibiotics in some patients. 
Quofenix must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to quinolone or fluoroquinolone 
antibiotics or in patients who have had tendon disorders related to treatment with a fluoroquinolone 
antibiotic. It must not be used in women who are pregnant or breast feeding, or women who are able 
to have children and who are not using contraception. Quofenix must not be used in children or 
adolescents under 18 years of age. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Quofenix, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Quofenix authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Quofenix’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. Quofenix is as effective as alternative antibiotics given into a vein in 
treating acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections and offers the possibility of switching to 
treatment by mouth, which may be more convenient for the patient and could reduce hospitalisation 
costs. For the treatment of communityacquired pneumonia, Quofenix was as effective as other 
fluoroquinolones. Since Quofenix’s safety profile was similar to that of other fluoroquinolones, it was 
considered that, as for other fluoroquinolones, it should be authorised for use only when other 
antibiotics are not suitable.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Quofenix? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Quofenix have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Quofenix (delafloxacin)  
EMA/135375/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Quofenix are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Quofenix are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Quofenix 
Quofenix received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 December 2019. 
Further information on Quofenix can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/quofenix.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Quofenix (delafloxacin)  
EMA/135375/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
