European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/95213/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
QUTENZA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
capsaicin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000909 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 16 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 41 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 46 
2/48 
 
 
 
1  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  NeurogesX  UK  Ltd.  submitted  on  30  August  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Qutenza, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) b of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMEA/CHMP  on  1  June  2006.  The  eligibility  to  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on 
demonstration of significant technical innovation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain in 
adults. Qutenza can be used alone or in combination with other pain medications. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Beatriz Silva-Lima 
Co-Rapporteur: János Borvendég 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 30 August 2007. 
The procedure started on 27 September 2007. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  14 
December 2007 (The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
members on 14 December 2007. 
During  the  meeting  on  24  January  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to 
the applicant on 25 January 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 17 
September 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on 31 October 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20  November  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 February 2009, outstanding issues were addressed by 
the applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  March  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a  Marketing Authorisation to Qutenza on 19 March 2009. The applicant provided 
the letter of undertaking on 9 March 2009. 
3/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
2.1 
The  active  substance  of  Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  179  mg  is  capsaicin.  Capsaicin  is  a  selective 
agonist  of the transient  receptor  potential  vanilloid 1 receptors (TRPV1). TRPV1  are  expressed 
abundantly  on  small-diameter  sensory  neurons,  e.g.  nociceptors.  Persistent  stimulation  of  the 
TRPV1  receptors  may  result  in  the  nociceptor  desensitization  with  its  consequent  lack  of 
sensitivity to relevant noxious stimuli. This may subsequently lead to analgesic effects and offer 
viable therapeutic option for various pain syndromes. 
Neuropathic  pain  as  defined  by  the  International  Association  for  the  Study  of  Pain  is  the  pain 
initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction in the nervous system. Clinical features of 
peripheral  neuropathy  may  include  disabling  symptoms  of  burning,  stinging,  shooting  pain  or 
electrical sensations, paresthesias, allodynia and hyperalgesia. These clinical features are usually 
associated  with  an  underlying  disease state such  as  diabetes  mellitus, a  history  of  herpes  zoster 
outbreak,  malnutrition  or  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  infection  and  therapy.  Present 
knowledge  suggests  that  the  optimal  treatment  of  neuropathic  pain  should  be  based  on  the 
underlying mechanism in each patient; however this is not always feasible. 
Currently used medications in the treatment of neuropathic pain include tricyclic antidepressants, 
serotonin  and  norepinephrine 
inhibitors,  anticonvulsants,  non-steroidal  anti-
inflammatory agents and opioids. Nevertheless, systemic treatments can exhibit limited efficacy 
and tolerability, and some undesirable adverse reactions. Non-pharmacological treatments such as 
transcutaneous nerve stimulation and psychological therapy have had some degree of success.  
reuptake 
It  has  been  suggested  that  high  concentrations  of  capsaicin  rapidly  delivered  to  the  skin  might 
activate  and  quickly  desensitize  cutaneous  nociceptors  resulting  in  pain  relief  and  less  burning 
sensation  than  low  concentrations  of  capsaicin.  Consequently,  Qutenza  is  presented  as  a  high 
concentration  capsaicin  cutaneous  patch  (8%)  containing  179  mg  of  capsaicin  per  patch  (640 
micrograms per cm2 of the patch).  
This  application  has  been  submitted  under  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. The initial indication at the submission was: treatment of 
peripheral neuropathic pain in adults. Qutenza can be used alone or in combination with 
other pain medications.  Qutenza Cutaneous Patch was granted eligibility for submission to obtain 
the  Community  Marketing  Authorisation  under  Article  3(2)b  of  the  Regulation  No.  726/2004 
(Significant Technical Innovation).  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Qutenza is a cutaneous patch used for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain. Qutenza patch 
is 280 cm2 and contains 179 mg of capsaicin (8% w/w). It is supplied as a procedure kit which 
includes  one  or  two  single  use  patches  of  the  same  strength  of  the  active  ingredient,  capsaicin 
(8%) and a tube of cleansing gel. Other ancillary items are also part of the kit such as stretchable 
stockings (to assist in maximising adhesion of the patch to the skin), nitrile gloves (to protect the 
healthcare professional applying and removing the patch), waste bag and gauze. 
The patch  has  a  rectangular  shape  and rounded  corners  and  may  be  cut  to  appropriate size  and 
shape to match the treatment area.  
Each patch is composed of three layers: 
a)  backing layer consisting of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film 
b)  self  adhesive  matrix  layer  containing  capsaicin,  amine-resistant  silicone-type  adhesives, 
diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (DGME), silicone oil and ethyl cellulose. 
c)  removable protective layer, which is a transparent fluoropolymer coated polyester film. 
4/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary packaging for each patch is a pre-printed, laminated, heat-sealed sachet composed of 
paper, aluminium and polyacrylnitril (PAN) layers bonded with a suitable adhesive.  
Cleansing  gel  is  supplied  to  remove  residual  capsaicin  from  the  skin  after  application  of  the 
Qutenza Cutaneous Patch. Cleansing gel is a topical gel and consists primarily of macrogol 300, 
which solubilises capsaicin allowing it to be wiped from the skin after treatment. Cleansing Gel 
has  no  therapeutic  value  in  treating  neuropathic  pain.  Other  than  macrogol  300,  Cleansing  Gel 
contains  Carbopol  1382,  purified  water,  sodium  hydroxide,  disodium  edetate  and  butylhydroxy 
anisole. 
Active Substance  
substance 
(trans-8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide)  produced 
The  active 
synthetically  and  is  present  as  the  trans-isomer.  Although  there  are  two  geometric  isomers  of 
capsaicin,  only  trans-capsaicin  occurs  naturally.  Its  molecular  formula  is  C18H27NO3  and  its 
molecular weight is 305.42. Capsaicin structural formula is as follows: 
is  capsaicin 
O
N
H
CH3O
OH
Figure 1: Chemical structure of capsaicin 
Capsaicin  is  white  to  light  yellow  powder  with  a  melting  point  between  66°C–70°C  and  LogP 
(octanol/water)  of  3.20.  Capsaicin  is  freely  soluble  in  acetone,  acetonitrile,  dichloromethane, 
ethanol,  ethyl  acetate,  methanol,  2-propanol,  methyl  ethyl  ketone.  It  is  soluble  in  toluene  and 
slightly soluble in water. 
Capsaicin is unlikely to form solvates or hydrates and is non-hygroscopic. Capsaicin has no chiral 
centre. 
Manufacture 
Capsaicin is synthesised in 5 steps. The in process controls have been identified in development 
studies as  being  critical  to  ensure  the  synthetic  manufacturing  process  can  consistently  produce 
active substance meeting the release specifications.  
Confirmation of the chemical structure of capsaicin was provided by elemental analysis, nuclear 
magnetic resonance spectra (1H,  13C,  1H-1H COSY,  1H-13C HMQC, and  1H-13C HMBC), Fourier 
transform infrared spectroscopy (diffuse reflectance and transmission), mass spectrometry and X-
ray powder diffraction. 
Polymorphic forms of capsaicin were investigated. Thermal data and variable temperature X-ray 
powder diffraction (XRPD) data indicated that there is one stable crystalline form (A) at ambient 
temperature  and  one  metastable  crystalline  form  (B)  of  capsaicin  at  high-temperature  which 
reverts to form A on cooling to room temperature. 
These  results  confirmed  that  the  active  substance  has  the  proposed  structure  (trans-capsaicin) 
when synthesized by the proposed manufacturing process. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance (active substance and colour of 
solution), identification (IR), assay (HPLC), related compounds (HPLC), loss on drying (PhEur), 
water content (Karl Fisher), residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (PhEur), melting point (PhEur) 
and sulphated Ash (PhEur).  
5/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch analysis data provided for the 12 batches confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity 
with the proposed specification. 
Stability 
Two batches manufactured by each of the two manufacturing sites for the active substance were 
stored  at  25°C/60%  RH  for  24  months  and  60  months  (long  term  storage  conditions)  and  at 
40oC/75%  for  6  months  and  10  months  (accelerated  conditions),  respectively.  In  addition, 
photostability test was performed in one batch of active substance following ICH photostability 
testing guidance. No significant changes were observed on storage. 
The stability studies showed that the active substance is stable and confirm the proposed re-test 
period. 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Qutenza is a micro-reservoir patch, a sub-category of the reservoir type, which uses multiple mini 
drug reservoirs instead of a single reservoir unit. The amphiphilic solvent chosen was diethylene 
glycol  monoethyl  ether  (DGME)  because  it  ensures  a  good  solubility  of  capsaicin  and  avoids 
crystallisation during storage. 
Capsaicin cutaneous patch was developed to deliver sufficient active substance in the skin over a 
short  application  time  to  provide  prolonged  pain  relief.  The  product  was  developed  to  deliver 
capsaicin at a much higher rate than existing treatments into the tissues at the dermal application 
site. Therefore, formulation development focused on achieving a very short lag-time for dermal 
delivery  of  capsaicin.  The  site  of  action  of  the  active  substance  is  the  nociceptors  in  the  skin; 
hence systemic absorption is not required for therapeutic activity. This is reflected in the creation 
of  a  new  standard  term  for  products  like  this  -  “cutaneous  patch”.  The  clinical  pharmacology 
studies confirmed the lack of systemic absorption of capsaicin. 
The  rapid  delivery  of  the  active  substance  and  the  short  lag-time  can  be  achieved  by  an  initial 
flow of DGME into the skin and uptake of water in the patch. This results in an increase in the 
thermodynamic activity of the drug within the matrix. Comparison to a conventional matrix patch 
showed that the increase in thermodynamic activity led to 2-fold increase in permeation through 
the skin. 
Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  capsaicin  cutaneous  patch  are  of  human  or 
animal origin. 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  uses  standard  equipment  for  the  patch  production  steps  that  can  be 
described  as  follows:  mixing  of  active  and  non-active  components,  coating  and  laminating  of 
films, punching the patches to size, and packaging within heat-sealed sachets.   
There  are  several  in-process  controls  such  as  microscopic  examination  following  addition  of 
capsaicin  to  the  adhesive  to  assess  matrix  uniformity  and  to  ensure  absence  of  undissolved 
particles, control of coating weight, visual inspection of the dried matrix film to identify and mark 
any  defective  parts  in  the  coated  film,  visual  inspection  of  the  imprinting  and  tightness  of  the 
sachets.  
The  manufacturing  process  validation  has  been  performed  using  two  production  scale  batches.  The 
results showed that the manufacturing process is well controlled. 
6/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests controlled by validated methods for appearance (backing 
film, matrix, protective liner, sachet), adhesive force, peel force, tightness of the pouches, identity 
(IR  and  UV),    assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  in  vitro  dissolution  (PhEur),  residual 
solvents, DGME and DGME degradants (GC), content uniformity (PhEur) and microbial purity 
(PhEur). 
Batch analysis data provided for batches manufactured at the proposed commercial manufacturing 
site comply with the specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  were  provided  on  five  batches  of  capsaicin  cutaneous  patch  at  long  term 
(25°C/60%RH)  and  accelerated  (40°C/75%RH)  conditions,  and  two  of  those  batches  have  also 
been stored at 5°C. 
The  parameters  tested  were  aspect,  microscopic  examination,  print  on  the  pouches,  capsaicin 
content,  degradation  products,  adhesive  force,  peel  force,  in  vitro  dissolution,  content  of 
diethylene  glycol  monoethyl  ether,  content  of  diethylene  glycol,  content  of  ethylene  glycol, 
content of 2-ethoxyethanol, tightness of pouches, water content and microbial limit test. 
In summary, the stability results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The excipients used in the 
preparation  of  the  finished  product  are  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  manufacturing 
process used for capsaicin cutaneous patch is a standard process that has been developed for the 
manufacture  of  transdermal  patches.  These  processes  are  performed  on  standard  equipment 
commonly used for the manufacture of patches. Stability tests under ICH conditions indicate that the 
product is stable for the proposed shelf life. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Qutenza  (NGX-4010)  cutaneous  patch  is  intended to  be  used  for the  management  of  peripheral 
neuropathic pain in adults. The active pharmaceutical ingredient of Qutenza is capsaicin (trans-8-
methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide). Capsaicin is the most abundant pungent molecule contained in 
chilli peppers. Although there are two geometric isomers of capsaicin, only trans-capsaicin occurs 
naturally.  Capsaicin,  which  in  the  course  of  this  dossier  is  used  generically  to  refer  to  trans-
capsaicin employed in Qutenza, is a synthetic product of high purity presented in the form of a 
cutaneous patch. 
Pharmacology 
The  pharmacology  of  capsaicin  has  been  extensively  studied  in  animals  and  the  bibliographic 
review  of  primary  and  secondary  pharmacological  studies  has  been  provided.  Moreover,  data 
from  a  validated  rodent  model  of  post-surgical  pain  supports  the  analgesic  efficacy  of  single 
administration of local high-concentration capsaicin for acute nociceptive pain. 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
The mechanism of capsaicin analgesic action is related to its highly selective agonist properties 
for  the  transient  receptor  potential  vanilloid  1  receptors  (TRPV1)  expressed  abundantly  in 
nociceptors. Persistent stimulation of the TRPV1 receptors may result in their desensitisation with 
consequent 
long-term 
desensitisation  of  nociceptors  induced  by  TRPV1  agonist  exposure  may  not  only  reduce  the 
ability of nociceptor tips to initiate electrical signals, but it has been long known that nociceptor 
nerve  terminals  exposed  to  capsaicin  lose  the  capacity  to  uptake  and  retrogradely  transport 
neurotrophic  factors  such  as  NGF  to  the  cell  body.  Without  a  constant  supply  of  NGF,  many 
to  relevant  noxious  stimuli.  The 
lack  of  nociceptor  sensitivity 
7/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nociceptors lose their ability to maintain a hyperexcitable phenotype. This effect is claimed to be 
reversible providing fibre terminals can recover from desensitized condition. 
In vitro studies 
The literature review provided the potency of capsaicin for TRPV1 receptors in different species 
obtained  from  different  studies.  The  largest  comparable  data  sets  for  capsaicin  potency  and 
efficacy referred to in the application arise from measurements of intracellular calcium responses 
in cells stably expressing TRPV1.  
EC50 values at temperature of 20oC-25oC and pH ~7.4 were reported as: 
• 
• 
• 
Human: 74.1 nM and 12.5 nM [Smart, 2000] and [Witte, 2002] respectively. 
Rat: 33.9 nM and 13.5 nM [Jerman, 2000] and  [Witte, 2002] 
Mouse 3.7 nM [Correll, 2004]. 
TRPV1  activation  is  highly  dependent  on  temperature  and  pH,  being  higher  if  measured  at 
physiological temperatures or in acidic conditions (Cortright, 2004). 
In vivo studies 
A  study  by  Pospisilova  and  Palesek  has  addressed  the  proposed  anti-analgesic  properties  of 
capsaicin  in  a  mouse  model  of  post-incisional  mechanical  hyperalgesia  and  allodynia.  0.1ml  of 
49mM capsaicin solution injected in the hind paw was studied and shown to be efficacious. This 
corresponds to a much lower dose/animal than that used in toxicology studies and proposed for 
human use.  
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
A number of pharmacological activities, which are thought not to be mediated through activation 
of TRPV1, have been described for capsaicin. It appears however that the non-TRPV1-mediated 
actions typically occur at much higher concentrations (often in the micromolar range) than those 
required for TRPV1 activation (in the low nanomolar range).  
Safety pharmacology programme 
Central nervous system (rodent CNS behavioural test) 
The  capsaicin  potential  to  produce  changes  in  the  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  was  assessed 
using Irwin observation test in rats. The capsaicin dose of 32 mg was administered via a 50 cm2 
trimmed  patch  applied  for  up  to  3  hours.  The  animals  were  observed  for  general  behavioural, 
autonomic and motor effects. No behavioural or physiological changes were noted in rats exposed 
cutaneously to capsaicin in comparison with the control group. 
Cardiovascular and respiratory effects in anaesthetised dogs 
Capsaicin effects on cardiovascular and respiratory systems were assessed in beagle dogs given iv 
ascending doses of 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, respectively. The administration of low (0.03 mg/kg) 
and  intermediate  (0.1mg/kg)  dose  of  capsaicin  had  no  measurable  effects  on  cardiovascular 
function  while  the  highest  dose  (0.3  mg/kg)  of  capsaicin  caused  an  increase  in  heart  rate  and 
blood  pressure.  The  cardiovascular  effects  observed  after  the  highest  dose  of  capsaicin  were 
transient. Similarly, only the 0.3 mg/kg dose of capsaicin resulted in a transient increases in peak 
inspiratory flow (PIF), peak expiratory flow (PEF), tidal volume (TV), minute volume (MV) and 
rate of respiration.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  QTCF  and  QTCB  interval  prolongation.  In  vitro  tests  assessing  QT 
interval prolongation were not conducted. However a comprehensive analysis of the interaction of 
capsaicin with different ion channels was performed. Taking into consideration that low plasma 
levels  are  expected  after  Qutenza  patch  application  the  interaction  with  cardiac  channels  is  not 
probable. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies are discussed in section 3.5 of AR.  
8/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two in-vivo single-dose studies in rats and one single-dose cutaneous study in mini-swine were 
conducted using the proprietary patch formulation. In addition, a number of in-vitro studies using 
human, dog and rat liver microsomes and fresh human skin have been performed.  
9/48 
Absorption 
The table below shows the particulars of the three single-dose studies together with bioavailability 
values. 
Species 
Rat 
Rat 
Mini-swine 
N 
15 
18 
3 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
32 
32 
64 
Route 
dermal 
dermal 
dermal 
F (bioavailability) 
(%) 
 21.4% 
Males:    5.78% 
Females  3.59% 
 4.2% 
The extent of absorption was markedly higher in the first rat study as compared to the second one. 
In rats the plasma and blood concentration profiles had double-peak character with an early Tmax 
at 3 hours and second smaller peak at 72 hours, respectively. In mini-swine plasma radioactivity 
could be detected only in the first four hours and the peak concentration was measured at 2 h. Tmax 
corresponded to the patch removal time.  
Distribution 
Capsaicin-related  radioactivity  measured  at  72  hours  post-application  in  rats  was  widely 
distributed.  The  skin  radioactivity  was  very  high  and  reached  900000  ng  eq/g.  The  tissue 
concentrations in other organs in the decreasing order were: in liver (2860 ng eq/g), lymph nodes 
(1670 ng eq/g), adrenal glands (1690 ng eq/g), kidneys (1490 ng eq/g), heart (1440 ng eq/g) and 
lungs (1070 ng eq/g). Lower radioactivity was also detected in spleen (642 ng eq/g), brain (428 ng 
eq/g) and plasma (482 ng eq/g).  
The  second  study  in  rats  yielded  different  results.  At  72  hours  after  the  patch  application 
capsaicin-related radioactivity was present in a limited number of organs. It was relatively low in 
lymph  nodes  (63.3ng  eq/g),  ovaries (40.9  ng  eq/g),  slightly  higher  in  kidney  (255-433  ng  eq/g) 
and  liver  (543-599  ng  eq/g),  and  could  not  be  detected  in  other  organs  or  plasma.  In  the  skin 
significant radioactivity (3770-6420 ng eq/g) could be measured even after 2 weeks of the path 
removal. 
In  mini-swine  no  radioactivity  was  detected  in  sampled  tissues  (adrenal  glands,  brain,  heart, 
kidneys, liver, lungs, lymph nodes and spleen) with the exception of the skin at the application 
site which contained 1.23% of the administered dose.  
Protein binding 
Plasma protein binding of capsaicin was assessed in rat, rabbit, dog and human plasma samples. 
Capsaicin was highly bound to plasma proteins in all four species over the concentration range of 
50 to 500 ng/mL. The mean percentage of plasma-bound capsaicin ranged from 92.8% to 94.3% 
in  human,  92.0%  to  93.2%  in  dog,  91.1%  to  92.4%  in  rabbit  and  90.8%  to  91.2%  in  rat.  The 
binding was independent of the concentration and time in all species 
Metabolism 
In vitro studies 
The  metabolism  of  [14C]capsaicin  was  assessed  in  vitro  following  incubation  with  rat,  dog,  and 
human hepatic microsomes and S-9 fraction.  
Biotransformation  was  determined  at  1  and  10  µM  [14C]capsaicin  with  1  mg  microsomal 
protein/mL  for  0,  5,  10,  20,  and  30  minutes.  [14C]capsaicin  metabolism  was  rapid  in  rat 
microsomes and S-9 fraction as compared to dogs and humans. In humans, the rate of formation 
of the metabolites was faster than in dog. Generally, the rate of metabolism in microsomes was 
faster than the S-9 fraction. 
For all species, the metabolism of [14C]capsaicin was less extensive at the 10-µM concentration as 
compared to the 1-µM concentration, suggesting saturability of metabolism.  
10/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro metabolism studies with [14C]capsaicin resulted in the formation of several products. Three 
major metabolites were detected and tentatively identified as 16-hydroxy-capsaicin, 17-hydroxy-
capsaicin,  and  16,17-dehydro-capsaicin.  CYP2C9  was  identified  as  the  primary  enzyme 
responsible  for  converting  [14C]capsaicin  to  16-hydroxy-capsaicin  and  16,17-dehydro-capsaicin. 
CYP2C19  may  also  contribute  to  the  formation  of  16-hydroxy-capsaicin.  CYP  enzyme(s) 
responsible  for  17-hydroxy-capsaicin  formation  remain  unidentified.  Capsaicin  inhibits  major 
CYP  isoenzymes,  i.e.  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19,  with  IC50  values  of  2.1,  2.0  and  3.2 
mcM, respectively. Capsaicin appeared also to inhibit CYP2B6, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4/5 directly 
with extrapolated  IC50  values  of  24,  18,  38 and 12 mcM,  respectively.  The skin  metabolism  of 
capsaicin was also evaluated in-vitro. It resulted that 25% of capsaicin was metabolized after 20 
hours regardless of the initial concentration.  
In vivo studies 
The profile of plasma capsaicin metabolites was determined in samples collected from male and 
female  rats  at  3  hours  post-dose.  The  analysis  showed  up  to  five  metabolites  in  addition  to  the 
unchanged  parent  drug.  Unchanged  drug  plasma  concentrations  in  male  and  female  rats 
corresponded to 9.86% and 10.5% of the radioactivity in the samples. At 3 hours post-dose, most 
of  the  circulating  radioactivity  was  associated  with  vanillin  (males  64.1%  and  females  47.3%, 
respectively). 
Capsaicin metabolism in rat skin (administration site) 
The profile of capsaicin metabolites in skin (test site) was determined in samples collected from 
male  and  female  rats  at  3  hours  post-dose.  The  HPLC  analysis  showed  that  most  of  the 
radioactivity was associated with the unchanged drug. Concentrations of the parent drug in male 
and  female  skin  (test  site)  were  224,000  and  119,000  ng  eq/g  of  [14C]capsaicin  respectively, 
corresponding to 98.9% and 84.8% of the radioactivity in the sample. Vanillylamine was detected 
in female skin only, and accounted for 15.2% of the radioactivity in the sample at 3 hours post-
dose. 
Excretion 
The total excreted amount of capsaicin was low (about 3%-5%), while duration of excretion was 
very  long,  reaching  more  than  14  days  in  mini-swine.  In  male  and  female  rats  the  unchanged 
parent drug concentration in urine within 96 hours post-dose accounted for 0.04% and 0.03% of 
the administered dose. Vanillic acid-sulfate (M2A) was the major metabolite in the urine of male 
rats  and  accounted  for  1.26%  of  the  dose,  while  in  female  rats  it  accounted  for  0.67%  of  the 
administered  dose.  Vanillylamine  was  the  major  metabolite  in  the  urine  of  female  rats  and 
accounted for 1.09% of the dose, while in male rats it accounted for 1.07% of the administered 
dose. Unchanged parent drug in male and female faeces within 96 hours post-dose accounted for 
0.09%  and  0.05%  of  the  administered  dose,  respectively.  O-demethyl-capsaicin (M6A)  was  the 
major  metabolite  in  faeces  of  male  and  female  rats  and  accounted  for  0.88%  and  0.45%  of  the 
administered dose, respectively.  
Relevance to human pharmacokinetics 
ADME studies reflect a significant species difference in the transfer of capsaicin from the patch 
into  the  skin  and  the  systemic  circulation.  Since  the  pig  is  believed  to  be  the  most  predictive 
species  for  human  percutaneous  absorption  (Schmook,  2001)  limited  systemic  absorption  of 
capsaicin from the patch is expected in humans. 
Toxicology 
Nonclinical studies with either Qutenza (NGX-4010) or other formulations of capsaicin included 
GLP-compliant single-dose studies in rat and dog, 4 week studies (weekly 3 hour administration) 
in rat and mini-swine, fertility and general reproductive toxicity in the rat (daily 3 hour exposure 
for 7 weeks in males and 3 weeks in females), developmental toxicity in rat and rabbit (daily 3 
hour exposure during organogenesis) and a peri- and post-natal study in the rat with daily 3 hour 
exposure from Day 7 of gestation to Day 20 of lactation. Genotoxicity study and carcinogenicity 
study  using  a  short-term  model  were  also  conducted.  In  addition,  cutaneous  sensitization  in 
11/48 
 
 
 
 
 
guinea pigs and phototoxicity by cutaneous application in rats, as well as an in silico analysis of 
capsaicin, capsaicin metabolites and its potential impurities ware carried out. 
12/48 
The toxicology studies conducted are listed in the table below. 
Study Type 
and Duration 
Single-dose toxicology 
Repeated-dose 
toxicology 
Repeated-dose 
toxicology 
Ames assay 
Mouse lymphoma cell 
mutation assay 
Chromosomal  
aberration assay 
Micronucleus Test in 
Bone Marrow of CD-1 
Mice 0 hour + 24 hour 
Oral Dosing and 48 
hour Sampling 
26 week cutaneous 
carcinogenicity study 
in Tg.CA mice 
Male and female 
fertility and general 
reproductive toxicology 
Developmental 
toxicology 
Developmental and 
peri/post-natal 
reproductive toxicology 
Route of Administration 
Species 
Compound Administered 
Cutaneous; one ~ 3 hr 
application 
Cutaneous; once/week 3 hr
application for 4 weeks 
Intravenous infusion over 
15 minutes every day for 
14 days 
Rat and dog 
NGX-4010 
Rat and mini-pig 
NGX-4010 
Dog 
Capsaicin powder dissolved 
in diethylene glycol 
monoethyl ether and then 
diluted with phosphate 
buffered saline (2:1) 
In vitro with and without 
metabolic activation  
(rat liver S-9) 
In vitro with and without 
metabolic activation  
(rat liver S-9) 
In vitro with and without 
metabolic activation  
(rat liver S-9) 
S. typhimurium 
TA 1535, TA 1537, 
TA 98 and TA 100 
and E. coli WP2uvrA 
Mouse lymphoma 
L5178Y cell line; 
clone 3.7.2.C 
Cultured aguman 
lymphocytes 
Oral gavage 
Mouse 
Capsaicin powder in 
dimethyl sulfoxid 
Capsaicin powder in 
dimethyl sulfoxid 
Capsaicin powder in 
dimethyl sulfoxid 
Capsaicin powder  
suspended in  
0.5% carboxymethyl 
cellulose 
Cutaneous one ~ 3 hr 
exposure weekly for 
26 weeks 
Cutaneous; one 3 hour 
exposure daily for 7 weeks 
(male) or 3 weeks (female) 
Cutaneous; one 3 hr 
application daily from 
Gestation Day 7 through 
17 (rats) or 19 (rabbits) 
Cutaneous; one 3 hr 
application daily from 
Gestation Day 7 through 
Lactation Day 20 
Cutaneous 
Mouse 
Capsaicin powder dissolved 
in diethylene glycol 
monoethyl ether 
Rat 
NGX-4010 
Rat and rabbit 
NGX-4010 (rat) 
Capsaicin in diethylene 
glycol monoethyl ether 
(rabbit) 
Rat 
NGX-4010 
Guinea pig 
NGX-4010 
Rat 
NGX-4010 
Cutaneous sensitisation 
by closed patch 
technique 
Phototoxicity screening  Cutaneous; one application 
of up to 3 hr 
Single dose toxicity with toxicokinetics 
NGX-4010 was applied cutaneously to male and female rats at either 16 mg/rat (25 cm2 patch) or 
32  mg/rat (50 cm2 patch)  for  approximately  3  hours. Adverse  effects  attributed to  the  treatment 
included  scabs  or  sores  in  the  cervical,  dorsal  and  sacral  regions  at  the  edges  of  the  patch 
placement site at the 32 mg/rat dose level. They were however attributed to mechanical effect of 
the adhesive. 
The NOAEL in rats corresponded approximately to 64 mg/kg, which is about 6 times higher than 
the proposed maximum human cutaneous exposure. The plasma concentration corresponding to 
the NOAEL was  38.8 and 61.8 ng/mL in the male and female rats, respectively, which is about 
two to four times higher than the maximum detected human plasma level (17.8 ng/mL).  
13/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In dogs the maximum dose of 256 mg/dog or 28 mg/kg is about 3 times higher than the proposed 
maximum  human  cutaneous  exposure  level.  This  dose  did  not  produce  capsaicin-related  toxic 
alterations  or  detectable  capsaicin  plasma  levels  with  the  exception  of  two  cases  when  plasma 
levels were near the lower detection limit, i.e. 10 ng/ml.  
Repeat dose toxicity with toxicokinetics 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  NGX-4010  was  tested  in  rat  and  mini-pigs,  while  dogs  were 
administered capsaicin intravenously.  
Male and female rats were treated with NGX-4010 at 16 mg/rat (25 cm2 patch) or 32 mg/rat (50 
cm2  patch)  for  3  hours  once  a  week  for  4  weeks.  There  were  no  test  article-related  deaths  or 
significant  effects  on  clinical  pathology  results,  organ  weight  differences,  microscopic  or 
macroscopic  observations  in  the  study.  The  NOAEL  appeared  to  be  32  mg/rat  or  128  mg/kg 
(assuming 250 g as average weight of a rat), i.e. about 12-times higher than the maximum human 
cutaneous  exposure.  Exposure  in  the  rats  was  confirmed  at  all  dose  levels  in  all  animals  in  the 
toxicokinetic satellite groups. 
Male and female mini-pigs were treated with NGX-4010 at either 128 mg/pig (200 cm2 patch) or 
384 mg/pig (600 cm2 patch) for 3 hours once a week for 4 weeks followed by a 2 week recovery 
period.  The  highest  dose  used  in  the  study,  i.e.  384  mg/pig  or  25.6  mg/kg  (assuming  15  kg  as 
average  weight  of  a  pig),  was  approximately  2.4  times  higher  than  the  maximum  proposed 
cutaneous exposure in humans. Test article-related behavioural observations included scratching 
and rubbing of the administration site noted in high-dose group of female pigs on Day 15 and one 
low-dose group of male pigs and one high-dose group male on Day 30. There were no other test 
article-related  effects  of  toxicological  importance.  Scratching  and  rubbing  of  the  administration 
site observed during the study was probably due to local pain induced by the patch. 
In dogs capsaicin was administered intravenously at doses of 0.03, 0.1 or 0.3 mg/kg daily for 14 
days. The  test  article-related  behavioural  observation in the  study  included  vocalization  in  dogs 
receiving 0.3 mg/kg/day of capsaicin and elevated ALT in male and female dogs administered 0.3 
mg/kg/day of capsaicin. The difference in ALT levels was statistically significant (p < 0.05) for 
females only. The NOAEL for capsaicin appeared to be 0.1 mg/kg/day. 
Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity  was  assessed  using  the  Ames  test  (Salmonella  typhimurium  strains  TA  1535,  TA 
1537, TA 98 and TA 100 and Escherichia coli strain WP2uvrA), the mouse lymphoma assay, in 
vitro chromosomal aberration assay with human peripheral blood lymphocytes and in vivo mouse 
micronucleus assay.  
Capsaicin did not show genotoxic potential in the Ames test, the chromosomal aberration assay 
and  the  mouse  micronucleus  assay.  A  weak  positive  response  in  the  in  vitro  mouse  lymphoma 
assay was observed. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenic potential of capsaicin was evaluated in a 26 week cutaneous toxicity study using a 
transgenic  mouse  model  (  Tg.AC  mice).  No  increased  incidence  of  preneoplastic  or  neoplastic 
skin lesions were observed as a result of capsaicin treatment.  
Reproduction Toxicity with toxicokinetics 
The  effects  of  capsaicin  on  male  and  female  fertility  and  general  reproductive  toxicology  were 
assessed  in  rats.  Male  rats  were  exposed  to  NGX-4010  patches  for  3  hours  once  a  day  for  7 
weeks,  while  female  rats  –  for  3  weeks.  An  adverse  effect  on  sperm  production  and  sperm 
motility was noted at all dose levels (25, 37.5 and 50 cm2, respectively). In females, the Fertility 
Index (number of pregnancies per number of rats that mated) and the number of pregnancies per 
number  of  rats  in  cohabitation  were  reduced  for  all  doses  (25,  37.5  and  50  cm2).  No  other 
Caesarean-sectioning or litter parameters were affected by application of NGX-4010 patches even 
at the highest dose of 50 cm2. 
Based  on  the  results,  NOAEL  for  maternal  and  paternal  toxicity  of  NGX-4010  as  well  as  for 
reproductive toxicity was less than a patch size of 25 cm2 e.g. 16 mg/cm2. 
14/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  developmental  toxicity  study  in  rat  with  the  administration  of  patches,  delays  in  skeletal 
ossification,  evident  as  significant  reductions  in  the  average  number  of  ossified  hind-limb  and 
fore-limb phalanges and metatarsals and a significant increase incidence of incompletely ossified 
1st  sternebra  in  the  litter,  occurred  at  the  highest  dose  tested  (50  cm2  patch/rat=110  mg/kg  if 
calculated with an average body weight of 290.8 g/rat at day 13 of gestation) which was tenfold 
of  the  maximum  human  dose  (10.7  mg/kg).  The  significance  of  these  findings  for  humans  is 
unknown. The developmental NOAEL was determined as a patch size of 37.5 cm2 (24 mg/rat).  
In  the  rabbit  developmental  study  animals  were  treated  with  capsaicin  dissolved  in  DGME. 
Moderate erythema, flaking, wrinkling and lesions at the application site occurred at statistically 
significant incidences in  the  3,  6.5  and 13  microLitres/cm2  dosage  groups  (17.4,  37.8  and  75.6 
mg/kg if calculated with the average body weight of 3.44 kg/rabbit at day 13 of gestation). There 
was no dose relationship in the incidence of these findings and the observed irritation appeared to 
be related, at least in part, to the vehicle (DGME). There were no other toxicologically important 
clinical  findings  and  body  weights,  food  consumption,  maternal  necropsy  findings,  Caesarean 
section and litter parameters were unremarkable. Accordingly, the maternal NOAEL of capsaicin 
was  less  than  3  microLitres/cm2  (60  mg/rabbit=17.4  mg/kg,  about  1.6  times  higher  than  the 
maximum  human  exposure)  based  on  the  local  irritation  observed,  and  the  developmental 
NOAEL was greater than 13 microLitres/cm2 (260 mg/rabbit=75 mg/kg, about 25x higher than in 
humans).  
In  the  study  assessing  prenatal  and  postnatal  development,  including  maternal  function  NGX-
4010  patches  at  doses  of  16  mg/rat  (25 cm2),  24  mg/rat  (37.5 cm2)  or 32  mg/rat (50 cm2)  were 
applied  once  daily  to  pregnant  female  rats  from  Day  7  of  gestation  to  Day  20  of  lactation 
inclusive.  Delivery  and  litter  observations  were  unaffected  by  the  treatment.  The  reproductive 
NOAEL  and  the  NOAEL  for  viability  and  growth  in  the  offspring  was  greater  than  32 
mg/animal/day (114 mg/kg/day if calculated with the mid-treatment period body weight).  
Toxicokinetic  evaluation  was  performed  in  the  range  finding  study  prior  to  developmental 
toxicity study (same doses as the main study) in rats and rabbits. In the rat study plasma levels 
were generally undetectable within 24 hours after patch application on GD 7 in the three treated 
groups  (25, 37.5  and  50  cm2),  with  the exception  of  one  sample in  the  25 cm2  dose  group at 6 
hours post-application. After application on GD 17, plasma levels of capsaicin were detected in 
the  37.5  and  50  cm2  dose  groups  at  2  hours  post-application;  the  average  values  were  dose-
dependent. Capsaicin was detectable in the plasma sample of just one rat at 3 hours post-dosage in 
the 37.5 cm2 dose group. 
In  rabbits  measurable  plasma  concentrations  of  capsaicin  occurred  6  hours,  15  minutes  and  5 
minutes after the first dose on GD 7 in the 3, 10 and 30 mcL/cm2 dose groups, respectively. On 
GD 7, the highest concentrations of capsaicin occurred in the 3 mcL/cm2 dose group at 6 hours 
post-dosage  and  at  3  hours  post-dosage  in  the  10  and  30  mcL/cm2  dose  groups.  Capsaicin  was 
present  in  plasma  samples  before  dosage  on  GD  19.  After  dosage  on  GD  19,  plasma  levels 
increased  in  all  dose  groups,  although  the  changes  were  variable.  On  average,  the  highest 
concentration of capsaicin occurred at 5 minutes, 30 minutes and 6 hours post-dosage in the 3, 10 
and  30  mcL/cm2  dose  groups,  respectively.  Plasma  concentrations  increased  in  a  dosage-
dependent manner at all time-points in the three treated groups. 
Local tolerance  
The local tolerance was assessed within the single and repeat dose studies. The delayed contact 
hypersensitivity potential of NGX-4010 patches was evaluated in albino guinea pigs. The NGX-
4010  patch  was  found  to  be  a  mild  cutaneous  sensitizer.  This  information  is  reflected  in  the 
SmPC. 
The  phototoxicity  of  capsaicin  was  examined  in  rats.  Capsaicin  was  found  to  be  devoid  of 
phototoxic potential. 
15/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other toxicity studies 
A  computerised  evaluation  of  structure/activity  relationship  between  capsaicin,  its  metabolites 
and  impurities  potentially  present  in  the  capsaicin  supplied  for  the  NGX-4010  cutaneous  patch 
was conducted. The analysis did not identify any previously unknown toxicity.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  has  been  completed  based  on  CHMP  Guideline  on  the 
Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (EMEA/  CHMP/ 
SWP/4447/00).  
An octanol/water partition coefficient study was conducted at the request of the CHMP. The study 
was  conducted  using  the  OECD  107  guideline  in  a  GLP-compliant  facility.  The  results  of  this 
study indicate that the Log Kow value for capsaicin is approximately 3.5. Therefore capsaicin is 
not a Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic (PBT) substance. 
Based on the highest recommended dose (1000 cm2 corresponding to 640 mg), a worst-case PEC 
in  surface  water  of  0.035 µg/L  has  been calculated based  on the  maximum  cutaneous absorbed 
single dose of 7 mg (1.1% of 640 mg, the total capsaicin single dose applied to patch) and using 
default values. On the basis of this assessment, the PECSURFACEWATER value for capsaicin exceeds 
the PEC action limit of 0.01µg/L. However, as the posology recommends a dosing frequency of a 
single exposure of one hours' duration every three months the CHMP considered that the product 
does not present a significant risk to the environment.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  toxicological  profile  of  capsaicin  path  was  assessed  in  a  sufficient  set  of  studies  which 
appropriately  covered  the  main  requirements  in  relation  to  the  proposed  conditions  of  use.  The 
main findings are local adverse effects since very low plasma levels are expected after application 
of  Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  in  humans.  No  specific  concerns  apart  from  cutaneous  reactions 
including rash, expected based on the mechanism of action, were identified. Genotoxicity studies 
performed  with  capsaicin  showed  a  weak  mutagenic  response  in  mouse  lymphoma  assay.  This 
information  is  reflected  in  the  SmPC.  Other  genotoxicity  assays  yielded  negative  results.  The 
carcinogenic potential of capsaicin was negative. Reproductive effects included reduced male and 
female fertility which may be taken into account when deciding on the use of the patch in men 
and  women  of  reproductive  age.  Whether  these  effects  are  reversible  has  not  been  established; 
however  there  is  no  apparent  reason  to  believe  they  will  be  irreversible.  This  information  is 
reflected  in  the  SmPC.  Delayed  ossification  was  observed  in  the  rat  teratology  study  at  doses 
above  therapeutic  level  in  humans.  This  information  is  reflected  in  the  SmPC.  No  phototoxic 
concerns were raised.  
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Qutenza  (NGX-4010)  is  a  cutaneous  patch  intended  for  the  treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic 
pain. The active pharmaceutical ingredient of Qutenza is capsaicin (trans-8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-
nonenamide;  6-  nonenamide,  N-[(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)  methyl]  -8-methyl-,  (6E)).  The 
pharmacological  activity  of  capsaicin  includes  activation  of  Transient  Receptor  Potential 
Vanilloid  1  receptors  (TRPV1)  located  in  the  skin,  e.g.  cutaneous  nociceptors.  Following 
exposure  to  capsaicin,  cutaneous  nociceptors  become  less  sensitive  to  a  variety  of  stimuli, 
including further capsaicin exposure or thermal stimuli. A high concentration capsaicin cutaneous 
patch  (8%)  was  developed  which  can  deliver high  dose  of  capsaicin  in a  short  time  in  order  to 
rapidly de-functionalise pathophysiologically hyperactive cutaneous nociceptors. 
A  scientific  advice  for  this  product  has  been  sought  from  Sweden,  United  Kingdom,  the 
Netherlands and Germany. One of the issues discussed concerned the possibility of using a low-
concentration capsaicin patch as a control in pivotal clinical trials. It was concluded that the use of 
a  traditional  placebo  arm  will  not  permit  studies  to  remain  blinded;  hence  the  use  of  low-
concentration capsaicin control would be the best approach.  
16/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical development program consisted of 14 clinical studies, including the 2 Phase 1 studies 
in  healthy  volunteers  (Studies  C101  and  C115)  and    12  Phase  2/3  studies  in  subjects  with 
peripheral neuropathic pain (Studies C102, C106, C107, C108, C109, C110, C111, C112, C116, 
C117, 118 and C119). 
17/48 
The table below summarises clinical development program for Qutenza at the time of submission. 
Additionally, one more phase 3 trial and one phase 2 trial were completed after the submission of 
the MA, i.e. studies 117 and 118 (please, see table below). 
Completed 
Completed 
18/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The claimed indication is:  
• 
treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in  adults.  Qutenza  can  be  used  alone  or  in 
combination with other pain medications. 
The approved indication is:  
• 
treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in  non-diabetic  adults  either  alone  or  in 
combination with other medicinal products for pain. 
Qutenza  development  program  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  Guideline  on  Clinical 
Medicinal  Products  Intended  for  the  Treatment  of  Neuropathic  Pain  (CHMP/EWP/252/03  Rev. 
1). 
There  is  no  paediatric  development  programme.  According  to  the  European  legislation  valid  at 
the  time  of  submission  there  was  no  need  to  submit  a  paediatric  investigation  plan  before  July 
2008.   
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP. 
A statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried out in 
accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC was provided.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Methods 
Analytical methods 
Two HPLC methods, i.e. HPLC –Fl and HPLC/MS/MS were employed in the determination of 
capsaicin  and  its  metabolites  in  human  plasma.  The  latter  method  was  introduced  to  increase 
sensitivity  and  detection  limits.  All  analyses  including  sample  handling,  sample  preparation, 
instrumental analysis and data reporting have been conducted according to the principles of GLP 
as  applied  to  bioanalytical  chemistry.  Validation  results,  namely  accuracy  and  precision,  were 
within acceptable ranges.  
Absorption  
No specific human PK studies have been performed, however during three Phase 2 [C102, C108, 
C111]  and  two  Phase  3  studies  [C107  and  C116]  blood  samples  were  collected  to  determine 
capsaicin  plasma  levels  after  60  minute  patch  application.  31%  patients  from  post-herpetic 
neuralgia  (PHN)  group,  5%  from  HIV-AN  group,  and  3%  of  diabetic  patients  displayed 
quantifiable  levels  of  capsaicin  at  any  time  point.  Capsaicin  plasma  levels  ranged  from  0.52  to 
4.64 ng/mL.  
Capsaicin permeation through the skin was also assessed in in vitro studies using heat-separated 
epidermis  with  Franz  diffusion  cells  and  full-thickness  skin.  Approximately  0.9%  of  the  total 
content of capsaicin was recovered from the skin following 240 minute sampling after 60 minute 
patch application. In the second study: 0.7%, 0.9% and 1.1% of the patch content was found in 
the skin after 30, 60 and 90 minutes, respectively. 
Bioavailability  
Based on the results of the in-vitro skin permeation studies it appears that about 1% of capsaicin 
is diffused from the patch to the skin. 
Bioequivalence  
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  demonstrate  that  systemic  absorption  of  capsaicin  after  cutaneous 
application of Qutenza is almost negligible and that plasma levels obtained are not sufficient to 
determine usual pharmacokinetic parameters.  
19/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Food interaction 
No oral absorption takes place with this medicinal product. 
Distribution 
Plasma Protein Binding  
Plasma  protein  binding  study  was  performed  in  many  species  including  humans.  Over  the 
concentration range of 50 to 500 ng/mL the mean percentage of capsaicin bound to human plasma 
proteins was 92.8%-94.3%. The binding was independent of the capsaicin plasma levels. 
Metabolism and Elimination 
The metabolism and elimination of capsaicin was investigated in-vitro in human materials.  
In a study using human liver microsomes three major metabolites were detected and tentatively 
identified as 16-hydroxy-capsaicin, 17-hydroxy-capsaicin, and 16, 17-dehydro-capsaicin.  
In vitro biotransformation of capsaicin was also assessed using intact human fresh skin samples. 
The biotransformation assessed 20 hours post-incubation was slow and the majority of the sample 
radioactivity  was  associated  with  unchanged  capsaicin.  The  levels  of  capsaicin-related 
radioactivity ranged from 74.0% to 95.6% for all studied concentrations (1, 3 and 10 mcM). The 
main metabolites were vanillylamine and vanillic acid. At all studied concentrations (1, 3 and 10 
mcM)  the  radioactivity  levels  for  vanillylamine  were  4.37-  19.8%  and  for  vanillic  acid  -  0.11-
7.97%, respectively.  
Pharmacokinetics of metabolites 
Attempt was made to measure main metabolites in the plasma; however their concentrations were 
below Limit of Quantification (LOQ). 
Consequences of possible genetic polymorphism 
An In Vitro reaction phenotyping study was designed to identify human cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
enzymes  involved  in  capsaicin  metabolism.  Results  suggested  that  CYP2C9  was  the  primary 
enzyme  responsible  for  converting  [14]C-capsaicin  to  16-hydroxy-capsaicin  and  16,17-dehydro-
capsaicin.  CYP2C19  may  also  contribute  to  the  formation  of  16-hydroxy-capsaicin.  The  CYP 
enzyme(s) responsible for 17-hydroxy-capsaicin formation remained unidentified. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  relationship  between  capsaicin  concentration  in  the  patch  and  absorbed  amount  was 
investigated in-vitro. The permeation studies showed that the rate decreases with the decreasing 
capsaicin patch concentration. 
20/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Based  on  PK  data  Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  can  be  considered  as  locally  applied  and  acting 
pharmaceutical form. PK studies in special populations are considered not relevant. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
CYP inhibition 
The ability of capsaicin to inhibit major CYP enzymes was investigated only in vitro. Capsaicin 
inhibited  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  with  IC50  values  of  2.1,  2.0  and  3.2  mcM, 
respectively. It also appeared to inhibit CYP2B6, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4/5 with extrapolated IC50 
values  of  24,  18,  38  and  12  mcM,  respectively.  Capsaicin  caused  also  marked  metabolism-
dependent  inhibition  of  CYP2B6,  i.e.  the  enzyme  activity  of  samples  containing  10  mcM 
capsaicin  decreased  approximately  52%  when  pre-incubated  for  30  minutes.  Capsaicin  had  the 
potential to cause moderate metabolism-dependent inhibition of CYP2D6. The enzyme activity of 
samples containing 10 mcM capsaicin decreased approximately 27% when pre-incubated for 30 
minutes.  
CYP2C9 has been shown to be the primary enzyme responsible for converting capsaicin in-vitro. 
Results of the interaction study show that capsaicin is capable of inhibiting its own metabolism 
and  the  self-inhibition  of  capsaicin  metabolism  might  be  a  contributing  factor  to  its  very  long 
elimination period.   
CYP induction 
Capsaicin enzyme inducer properties were investigated in cultured human hepatocytes. Capsaicin 
did  not cause an increase in  activity  of  any  of  the studied  enzymes,  suggesting  that it  is  not an 
inducer of CYP isoenzymes. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
The  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  elimination,  bioavailability,  genetic  polymorphism, 
dose  proportionality  and  dose  dependencies,  and  pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies  were 
conducted with the use of human-derived material (please see above). 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Capsaicin  is  a  highly  selective  agonist  for  the  transient  receptor  potential  vanilloid  1  receptor 
(TRPV1)  formerly  known  as  the  vanilloid  receptor  1  (VR1).  TRPV1  is  a  ligand-gated,  non-
selective  cation  channel  preferentially  expressed  on  small  diameter  sensory  neurons,  e.g. 
21/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nociceptors  which  specialize  in  the  detection  of  painful  or  noxious  stimuli.  Thus,  TRPV1  is 
expressed selectively on C-fibers and to a lesser extent Aδ-fibers. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Following  exposure  to  capsaicin,  cutaneous  nociceptors  become  less  sensitive  to  a  variety  of 
stimuli,  including  further  capsaicin  exposure  or  thermal  stimuli.  Prolonged  capsaicin  exposure 
results also in reduced spontaneous and stimulus-evoked pain intensity. These effects of capsaicin 
are frequently referred to as “desensitisation” or “defunctionalisation” and represent the rationale 
for  a  development  of  various  capsaicin  formulations  for  the  management  of  chronic  pain 
syndromes.  In  vitro  studies  have  demonstrated  that  following  capsaicin  exposure  of  sensory 
neurons,  defunctionalisation  occurs  within  minutes  and  can  be  achieved  with  relatively  low 
capsaicin concentrations. 
The  two  Phase  1  human  volunteer  studies  (C101,  C115)  conducted  during  the  Qutenza  (NGX-
4010) clinical development program provided relevant information on pharmacodynamics. Study 
C101 was a phase 1, open-label study in healthy volunteers to evaluate the safety and tolerability 
of  Qutenza  following  30,  60  or  120  minute  application.  It  also  examined  pharmacodynamic 
effects  on  epidermal  nerve  fibre  density  (ENFD)  and  function  at  7  days  after  treatment.  The 
treatment with Qutenza for 60 or 120 minutes resulted in a significantly lower mean nerve fibre 
density  at  day  7  (4.8  and  4.4  neurites/mm,  respectively)  as  compared  to  placebo  (11.8 
neurites/mm; p < 0.001 for both comparisons) or the low-concentration capsaicin patch for 120 
minutes (10.9 neurites/mm; p < 0.01 for both comparisons). A 30 minute treatment with Qutenza 
resulted in a reduction in mean nerve fibre density (7.6 neurites/mm) as compared with placebo; 
however,  this  reduction  was  not  statistically  significant.  Treatment  with  Qutenza  for  60  or  120 
minutes  resulted  in  a  small  but  statistically  significant  reduction  in  sensitivity  to  warmth  (i.e., 
higher  warmth  detection threshold)  on  day  7 (+1.9°C  and +1.1°C,  respectively).  There  were no 
statistically significant within-treatment or between-treatment effects for sensitivity to cold.  
Study C115, a phase I controlled, open-label study in healthy volunteers, investigated the effect of 
Qutenza on ENFD and sensory function at 1, 12 and 24 weeks following 60 minute application. 
The treatment  with  Qutenza  resulted  in  80%  reduction  in  ENFD  compared  to untreated  sites  at 
week 1. After 12 weeks a 20% reduction was noted and by week 24 full recovery of ENFD was 
observed.  The  reduction  in  ENFD  was  associated  with  small,  transient  alterations  in  the  nerve 
fibre  function.  At  week  1  following  patch  removal  a  15%  reduction  in  the  number  of  detected 
sharp  stimuli  was  noted.  The  effects  on  sharp  pain  perception  returned  to  normal  by  week  12. 
Heat perception and mean cooling thermal threshold were relatively unaffected.  
The  effects of  Qutenza  on  sensory  nerve  function are  addressed  by  pharmacovigilance  and  risk 
minimisation measures. 
Clinical efficacy  
Twelve  studies  were  conducted  during  the  Qutenza  clinical  development  program  to  assess  the 
efficacy (together with safety and tolerability) of Qutenza in subjects with peripheral neuropathic 
pain,  i.e.  post-herpetic  neuralgia  (PHN),  HIV-associated  neuropathy  (HIV-AN),  and  painful 
diabetic  neuropathy  (PDN).  In  all  studies  the  8%  Qutenza  patch  was  utilised  (640  mcg/cm2). 
Control  patch(es)  used  throughout  the  studies  contained  low-concentration  of  capsaicin  (3.2 
mcg/cm2). 
Of  the  studies,  8  were  double-blind  controlled  trials  or  included  a  double-blind  controlled  part 
(C102, C107, C108, C110, C112, C116, C117 and C119), while 3 were open-label studies (C109, 
C111 and C118). Additionally, study C106 was an open-label extension of study C102. Studies 
C107 and C108 included an open-label extension following the double-blind controlled part.  
Five  controlled  studies  were  conducted  in  subjects  with  PHN,  including  phase  3  main  studies 
C116 and C117, and the phase 2/3 supportive studies C102, C108 and C110. The remaining three 
controlled  studies  were  conducted  in  subjects  with  HIV-AN  (phase  3  main  studies  C107  and 
C119, and phase 3 Study C112). 
With regard to the open-label studies, study C109 enrolled subjects with HIV-AN, study C118 –  
subjects with HIV-AN, and PHN; while study C111 enrolled subjects with PHN, HIV-AN, and 
22/48 
 
 
 
 
 
PDN. Open-label extension studies (or studies that included an open-label extension part) enrolled 
subjects with PHN (Studies C106 and C108) or HIV-AN (Study C107). 
Dose response study(ies) 
No dedicated dose-response studies have been performed. The efficacy of multiple durations of 
patch  application,  i.e.  30,  60  or  90  minutes  was  assessed  in  three  studies  from  the  NGX-4010 
clinical development program:  
1) Study C107, the Phase 3 main trial in subjects with HIV-AN, assessed duration of 30, 60 and 
90 minutes;  
2) Study C108, a Phase 2/3 supportive trial in subjects with PHN, assessed duration of 30, 60 and 
90 minutes;  
3)  Study  C111,  an  open  label  mixed  population  study  (i.e.,  PHN,  HIV-AN  and  PDN  subjects) 
conducted to assess the tolerability of Qutenza in conjunction with topical application of one of 
three lidocaine-based local anaesthetic products, assessed duration of 60 and 90 minutes. 
Main study(ies)  
The therapeutic efficacy of Qutenza (NGX-4010) was evaluated in four main phase 3 studies, two 
studies in postherpetic neuralgia, and two studies in HIV-AN. 
•  Studies in subjects with Postherpetic Neuralgia   
o  C116  -  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Controlled  Study  of  NGX-4010  for  the 
Treatment of Postherpetic Neuralgia 
o  C117  -  A  Multicenter  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Controlled  Study  of  NGX-
4010 for the Treatment of Postherpetic Neuralgia  
23/48 
 
 
 
•  Studies in subjects with HIV-AN  
o  C107 - A Randomized, Double-Blind, Controlled Dose Finding Study of NGX-
the  Treatment  of  Painful  HIV-Associated  Distal  Symmetrical 
4010  for 
Polyneuropathy 
o  C119  -  A  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Controlled  Study  of  NGX-
4010 for the Treatment of Painful HIV-Associated Neuropathy 
Study  C119  was  still  ongoing  during  the  centralised  procedure,  hence  the  evaluation  of  the 
efficacy and safety data was based on preliminary results. 
Unless  specified  otherwise  information  presented  in  the  following  sections  applies  to  all  main 
studies. 
METHODS 
Qutenza  main  studies  were  similar  in  design  -  12-week,  randomised,  double-blind,  controlled, 
multicentre phase 3 studies. The only exception was study C107 in which double blind phase was 
followed by a 40 week open label extension. Studies C107 and C116 were conducted entirely in 
the  US,  study  C117  was  conducted  in  the  US  and  Canada,  and  study  C119  in  Australia,  US, 
Canada and UK.   
In  all  four  main  studies  prior  to  placement  of  patch(es)  containing  the  study  drug  subjects 
received a single 60 minute application of a topical local anaesthetic on painful area(s) (maximum 
total  surface  area  of  1000  cm2).  In  addition  all  subjects  were  permitted  to  use  rescue  pain 
medication for treatment-related discomfort. 
Efficacy  of  Qutenza  was  evaluated  using  several  pain  inventories  and  other  assessment  tools 
including Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS), modified Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Short Form, 
Gracely  Pain  Scale,  Short-Form  McGill  Pain  Questionnaire  (SF-MPQ),  Short  Form-36  version 
2® Health Survey (SF-36v2), Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), Self-Assessment of 
Treatment (SAT). 
Safety  and  tolerability  were  assessed  by  continuous  monitoring  of  adverse  events  (AEs)  and 
periodic  assessments  of  clinical  laboratory  parameters,  vital  signs,  physical  examinations, 
electrocardiograms (ECGs), dermal assessments, targeted neurological/sensory assessments, and 
rescue  medication  and  concomitant  medication  usage.  In  addition,  at  selected  sites,  plasma 
samples  were  obtained  before  and  after  treatment  for  analysis  of  capsaicin  and  capsaicin 
metabolites. 
Study Participants  
Eligible  subjects  were  at  least  18  years  of  age  and  had  moderate  to  severe  neuropathic  pain 
(NPRS score of 3 to 9 inclusive) secondary to PHN or HIV-AN. Subjects were allowed to receive 
stable  chronic  pain  medication  regimens,  but  were  not  permitted  to  use  any  topical  pain 
medications  or  opioid  medication,  unless  opioid  analgesics  were  orally  or  transdermally 
administered and did not exceed a total daily dose of 60 mg/day morphine equivalents.  
Treatments 
Subjects with PHN received a single treatment with either Qutenza or control patch(es) applied to 
the painful areas for 60 minutes. Subjects with HIV-AN received a single treatment with either 
Qutenza or control patch(es) applied to the painful areas for 30, 60 or 90 minutes in study C107 or 
30  and  60  minutes  in  study  C119.  Following  the  treatment,  patch(es)  were  removed  and  the 
treatment area(s) were cleaned with a study supplied cleansing gel. Subjects were monitored for 
1-2 hours before being discharged and were asked to return for follow-up visits at 4, 8, and 12 
(Termination Visit) weeks after treatment (studies C116, 117, 119), or, in study C107, at week 1, 
4 and 12. 
In study C107 the 12-week double-blind phase was followed by a 40-week open-label extension 
in  which  subjects  could  be  eligible  for  up  to  3  open-label  re-treatments  with  Qutenza  for  60 
minutes,  a  minimum  of  12  weeks  apart.  Subjects  entering  the  open-label  extension  were 
scheduled for follow-up at weeks 24, 36, and 52 (Termination Visit). 
24/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  the  studies  in  PHN  subjects  (C116,  C117)  was  the  assessment  of 
Qutenza  efficacy  over  12  weeks  after  single  patch  administration  for  60  minutes.  The  primary 
objective  of  the  studies  in  HIV-AN  subjects  (C107,  C119)  was  the  assessment  of  Qutenza 
efficacy over 12 weeks after single patch application for 30, 60, or 90 minutes (C107) and 30 or 
60 minutes (C119).  The secondary objective of all main studies was the evaluation of the safety 
and  tolerability  of  Qutenza.  Study  C107  assessed  also  optimal  dose  selection  (i.e.,  application 
duration) for the treatment of painful HIV-AN and the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of repeated 
treatment(s) over 1 year. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  mean  percent  change  in  “average  pain  for  the  past  24 
hours” NPRS scores from baseline to weeks 2–8 in PHN studies C116, C117, or weeks 2-12 in 
HIV-AN studies C107, C119. Week 1 NPRS scores were not analysed in the primary endpoint to 
avoid the potential for bias from allowed rescue medication use. 
A number of secondary and ancillary efficacy variables were also evaluated as presented below.  
Secondary and ancillary endpoints 
Studies in PHN 
Studies in HIV-AV 
Study C116 
Percent change in 
“average pain for the 
past 24 hours” NPRS 
scores from baseline to 
weeks 2–12 
Study C117 
Percent change in 
“average pain for the 
past 24 hours” NPRS 
scores from baseline to 
weeks 2–12 
Proportion of subjects 
achieving a 30% and 
50% decrease in their 
“average pain for the 
past 24 hours” NPRS 
scores from baseline to 
weeks 2–12  
PGIC/CGIC at weeks  
8 and 12 (termination) 
Proportion of subjects 
achieving a 30% and 
50% decrease in their 
“average pain for the 
past 24 hours” NPRS 
scores from baseline to 
weeks 2-12  
PGIC/CGIC at weeks  
8 and 12 (termination) 
SAT at week 12/ 
Termination 
SAT at week 
12/Termination 
Study C107 
Proportion of subjects 
achieving a ≥ 30%, ≥ 
50%, or ≥ 2 units 
decrease in “average 
pain for the past 24 
hours” NPRS scores 
from baseline during 
weeks 2 to 12 
Change in Gracely Pain 
Scale scores from 
baseline to week12 
Study C119 
Proportion of subjects 
achieving a ≥ 30%, ≥ 
50%, or ≥ 2 units 
decrease in “average 
pain for the past 24 
hours” NPRS scores 
from baseline during 
weeks 2 to 12 
Change in SF-MPQ and 
SF-36v2™ from 
baseline to week 12 
Change in Short-Form 
McGill Pain 
Questionnaire (SF-
MPQ) from screening 
to week 12 
PGIC and CGIC at 
several time points  
(weeks 1, 4, 12, 52) 
SAT at week 12  
PGIC and CGIC at 
several time points  
(weeks 4, 8, and 
12/Termination) 
SAT at week 
12/Termination 
Additional  efficacy  variables  for  re-treatments  during  open-phase  of  study  C107  included:  (1) 
percent change in the “average pain for the past 24 hours” NPRS score from Baseline to Weeks 
2–12 of each re-treatment during the open-label phase; and (2) proportion of responders (at the ≥ 
30%  and  ≥  50%  level)  on  average  during  Weeks  2–12  following  each  re-treatment  during  the 
open-label phase. 
Sample size  
The sample size was determined based on a Student’s t-test to detect a difference of 10% (studies 
C116 and C117) or 15% (study C107) between Qutenza and control groups’ change from baseline 
in NPRS scores, and a standard deviation of 31%, at the 0.05 significance level and 90% power. 
25/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of evaluation of data from study C119 detailed information on sample size evaluation 
was unavailable. 
Randomisation 
Studies C116, C117: Subjects were randomised at screening to receive either Qutenza or control 
patches for 60 minutes according to a 1:1 allocation scheme.  
Study  C107:  Subjects  were  stratified  at  study  entry  by  neurotoxic  antiretroviral  exposure  and 
randomisation  occurred  separately  within these strata.  For  the  double-blind  phase  subjects  were 
randomized in a 3:3:3:1:1:1 allocation scheme to receive either Qutenza or control patches for 30, 
60 and 90 minutes. In the open-label phase subjects were randomly assigned according to a 1:1 
allocation scheme to receive 60 minute Qutenza treatment(s) in the currently painful areas only or 
the currently painful areas and the initial treatment areas. Randomized treatment assignment was 
determined  for  each  subject  upon  entry  to the  open-label  phase  and  applied  to all  re-treatments 
received. 
Study  C119:  Subjects  were  randomised  to  receive  Qutenza  or  control  patches  for  30  or  60 
minutes  according to a 2:2:1:1 allocation scheme. 
In  all  studies  numbers  were  assigned  only  once,  and  no  subject  was  randomised  into  the  study 
more than once.  
Statistical methods 
For  all  main  studies  the  Intent-to-Treat  (ITT)  or  modified  ITT  analyses  included  all  subjects 
enrolled, randomised, who received study drug, and had at least 3 days of non-missing “average 
pain  for  the  past  24  hours”  NPRS  scores  for  the  calculation  of  baseline  NPRS  score.  The  Per 
Protocol  (PP)  analysis  included  all  subjects  from  the  ITT  analysis  without  any  major  protocol 
violations.  The  Safety  analysis  included  all  subjects  who  were  randomised  and  who  received 
study  drug.  Demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were  compared  using  t-test  and  Mantel-
Haenszel  method.  Baseline  observation  carried  forward  (BOCF)  and  Last  observation  carried 
forward  (LOCF)  approaches  were  used  to  impute  missing  value(s).  For  safety  summaries, 
subjects who terminated early from the studies were included in those summaries for which data 
were  available.  All  statistical  tests  were  2-sided  and  were  performed  at  a  significance  level  of 
0.05. For treatment comparisons gender stratified analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model was 
used.  
RESULTS 
Patients flow 
The  number  of  patients  who  were  randomised,  completed  or  withdrew  from  main  studies 
(including blinded phase of C107) is presented below. 
Study 
C116 
C117 
C107 blinded 
C119 
No pts randomised 
No pts completed 
No pts discontinued 
All = 402  
Qutenza = 206 
Control = 196 
All = 416  
Qutenza = 212 
Control = 204 
All = 307  
Qutenza = 225 
Control = 82 
All = 494  
Qutenza = 332 
Control = 162 
All = 365 
Qutenza = 187 
Control = 178 
All = 378 
Qutenza = 192 
Control = 186 
All = 272 
Qutenza = 201 
Control = 71 
All = 461 
Qutenza = 309 
Control = 152 
All = 37 
Qutenza = 19 
Control = 18 
All = 38 
Qutenza = 20 
Control = 18 
All = 35 
Qutenza = 24 
Control = 11 
All = 33 
Qutenza = 23 
Control = 10 
There were no large imbalances in numbers of patients discontinuing for various reasons except 
for more patients lost to follow up in Qutenza group in study C107. 
26/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Minor  amendments  were  made  to  studies  protocols.  They  were  reviewed  and  approved  by  the 
IEC/IRB prior to implementation. These did not affect outcome or statistical analyses. 
Baseline data  
Study  C116,  C117: The average  age  of subjects  enrolled in the  studies  was  70-71  years. Most 
subjects were White (92-94%) and non-Hispanic (95-98%). Gender distribution was fairly equal, 
with  slightly  more  female  subjects  enrolled  (52-56%).  No  significant  differences  between 
Qutenza  and  control  groups  were  noted  for  any  demographic  characteristics.  With  regard  to 
subjects’  pain  characteristics,  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the 
Qutenza  and  Control  groups  except  for  concomitant  pain  medication  use  in  study  C116.  More 
subjects  in  the  Qutenza  group  were  using  concomitant  opioid,  non-SSRI  antidepressant,  and/or 
anticonvulsant  pain  medications  at baseline  compared  to  the  control  group  (50%  vs.  38%); this 
difference was statistically significant (p = 0.0209). The variation between groups was largely due 
to more subjects in the Qutenza group using anticonvulsant medications (Qutenza = 38%; Control 
=  25%).  The  mean  treatment  area  was  329.8  cm2  for  the  Qutenza  group  and  349.2  cm2  for  the 
Control group (p = 0.375). 
Study  C107,  C119:  The  mean  age  of  subjects  in  the  studies  was  approximately  48-50  years. 
Majority  of  the  subjects  were  male  (85-93%).  Most  subjects  were  Caucasian  (61-69%)  or 
Black/African American (22-25%) and not of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity (83-92%).  
No statistically significant differences were observed between each Qutenza group and the pooled 
control  group  with  respect  to  all  demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  evaluated.  No 
statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  each  Qutenza  group  and  the  pooled 
control group with respect to duration of pain, pain level at screening, and baseline pain level. No 
statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  Qutenza  groups  compared  to  the 
pooled control group in use of concomitant pain medication. 
Numbers analysed  
The ITT analysis included all subjects enrolled in the study who were randomised, received the 
study  drug  and  had  at  least  3  days  of  non-missing  “average  pain  for  the  past  24  hours”  NPRS 
scores for the calculation of baseline NPRS score. Unavailability of any follow-up NPRS scores 
was not a criterion for exclusion from the ITT analysis and in such cases the baseline NPRS score 
was  carried  forward.  The  PP  analysis  included  all  subjects  from  the  ITT  analysis  without  any 
major protocol violations.  
Study C116 
Study C117 
Study C107 
Analysis populations, n 
(%) 
Safety analysis 
Intent-to-treat analysis 
Per-Protocol Analysis 
Analysis populations, n 
(%) 
Safety analysis 
Intent-to-treat analysis 
Analysis populations, n 
(%) 
Safety analysis 
Intent-to-treat analysis 
Per Protocol Analysis 
Qutenza 
Control 
205 (100%) 
206 (100%) 
177 (86%) 
Qutenza 
212 (99%) 
212 (99%) 
Qutenza 
225 (100%) 
225 (100%) 
173(77%) 
197 (100%) 
196 (100%) 
161 (82%) 
Control 
204 (100%) 
204 (100%) 
Control 
82(100%) 
82(100%) 
66(80%) 
At the time of evaluation of data from study C119 detailed information on numbers analysed was 
unavailable. 
27/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy analysis 
Studies in PHN 
Study  C116  and  C117:  Following  a  single  60-minute  Qutenza  patch  application  a  29.6% 
reduction in pain in study C116 and 32.0% reduction in pain in study C117 was observed during 
weeks 2 to 8. The results were statistically superior to the control group, i.e. 19.9%; p = 0.001 and 
24.4%; p = 0.0108, in C116 and C117 respectively.  
Studies in HIV-AN 
Study C107: Based on pooled results for all Qutenza groups a 22.8% decrease from baseline in 
NPRS scores during the primary analysis period (Weeks 2 to 12) was observed, a reduction that 
was  statistically  greater  than  the  reduction  seen  in  control  subjects  (10.7%;  p  =  0.0026). 
Reductions in NPRS scores from baseline in the 30 and 90 minute individual dose groups (27.7%; 
p = 0.0007 and 24.7%; p = 0.0046) were also statistically significantly higher than the reduction 
seen in the control group. The difference between the 60 minute dose group and the control group 
did not reach statistical significance.  
Study  C119:  The  results did not  reach  statistical  significance  in  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint. 
An approximately 30% reduction in pain during Weeks 2 to 12 was observed following treatment 
with  Qutenza;  however,  this  was  not  significantly  greater  than  the  reduction  observed  in  the 
control group.    
Secondary and Ancillary efficacy analyses 
Studies in PHN 
The  results  of  several  other  assessments  of  treatment  response  evaluated  in  the  studies  (i.e., 
secondary endpoints) provide supportive evidence of the efficacy of Qutenza. 
Outcomes 
Secondary/Ancillary endpoints  Study C116  
Study C117  
The mean percent change in 
NPRS scores from baseline 
during weeks 2–12  
Qutenza (−29.9%)  
Control group (−20.4%); p = 
0.0016 
Proportion of responders (>30%  
reduction in pain from baseline) 
during weeks 2–12 
Qutenza subjects (44%)  
Control subjects (35%); p = 
0.0487 
Qutenza (−32.3% ) 
Control (−25.0%); p = 0.0172 
Qutenza subjects (47%)  
Control group (35%); p = 0.0212 
Proportion of subjects with 
mean percent decrease from 
baseline ≥ 50% during weeks 2-
12 
PGIC – feeling improved at 
week 8 and 12 
SAT –  improvement in pain 
relief, activity level, and quality 
of life at week 12 
CGIC – judged by the 
investigator to have felt 
improved at weeks 8 and 12 
Qutenza subjects (26%)  
control subjects (21%); p > 0.05 
Qutenza group (30%);  
Control group (21%); p=0.0349 
Qutenza subjects vs.  
Control subjects: week 8 (57% 
vs. 46%; p = 0.0293) and week 
12/Termination (57% vs. 46%; p 
= 0.0409) 
Qutenza subjects  vs. 
Control subjects: week 8 (62% 
vs. 51%; p = 0.0301) and week 
12/Termination (61% vs. 47%; p 
= 0.0047) 
Qutenza subjects  vs. 
Control subjects  (p = 0.008)  
Qutenza subjects  vs. 
Control subjects  (p = 0.0026 for 
each category) 
Qutenza subjects vs. control 
subjects at week 8 (63% vs. 
52%; p = 0.0298) and week 12 
(63% vs. 48%; p = 0.0033). 
Studies in HIV-AN 
The results of several other assessments of treatment response evaluated in the study C107 (i.e., 
secondary endpoints) provide supportive evidence of the efficacy of Qutenza. 
28/48 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Secondary/Ancillary endpoints  Study C107  
Outcomes 
Proportion of responders (>30%  
reduction in pain from baseline) 
during weeks 2–12 
Proportion of subjects with 
mean percent decrease from 
baseline ≥ 50% during weeks 2-
12 
Gracely Pain Scale scores at 
Week 12  
SFMPQ scores at Week 12  
SAT –  improvement in pain 
relief, activity level, and quality 
of life at week 12 
Qutenza (34%)  
Control group (18%); p = 0.0093 
Qutenza subjects (21%)  
control subjects (12%); p > 0.05 
Qutenza subjects (−0.21)  Control subjects (−0.04); p = 0.0058 
Qutenza subjects (−8.3)  
Control subjects (−3.2); p = 0.0004 
Qutenza subjects vs. Control subjects p ≤ 0.0014 (for each 
category)  
Global impression of change at 
week 12 rated by the subject 
(PGIC) and the clinician (CGIC) 
Qutenza subjects vs. Control subjects  
PGIC, p = 0.0003  
CGIC, p = 0.0059 
In study C119 the results of the secondary efficacy endpoint analyses generally reflected those of 
the primary endpoint and no statistically significant differences between Qutenza and the control 
group  were  observed. The results  of several  secondary  measures  of  response  (PGIC/CGIC,  SF-
36v2™  and  SAT)  tended  to  favour  treatment  with  Qutenza  compared  with  control;  however, 
statistically significant differences between treatments were not consistently demonstrated. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Integrated analysis 
New  integrated  analyses  of  efficacy  focusing  on  the  following  posology,  i.e.  60-minutes  for 
treatment  of  PHN  and  30-minutes  for  treatment  of  HIV-AN  were  performed  by  indication, 
evaluating  change  in  NPRS  scores  from  baseline  to  weeks  2  to  12  for  all  12-  week  controlled 
efficacy trials including main and supportive studies (Studies C107, C108, C110, C116, C117 and 
C119). These analyses evaluated the 60-minute data from the PHN studies and the 30-minute data 
from  the  HIV-AN  studies  and  evaluated  changes  from  baseline  to  weeks  2  to  12  regardless  of 
indication. The results of those analyses were presented during oral explanation. 
HIV-AN 
The results of the integrated analysis of two phase 3 HIV-AN studies (C107 and C119) showed 
the following:  
1) 30- and 60-minute doses provide comparable pain reductions during weeks 2-12 (-27.0% and -
27.5%, respectively);  
2) 30-minute dose is statistically superior to control (p=0.0026);  
3)  single  30-minute  treatment  provides  a  rapid  decrease  in  NPRS  scores  that  is  significantly 
greater than control during Week 2 and maintained for 12 weeks;  
4) 39% of Qutenza subjects treated for 30 minutes experience a 30% or greater reduction in pain 
during weeks 2-12 that is significantly greater than control. 37% of Qutenza subjects treated for 
30-minutes experience a 2-unit or greater reduction in pain during weeks 2-12 that is significantly 
greater  than  control.  Results  were  comparable  between  the  LOCF  and  BOCF  approaches 
confirming the robustness of the data;  
5)  sixty-five  percent  of  Qutenza  subjects  treated  for  30-minutes  report  being  improved  (very 
much,  much,  or  slightly)  on  the  PGIC  questionnaire  at  week  12  compared  to  42%  of  Control 
subjects;  
29/48 
  
 
 
 
 
6) treatment with Qutenza on the feet for 30 minutes in patients with HIV-AN is well tolerated 
with  transient,  self-limited  application  site  pain  and  application  site  erythema  as  the  most 
common adverse effects. 
PHN 
The results of the integrated analysis of four 12-week controlled PHN studies (C108, C110, C116 
and C117) show the following:  
1) single 60-minute treatment is efficacious in reducing peripheral neuropathic pain during weeks 
2-12 and statistically superior to control (p=0.0002);  
2) single 60-minute treatment provides a rapid decrease in NPRS scores during Week 1 and this 
decrease is maintained for 12 weeks;  
3) 45% of Qutenza subjects treated  for 60 minutes experience a 30% or greater reduction in pain 
during weeks 2-12 that is significantly greater than control; 40% of Qutenza subjects treated for 
60-minutes experience a 2-unit or greater reduction in pain during weeks 2-12 that is significantly 
greater than control; 
4) results are comparable between the LOCF and BOCF approaches confirming the robustness of 
the data;  
5)  sixty-one  percent  of  Qutenza  subjects  treated  for  60-minutes  report  being  improved  (very 
much, much, or slightly) on the PGIC questionnaire compared to 48% of Control subjects;  
6) treatment with Qutenza for 60 minutes in patients with PHN is well tolerated with transient, 
self-limited application site pain and application site erythema as the most common side effects. 
PHN and HIV-AN 
Results  showed  statistically  significant  improvements  in  NPRS  score  in  the  Qutenza  treatment 
group  compared  to  control  for  each  indication  supporting  the  conclusion  that  a  30-minute 
application  Qutenza  is  effective  in  treating  pain  due  to  HIVAN  and  a  60-minute  application  is 
effective in treating PHN pain.  
Subgroup analysis  
In  order  to  determine  the  potential  impact  of  gender,  age,  baseline  pain  score,  concomitant 
neuropathic  pain  medication  use,  rescue  medication  use,  and  type  of  neuropathic  pain  on  the 
efficacy profile of Qutenza subgroup analyses were conducted.  
Across 3 of the studies conducted in PHN subjects (pivotal Study C116 and supportive Phase 2/3 
Studies  C108  and  C110)  and  in  pivotal  Study  C107  conducted  in  HIV-AN  subjects,  the  mean 
percent  reduction  in  NPRS  scores  was  consistently  larger  in  the  Qutenza  group  compared  to 
control  regardless  of  gender,  age,  or  baseline  pain  score.  Although  most  comparisons  were 
statistically significant, statistical significance was not achieved in all subgroups; a finding likely 
due to the small sample sizes of these subgroups. 
Gender, Age and Baseline Pain 
Although  the  net  treatment  effects  (i.e.,  Qutenza  versus  control)  were  similar  between  females 
and  males  and  between  younger  subjects  and  older  subjects,  females  and  younger  subjects 
reported  larger  percent  reductions  in  pain  scores  regardless  of  treatment  group  compared  with 
males and older subjects, respectively. Qutenza-treated subjects with baseline scores less than the 
median  showed  larger  percent  reductions  in  pain  scores  compared  to  Qutenza-treated  subjects 
with  higher  baseline  pain  scores.  However,  although  the  percent  reduction  was  greater  in 
Qutenza-treated  subjects  with  lower  baseline  pain  scores,  the  absolute  change  in  NPRS  scores 
was similar regardless of baseline pain level. 
Concomitant neuropathic pain medication use 
With  regard  to  concomitant  neuropathic  pain  medication  use,  in  PHN  Studies  C116,  C108  and 
C110  and  HIV-AN  Study  C107,  the  mean  percent  reduction  in  NPRS  scores  was  consistently 
larger in the Qutenza group compared to control regardless of whether Qutenza was used alone or 
in  combination  with  other  concomitant  neuropathic  pain  medications.  In  general,  the  mean 
percent change in NPRS scores continued to be statistically significantly greater in the Qutenza 
30/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group compared to control both in subjects who did or did not use concomitant pain medications, 
with the exception of users in Study C110 and nonusers in Study C108.  
To assess the potential impact of concomitant neuropathic pain medication use on the outcome of 
the  two  pivotal  studies,  Studies  C116  and  C107  were  analysed  using  a  gender-stratified 
ANCOVA model with baseline pain and concomitant pain medication use as covariates. In both 
studies,  the  percent  reduction  in  pain  from  baseline  was  similar  to  the  reduction  seen  in  the 
original primary analysis and remained highly statistically significant. 
Rescue medication use 
The  potential  impact  of  rescue  medication  use  was  assessed  in  pivotal  Studies C116  and  C107. 
Across the two studies, the mean percent change in NPRS scores was consistently higher in the 
Qutenza  group  compared  to  control  regardless  of  rescue  medication  use.  In  general, 
improvements  in  pain  were  similar  for  Qutenza  subjects  who  received  rescue  medications  for 
treatment-related pain compared to subjects who did not receive rescue medications. In addition 
to demonstrating that the use of opioid rescue medications did not influence the analgesic effect 
of  Qutenza,  the  data  demonstrating  similar  responses  in  subjects  receiving  and  subjects  not 
receiving  rescue  medications  provide  further  evidence  of  the  adequacy  of  the  blinding  of  the 
clinical studies. 
Type of neuropathic pain  
Based on an analysis of data across Studies C116, C107, and C111 (a mixed population study of 
subjects with PHN, HIV-AN and PDN), it is concluded that Qutenza is effective in subjects with 
multiple different peripheral neuropathic pain conditions. Across all studies and neuropathic pain 
conditions  tested,  Qutenza-treated  subjects  experienced  greater  improvements  in  NPRS  scores 
compared  to  control.  These  changes  were  statistically  significant  in  Studies  C116  (PHN)  and 
C107 (HIV-AN), in which statistical comparisons were made.  
With regard to HIV-AN, Study 107 provides evidence that Qutenza is effective both in subjects 
without  prior  exposure  to  neurotoxic  antiretroviral  agents  as  well  as  in  subjects  with  painful 
neuropathy who were receiving neurotoxic antiretroviral agents. Although statistical significance 
was not reached in the latter group, this was likely due to the small sample size according to the 
Applicant. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in subjects with either renal or hepatic impairment were conducted. 
The efficacy of Qutenza in children and adolescents younger than 18 years of age has not been 
studied. 
Supportive study(ies) 
PHN  
Phase 2/3 
supportive 
studies  
Open-label 
study 
Study C102  
Study C108  
Study C110 
Study C106 
(extension of 
C102) 
Studies in PHN subjects  
HIV-AN 
Phase 3 
supportive 
study  
Study C112 
PHN, HIV-AN, PDN 
Open-label 
study 
Study C109 
Open-label 
study 
Study C111 
Study C118 
(HIV-AN, 
PHN only) 
Study Title 
Study design and 
Study duration 
Primary endpoints 
31/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study C102 - A Double-
Blind Controlled Pilot 
Study of High 
Concentration Capsaicin 
Patches in the Treatment 
of Pain Associated with 
Postherpetic Neuralgia 
Study C108 – A 
Randomised, Double-
Blind, Controlled Dose 
Finding Study of NGX-
4010 for the Treatment of 
Postherpetic Neuralgia 
treatment 
Phase 2, multicentre, 
randomised, 
controlled, double 
blind, 2-phase (pilot 
+ blinded); 60 min 
single application 
Phase 2/3 
randomised, double 
blind, dose-finding, 
2-phase (blinded + 
open label); 30, 60 or 
90 min single 
application  
Study C110 - A 
Randomised, Double-
Blind, Controlled Study 
of NGX-4010 for the 
Treatment of Postherpetic 
Neuralgia 
Study C106 - An Open-
Label, Extension Study of 
High-Concentration 
Capsaicin Patches for the 
Treatment of Postherpetic 
Neuralgia 
Phase 3 randomised, 
double-blind, 
controlled study; 60 
min single 
application 
Phase 2, multicentre, 
uncontrolled open-
label extension of 
study C102; up to 
three additional 60 
minute, single 
applications 
 4 weeks 
12 week double-
blind period 
followed by a 40 
week open-label 
extension; 
open-label phase 
of the study was 
terminated 
prematurely due 
to negative results 
in blinded phase 
12 weeks 
40 weeks 
Change in mean NPRS 
scores (average of morning 
and evening scores from day 
8 through to day 28) as 
compared to average of 
morning and evening pre-
treatment scores (Days −10 
to −1) 
Percent change from baseline 
in the “average pain for the 
past 24 hours” NPRS score 
for weeks 2 to 8 (i.e. average 
of scores during weeks 2 to 8 
as compared to baseline) 
Percent change in “average 
pain for the past 24 hours” 
NPRS scores from Baseline 
to Weeks 2 to 8 
Change in mean NPRS 
scores (morning and evening 
average) compared to study 
C102 baseline measured: (1) 
at week 12 after initial study 
C102 treatment (Study 
C106); (2) at termination of 
study C106; (3) for each 
treatment in Study C106 
Efficacy results in patients with PHN in additional studies  
Similar  reductions  in  mean  percent  change  from  baseline  in  NPRS  scores  following  treatment 
with Qutenza were observed across the supportive controlled studies conducted in PHN subjects 
(studies C102, C108 and C110). Reductions in the total Qutenza groups were statistically superior 
to those observed in the control group for studies C102 (p=0.003) and C108 (p=0.0286). In the 
study  C108  statistically  significant  difference  was  also  present  between  Qutenza  90  minute 
treatment  group  and  control  group  (p=0.0438),  while  there  was  no  statistically  significant 
difference between controls and both Qutenza 30 and 60 minute treatment groups. In study C110 
the reduction in pain in the Qutenza group was not statistically greater than the reduction seen in 
the control group (p=0.296).  
Treatment of PHN subjects with Qutenza during the 48 week open-label study C106 resulted in 
30.0% to 34.1% reductions in NPRS scores from baseline. 
The  proportion  of  responders  was  also  consistently  numerically  superior  following  Qutenza 
treatment compared with control in study C108 with trends favouring the Qutenza-treated group 
during both weeks 2 to 8 and weeks 2 to 12. Study C110 did not demonstrate any differences in 
responder rates between Qutenza and control. 
Subjects with HIV-Associated Neuropathy 
32/48 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Title 
Study design 
and treatment 
Study 
duration 
Primary endpoints 
Results 
No efficacy data were 
analysed 
Percent change in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” 
from Baseline to 
Weeks 2-12 
Phase 3, 
multicentre, 
randomised, 
double-blind, 
controlled 
study; 60 min 
single 
application 
Study C112 - A 
Multicentre, 
Randomised, 
Double-Blind, 12 
Week Controlled 
Study of NGX-
4010 for the 
Treatment of 
Painful HIV-
Associated 
Neuropathy  
12 weeks; 
study 
terminated 
after 
enrollment of 
five patients 
due to 
sponsor 
business 
conditions 
and the 
unblinding of 
the results of 
Study C107 
33/48 
Phase 2, open-
label 
exploratory 
study; 60 min 
single 
application 
Study C109 – An 
Open-Label Pilot 
Study of High-
Concentration 
Capsaicin Patches 
in the Treatment of 
Painful HIV-
Associated 
Neuropathy  
12 weeks 
Percent change in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” 
from baseline to 
weeks 2 to 12 
39.7% decrease in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” for 
weeks 2 to 12 
compared to baseline 
Mixed Population (PHN, HIV-AN, PDN) 
Study 
duration 
12 weeks 
Study design 
and treatment 
Phase 2 
randomised, 
open-label, 
multicentre 
study; 60 or 90 
min single 
application 
Primary endpoints 
Results 
18.2%-50.4% 
reductions in NPRS 
scores from baseline  
Percent change in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” 
from baseline to 
weeks 2 to 12 
50 weeks 
Phase 2, 
multicentre, 
open-label 
study; 60 min 
single 
application 
Percent change in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” 
from baseline to 
weeks 2 to 12 
39.7% decrease in 
mean NPRS scores 
for “average pain for 
the past 24 hours” for 
weeks 2 to 12 
compared to baseline 
Study Title 
Study C111 - A 
Randomized, 
Open-Label Study 
of the Tolerability 
of Three Local 
Anaesthetic 
Formulations in 
Conjunction with 
NGX-4010 for the 
Treatment of 
Neuropathic Pain 
Study C118 – A 
Multicenter, Open-
label, Phase 2 
Study of NGX-
4010 for the 
Treatment of 
Neuropathic Pain 
in Patients with 
Painful HIV-
Associated 
Neuropathy (HIV-
AN) or 
Postherpetic 
Neuralgia (PHN) 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  was  assessed  in  four  main  trials:  two  studies  in  PHN  patients  (study 
C116, C117) and two studies in HIV-AN patients (study C107, C119). In both studies conducted 
in PHN subjects, the efficacy of 60 minute single application of Qutenza was assessed. In HIV-
AN  subjects  efficacy  of  single  applications  for  30,  60  and  90  minutes  were  assessed  in  study 
C107,  while  30  and  60  minute  single  applications  were  evaluated  in  study  C119.  In  the  main 
studies  a  total  of  975  subjects  received  Qutenza,  418  patients  with  PHN  and  557  patients  with 
HIV-AN.  The average age of subjects enrolled in the PHN studies was 70 years. Patients in HIV-
AN studies were younger, the average age in this group was 50 years. All patients presented mild 
to moderate pain (NPRS score of 3 to 9 inclusive) at the study entry. In all main studies the 8% 
Qutenza cutaneous patch was used; 
 a  low-concentration  capsaicin  patch  (0.04%)  served  as  a  comparator  in  order  to  maintain  the 
integrity of the double-blind design due to the expected capsaicin-related application site effects 
(burning sensation). Moreover, initial efficacy of Qutenza was assessed in  91 patients with PDN 
enrolled in a 12-week phase 2 randomised, open-label, multicentre study (study C111). 
34/48 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  used  throughout  the  Qutenza  clinical  development  program  was 
the  mean  percent  change  from  baseline  in  Numeric  Pain  Rating  Scale  (NPRS)  scores  (with  0 
indicating no pain and 10 indicating worst possible pain) measured at week 8 in PHN studies and 
week 12 in HIV-AN studies. Several secondary endpoints were used across the Qutenza clinical 
development programme. Changes from baseline in NPRS scores at multiple time points served 
as secondary endpoints, and the percentage of subjects who met the “responder” definition (which 
was generally established as a 30% or greater reduction from baseline in NPRS scores) were also 
used.  Additional  pain  assessment  instruments  (e.g.,  Short-Form  McGill  pain  questionnaire, 
Gracely  Pain  Scale,  Brief Pain  Inventory),  subject-  and  investigator-rated  global  ratings  (PGIC, 
CGIC) were also utilised during the program. Overall quality of life assessments were obtained 
using a Sponsor-designed self-assessment of treatment (SAT) and the SF-36. 
The  initial  analysis  of  efficacy  data  from  main  studies  produced  inconclusive  results.  In  study 
C107  conducted  in  HIV-AN  subjects  inconsistency  with  regards  to  efficacy  in  different  time 
windows (30, 60 and 90 minutes) was observed, i.e. differences on the NPRS score between the 
60 minute group and the control group did not reach statistical significance. In the second HIV-
AN  study  (C119)  there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  primary  endpoint 
between  both  treatment  groups  (30  and  60  minutes)  and  the  control  group  leading  to  the 
uncertainty  regarding  effective  treatment  duration.  Studies  C116  and  C117  conducted  in  PHN 
subjects showed Qutenza efficacy in reducing NPRS scores; nevertheless, the robustness of these 
findings was found not to be satisfactory as the supportive studies in PHN subjects (C108, C110) 
did not confirm the results. The clinical relevance of the small effect size in main studies C107 
and  C116  was  questioned  given  that  the  2  point  reduction  in  pain  was  not  achieved. 
Consequently,  the  CHMP  requested  additional  analysis  of  efficacy  data.  In  response  a  new 
integrated  analysis  was  submitted  focusing  on  60-minute  treatment  duration  in  PHN  and  30-
minute  duration  in  treatment  of  HIV-AN.  The  analysis  was  performed  separately  for  each 
indication and evaluated change in NPRS scores from baseline to weeks 2 to 12 for all 12-week 
controlled efficacy studies (studies C108, C110, C116, C117 for PHN; studies C107 and C119 for 
HIV-AN). Results of the analysis showed a significant reduction in pain scores after 30 minute 
Qutenza  application  in  the  treatment  of  HIV-AN  (27%;  p=0.0026)  and  60  minute  Qutenza 
application in PHN (29.6%, p=0.0001). Analysis of several secondary endpoints, e.g. proportion 
of  responders,  proportion  of  patients  achieving  2-unit  reduction  in  pain,  PGIC  score  provided 
supportive  evidence  of  the  efficacy  of  Qutenza  in  both  HIV-AN  and  PHN.  Results  of  the 
integrated analysis were also presented during oral explanation. The CHMP found the results of 
integrated analysis acceptable and acknowledged that effect size can be small due to the use of 
low concentration capsaicin patch as a control. 
Clinical data presented in support of the indication for treatment in PDN were considered not to 
be  sufficient;  hence  the  initial  indication  was  modified  to  exclude  diabetic  patients.  This 
information is reflected in the SmPC. 
Clinical safety 
The overall safety profile of Qutenza has been evaluated during 12 studies conducted in subjects 
with peripheral neuropathic pain, i.e. in  8 double-blind controlled studies or studies including a 
double-blind  controlled  part  (Studies  C102,  C107,  C108,  C110,  C112,  C116,  C117  and  C119), 
and 3 open-label studies (Studies C109, C111 and C118). Additionally, study C106 was an open-
label extension of study C102. Nine trials were completed at the time of the MAA submission and 
three trials (C117, C118 and C119) were still ongoing. 
In  addition  to  the  12  studies  conducted  in  subjects  with  peripheral  neuropathic  pain,  2  studies 
were conducted in healthy volunteers (Studies C101 and C115). 
Adverse  events  (AEs),  including  AEs  of  potential  interest  to  Qutenza  (e.g.,  application  site 
reactions  and  cardiac  events),  clinical  laboratory  tests,  vital  signs  and  physical  examination 
findings  were  evaluated  across  all  studies  conducted  during  the  Qutenza  clinical  development 
program.  In some studies, additional assessments relevant to the safety profile of Qutenza were 
performed  including:  ECG;  pain  and  dermal  assessments  before,  during  and  after  treatment; 
targeted  neurological  and  sensory  assessments;  sharp  pain  and  tactile  threshold  assessments; 
quantitative sensory testing (QST); nerve conduction evaluations; and measurement of capsaicin 
and capsaicin metabolites in plasma. 
35/48 
 
 
Patient exposure 
Including the three clinical trials completed after the submission of the MAA (C117, C118 and 
C119),  a  total  of  2357  subjects  were  enrolled  in  these  studies  and  1696  received  Qutenza.  Of 
these 1696 subjects, 128 were originally randomized to control, and subsequently received open-
label  Qutenza  treatments.  A  total  of  661  subjects  received  a  single  low-concentration  capsaicin 
control patch treatment as their only treatment. Though subjects in Study C118 (PHN and HIV-
AN) were enrolled in previous Qutenza studies they were evaluated as separate subjects due to the 
variable  duration  between  study  enrollments,  i.e.,  they  are  represented  twice,  unless  indicated 
otherwise. 
In the 8 controlled studies, a total of 1327 subjects received a single application of Qutenza. For 
those subjects who received Qutenza, 148 subjects received a 90 minute treatment, 868 subjects 
received a 60 minute treatment, and 311 subjects received a 30 minute treatment. In the control 
group  (789  subjects),  54  subjects  received  a  90  minute  treatment,  613  subjects  received  a  60 
minute treatment, and 122 subjects received a 30 minute treatment. 
Qutenza Exposure by Duration and Indication (Integrated controlled studies)  
In the three open-label studies a total of 235 subjects received Qutenza, including 59 subjects who 
received a 90 minute treatment and 176 subjects who received a 60 minute treatment. 
Qutenza Exposure by Duration and Indication (Integrated Open-Label Studies) 
Qutenza 90 min 
Subjects, n (%)  
n = 59 
Qutenza 60 min 
n = 176 
Qutenza Total 
n = 235 
PHN 
HIV-AN 
PDN 
12 (20) 
0 
47 (80) 
67 (38) 
65 (37) 
44 (25) 
79 (34) 
65 (28) 
91 (39) 
The size of the treatment area tended to vary by indication. The majority of subjects with PHN 
received treatment over an area of ≤ 500 cm2 in size, whereas the majority of subjects with HIV-
AN and PDN received treatment over an area of ≥ 750 cm2 in size. 
Qutenza Exposure by Size of Treatment Area and Indication 
36/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events  
Qutenza  treatment  was  associated  with  transient,  expected,  capsaicin-related  application  site 
adverse events including erythema, pain, pruritus, oedema, dryness and papules. Application site 
reactions  were  mostly  mild  or  moderate,  non  serious  and  resolved  spontaneously  within  7  days 
with no known sequelae. The overall incidence of adverse events was similar in younger (< 65 
years of age) and older (≥ 65 years of age) subjects and the incidence of application site erythema 
was less in subjects with HIV-AN compared to subjects with PHN. 
Controlled studies 
In  the  controlled  studies  (C102,  C107,  C108,  C110,  C112,  C116,  C117,  C119)  the  overall 
incidence of AEs reported in the total Qutenza group was higher (84%) compared with the total 
control group (77%). The difference was primarily due to a higher incidence of application site 
AEs  among  subjects  in  the  Qutenza  groups  compared  with  the  control  groups.  Of  the  12 
individual  AEs  defined  as  being  “most  common”  (≥  3%  of  subjects  in  either  total  treatment 
group),  6  AEs  were  application  site  AEs  (application  site  pain,  application  site  erythema, 
application  site  papules,  application  site  pruritus,  application  site  dryness,  and  application  site 
swelling).  With  the  exception  of  application  site  erythema  and  application  site  swelling,  these 
application  site  AEs  occurred  at  a  ≥  3%  higher  incidence  in  the  total  Qutenza  group  compared 
with the total Control group. Nearly all of the application site reactions were of short duration and 
mild  or  moderate  intensity.  Two  specific  AEs  (application  site  pruritus  and  application  site 
swelling), irrespective of relationship to study drug, occurred at higher incidences among subjects 
treated with Qutenza for 90 minutes (13% and 10%, respectively) compared with subjects treated 
with Qutenza for 30 minutes (8% and 2%, respectively). No effect based on duration of exposure 
was noted for any SAEs, severe SAEs or severe AEs. 
Open-label studies 
Among the open-label studies, the pattern of the most common treatment-related AEs was similar 
to  that  seen  for  the  controlled  studies  grouping.  The  majority  of  the  most  common  treatment-
related  AEs  in  the  open-label  studies  were  application  site  AEs.  The  most  common  non-
application  site  AEs  identified  in  the  open-label  studies  were  nausea,  blood  pressure  increased, 
and hyperaesthesia. 
Treatment area 
Based  on  pooled  data  from  all  patients,  the  overall  incidence  of  AEs  did  not  increase  with 
increasing  treatment  area.  Two  individual  AEs  occurred  at  a  higher  incidence  with  increasing 
Qutenza surface area: application site dryness (2% [≤ 250 cm2], 3% [> 250 and ≤ 500 cm2], 8% 
[> 500 and ≤ 750 cm2] and 13% [> 750 cm2]) and application site swelling (1% [≤ 250 cm2], 3% 
[> 250 and ≤ 500 cm2], 5% [> 500 and ≤ 750 cm2] and 15% [> 750 cm2]). 
Number of treatments 
No increase in AEs of any type was noted with increasing number of treatments, supporting the 
conclusion that Qutenza is not associated with cumulative toxicity following multiple treatment 
cycles.  
Demographics 
With  regards  to  demographic  characteristics  there  was  no  consistent  pattern  of  relationship 
between age, gender, race and the AE profile of Qutenza. The AEs in PDN subjects were similar 
to those experienced by subjects treated for PHN and HIV-AN. The incidence of AEs coded to 
the “Cardiac Disorders” SOC was comparable across all subgroup categories. The only exception 
was a higher incidence of cardiac disorders in older subjects (≥ 65 years of age) as compared to 
younger subjects (< 65 years of age) in both the Qutenza and control groups. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Seven subjects with HIV-AN (Study C107, C119) and two subjects with PHN (Study C108, 117) 
died. None of the deaths were considered to be related to study drug treatment. In study C107, 4 
subjects died as a result of complications associated with their HIV infection, 1 subject committed 
37/48 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
suicide, and one subject died as a result of a suspected drug overdose. In study C119 one subject 
died  from  pre-existing  cardiovascular  condition  (arteriosclerotic  cardiovascular  disease).  The 
PHN  subject  who  died  during  Study  C108  was  a  91-year-old  male  with  suspected  ileus, 
cholecystitis, pneumonia and anaemia. In study C117 81-year-old female died of diverticulitis. 
In controlled studies the overall incidence of SAEs was similar in the total Qutenza group (6%) as 
compared  with  the  total  control  group  (4%).  In  the  Qutenza  group  16  events  were  reported  in 
more than one subject. One event, myocardial infarction, was reported in more than 2 subjects: 5 
subjects [0.4%] in the Qutenza group and 2 subjects [0.3%] in the control group. The remaining 
15  events  occurred  in  2  subjects  each  (0.2%)  in  the  Qutenza  group:  pneumonia,  cholecystitis, 
appendicitis, lower respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, urosepsis, atrial fibrillation, 
bradycardia,  cerebrovascular  accident,  subarachnoid haemorrhage,  cholelithiasis,  pneumothorax, 
chest  pain,  arthritis,  and  prostate  cancer.  There  was  a  higher  incidence  of  cardiac  disorders 
reported as SAEs in the Qutenza group (16 cases, 1.2%) as compared with the control group (4 
cases,  0.5%).  The  imbalance  of  cardiac  events  is  most  probably  not  attributable  to  the  study 
medication. Only 1 SAE was considered to be possibly related to the study drug (elevated blood 
pressure during and after patch application). 
In the open-label studies the overall incidence of SAEs (6%) was identical to the incidence seen 
in the Qutenza group in the controlled studies. A total of 8 events were reported; none of them 
was  present in  more than one  subject.  Only  1  subject  experienced  SAE (severe  pain  NOS) that 
was  considered  to  be  possibly  related to the study  drug.  In  the  open-label extension studies the 
overall incidence of SAEs was 2-4%. Events categorized as Infections and Infestations were the 
most  prevalent  (1%).  A  total  of  2  events  were  reported  in  more  than  one  subject:  myocardial 
infarction  and  cardiac  failure  congestive.  Clostridium  difficile  colitis  was  reported  twice  by  the 
same subject. Only 1 subject experienced an SAE that was considered to be possibly related to the 
study drug (moderate application site pain). 
Cardiovascular AEs 
Integrated results from all controlled studies indicate that treatment with Qutenza and control was 
associated  with  similar  overall  cardiac  adverse  event  rate  (3%  of  subjects  treated  with  Qutenza 
experienced a cardiac AE vs. 3% of subjects treated with control).  
Fifteen  (15)  severe  AEs  in  the  Cardiac  Disorders  SOC  (1.1%)  were  observed  in  the  Qutenza 
group  and  two  (2)  were  reported  in  the  control  group  (0.3%).  They  included  events  related  to 
coronary artery insufficiency (myocardial infarction, acute myocardial infarction, acute coronary 
syndrome, angina pectoris, and coronary artery disease), heart rhythm abnormalities (arrhythmia, 
atrial  fibrillation,  complete  AV  block,  bradycardia,  supraventricular  tachycardia,  tachycardia, 
palpitations, and supraventricular extrasystoles), and miscellaneous cardiac disorders (congestive 
cardiac failure, cardiac tamponade, mitral valve incompetence and cardiac valve disease). None of 
the AEs had an incidence of more than 1% while myocardial infarction was the only AE observed 
in more than 1 subject. There was a higher incidence of cardiac disorders reported as SAEs in the 
Qutenza  group  (16  subjects,  1.2%)  compared  with  the  Control  group  (4  subjects,  0.5%).  The 
variable timing of the events, the lack of a common pathology, the lack of a dose response, and 
the lack of association with detectable systemic capsaicin exposure suggest that this imbalance of 
cardiac events is not attributable to study medication. 
In  controlled  studies  the  most  common  adverse  events  were  hypertension  in  3%  of  Qutenza 
treated  subjects  and  1%  of  control  subjects.  For  Qutenza-treated  subjects  4  (<  1%)  cases  of 
hypertension, 5 (< 1%) cases of increased blood pressure and 1 (< 1%) case of increased systolic 
blood pressure were judged at least possibly related to study medication. Vital signs collected on 
the day of treatment in the controlled studies showed transient small decreases in mean systolic 
and  diastolic  blood  pressure  during the application  of  topical  anaesthetic  increases to above  the 
pre-treatment  values  after  Qutenza  or  control  patch  application,  and  decreases  to  baseline 
following  patch  removal.  Mean  heart  rates  showed  small  decreases  during  application  of  the 
topical anesthetic with gradual return to pre-treatment values during the rest of the treatment. No 
trends in mean respiratory rates over time were apparent. No ECG changes related to treatment 
with Qutenza were noted. 
38/48 
 
 
 
 
Neurological AEs 
For  subjects  with  PHN,  there  was  no  evidence  of  impairment  of  neurological  function  over  12 
weeks following a single application Qutenza (based on pooled results for allodynia assessments 
and tests of light brush sensation, pinprick, vibration, and warmth in studies C108, C110, C111, 
and  C116).      Following  multiple  Qutenza  applications  for  up  to  52  weeks,  no  evidence  of 
impairment  of  neurological  function  was  observed  (based  on  tests  of  light  brush  sensation, 
pinprick, vibration, and warmth in Study C108).  
For subjects with HIV-AN or PDN-related distal symmetric polyneuropathy (DSP) there was also 
no  evidence  of  impairment  of  neurological  function  following  treatment  with  Qutenza  (deep 
tendon  reflexes,  vibration  sense,  warmth  perception  or  sharp  sensation)  based  on  integrated 
results from Studies C107, C109, C111 and C112. Following multiple applications of Qutenza in 
Study  C107,  the  majority  of  subjects  either  had  no  change  or  improved  their  neurological 
function.  
In  healthy  volunteer  Study  C115  one  week  after  patch  application,  there  was  a  15%  reduction 
from baseline in the detection of sharp pain, which normalized by week 12. This information is 
reflected in the RMP. For subjects with painful DSP due to HIV-AN from Study C107 there was 
no evidence of impairment of sensory function as measured by quantitative sensory testing (QST) 
following  treatment  with  Qutenza.  A  statistically  significant  difference  in  heat  pain  threshold 
(0.5)  observed  at  Week  12  was  primarily  due  to  a  decrease  in  the  threshold  observed  in  the 
control  group.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  at  termination  following 
multiple Qutenza applications for any of the QST parameters tested including heat, pain, cooling, 
and  vibration  thresholds.  In  the  healthy  volunteer  study  C101,  small  increases  in  warmth 
sensation  threshold  (1.1°C  to  1.9°C)  were  observed  at  day  7  following  a  60  and  120  minute 
Qutenza application 
Laboratory findings 
The  comparison  of  laboratory-related  AEs  in  subjects  treated  with  Qutenza  versus  the  low-
concentration control patch do not suggest any effect of exposure to Qutenza on hematology or 
clinical chemistry laboratory values.  
Safety in special populations 
No  studies  in  subjects  with  either  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  were  conducted.  The  Safety  of 
Qutenza  in  children  and  adolescents  younger  than  18  years  of  age  has  not  been  studied.  No 
clinical  data  on  exposed  pregnancies  are  available  from  the  Qutenza  clinical  development 
program. This information is reflected in the SmPC.  
The overall incidence of AEs was similar in younger (< 65 years of age) and older (≥ 65 years of 
age) subjects with PHN in the Qutenza group, whereas in the control group the incidence of AEs 
was higher in the younger PHN subjects. The overall incidence of AEs was similar in younger (< 
65  years  of  age)  and  older  (≥  65  years  of  age)  subjects  with  HIV-AN  in  the  Qutenza  group, 
however,  due  to the  small numbers  of  HIV-AN  subjects  in  the  older  age  group,  no  meaningful 
comparisons of AE incidences could be made in this population. 
The incidence of AEs coded to the “Cardiac Disorders” SOC was comparable across all subgroup 
categories with the exception of a higher incidence in older subjects (≥ 65 years of age) compared 
to younger subjects (< 65 years of age) in both the Qutenza and control groups. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Only  transient  low  levels  of  systemic  absorption  of  capsaicin  have  been  shown  to  occur  in  a 
minority of subjects following treatment with Qutenza. Interactions with other systemic medicinal 
products are highly unlikely. Capsaicin has been shown not to inhibit or induce liver cytochrome 
P450 enzymes at concentrations far in excess of those measured in blood samples from subjects 
treated with Qutenza. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Of the 2357 subjects enrolled in the Qutenza studies 35 (1.5%) terminated treatment prematurely 
due to non-fatal AEs. In controlled studies the early treatment terminations due to AEs occurred 
in the Qutenza group in 11 cases, and in the control group in 5 cases. 19 subjects withdrew from 
39/48 
 
 
 
 
 
the open label studies. Majority of the events that led to discontinuation were considered not to be 
related to the study drug.  
Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported during the Qutenza clinical development program. Due to 
the  limited  systemic  absorption  of  capsaicin  and  requirements  related  to  patch  administration, 
overdosing is unlikely to occur. 
Dependence  
The  potential for  dependence  during  the  use of  Qutenza  is  unlikely.  Qutenza  produces  minimal 
systemic exposure to capsaicin. Moreover, capsaicin has no recognized abuse potential and there 
is no history of capsaicin abuse despite it being widely available in natural products and topical 
preparations  for  centuries.  Neither  topical  formulations  of  capsaicin  nor  foods  containing 
capsaicin have been associated with development of dependence. 
Post marketing experience 
There is currently no postmarketing experience with this medicinal product. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
A  total  of  2357  subjects  were  enrolled  in  Qutenza  development  programme  studies  and  1696 
received active treatment. Of these 1696 subjects, 128 were originally randomised to control, and 
subsequently  received  open-label  Qutenza  treatments.  A  total  of  661  subjects  received  a  single 
low-concentration  capsaicin  control  patch.  Adverse  events  (AEs),  including  AEs  of  potential 
interest to  Qutenza  (e.g.,  application  site reactions  and  cardiac  events), clinical laboratory  tests, 
vital signs and physical examination findings were evaluated across all studies. In select studies, 
additional  evaluations  to  assess  the  overall  safety  of  Qutenza  were  also  conducted,  including: 
ECGs; pain and dermal assessments before, during and after treatment; targeted neurological and 
sensory  assessments;  sharp  pain  and  tactile  threshold  assessments;  quantitative  sensory  testing 
(QST);  nerve  conduction  evaluations;  and  measurement  of  plasma  levels  of  capsaicin  and 
capsaicin metabolites. 
Qutenza treatment was associated with transient, expected, capsaicin-related application site AEs 
including erythema, pain, pruritis, oedema, dryness and papules. Application site reactions were 
mostly mild and moderate, not serious by ICH criteria, and resolved spontaneously within 7 days 
with no known sequelae. The higher incidence of application site AEs is not unexpected given the 
predictable  effects  of  topical  administration  of  high  concentrations  of  capsaicin.  A  temporary 
increase in blood pressure in subjects receiving Qutenza was seen. It was considered to be caused 
by pain experienced during the treatment procedure as the blood pressure returned to the values 
found  in  the  control  arms  after  patch  removal.  The  only  individual  AE  that  appeared  to  be 
consistently related to duration of exposure was application site pain. 
There  was  a  higher  incidence  of  cardiac  disorders  reported  as  SAEs  in  the  Qutenza  group  (16 
subjects, 1.2%) compared with the control group (4 subjects, 0.5%). It is concluded that the SAEs 
were  unlikely to be causally related to treatment with Qutenza for the following reasons: 1) the 
SAEs occurred in subjects with prior history of coronary artery disease or known risk factors or 
both;  
2) the SAEs occurred at variable times after exposure to Qutenza; and 3) the SAEs were not dose-
related  (i.e.,  they  were  not  associated  with  longer  patch  application  times  or  larger  treatment 
areas). 
Long term neurological assessment (12 months) of 365 patients (185 patients with PHN and 180 
patients with HIV-AN) treated with more than a single exposure to Qutenza as well as data from 
90 patients (52 patients with PHN and 38 patients with HIV-AN) treated with multiple exposures 
to  Qutenza  (maximum  8  treatments  over  43  months)  have  not  demonstrated  any  evidence  of 
accelerated  nerve  damage.  Similarly,  long-term  QST  assessments  in  37  HIV-AN  subjects  were 
consistent  with  the  clinical  neurological  evaluations  demonstrating  no  evidence  of  accelerated 
nerve  damage  following  repeated  Qutenza  exposures.  Nonetheless,  concerns  about  the  risk  of 
40/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accelerated  nerve  damage  remained  unsolved.  Therefore  CHMP  requested  a  commitment  to 
conduct a long-term safety study in order to detect neurological impairment. This requirement is 
reflected in the RMP.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
41/48 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan  
Safety issue 
Application site reactions 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Transient small increase in blood 
pressure during patch application 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Lack of response to opioid 
medication 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine: 
Section 4.2 of the SPC, Posology and Method of Administration and Section 6.6 of the SPC, 
Special Precautions for Disposal and other Handling, explain how the patches should be used 
and disposed of.  
Adverse events are described in Section 4.8, Undesirable Effects, of the SPC. 
Routine: 
Section 4.4 of the SPC, Special Warnings and Special Precautions for Use, states that blood 
pressure should be monitored during Qutenza application and that subjects with increased pain 
should be treated with supportive treatment such as local cooling and oral analgesics (i.e., short 
acting opioids). For patients with unstable or poorly controlled hypertension or recent 
cardiovascular events, the risk of adverse cardiovascular effects due to the potential stress of the 
procedure should be considered prior to initiating Qutenza treatment. 
Additional: 
Establish an educational programme, including a supply of appropriate training materials 
addressing the need to monitor blood pressure during the treatment procedure and directions for 
supportive treatment for patients who experience increased pain during Qutenza administration. 
This programme will also address the need to evaluate the risk of adverse cardiovascular 
reactions due to the potential stress of the procedure in patients with unstable or poorly 
controlled hypertension or recent cardiovascular events prior to initiating Qutenza treatment. 
Routine: 
Section 4.4 of the SPC, Special Warnings and Special Precautions for Use, states that subjects 
using high doses of opioid medications may be tolerant of the analgesic effect and may not 
respond to oral analgesics. It recommends taking a thorough medication history and to have an 
alternative pain reduction strategy in place prior to Qutenza treatment in these subjects. 
Additional: 
Establish an educational programme, including supply of appropriate training materials that 
address the need to put in place an alternative pain reduction strategy prior to initiating Qutenza 
treatment in patients using high doses of opioids and with suspected high opioid tolerance. 
42/48 
 
 
 
Temporary, minor decrease (1ºC to 
2ºC) in the ability to detect heat 
stimuli and sharp sensations at the 
application site. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
To provide additional 
information regarding the 
long-term neurological safety 
of Qutenza as well as to 
collect long-term safety data 
after repeated treatments in 
subjects with peripheral 
neuropathic pain, the applicant 
commits to conduct an open-
label repeated dose study that 
will include PHN and HIV-
AN subjects. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Loss of neurosensory function after 
repeated treatments 
Medication errors including 
unintentional contact with patch or 
other materials that have come in 
contact with treated area resulting 
in transient erythema and burning 
sensation or coughing or sneezing 
in case of inhalation of airborne 
capsaicin. 
Routine: 
Stated in Section 4.8 of the SPC, Undesirable Effects.  
Section 4.4 of the SPC, Special Warnings and Special Precautions for Use, states that “Though 
no treatmentrelated reductions in neurological function have been observed in patients with 
peripheral neuropathic pain during clinical studies with Qutenza minor, temporary changes in 
sensory function (e.g. heat detection) have been reported following administration of capsaicin. 
Patients with increased risk for adverse reactions due to minor changes in sensory function 
should be cautious when using Qutenza. 
Additional: 
Establish an educational programme, including supply of appropriate training materials that 
address the need to warn patients about the increased risk for adverse reactions due to temporary 
changes in sensory function (e.g. heat detection) following administration of Qutenza. 
Routine: 
Section 4.1 of the SPC, Therapeutic Indications, states that Qutenza is indicated in “non-diabetic 
adults”. 
Section 4.4 of the SPC, Special Warnings and Special Precautions for Use, states that “Though 
no treatment related reductions in neurological function have been observed in patients with 
peripheral neuropathic pain during clinical studies with Qutenza, minor, temporary changes in 
sensory function (e.g. heat detection) have been reported following administration of capsaicin. 
Patients with increased risk for adverse reactions due to minor changes in sensory function 
should be cautious when using Qutenza”. 
The same section also states that “There is only limited experience with Qutenza in patients with 
Painful Diabetic Neuropathy (PDN). Repeated treatments with Qutenza in patients with PDN 
have not been studied.” 
This information is also communicated in the Package Leaflet. 
Routine: 
Section 4.2 of the SPC, Posology and Method of Administration explains how Qutenza should 
be safely applied and removed and specifically states that Qutenza should be removed slowly 
and gently by rolling the patch inward and that nitrile gloves should be worn at all times. 
Section 4.4 of the SPC, Special Warnings and Special Precautions for Use, states that care must 
be taken to avoid unintentional contact with the patches or other materials that have come in 
contact with the treated areas and that exposure of the skin to capsaicin results in transient 
erythema and burning sensation, with mucous membranes being particularly susceptible. It also 
states that inhalation of airborne capsaicin can result in coughing or sneezing, that health care 
professionals should wear nitrile gloves when handling patches and cleansing treatment areas, 
43/48 
 
and that used patches should be disposed of immediately after use in an appropriate medical 
waste container. This same section explains what should be done in case Qutenza comes in 
contact with areas not intended to be treated and burning occurs, and warns that the cleansing 
gel for Qutenza contains butylhydroxyanisole, which may cause local skin reactions (e.g. contact 
dermatitis) or irritation of the eyes and mucous membranes. 
Section 4.9 of the SPC, Overdose, states what should be done in case of suspected overdose. 
Section 6.6 of the SPC, Special Precautions for Disposal and other Handling explains in detail 
how patches should be handled and disposed of. 
Additional: 
Clear instructions for use will be printed on a tear-off card on the inside flap of the product 
carton. 
Appropriate training materials that address the identified safety issues and demonstrate how to 
properly apply, remove and dispose of the capsaicin patch will be supplied to healthcare 
professionals. 
44/48 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:  
1.  The  Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  is  administered  to  adults  by  a  physician  or  by  a  health  care 
professional under the supervision of a physician.  
2.  Educational  programme  for  healthcare  professionals  should  be  provided  to  address  the  identified 
safety issues and demonstrate how to properly apply, remove and dispose of the capsaicin patch. This 
educational programme should include the following:  
a.  Recommendations  regarding 
b. 
Instructions 
c. Warnings and precautions, including the need: 
regarding 
the  general  handling  and  disposal  measures  for  Qutenza  
Qutenza  
administration 
the 
of 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to monitor blood pressure during the treatment procedure 
to  provide  supportive  treatment  if  patients  experience  increased  pain  during  Qutenza 
administration 
in patients with unstable or poorly controlled hypertension or recent cardiovascular events: to 
evaluate, prior to initiating Qutenza treatment, the risk of adverse cardiovascular reactions due 
to the potential stress of the procedure 
in  patients  using  high  doses  of  opioids  and  with  suspected  high  opioid  tolerance:  to  put  in 
place  an  alternative  pain  reduction  strategy  prior  to  initiating  Qutenza  treatment,  as  these 
patients  may  not  respond  to  oral  opioid  analgesics  when  used  for  acute  pain  during  and 
following the treatment procedure 
to  warn  patients  about  the  increased  risk  for  adverse  reactions  due  to  temporary  changes  in 
sensory function (e.g. heat detection) following administration of Qutenza  
to warn patients about the risk of local reactions (e.g. contact dermatitis) and of irritation of 
the eyes and mucous membranes associated with the cleansing gel of Qutenza. 
45/48 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  active  substance  and  finished  product  have  been  adequately  described.  The  excipients  used  in  the 
preparation  of  the  finished  product  are  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  manufacturing  process 
used for capsaicin cutaneous patch is a standard process that has been developed for the manufacture 
of transdermal patches. These processes are performed on standard equipment commonly used for the 
manufacture  of  patches.  Stability  tests  under  ICH  conditions  indicate  that  the  product  is  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  toxicological  profile  of  capsaicin  path  was  assessed  in  a  sufficient  set  of  studies  which 
appropriately covered the main requirements in relation to the proposed conditions of use. The main 
findings  are  local  adverse  effects  since  very  low  plasma  levels  are  expected  after  application  of 
Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  in  humans.  No  specific  concerns  apart  from  cutaneous  reactions  including 
rash,  expected  based  on  the  mechanism  of  action,  were  identified.  Genotoxicity  studies  performed 
with  capsaicin  showed  a  weak  mutagenic  response  in  mouse  lymphoma  assay.  This  information  is 
reflected in the SmPC. Other genotoxicity assays yielded negative results. The carcinogenic potential 
of capsaicin was negative. Reproductive effects included reduced male and female fertility which may 
be taken into account when deciding on the use of the patch in men and women of reproductive age. 
Whether these effects are reversible has not been established; however there is no apparent reason to 
believe they will be irreversible. This information is reflected in the SmPC. Delayed ossification was 
observed  in  the rat teratology  study  at  doses  above therapeutic  level  in  humans. This  information is 
reflected in the SmPC. No phototoxic concerns were raised.   
Efficacy 
Qutenza cutaneous patch was assessed in four main trials: two studies in patients with post-herpetic 
neuralgia, PHN (study C116, C117) and two studies in patients with HIV associated neuropathy, HIV-
AN (study C107, C119). In both studies conducted in PHN subjects, the efficacy of 60 minute single 
application  of  Qutenza  was  assessed.  In  HIV-AN  subjects  efficacy  of  single  applications  for  30,  60 
and  90  minutes  were  assessed  in  study  C107,  while  30  and  60  minute  single  applications  were 
evaluated  in  study  C119.  In  the  main  studies  a  total  of  975  subjects  received  Qutenza,  418  patients 
with PHN and 557 patients with HIV-AN. The average age of subjects enrolled in the PHN studies 
was 70 years. Patients in HIV-AN studies were younger, the average age in this group was 50 years. 
All patients presented mild to moderate pain (NPRS score of 3 to 9 inclusive) at the study entry. In all 
main studies the 8% Qutenza cutaneous patch was used; 
 a low-concentration capsaicin patch (0.04%) served as a comparator in order to maintain the integrity 
of  the  double-blind  design  due  to  the  expected  capsaicin-related  application  site  effects  (burning 
sensation).  Moreover,  initial  efficacy  of  Qutenza  was  assessed  in  91  patients  with  painful  diabetic 
neuropathy  (PDN)  enrolled  in  a  12-week  phase  2  randomised,  open-label,  multicentre  study  (study 
C111). 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  used  throughout  the  Qutenza  clinical  development  program  was  the 
mean percent change from baseline in Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) scores (with 0 indicating no 
pain and 10 indicating worst possible pain) measured at week 8 in PHN studies and week 12 in HIV-
AN  studies.  Several  secondary  endpoints  were  used  across  the  Qutenza  clinical  development 
programme, e.g. changes from baseline in NPRS scores at multiple time points, and the percentage of 
subjects  who  met  the  “responder”  definition  (which  was  generally  established  as  a  30%  or  greater 
reduction  from  baseline  in  NPRS  scores).  Additional  pain  assessment  instruments  (e.g.,  Short-Form 
McGill pain questionnaire, Gracely Pain Scale, Brief Pain Inventory), subject- and investigator-rated 
global ratings (PGIC, CGIC) were also utilised as a secondary endpoint during the program. Overall 
quality  of  life  assessments  were  obtained  using  a  Sponsor-designed  self-assessment  of  treatment 
(SAT) and the SF-36. 
The initial analysis of efficacy data from  main studies produced inconclusive results. In study C107 
conducted in HIV-AN subjects inconsistency with regards to the efficacy in different time windows 
46/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(30,  60  and  90  minutes)  was  observed,  i.e.  differences  on  the  NPRS  score  between  the  60  minute 
group  and  the  control  group  did  not  reach  statistical  significance.  In  second  HIV-AN  study  (C119) 
there  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  the  primary  endpoint  between  both  treatment 
groups  (30  and  60  minutes)  and  the  control  group  leading  to  the  uncertainty  regarding  effective 
treatment duration in HIV-AN. Studies C116 and C117 conducted in PNH subjects showed Qutenza 
efficacy in reducing NPRS scores; nevertheless, the robustness of these findings was found not to be 
satisfactory as the supportive studies in PHN subjects (C108, C110) did not confirm the results. The 
clinical relevance of the small effect size in main studies C107 and C116 was questioned given that 
the 2 point reduction in pain was not achieved. Consequently, the CHMP requested additional analysis 
of efficacy data. In response a new integrated analysis was submitted focusing on 60-minute treatment 
duration in PHN and 30-minute treatment duration in HIV-AN. The analysis was performed separately 
for each indication and evaluated change in NPRS scores from baseline to weeks 2 to 12 for all 12-
week controlled efficacy studies (studies C108, C110, C116, C117 for PHN; studies C107 and C119 
for  HIV-AN).  Results  of  the  analysis  showed  a  significant  reduction  in  pain  scores  after  30  minute 
Qutenza application in the treatment of HIV-AN (27% vs. 15.7% reduction) and 60 minute Qutenza 
application  in  PHN  (29.6%  vs.  22.3%  reduction).  Analysis  of  several  secondary  endpoints,  e.g. 
proportion  of  responders,  proportion  of  patients  achieving  2-unit  reduction  in  pain,  PGIC  score 
provided  supportive  evidence  of  the  efficacy  of  Qutenza  in  both  HIV-AN  and  PHN.  Results  of  the 
integrated  analysis  were  also  presented  during  oral  explanation.  The  CHMP  found  the  results  of 
integrated analysis acceptable and acknowledged that effect size can be small due to the use of low 
concentration  capsaicin  patch  as  a  control.  Clinical  data  presented  in  support  of  the  indication  for 
treatment  in  PDN  were  considered  not  to  be  sufficient;  hence  the  indication  proposed  initially  was 
modified to exclude diabetic patients.  
Safety 
The  safety  evaluation  is  based  mainly  on  data  from  randomised  clinical  trials.  Most  frequently 
Qutenza  treatment  was  associated  with  transient,  expected,  capsaicin-related  application  site  AEs 
including  erythema,  pain,  pruritis,  oedema,  dryness  and  papules.  Application  site  reactions  were 
mostly mild and moderate, not serious and resolved spontaneously within 7 days. The higher incidence 
of application site AEs is not unexpected given the predictable effects of topical administration of high 
concentrations of capsaicin. A temporary increase in blood pressure in subjects receiving Qutenza was 
seen. It was considered to be caused by pain experienced during the treatment procedure as the blood 
pressure returned to the values found in the control arms after patch removal. The only individual AE 
that appeared to be consistently related to duration of exposure was application site pain. 
There was a higher incidence of cardiac disorders reported as SAEs in the Qutenza group (16 subjects, 
1.2%)  compared  with  the  control  group  (4  subject,  <  0.5%).  It  is  concluded  that  the  SAEs  were 
unlikely to be causally related to treatment with Qutenza. 
Long  term  neurological  assessment  (12  months)  of  365  patients  treated  with  more  than  a  single 
exposure  to  Qutenza  as  well  as  data  from  90  patients  treated  with  multiple  exposures  to  Qutenza 
(maximum  8  treatments  over  43  months)  have  not  demonstrated  any  evidence  of  accelerated  nerve 
damage.  Similarly,  long-term  nerve  function  testing  in  37  subjects  demonstrated  no  evidence  of 
accelerated nerve damage following repeated Qutenza exposures. Nonetheless, concerns about the risk 
of  accelerated  nerve  damage  remained  unsolved.  Therefore  CHMP  requested  a  commitment  to 
conduct  a  long-term  safety  study  in  order  to  detect  neurological  impairment.  This  requirement  is 
reflected in the RMP.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
User consultation 
The Applicant has submitted results form the user testing of package leaflet which was performed in 
English. The main objectives of the readability testing test, i.e. well-finding, well-understanding and 
adequate  use  of  information  by  the  participants  have  been  met.  The  key  messages  for  safe  use  of 
47/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qutenza have been identified and the questions reflected the key messages. The answers given by the 
test persons of all rounds and an overview of the answers were considered to be correct. According to 
the minimum 80% of positive results in both finding and understanding the information, the results of 
the tests are acceptable 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Results  of  the  integrated  analysis  performed  separately  for  each  indication  (PHN,  HIV-AN)  and 
duration of application (60 and 30 minutes, respectively) showed a significant reduction in pain from 
baseline  to  weeks  2  to  12  after  30  minute  Qutenza  application  in  HIV-AN  (-27%)  and  60  minute 
Qutenza application in PHN (-29.6%) compared to the control (-15.7% and -22.3%, respectively) for 
all  12-week  controlled  efficacy  studies.  Analysis  of  several  secondary  endpoints,  e.g.  proportion  of 
responders,  proportion  of  patients  achieving  2-unit  reduction  in  pain,  PGIC  score  also  provided 
supportive  evidence  of  the  efficacy  of  Qutenza  in  both  HIV-AN  and  PHN.  However,  clinical  data 
presented in support of the indication for treatment of PDN were considered not to be sufficient. It was 
concluded that  Qutenza  efficacy  data  support  the  use of  the  product  in the treatment  of  neuropathic 
pain in non-diabetic adult patients. 
Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  is  a  topical  treatment.  Results  from  PK  studies  showed  that  systemic 
exposure to the active substance is negligible. The most common treatment-related adverse events are 
application  site  reactions.  It  was,  therefore,  concluded  that  Qutenza  cutaneous  patch  represents  a 
therapeutic alternative to systemic treatments used in neuropathic pain, i.e. opioids, NSAIDS, tricyclic 
and newer antidepressants, antiepileptic agents with an improved adverse effect profile. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
• 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: educational programme for 
healthcare  professionals  to  address  the  identified  safety  issues  (transient  blood  pressure 
increase, lack of response to opioids, temporary changes in sensory function, local reactions, 
e.g.  contact  dermatitis  due  to  use  of  cleansing  gel)  and  demonstrate  how  to  properly  apply, 
remove and dispose of the capsaicin patch. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Qutenza in the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain in 
non-diabetic adults alone or in combination with other pain medications was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
48/48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
