Summary of risk management plan for QUVIVIQ 
(daridorexant) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for QUVIVIQ. The RMP details important 
risks of QUVIVIQ, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about QUVIVIQ's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
QUVIVIQ's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how QUVIVIQ should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  QUVIVIQ  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of QUVIVIQ's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
QUVIVIQ  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  insomnia  characterised  by 
symptoms  present  for  at  least  3  months  and  considerable  impact  on  daytime  functioning.  It 
contains daridorexant as the active substance and it is given as film-coated tablets for oral use. 
Further information about the evaluation of QUVIVIQ’s benefits can be found in QUVIVIQ's EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/quviviq. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of QUVIVIQ, together with measures to minimise such risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly. 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of QUVIVIQ is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  QUVIVIQ  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of QUVIVIQ. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Potential for drug abuse. 
Suicidal behaviour in high-risk patients (with a medical history 
of depression or other psychiatric disorders). 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant women. 
Use in breast-feeding women. 
Use in patients > 75 years 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: potential for drug abuse 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
The  risk  of  hypnotic  drug  abuse  in  primary 
insomniacs  has  been  shown  not  to  be  significant 
[Mendelson 20041].  
Abuse potential properties were reported for the two 
dual orexin receptor antagonists (DORAs) marketed 
in other regions, in dedicated human abuse potential 
(HAP) studies.  
The  abuse  potential  of  daridorexant  was  evaluated 
in  preclinical  models,  recreational  sedative  drug 
users and insomnia subjects. 
Daridorexant  showed  no  signs  indicative  of  abuse 
potential or physical dependence in rats. 
1 Mendelson WB, Roth T, Cassella J, Roehrs T, Walsh JK, Woods JH, et al. The treatment of chronic 
insomnia: drug indications, chronic use and abuse liability. Summary of a 2001 New Clinical Drug 
Evaluation Unit meeting symposium. Sleep Med Rev. 2004;8(1):7−17. 
 
 
In  a  clinical  pharmacology  study  to  evaluate  drug-
liking properties of daridorexant, the abuse potential 
of  single  doses  of  daridorexant  (recommended 
therapeutic dose of 50 mg, supratherapeutic doses 
of 100 and 150 mg) was investigated in 72 healthy 
to 
recreational  drug  users, 
supratherapeutic doses of suvorexant (150 mg) and 
zolpidem  (30  mg).  The  primary  endpoint  was  the 
maximum possible effect (Emax) on the bipolar Drug 
Liking visual analogue scale (VAS; 0-100).  
comparison 
in 
Daridorexant  exhibited  a  dose-dependent  maximal 
effect in the drug-liking VAS score that was higher 
than  that  of  placebo.  At  the  therapeutic  dose  of 
50 mg,  the  effect  of  daridorexant  was  lower  than 
those  of  both  control  drugs  used  at 
the 
supratherapeutic  doses  of  150  mg  for  suvorexant 
and  30  mg  for  zolpidem.  At  the  supratherapeutic 
doses of 100 and 150 mg, the effect of daridorexant 
was similar to those of the control drugs. Such dose-
related  patterns  were  also  observed  for  most 
secondary  pharmacodynamic 
(PD)  endpoints, 
indicating a lower abuse potential of daridorexant at 
the  dose  of  50  mg  compared  to  supratherapeutic 
doses of zolpidem and suvorexant.  
The  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs) 
suggestive of euphoria, such as euphoric mood and 
feeling abnormal, were less frequent at therapeutic 
and  supratherapeutic  doses  of  daridorexant  as 
compared to suvorexant and zolpidem. In addition, 
daridorexant  showed  fewer  perceptual  alterations 
and less impairment of cognitive function compared 
to  zolpidem  (at  all  doses  of  daridorexant)  and 
suvorexant (at 50 mg of daridorexant only).  
The translatability and relevance of these data from 
recreational  sedative  drug  users  to  the  general 
population as well as for patients with insomnia will 
need  to  be  further  explored  based  on  post-
marketing data.  
In  studies  301,  302,  and  303,  no  events  denoting 
abuse  potential,  including  adverse  events  (AEs)  of 
euphoria,  were  retrieved  via  a  broad  MedDRA 
search. The nature of other reported AEs during the 
Phase  3  studies  did  not  show  any  evidence  or 
pattern suggestive of abuse potential, and there was 
no evidence of withdrawal symptoms. 
Subjects with a history of drug abuse (particularly 
sedatives) and those who may use daridorexant in 
combination with alcohol or other abused drugs. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
−  SmPC section 4.4 
−  SmPC section 4.2 
 
−  Product Information Leaflet (PIL) section 2 
− 
Limited pack sizes 
−  Medicinal 
product 
subject 
to  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important potential risk: suicidal behaviour in high-risk patients (with a medical 
history of depression or other psychiatric disorders) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
suicidal 
In  clinical  trials  of  daridorexant  in  patients  with 
insomnia,  depression  and 
ideation/ 
behaviour risks were assessed both through reports 
of any AEs pertaining to depression and suicide/self-
injury,  and  any  changes 
in  Columbia-Suicide 
Severity Rating Scale® (C-SSRS®) scores. Reported 
events  pertaining  to  suicide/self-injury  were  also 
adjudicated by an Independent Safety Board (ISB). 
Based  on  C-SSRS®  scores,  there  were  no  subjects 
with  suicidal  ideation,  suicidal  behaviour,  and/or 
self-injurious  behaviour  without  suicidal  intent 
treatment  period  of 
during 
daridorexant studies.  
the  double-blind 
history 
Isolated  cases  of  suicidal  ideation  were  reported, 
equally  distributed  across 
treatment  groups 
including  placebo,  for  subjects  with  a  psychiatric 
paranoid 
medical 
schizophrenia) 
extenuating 
circumstances  (family/financial  stress,  illicit  drug 
use). A causal relationship to the study drug could 
not  be  ascertained  due  to  significant  confounding 
factors in all cases.  
(depression, 
and/or 
acute 
Furthermore,  there  was  no  evidence  of  any 
worsening  of  depression  in  subjects  with  medical 
history  or  stable  concomitant  depression  at 
baseline. 
Worsening of depression and suicidal ideation were 
observed  in  clinical  studies  for  the  two  marketed 
DORAs (suvorexant and lemborexant).  
Suicidal  behaviour 
in  high-risk  patients  (with 
medical  history  of  depression  or  other  psychiatric 
disorders) is conservatively considered an important 
potential  risk  for  daridorexant,  based  on  the 
evidence that insomnia itself, as well as the use of 
other hypnotic medications, represent an increased 
risk for suicidal behaviour. 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Subjects  with  a  history  of  depression  or  other 
psychological  disorders  associated  with  risk  of 
suicidal ideation/behaviour. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
−  SmPC section 4.4 
−  SmPC section 4.2 
−  PIL section 2 
−  Medicinal 
product 
subject 
to  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Missing information: use in pregnant women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
−  SmPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 
−  PIL section 2 
−  Medicinal 
product 
subject 
to  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities  Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
QUVIVIQ pregnancy registry 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of 
the post-authorisation development plan. 
Missing information: use in breast-feeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
−  SmPC section 4.6 
−  PIL section 2 
−  Medicinal 
product 
subject 
to  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
 
 
 
 
Missing information: use in patients > 75 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
−  SmPC section 4.4 
−  SmPC section 4.2 
−  PIL section 2 
−  Medicinal 
product 
subject 
to  medical 
prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligations 
of QUVIVIQ. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
QUVIVIQ Pregnancy Registry 
Purpose of the study: Animal studies did not indicate harmful effects with respect to reproductive 
toxicity. However, there are currently no data on the use of daridorexant in pregnant women.  
The  objectives  of  the  pregnancy  registry  are  to  investigate  pregnancy,  neonatal,  and  infant 
outcomes of women exposed to QUVIVIQ during their pregnancy, compared to an unexposed 
control group.  
 
 
 
 
