EMA/127096/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005634 
Quviviq (daridorexant) 
An overview of Quviviq and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Quviviq and what is it used for? 
Quviviq is a medicine for treating adults with insomnia (difficulty sleeping) that has lasted for at least 3 
months and has a considerable impact on how they function during the day. 
Quviviq contains the active substance daridorexant. 
How is Quviviq used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as tablets and the recommended 
dose is one 50-mg tablet in the evening not more than 30 minutes before going to bed. The dose could 
be one 25-mg tablet in the evening, if your doctor considers a lower dose as appropriate.  
The effect of Quviviq may be delayed if taken with or soon after a meal. Your doctor may prescribe a 
lower dose if you have liver problems or take certain other medicines. Treatment should be kept as 
short as possible and reassessed by your doctor within 3 months. 
For more information about using Quviviq, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Quviviq work? 
The active substance in Quviviq, daridorexant, is a dual orexin receptor antagonist (DORA). It works by 
blocking the action of orexin, a substance produced by the brain that promotes wakefulness. Quviviq 
does so by attaching to two types of receptors (targets) for orexin. This means that Quviviq helps 
people to fall asleep more quickly, to stay asleep for longer and to improve functioning during the day. 
What benefits of Quviviq have been shown in studies? 
Quviviq has been shown to be effective at increasing the amount of time adults with insomnia can 
sleep and improving functioning during the day based on two main studies. In one main study 
involving 930 patients those given 50 mg Quviviq over 3 months were able to reduce the time they 
spent awake each night by 29 minutes, on average, compared with a reduction of 11 minutes for those 
given a placebo (dummy treatment). Also, after 3 months of treatment, patients who took 50 mg 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Quviviq fell asleep around 35 minutes faster than before treatment, while those taking placebo fell 
asleep 23 minutes faster. 
What are the risks associated with Quviviq? 
The most common side effects with Quviviq (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are headache and 
somnolence (sleepiness). Most side effects are mild or moderate.  
Quviviq must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the ingredients, in 
people with narcolepsy (a sleep disorder that causes a person to fall asleep suddenly and 
unexpectedly), or in people who use ‘strong CYP3A4 inhibitors’ (a group of medicines). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Quviviq, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Quviviq authorised in the EU? 
Two main studies showed that Quviviq is effective at increasing the amount of time patients with 
insomnia can sleep and improving functioning during the day. The side effects are considered 
manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Quviviq’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Quviviq? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Quviviq have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Quviviq are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Quviviq are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Quviviq 
Quviviq received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 29 April 2022. 
Further information on Quviviq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/quviviq. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2022. 
Quviviq (daridorexant)  
EMA/127096/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
