PART VI.  : SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR RANEXA® 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ranexa. The RMP details important 
risks of Ranexa, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Ranexa's risks. 
Ranexa's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ranexa should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ranexa should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ranexa's 
RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Ranexa is authorised for add-on therapy for the symptomatic treatment of patients with stable 
angina pectoris who are inadequately controlled or intolerant to first-line antianginal therapies (such 
as beta-blockers and/or calcium antagonists). It contains ranolazine as the active substance and it is 
given by oral administration as 375 mg prolonged-release tablets, 500 mg prolonged-release tablets 
and 750 mg prolonged-release tablets. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ranexa’s benefits can be found in Ranexa’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000805/human_
med_001009.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS  
Important risks of Ranexa, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Ranexa’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
 
 
 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size -the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, the frequency of PSUR submission is currently revised to 3 years and it should 
be submitted within 90 days of the data lock point published in the updated list of Union reference 
dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A. List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ranexa are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered or taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ranexa. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
  QT prolongation 
Important potential risks 
  Myasthenic syndrome  
  Cardiac arrhythmias 
Missing information 
  None 
II.B.  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Heart rhythm disorder that can potentially cause fast abnormal 
heartbeats (QT Prolongation) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Based on the published literature, a background of major cardiac 
events such as Torsade de pointes, ventricular tachycardia, 
ventricular fibrillation, and cardiac death is expected in the general 
population, with an obvious increase in the prevalence of these 
events in patients with history of cardiovascular diseases, regardless 
of ranolazine treatment. Rather, ranolazine has shown a protective 
effect on some of these events. Based on these information, QT 
prolongation has been classified as Important Identified Risk. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In patients with a combination of some factors (as concomitant 
treatment with drugs for abnormal heartbeats or history of 
congenital or a family history of abnormal heartbeats), along with 
others such as electrolyte disturbances, female gender, family 
history of ventricular arrhythmias or early sudden cardiac death, 
risk of serious events may be increased.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Heart rhythm disorder that can potentially cause fast abnormal 
heartbeats (QT Prolongation) 
  SmPC sections 4.4, 5.2 
  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risk: Group of conditions characterized by muscle weakness that worsens 
with physical exertion (Myasthenic syndrome) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Epidemiological population-based studies  as well as post-
marketing data,  have suggested to evaluate the risk of myasthenic 
syndrome with the use of ranolazine as Important Potential Risk. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Women are twice as likely as men to be affected by myasthenia 
gravis. Onset of this disease can occur at any age; however, women 
under the age of 40 years and men over the age of 60 years are most 
commonly affected. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risk: Disorders of heart rhythm (Cardiac arrhythmias) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
This issue has been considered as important potential risk due to the 
fact that in two studies, the events related to some of disorders of 
heart rhythm, were reported with higher number in patients treated 
with ranolazine compared to the patients treated with placebo. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Disorders of heart rhythm are common. The general risk factors for 
an abnormal heart rithm include cardiac disease, increase in blood 
pressure, diabetes, smoking, consumption of alcohol, use of certain 
medication or elicit drugs (eg, amphetamines and cocaine), obesity, 
electrolyte imbalance, and old age.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.3 
  SmPC section 4.4 
  SmPC section 4.5 
  SmPC section 4.8 
  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ranexa. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ranexa. 
 
 
 
