24 September 2015 
EMA/697306/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: ranolazine 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002611/201501 
Period covered by the PSUR:  27 January 2013 – 26 January 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for ranolazine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Scientific conclusions and grounds for variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations  
The cumulative review of hyponatremia/SIADH cases provided by the MAH identified a total of 29 
cases (16 spontaneous reports and 13 SAEs from clinical studies) which contained at least one 
MedDRA Preferred Term from the broad Standardised MedDRA Query (SMQ) 
Hyponatraemia/syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion (SIADH). It was 
noted that hyponatremia has been observed with similar frequency in the ranolazine (0.09%) and 
placebo (0.12%) groups in a placebo controlled study. In this study the frequency of hyponatraemia 
in the ranolazine group was rare. Considering all reported cases, there is a strong causality relation 
between the use of ranolazine and the occurrence of severe hyponatremia. In most of these cases 
the MAH stated that the concomitant medications (e.g. diuretics, sartans, angiotensin-converting-
enzyme inhibitors) provide an alternative aetiology for hyponatremia; however, the patients 
developed hyponatremia either after adding ranolazine to their existing medications or had temporal 
relation to ranolazine initiation or had positive re-challenge or the causality with the existing 
medication could be excluded. Considering the reported serious adverse events (SAEs) with 10 
positive de-challenges and the temporal relationship of these events to ranolazine, the adverse drug 
reaction hyponatremia is considered to be an important identified risk that should be listed in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC (System Organ Class (SOC) Metabolism and nutrition disorders, frequency 
rare). 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding hyponatremia, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information were warranted.  
In addition, in view of the current safety profile of Ranexa the PRAC considered that the PSUR cycle 
should be extended from 2 years to 3 years. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ranolazine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing ranolazine is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/697306/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
