European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/30876/2008  
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
LATIXA 
International Nonproprietary Name: ranolazine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/805 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 44 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 49 
2/54 
 
  
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant  CV Therapeutics  Europe  Limited  submitted  on  27  November  2006  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Latixa,  through  the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 1 June 2006. 
The legal basis for this application refers to article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - 
complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
Latixa has been given a Marketing Authorisation in USA on 27 January 2006. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Bengt Ljungberg 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Gonzalo Calvo Rojas 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 27 November 2006. 
The procedure started on 27 December 2006. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
16 March 2007  (The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 16 March 2007. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, 
the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in 
less than 80 days. 
During  the  meeting  on  23-26  April  2007  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 26 April 2007. 
During the meeting on 18-21 June 2007 the CHMP agreed to the request from the applicant for 
a 3-month extension of clock stop to respond to the List of Questions. 
During  the  meeting  on  17-20  September  2007  the  CHMP  agreed  to  an  additional  month 
extension of clock stop to respond to the List of Questions. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
1 November 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 4 January 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 January 2008 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
A  clarification  meeting  via  teleconference  on  the  list  of  outstanding  issues  was  held  on 
1 February 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated list of outstanding issues on 
15 February 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 3 March 2008  
3/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted further responses in preparation of the oral explanation on 13 March 
2008. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  an  updated  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  further 
responses to all CHMP members on 14 March 2008. 
During the meeting on 21-24 April 2008 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Latixa  on  24  April  2008.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 21 April 2008. 
4/54 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
2.1 
Ischemic  heart  disease  (IHD)  is  the  most  common,  chronic,  life-threatening  illness  in  the  western 
world, causing more deaths and disability and incurring grater economic costs than any other illness.  
The primary consideration in the choice of pharmacological agents for treatment angina should be to 
improve  prognosis.  Aspirin  and  lipid-lowering  therapy  have  been  shown  to reduce  the  risk  of  death 
and  non-fatal  myocardial  infarction  (MI)  in  both  primary  and  secondary  prevention  trials.  Beta-
blockers also reduce cardiac events when used as secondary prevention in post-infarction patients and 
reduce  mortality  and  morbidity  among  patients  with hypertension.  Diltiazem  and  verapamil are  also 
useful  in  such  circumstances  although  they  should  be  avoided  in  the  presence  of  significant  left 
ventricular dysfunction. Nitrates are of value where there is left ventricular dysfunction. β-blockers are 
indicated  in  cardiac  failure  and  some  vascular  selective  long-acting  dihydropiridines  can  be  given 
cautiously in such patients. Patients with asthma and peripheral vascular disease may be best treated 
with  a  long  acting  nitrate  or  a  calcium  antagonist,  although  selective β-blockers  may  be  given  with 
caution.  
Despite  the  increasing  success  of  conventional  medical  therapeutic  approaches  and  the  continued 
development  and  improvement  of  mechanical  revascularization  approaches,  a  significant  number  of 
patients  with  IHD  and  angina  pectoris  cannot  be  successfully  managed  with  currently  available 
options.  In  addition,  a  substantial  proportion  of  patients  undergoing  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention  (PCI)  or  coronary  artery  bypass  surgery  (CABG)  do  not  achieve  complete 
revascularization,  and  many  of  these  patients  continue  to  experience  residual  anginal  symptoms  of 
myocardial ischemia despite maximal medical therapy. 
CVT  Therapeutics  Europe Limited  has  provided  a  complete/stand-alone  application  of  a  new  active 
substance  (Ranolazine)  through  a  centralised  procedure. This application is submitted  in  accordance 
with the article 8(3) in directive 2001/83/EC. 
A previous procedure for ranolazine in the treatment of chronic angina pectoris was submitted in 2004 
(Trebinex,  prolonged  release  tablets  375  and  500  mg).  This  procedure,  EMEA  H/C/592,  was 
withdrawn  at  Day  180  due  to  major  deficiencies  which  precluded  the  authorisation  of  the  product.  
Major  safety  concerns  related  to  genotoxicity  as  well  as  safety  concerns  related  to  the  risks  for 
increased exposure due to drug interactions, were identified as the preclinical main issues, and efficacy 
on top of at least other conventional anti-anginal product, the clinical relevance of the effect and the 
clinical safety of the higher dose, were identified as the main clinical deficiencies.  
The proposed indication reads as follows: 
Latixa  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  stable  angina 
pectoris  who  are  inadequately  controlled  or  intolerant  to  first  line  antianginal  therapies  (such  as 
betablockers  and/or  calcium  antagonists).  Due  to  its  pharmacodynamic  profile,  Latixa  may  be 
particularly relevant for those patients in whom a decrease in heart rate or blood pressure, or increase 
in PR interval is undesirable. 
The approved indication is:  
Latixa is as add-on therapy for the symptomatic treatment of patients with stable angina pectoris who 
are  inadequately  controlled  or  intolerant  to  first-line  antianginal  therapies  (such  as  beta-blockers 
and/or calcium antagonists).  
5/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Composition 
Latixa  contains  ranolazine  as  the  active  substance.  It  is  presented  as  film-coated  prolonged-release 
tablets in three dosage strengths of 375 mg, 500 mg and 750 mg. 
Each  tablet  core  contains  methacrylic  acid-ethyl  acrylate  copolymer,  microcrystalline  cellulose, 
hypromellose, sodium hydroxide and magnesium stearate.  
The  tablets  are  coated  with  an  aesthetic  film-coating  having  a  different  colour  for  each  strength  in 
order  to  facilitate  identification  of  the  different  strengths  by  patients  and  to  eliminate  medication 
errors. The components of the light blue and orange film-coatings include the colorant, hypromellose, 
titanium  dioxide,  polyethylene  glycol  and  polysorbate  80.  The  blue  film-coating  consists  of  the 
colorant, hypromellose, titanium dioxide, glycerol triacetate and lactose monohydrate.  
The tablets are packaged either in blisters or high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles.  
Active Substance 
chemical 
The 
ranolazine 
name 
methoxyphenoxy)propyl] piperazineacetamide. 
of 
is 
(±)-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-4-[2-hydroxy-3-(2-
Ranolazine  is a  white  to  off-white  solid,  very  slightly  soluble in  water.  It  is freely  soluble  in  aqueous 
buffered solutions at pH levels below 4.4 and soluble in several organic solvents e.g. dichloromethane 
and methanol. The chemical structure is well characterised by means of elemental analysis, UV, IR, 
1H-NMR, 13C-NMR chemical ionization, electron impact mass spectra and x-ray diffraction. 
Ranolazine exhibits a chiral center and is obtained as a racemic mixture that consists of a 1:1 ratio of 
(R)  and  (S)  enantiomers.  This  is  confirmed  by  demonstrating  that  ranolazine  does  not  exhibit  any 
optical  rotation  of  plane  polarized  light  in  polarimeter  measurements.    Both  enantiomers  exhibit 
pharmacological activity. 
Regarding  polymorphism,  crystallisation  studies  were  conducted  using  different  solvents, 
crystallization  conditions  and  vapor  diffusion  experiments.  In  these  studies  three  crystalline  forms 
named as Form I, Form II, Form III and one amorphous form were identified. Form I is the only one 
that  was  thermodynamically  stable,  Form  II  and  Form  III  are  kinetically  unstable.  The  synthetic 
process  used  for  the  synthesis  of  ranolazine  has  been  shown  to  produce  only  Form  I.  Extreme 
conditions  that  are  not  relevant  to  the  synthetic  process  are  required  to  convert  ranolazine  to  other 
solid-state forms (amorphous and two other crystalline forms, Form II and Form III). 
•  Manufacture 
Ranolazine is manufactured using a three step synthetic process followed by purification, drying and 
milling.  The  starting  materials  are  2,6-dimethylaniline  (2,6-DMA),  chloroacetyl  chloride  (CAC), 
piperazine  dihydrochloride  and  guaiacol  glicydil  ether  (GGE).  The  synthetic  process  has  been 
adequately  described  the  critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  are  controlled  with 
appropriate in-process controls. 
Data from four validation batches have been provided that demonstrate that the manufacturing process 
is  capable  to  consistently  produce  batches  of  active  substance  that  comply  with  the  predefined 
specifications. 
A detailed discussion about potential impurities and their origin has been provided in line with ICH 
Guideline Q3A(R). Three specified impurities arising from the route of synthesis and one arising from 
the staring materials have been identified. There are also eight unspecified potential impurities.   
•  Specification 
The specifications were set according to ICH Q3A(R), Q3C and Q6A Guidelines taking into account 
analytical results from stability, clinical trials and toxicological studies.  
6/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  parameters  included  in  the  specifications  are  appearance,  identification  (IR,  Optical  rotation), 
assay  (HPLC),  organic  impurities  (HPLC),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur.),  residue  on  ignition  (Ph.Eur), 
residual  solvents  (GC),  melting  range,  water  content,  particle  size  distribution  (laser  diffraction), 
completeness of solution (USP). 
In general terms, the proposed specifications are suitable to control the quality of the active substance 
and the analytical methods used are either compendial or have been satisfactorily validated.  
The levels of the impurities are supported by the results of 10 commercial scale batches. Toxicological 
studies have been carried out for those organic impurities that exceed the limit of max.0.15% in order to 
qualify the levels proposed in the specification. Taking into account that there are not specific sources 
for  inorganic  impurities,  only  general  methods  of  heavy  metals  and  residue  on  ignition  have  been 
included in the specifications. 
•  Stability 
Stability studies were carried out according to the ICH requirements. Accelerated stability studies have 
been performed in 40oC/75 % RH with 3 primary batches of the active substance for 6 months. Long 
term  and  stability  studies  have  been  performed  in  25oC/60  %  RH  with  3  primary  batches  and  3 
commercial batches for up to 48 months. Additionally, results from three annual stability batches have 
been  provided.  The  packaging  materials  used  in  the  stability  studies  simulate  the  commercial 
packaging. 
The  parameters  tested  included  physical  appearance,  assay,  impurities  (specified,  individual 
unspecified and total impurities) water content and particle size. The analytical methods used were the 
same as those used for routine controls and are stability indicating.  
The results have shown that there are no significant differences or trends in the stability data and that 
the proposed re-test period is acceptable. 
Studies  have  also  been  performed  under  stress  conditions  in  order  to  show  the  main  degradation 
pathways. The results demonstrate that ranolazine is stable in acidic and basic conditions while in an 
oxidative medium two degradation products were observed.  
A  photostability  study  has  also  been  performed  in  accordance  to  ICH  requirements  and  the  results 
show that the active substance is not sensitive to light. 
At the time of the approval the applicant committed to continue the on-going stability studies on three 
commercial scale production batches of ranolazine active substance until the end of the proposed re-
test period. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The short biological half-life of the active substance and consequently the difficulties in maintaining 
the  desired  concentrations  in  the  blood,  determined  the  need  for  the  development  of  a  prolonged 
release formulation. The desired prolonged-release characteristics are achieved by developing a matrix 
tablet, where a pH-dependent polymer (methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer 1:1) is used that is 
insoluble in low pH and begins to dissolve at about pH >5. In this way, the polymer restricts the high 
solubility of ranolazine in acidic mediums (e.g. gastric environment) and achieves a prolonged release 
by dissolving in a basic environment, where ranolazine is less soluble and thus more time is needed for 
its release.  
Since ranolazine is very slightly soluble in water several studies were conducted in order to determine 
the effect of the active substance particle size on the finished product performance. Different batches 
of  active  substance  with  varying  particle  size  distribution  were  used.  Based  on  these  studies 
appropriate specifications have been set to ensure that any potential variability in the active substance 
particle size distribution will not affect the dissolution of the prolonged release dosage form. 
The excipients that have been employed in the formulation development are commonly used in oral 
dosage forms. No excipients of animal origin have been used and most of the excipients are described 
in the Ph. Eur. The tablets are coated with an aesthetic film coating having a different colour for each 
strength. The colorants used in the film coating comply with the requirements of Directive 94/36/EC. 
A  standard  wet  granulation  method  has  been  used  for  the  process  development.  Data  from  the 
development  studies  demonstrate  that  the  critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and 
7/54 
 
 
 
 
 
appropriate in process controls have been set up to monitor them. Scale-up trials identified and refined 
the  targets  and  ranges  for  the  critical  process  parameters  to  be  used  in  the  proposed  commercial 
manufacturing process. 
In order to control the performance of the prolonged release formulation a discriminatory dissolution 
test has been developed that includes tests in 4 time points. The relevance of the selected dissolution 
medium and dissolution conditions has been satisfactorily been demonstrated.  
Different product formulations have been used in the early studies. However bioequivalence between 
the clinical trial formulations and the one intended for marketing has been demonstrated. 
The ranolazine prolonged release tablets are packaged either in PVC/PVdC blisters or in HDPE bottles 
closed with a child resistant cap containing a foam liner and foil inner seal. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is a  standard  process for  these  kinds  of  formulations  and consists  of the 
following steps: granulation, compression of the granules into tablets and film-coating of the tablets.  
The manufacturing process has been adequately described.  
Process  validation  studies  have  been  performed  for  the  375  mg  and  500  mg  tablets  on  three 
commercial scale batches. Supportive batch analysis data have also been provided from 10 batches of 
the 375 mg tablets and 60 batches of the 500 mg tablets manufactured at commercial scale using the 
validated manufacturing process. 
Based on the validation and batch analysis data it can be concluded that the manufacturing process is 
reproducible  and  capable  of  producing  consistently  a  finished  product  that  complies  with  the 
acceptance criteria in the release specifications. 
Process validation data have not been provided for the 750 mg tablets. This is deemed as acceptable 
since the composition of the 750 mg tablet is dose-proportional to those of the 375 mg and 500 mg 
tablets.  In  addition,  the  manufacturing  process,  equipment,  in-process  controls  and  product 
specifications are similar. Given the similarity of all tablet strengths and that the process validation for 
the 375 mg and 500 mg was successful, the process validation for the 750 mg tablet is not expected to 
differ from the validation results previously obtained. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  for  the  finished  product  at  release  and  shelf  life  includes  tests  for  appearance, 
identification  (UV,  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  dissolution  (4  time-points 
test), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur) and microbial purity (Ph. Eur). All analytical tests included 
in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Batch  analysis  data  from  15  pilot  and  2-3  commercial  scale  batches  have  been  presented  for  each 
strength. All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology 
valid at the time of batch release. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies were carried out on 3 pilot scale batches for each strength packaged both in blisters 
and in HPDE bottles according to the ICH requirements. Samples were stored at 25oC/60 % RH for up 
to 48 months and in 40oC/75 % RH for 6 months.  
The parameters tested in the stability studies were appearance, assay degradation products dissolution, 
water content, friability (only tested on bottled tablets) and microbiological purity.  
The results of the stability studies show that in all cases there has been no significant change in the 
appearance, assay or dissolution profile of the tablets. No degradation products have been detected and 
the  friability  of  the  tablets,  when  stored  in  HDPE  bottles  remains  unchanged.    A  slight  increase  in 
water  content  has  been  observed,  but  it  appears  to  level  off  after  several  months,  suggesting 
equilibration with the environment.  
Therefore  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  stability  results  provided  are  satisfactory  and  support  the 
proposed the proposed shelf life of 4 years under no special storage conditions for all tablet strengths.  
8/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Ranolazine prolonged release tablets is adequately established. In general, satisfactory 
chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There 
are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  It  is  a  very  stable  substance  that  is 
presented in the form of a racemic mixture, where both enantiomers exhibit pharmacological activity. 
Due to the short half-life of the active substance, a prolonged release matrix oral tablet formulation has 
been  developed,  in  order  to  achieve  the  desired  levels  in  blood.  The  excipients  employed  in  the 
formulation  are  commonly  used  and  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  packaging  material  is 
also  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  is  a 
standard process that has been adequately described. Stability tests indicate that the product under ICH 
guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Racemic ranolazine was originally developed by Syntex Research Scotland who carried out many of 
the  earlier  non-clinical  investigations  in  the  1980s.  Pharmacology  studies  were  also  conducted  at 
various  universities  and  other  research  institutes.  Reproduction  toxicology  was  undertaken  at  the 
Syntex laboratories in Palo Alto, California, USA and genetic toxicology was undertaken by various 
independent  contract laboratories.  Ranolazine  was  subsequently  acquired  by  CV Therapeutics  and a 
considerable  number  of  additional  pharmacology  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  undertaken 
together with a range of toxicology investigations on potential impurities, the genotoxic potential of 
ranolazine and to investigate the safety margin of the proposed marketing formulation. These included 
detailed  investigation  of  the  pharmacology  and  pharmacokinetics  of  the  enantiomers.  Some  of  the 
studies  were  carried  out  at  CV  Therapeutics  and  others  were  commissioned  from  various  research 
institutions and contract laboratories. 
Only one of the pharmacology studies (CVT303.121-P) was performed in full compliance with current 
standards  for  good  laboratory  practices  (GLP).  None  of  the  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  GLP 
compliant  as  numerous  studies  were  performed  early  in  the  development  of  ranolazine  when  such 
requirements  did  not  apply,  the  Applicant  provided  however  an  adequate  reassurance  that  the  data 
integrity  was  ensured.  Apart  from  a  number  of  non-pivotal  and  supplementary  studies,  all  pivotal 
toxicology studies and a portion of the pharmacokinetic are GLP-compliant.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Ranolazine’s mechanism of action is thought to be selective inhibition of late inward sodium current 
(INa)  relative  to  peak  INa  resulting  in  a  decrease  in  intracellular  Na+  and  Ca2+  overload  and  an 
attenuation of the deleterious electrical and mechanical consequences of Ca2+ overload. Inhibition of 
late INa has been observed in a number of systems. The greatest indirect measure of the effect on peak 
INa was a 50% inhibition of the rate of rise of Phase 0 of the action potential (Vmax) at a concentration 
of 30 µM. Direct measurements of ranolazine’s effect to reduce peak INa show IC50 values in normal 
dogs of 294 µM and in dogs with heart failure of 244 µM. In contrast, racemic ranolazine inhibited 
late INa,  with  potency  as  low  as  5 µM,  with  similar  results  being  observed  with  the  ranolazine 
enantiomers. The greatest selectivity observed was in myocytes from dogs with ischemic heart failure 
where a ~38-fold selectivity to inhibit late INa over peak INa was observed. In heterologous expression 
models, HEK293 with SCN5A KPQ mutant sodium channels, lower selectivity of ranolazine for late 
vs peak INa has been reported. It has also been shown that ranolazine decreases cellular Ca2+ overload 
and  there  have  been  many  studies  that  show  the  cardioprotective  actions  of  ranolazine  in  isolated 
9/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hearts. Thus, there is substantial evidence that ranolazine exerts its primary pharmacodynamic action 
through inhibition of late INa. 
Ranolazine is not thought to directly inhibit Ca2+ overload during ischemia as it has been demonstrated 
to  cause  minimal  or  no  inhibition  of  peak  or  late  calcium  channel  current  (ICa)  or  sodium  calcium 
exchange current.  
In  the  receptor  screening  assays,  ranolazine  and  its  R-  and  S-enantiomers  were  found  to  have  no 
significant  binding  activity  to  most  of  the  receptors  and  ion  channels  examined,  except  for 
α1-adrenergic receptors, β1-adrenergic receptors, β2-adrenergic receptors, and serotonin 5-HT1A and 5-
HT2  receptors.  Studies  were  conducted  to  further  characterize  the  binding  and  functional  activity  of 
ranolazine,  its  R-  and  S-enantiomers  and  11  metabolites  (with  plasma  AUC  >  1%  the  AUC  of 
ranolazine) at α1-, β1-, and β2-adrenergic receptors, the opioid and serotonin receptors, and L-type Ca2+ 
channels.  Because  the  AUC  of  the  most  abundant ranolazine  metabolite  is approximately  30%-40% 
that of ranolazine, the metabolites were tested in these studies at a minimal concentration of 10 µM in 
order  to  exceed  the  expected  plasma  concentration  range  for  the  most  abundant  metabolite  at 
therapeutic plasma levels of ranolazine.  
Ranolazine, its enantiomers, and three metabolites (RS-88390, RS-89961, and RS-88772) were shown 
to have moderate affinity for α1A-and α1B-adrenergic receptors. Ranolazine, its S-enantiomer, and the 
same three metabolites had a similar affinity for β1-adrenergic receptors, with the R-enantiomer having 
no  significant  binding  activity.  The  affinity  of  ranolazine  for  β2-adrenergic  receptors  was  slightly 
lower, with the S-enantiomer and metabolites RS-88390 and RS-88772 having a similar affinity as the 
racemate.  The  metabolite  RS-89961  had  a  higher  affinity  for  β2-adrenergic  receptors,  whereas  the 
R-enantiomer had no significant binding activity.  
Ranolazine had no pharmacological or metabolic cardiac effects in non-ischemic hearts at doses that 
were effective in suppressing the ischemia-induced electrocardiographic changes in a canine model of 
reversible  ischemia  and  improving  cardiac  performance  in  a  canine  model  of  heart  failure.  The 
enantiomers  had  similar  anti-ischemic  efficacy  in  a  dog  model.  In  animal  experiments  (dogs  and 
baboons),  ranolazine,  at  concentrations  as  low  as  0.3  µM,  has  been  shown  to  have  anti-ischemic 
effects.  Overall,  the  anti-ischemic  effects  of  ranolazine  occurred  at  plasma  concentrations  that  were 
similar to those expected to be therapeutically effective in humans. 
The  anti-ischemic effects of  ranolazine  were  not  associated  with  significant changes  in  BP  and  HR. 
For example, in awake dogs, ranolazine (at steady-state concentrations in the range of ≤ 18µM) did not 
cause significant slowing of heart rate (HR) or lowering of arterial blood pressure (BP), and did not 
affect coronary blood flow, coronary vascular resistance or left ventricular (LV) contractility. These 
findings  suggest  a  lack  of  significant  inhibition  by  ranolazine  of  α1-  or  β-adrenergic-mediated 
responses, or L-type Ca2+ channel currents and dependent responses. Ranolazine has also been shown 
to  increase  cardiac  performance  in  dogs  with  heart  failure,  induced  by  serial  microembolizations, 
without affecting HR, arterial BP, LV contractility, or systemic vascular resistance. Hence, the effect 
of  ranolazine  to  improve  LV  function  in  dogs  with  chronic  heart  failure  cannot  be  explained  by 
inhibition of α1- or β-adrenergic receptor-mediated effects or Ca2+ current-dependent effects. 
The lack of negative chronotropic and hypotensive effects of ranolazine, despite demonstrated α1- and 
β1-adrenergic  antagonist  activity,  suggest  that  another  effect  of  ranolazine,  yet  to  be  determined, 
counteracts the anticipated depressant effects associated with α1- and β1-adrenergic receptor blockade. 
For  example,  the  α1-adrenergic  receptor  antagonist  activity  of  ranolazine  could  be  responsible  for  a 
reflex  tachycardia  that  counters  the  β1-adrenergic-mediated  slowing  of  the  HR.  However,  the  α1-
adrenergic blockade by ranolazine appears not to be sufficient to decrease BP at steady-state plasma 
concentrations less than 18 µM. Hence, the contribution of these sympatholytic effects of ranolazine to 
its anti-ischemic and antianginal effects, if any, remains to be established. 
Oral ranolazine (resulting in plasma concentrations ≥ 10 µM) had a detrimental effect on submaximal 
exercise capacity in rats with myocardial infarction. It could be attributed to the high doses used and 
the subsequent plasma levels that were attained, which elicits other pharmacological effects, such as 
10/54 
 
weak  Ca2+  channel  and  β-adrenergic  blocking  effects,  and  hence,  depressing  cardiac  function. 
Consistent  with  this  hypothesis,  intraperitoneal  (ip)  ranolazine  had  a  mild  hypotensive  effect  in 
infarcted rats. However, at lower concentrations ranolazine increased cardiac efficiency in dogs with 
heart failure by increasing myocardial contractile performance without increasing myocardial oxygen 
consumption. These effects occurred without changes in HR, BP, myocardial blood flow, or systemic 
vascular resistance. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Receptor  screening  and  functional  assays  showed  that  ranolazine  bound  to  α-  and  β-adrenergic 
receptors,  being  an  antagonist.  The  molecule  also  bound  to  the  5HT1A-receptor,  functioning  as  an 
agonist. High concentrations of ranolazine also inhibited the postsynaptic uptake of noradrenaline and 
serotonin in homogenised guinea pig cerebral cortex. The receptor activity of ranolazine was classified 
as  moderate (EC50  values in  the  2-10  µM  range  in  various  test  systems)  but  might  contribute to the 
side effects seen in the clinical studies (e.g., orthostatism and syncope). The S-form appeared to be the 
enantiomer  with  most  receptor  activity,  whereas  the  R-form  had  less  affinity.  Several  of  the  tested 
metabolites  bound  to  adrenergic  and  5HT  receptors  with  similar  or  lower  affinity  than  ranolazine; 
RS 88390 once again was found to have similar activity as the parent compound. Another interesting 
finding was opioid receptor binding; ranolazine itself had only a weak affinity to µ- and κ-receptors 
but  two  metabolites  (RS  88772  and  RS  88697)  had  a  higher  affinity  than  the  parent  compound. 
However,  ranolazine  had  no  effect  on  the  pain  threshold  (tail  flick)  in  the  mouse  and  the  opioid 
receptor activity of the two metabolites is unlikely to be clinically important. Therefore, no studies on 
dependence are considered necessary. Ranolazine does not produce the characteristic effects of drug 
binding to the above mentioned receptors. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The safety pharmacology programme is ambitious, especially the characterisation of ion-currents and 
the  arrhythmogenic  potential  of  ranolazine.  Pertinent  findings  were  that  ranolazine  was  a  CNS-
depressant and that the molecule, despite inhibition of rapid delayed rectifier potassium current (IKr) 
and  slowly  activating  cardiac  potassium  current  (IKs),  and  a  moderate  prolongation  of  the  QT-time, 
didn’t induce Torsade de Pointes (TdP) or other arrhythmias in several in vitro and animal models. If 
anything, ranolazine was anti-arrhythmic. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
One  study  on  the  effects  of  ranolazine  on  isorbide  dinitrate-  or  sildenafil-induced  changes  in  blood 
pressure and heart rate in unanaesthitised dogs was submitted during the previous Trebinex procedure. 
This  study  showed  that  ranolazine,  at  therapeutic  plasma  concentrations,  did  not  alter  the  sustained 
changes in mean arterial BP and HR caused by either sildenafil or isosorbide dinitrate when used in 
combination with either of these drugs. These results, together with clinical interaction data, provide 
evidence supporting the lack of a significant haemodynamic interaction of ranolazine with long-acting 
nitrates and the phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor, sildenafil, in the dog. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A comprehensive non-clinical programme of ADME studies with ranolazine, and its enantiomers and 
metabolites,  was  conducted  by  the  former  developer  and  the  Applicant.  Studies  of  absorption, 
metabolism  and  excretion were  mainly  made  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs.  A few  additional studies  were 
made  in  hamsters  (absorption,  metabolism  and  excretion),  guinea  pigs  (metabolism),  and  baboons 
(metabolism).  Distribution  of  [14C]-ranolazine  was  studied  in  pigmented  and  albino  rats.  Plasma 
protein binding was studied with mouse, rat, dog and human plasma, and with purified human plasma 
albumin and α-1 acid glycoprotein. In vitro metabolism was studied in liver microsomes isolated from 
mouse, rat, dog, and man. Pharmacokinetic drug interactions, mainly with statins, were investigated in 
canine  MDCK-MDR1  cells  and  human  liver  microsomes  in  vitro.  Finally,  toxicokinetic  data  were 
collected in conjunction with several of the toxicology studies. 
11/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  analytical  methods  include  liquid  scintillation  counting  and  whole  body  autoradiography  for 
radioactivity, and HPLC with UV- and fluorescence detection for unlabeled ranolazine. More recent 
studies used LC/MS/MS. The analytical methods were not formally validated, which is a shortcoming. 
However, the Applicant provided an acceptable rationale in the previous Trebinex procedure and this 
shortcoming is not considered serious. 
Absorption of ranolazine was rapid with tmax < 1 hour after oral administration in all studied species for 
both  total  radioactivity  and  ranolazine.  In  studies  where  both  parameters  were  determined,  Cmax  for 
total  radioactivity  was  about  one  order  of  magnitude  greater  than  that  for  ranolazine,  suggesting  an 
extensive  and  rapid,  possibly  pre-systemic,  metabolism.  The  data  on  gender  differences  are  scarce; 
most studies were performed in male animals but in one rat-study, the AUC was three times higher in 
the females. Repeated daily oral administration of ranolazine in rats resulted in a dramatic increase in 
exposure with time, particularly in the females. However, in control animals that were given a single 
oral  dose  at  various  time-points  during  the  study,  a  similar  increase  was  seen.  This  increase  in 
exposure  may  be  attributed  to  ageing  of  the  animals;  however  this  has  not  been  proven.  Whether  a 
putative ageing effect could be clinically relevant was discussed in the previous procedure, but clinical 
data suggests that this is unlikely. 
Ranolazine  or  its  metabolites  were  distributed  widely,  including  CNS.  In  albino  rats,  the  highest 
concentrations  were  found  in  organs  associated  with  metabolism  and  excretion  but  also  in  the 
adrenals. The latter findings are of a particular interest because the adrenals were found to be target 
organs in several toxicity  studies,  and  tumours  were  found in the  adrenals  in the  rat carcinogenicity 
study.  In  pigmented  rats  the  distribution  was  similar  but  more  radioactivity  was  found  in  the 
pigmented  skin  and  eyes,  indicating  an  affinity  of  ranolazine  or  its  metabolites  to  melanin.  The 
clearance  from  pigmented  tissue,  particularly  the  eyes,  was  slow  but  the  binding  seems  to  be 
reversible. However, ranolazine and metabolites do not absorb light in the 290-700 nm range, making 
studies of photo-safety unnecessary. 
No  distribution  studies  in  pregnant  and  lactating  animals  were  made  and  it  is  unknown  whether 
ranolazine  or  its  metabolites  passes  the  placenta  and/or  secreted  into  the  breast  milk  of  lactating 
animals. However, based on the general behaviour of the molecule it seems likely; in view of this a 
warning has been included in section 4.6. of the SPC. 
Plasma protein binding was moderate and similar in man and the studied animal species. 
The metabolism of ranolazine is very complex with 14 identified metabolic pathways and a multitude 
of  metabolites,  several  of  which  were  pharmacologically  active.  This  complexity  increases  the  risk 
that there are clinically important adverse effects that have not been discovered in the non-clinical and 
clinical testing. Such adverse events could be caused by genetic idiosyncrasies, uncommon diseases, 
or interaction with other pharmaceuticals or food components, making a well designed post-approval 
pharmacovigilance  programme  very  important.  Qualitatively,  the  metabolism  is  similar  in  the 
investigated laboratory animals and man, but there were differences in the relative importance of the 
metabolic pathways in different species. The metabolism is mediated by the cytochrome P450 system, 
with in vitro data suggesting that CYP3A4 (70-87% in man), and CYP2D6 (14-17% in man) being the 
active isoenzymes. 
The  ranolazine  molecule  is  chemically  related  to  the  local  anaesthetics,  sharing  the  (2,6-dimethyl-
phenyl)amide  radical.  There  was  concern  that  this  similarity  could  mean  that  2,6-dimethylaniline 
(DMA) or other aromatic amines are produced as a part of ranolazine metabolism, possibly with the 
subsequent  formation  of  DNA-adducts.  This  concern  lead  to  the  submission  of  new  data  regarding 
DMA metabolite formation in mouse, rat, and human liver microsomal fractions and rat and human 
cytosol  fractions,  including  also  data  obtained  from  plasma  human  samples  of  healthy  patients 
administered  orally  with  ranolazine.  Although  DMA  formation  was  detected  in  mouse  and  rat 
samples, no DMA detectable levels in human samples have been reported. 
12/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher proportion of drug-related components are excreted in the urine in humans (about 70%) than 
in  the  studied  animals  (about  50%).  However,  this  difference  is  not  dramatic  and  is  unlikely  to 
represent an increased risk for kidney toxicity in humans. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions were studied and it was found that ranolazine might compete with other 
P-glycoprotein  substrates  like  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  (statins).  As  expected,  inhibitors  of 
CYP3A  and  CYP2D6  affect  the  metabolism  of  ranolazine.  These  aspects  are  discussed  more 
thoroughly in the clinical pharmacokinetics section. 
Toxicology 
Ranolazine  was  investigated  in  a  comprehensive  series  of  toxicology  studies.  Pivotal  studies  were 
made in mice (single dose), rats (single- and repeat-dose for up to 52 w) and dogs (repeat-dose for up 
to  52  w),  with  supplementary  studies  in  the  same  species  plus  hamsters.  Long-term  carcinogenicity 
studies were performed in mice and rats, and reproductive toxicity was studied in rats and rabbits. All 
pivotal  studies  are  GLP-compliant  but  because  most  of  the  studies  were  carried  out  by  the  former 
developer and conducted between 1984 and 1994, they were not always performed according to the 
current guidelines. The majority of the studies used the oral route of administration. In addition, the 
Applicant performed a number of studies on impurities and metabolites. These studies are more recent 
and are also GLP-compliant. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The  single-dose  studies  indicate  a  minimum  lethal  dose  for  ranolazine  dihydrochloride  of  about 
250 mg/kg  when  given  by  oral  gavage  and  more  than  30  mg/kg  when  given  iv.  There  was  no 
indication  of  any  gender  differences  in  any  study  and  no  evidence  for  any  difference  between  the 
enantiomers and the racemate when given by gavage to rats. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In range-finding repeat-dose dog studies, deaths occurred following a single oral dose of 150 mg/kg 
and  following  a  single  iv  dose  of  40 mg/kg.  There  were  no  deaths  at  300 mg/kg  in  an  oral  mouse 
micronucleus  study.  Deaths  in  all  species  were  associated  with  convulsions,  collapse,  ataxia,  and 
subdued behaviour. 
The  observed  effects  appear to  be  associated  with  toxicity  to  the  central  nervous  system  (CNS) and 
include convulsions, ataxia, prostration, and death. The pattern is relatively consistent across studies of 
various  types  and  lengths,  although  an  increased  incidence  and  a  decreased  minimal  lethal  dose  in 
longer  studies  cannot  be  excluded.  For  rat,  which  is  the  most  studied  species,  an  oral  dose  up  to 
50 mg/kg/day rarely caused death; higher doses were lethal to some animals and deaths were also seen 
after ≥250 mg/kg as a single oral dose. The animals often showed clinical signs of CNS toxicity prior 
to  death.  Dogs  showed  similar  signs,  but  no  deaths,  at  60-80  mg/kg/day;  a  single  oral  dose  of 
150 mg/kg was lethal to one animal. Likewise, the minimal lethal dose in the oral single-dose study in 
mice  was  250  mg/kg  and  several  deaths  occurred  in  the  500  mg/kg  dose-group.  Finally,  it  must  be 
stressed that the exposure to ranolazine in humans given therapeutic doses approaches the levels that 
caused mortality and severe toxicity in the animals. The NOAELs obtained for both rats and dogs are 
remarkably  low,  compared  with  what  would  be  expected  from  the  acute  toxicity  results.  This  issue 
resulted  in  a  major  objection  in  the  previous  procedure.  It  was  agreed  that  the  adverse  effects  were 
probably related to high Cmax with the immediate release formulation used in the animal studies and in 
response to this the Applicant agreed to conduct a 28-day repeat dose study in the dog with the clinical 
controlled release formulation; the aim if this study was to achieve a higher AUC, whilst limiting the 
Cmax. A pilot study however showed that this was not feasible as severe toxicity was seen at about the 
same AUC as previously. At the end of the previous procedure, it was concluded that the issue could 
not  be  solved  non-clinically.  Consequently,  the  proposed  clinical  doses  cannot  be  supported  by  the 
repeat-dose toxicity programme but rely on clinical data. 
13/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other  findings  indicating  a  toxic effect  of  ranolazine were relatively  mild  and confined to the  high-
dose groups. Target organs appear to be the adrenals, liver and kidney. Other treatment related effects 
seen  were  a  moderate  effect  on  the  haematopoiesis  and  changes  in  the  plasma  cholesterol  and 
triglycerides. Neither of these findings raises any serious concerns. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The  genotoxic  potential  of  ranolazine  was  investigated  in  a  series  of  Ames  tests,  chromosome 
aberration  and  mutation  test  in  CHO-cells  in  vitro,  and  the  mouse  micronucleus  test  in  vivo.  An 
additional micronucleus test in the rat was provided during the previous Trebinex procedure. With the 
exception of the mammalian chromosome aberration test in vitro, the genotoxicity tests were negative. 
The impurity Di-Ran3-pip (RS 88778) did not show any mutagenic potential in Ames test, and when 
up to 5% of nine different impurities were mixed with ranolazine and given orally to rats for 28 days, 
there were no differences compared with the controls that were given pure ranolazine. Essentially no 
toxicity  was  observed  in  the  latter  studies  though  comparably  low  doses  of  ranolazine  were  used 
(20 mg/kg/day). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Two long-term carcinogenicity studies were done in mice and rats, respectively. The mouse study is 
acceptable  and  the  findings  did  not  suggest  any  obvious  carcinogenic  potential  of  ranolazine. 
However, the rat study raised more concerns; it had to be terminated prematurely at 21  months due 
poor survival, quite possibly because of the too rich food (“fat rat syndrome”) commonly used in long-
term  studies  at  that  time.  Accordingly,  the  power  of  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  to  detect  relevant 
tumours can be questioned. Nevertheless, statistically significant increases of several different tumour 
types  were  found  in  the  high-dose  group.  Affected  organs  were  the  adrenals  (cortex  and  medulla), 
thyroid,  testes  and  skin  (undifferentiated  sarcoma).  Particularly  the  adrenal  cortical  adenomas  were 
worrying,  as  this  is  a  rare  tumour  type  that  occurred  in  an  organ  that  displayed  a  high  uptake  of 
ranolazine  and  where  effects  were  noted  in  the  rat  3-month  toxicity  study.  This  issue  resulted  in  a 
major  objection  which  was  thoroughly  discussed  in  the  previous  Trebinex  procedure,  remaining 
however unsolved. 
Considering the complex metabolism of ranolazine, uncertainty whether the carcinogenic metabolite 
DMA  or  other  aromatic  amines  are  produced,  and  ambiguous  signals  concerning  the  adrenals,  new 
data  was  requested  in  the  present  procedure  to  finally  resolve  the  issue.  The  Applicant  conducted  a 
Comet  assay  on  liver  tissue  from  rats  exposed  to  ranolazine  at  the  same  dose  levels  as  in  the  rat 
carcinogenicity study for 3 h and 24 h. As no signs of DNA damage were seen, the results alleviate the 
remaining concerns about a possible genotoxic or carcinogenic effect of ranolazine or its metabolites. 
The data submitted by the Applicant gave additional reassurance on this issue as no detectable levels 
of  the  metabolite  DMA  were  found  in  human  samples  even  though  they  were  detected  in  rat  and 
mouse samples. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The  reproductive  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  according  to  pre-ICH  standards,  but  covered  the 
complete  reproductive  and  developmental  process.  Corresponding  segment  II  studies  in  two  species 
(rat,  rabbit)  were  submitted.  The  results  indicate  a  possible  negative  effect  on  male  fertility  of 
ranolazine. A reduction in fertility was observed when male rats in the high dose group were mated 
with  untreated  females;  this  reduction  remained  in  a  second  mating  after  32  days  recovery  without 
treatment. Furthermore, atrophy of the testes and epididymides was observed in four of the animals. In 
the segment II studies, growth retardation, but no malformations, of the foetus were seen at doses that 
were  toxic  for  the  pregnant  animals.  These  findings  are  reflected  in  warning  against  the  use  of 
ranolazine during pregnancy which can be found in section 4.6. of the SPC. 
•  Local tolerance 
14/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ranolazine prolonged release formulation is intended for oral administration. There was no evidence 
of any significant gastrointestinal effects in any study. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  Applicant  submitted  a  new  ERA  and  committed  to  perform  a  complete  Phase  II  assessment  in 
accordance with the finalised Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products 
for human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) as a post-authorisation commitment. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  previous MAA  for ranolazine  was  submitted in  2004  and  had  been  withdrawn  at  Day  180  of the 
previous  procedure.  Concerns  with  regard  to  efficacy  as  well  as  safety  at  that  time  have  been 
addressed by the applicant by providing new studies and data. 
The applicant did not seek formal scientific advice. 
The indication applied for by the applicant was: 
Latixa  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  stable  angina 
pectoris who are inadequately controlled or intolerant to first line anti-anginal therapies (such as beta-
blockers and/or calcium antagonists).  Due to its pharmacodynamic profile, Latixa may be particularly 
relevant  for  those  patients  in  whom  a  decrease  in  heart  rate  or  blood  pressure,  or  increase  in  PR 
interval is undesirable. 
The indication granted is: 
Latixa  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  stable  angina 
pectoris who are inadequately controlled or intolerant to first-line anti-anginal therapies (such as beta-
blockers and/or calcium antagonists).  
GCP 
The individual clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In total, about 50 phase I studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ranolazine. 
Sparse  sampling  has  also  been  obtained  in  the  target  population.  Different  formulations  have  been 
used  during  drug  development,  immediate  release  (IR)  capsules  and  tablets,  and  different 
prolonged/slow/sustained  release  (SR/PR)  formulations.  “Sustained-release  (SR)  tablets”  were 
identical  in formulation  to “prolonged-release  (PR)  tablets” and  were  only  named  differently  during 
the  development.  Of  highest  relevance  where  the  studies  conducted  with  the  final  SR  tablet  and 
supporting studies evaluating the pharmacokinetics of ranolazine after intravenous administration and 
oral  solution.  Ranolazine  and  metabolites  in  plasma  were  determined  using  LC/MS/MS  methods  in 
main  PK  studies.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  have  in  most  studies  been  determined  using  non-
compartmental  models.  In  some  studies  compartmental  analysis  using  WinNonlin  was  used. 
Population pharmacokinetics analysis and PK/PD analyses were conducted using NONMEM. 
15/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Absorption and Bioavailability 
Compared with the IR tablet, the SR tablet clearly displays a prolonged release profile with absorption 
rate-limited  elimination.  Maximum  concentrations  are  reached  on  average  4-5  h  after  single  dose 
administration  and  somewhat  earlier  (2-4  h)  after  multiple  dose  administration.  Absolute 
bioavailability  of  the  SR  formulation  has  not  been  determined  and  is  difficult  to  estimate  from 
provided data. Absolute bioavailability of the IR formulation at lower doses ranged between 30 and 
50%.  Food  does  not  affect  the  rate  or  extent  of  absorption  of  ranolazine  from  the  SR  formulation. 
There were no signs of dose dumping. 
During  drug  development,  the  manufacturer  of  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has  been  changed. 
The  final  product  produced  by  DSM  has  a  more  rapid  rate  of  absorption  but  the  same  extent  of 
absorption  as  the  Syntex  tablets  used  in  earlier  PK  studies  and  in  clinical  study  CVT  3031.  This  is 
considered  of  limited  clinical  relevance,  especially  since  the  DSM  product  was  used  in  the  pivotal 
clinical trial CVT 3033 and study CVT 3037.  
•  Distribution 
Volume of distribution (Vss) was estimated at about 180 l. The protein binding is approximately 62%, 
with a higher affinity to α-1 acid glycoprotein than to albumin. The protein binding of the metabolites 
CVT-2514,  CVT-4786,  and  CVT-2537  is  about  73-79%,  and  the  protein  binding  of  CVT-2738  is 
about 15%. Ranolazine distributes partially to blood cells.  The blood/plasma ratio was in the range of 
0.62-0.88. 
•  Elimination 
Ranolazine is eliminated by metabolism to a large number of metabolites. Less than 5-6% of the dose 
is  eliminated  unchanged  in  urine.The  elimination  half-life  after  intravenous  infusion  was  2-3  h. 
Elimination half-life at steady state after oral administration of Latixa SR tablets was about 7 h due to 
the absorption rate-limited elimination. Ranolazine displays moderately non-linear pharmacokinetics. 
At  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  obtained  with  500  to  1000  mg  b.i.d.,  ranolazine  CL  was 
predicted  to  be  in  the  range  27-35  l/h.  Ranolazine  is  a  racemate.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  the 
individual enantiomers is similar. There is no interconversion between (+) R and (-) S ranolazine. 
In the mass balance study, 73% of the dose was excreted in urine and 24% in faeces. Total recovery 
was  97.6%.  The  elimination  half-life  of  radioactivity  was  on  average  41  h.  Fourteen  primary 
metabolism  pathways  have  been  identified,  four  of  which  seem  to  be  the  major  ones,  with  N-
dealkylation  at  the  N4  position  of  piperazine  ring,  O-demethylation  of  the  methoxy  group  on  the 
methoxyphenyl ring being the two most important pathways. Over 100 metabolites were detected in 
urine  and  48  metabolites  in  plasma.  The  main  primary  metabolites  in  plasma  are  CVT-2738,  CVT-
4786,  CVT-2514,  CVT  2512  and  ranolazine  glucuronide.  The  25  metabolites  quantified  in  urine 
account for 65% of the radioactivity excreted in urine and for about 50% of the administered dose. The 
sum  of  AUCs  of  the  quantified  metabolites  and  ranolazine  accounted  for  49%  of  the  AUC  for 
radioactivity in plasma, with ranolazine accounting for 13%. In faeces, 25 metabolites were identified, 
but quantification of metabolites was not performed. Hence, about 50% of the administered dose and 
plasma radioactivity have not been fully characterised. However, radiochromatograms of plasma and 
urine  suggest  that  metabolites  not  quantified  are  all  minor  metabolites  and  radiochromatograms  of 
faeces  clearly  suggest  that  CVT  2512  is  the  major  metabolite  in  faeces.  Hence,  given  the  complex 
metabolic  profile  of  ranolazine,  the  characterisation  of  the  elimination  is  considered  sufficient.  It 
seems  reasonable  to  conclude  that  a  large  number  of  minor  metabolites  constitute  the  remaining 
radioactivity. 
CYP3A4 is the major catalysing enzyme, with contribution of CYP2D6. Available data suggest that 
CVT 2738 formation is mainly mediated by CYP3A4, CVT 2514 is primarily dependent on CYP2D6 
and formation of CVT 2512 is dependent on both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. At 500 mg b.i.d. Patients 
deficient of CYP2D6 metabolising capacity (PMs) had 62% higher ranolazine AUC than patients with 
16/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
extensive CYP2D6 metabolising capacity (EMs). The corresponding difference at the 1000 mg b.i.d. 
dose was 25%.  
The  only  metabolites  with  possibility  to  contribute to  the  effect  are  CVT  2514  and  CVT-2738.  The 
unbound  concentration  of  CVT  2514  is  about  20%  of  that  of  ranolazine  with  a  similar  AUC-ratio 
metabolite/ranolazine  in  different  populations  (renal  impairment,  hepatic  impairment  or  during 
concomitant  medication  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors).  Hence,  CVT  2514  is  expected  to  contribute  to  a 
limited extent to efficacy. In patients with normal renal function the unbound AUC of CVT-2738 is 
about 60% of that of ranolazine. In severe renal impairment the exposure of CVT-2738 is increased 
almost 5-fold resulting in higher unbound AUC than for ranolazine. Hence, CVT-2738 may contribute 
to the effect, especially in patients with reduced renal function. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Ranolazine  displays  moderately  non-linear  pharmacokinetics.  AUC  and  Cmax  increase  slightly  more 
than in proportion to the increased dose after single dose oral administration of Latixa. At steady-state 
the nonlinearity is more pronounced. After single dose administration, the increases in AUC were 23% 
and  53%  higher than  the  corresponding  increases  in dose  from  500  mg  to  1,000  mg  and  1,500  mg, 
respectively.  The  corresponding  figures  at  steady-state  were  72%  and  152%.  Steady  state exposures 
were 42, 56 and 66% higher than predicted from single dose data at 500, 1,000 and 1,500 mg b.i.d, 
respectively. After intravenous administration, the ranolazine plasma profile was modelled by a two-
compartment  model  with  a  combination  of  one  linear  and  one  saturable  elimination  pathway. 
Modelling of PK suggests that the non-linear elimination pathway accounts for between 30 and 50% 
of  the  elimination.  The  non-linearity  was  more  pronounced  in  CYP2D6  EMs  than  in  PMs.  These 
results suggest that part of the non-linearity is a saturation of the CYP2D6 elimination pathway and 
that another parallel pathway is also saturable.  
•  Variability 
Both  inter-  and  intraindividual  variability  in  ranolazine  pharmacokinetics  is  large  after  oral 
administration  of  the  SR  formulation.  The  intra-subject  variability  after  intravenous  infusion  was 
estimated to 18% and to 32% in phase I studies and 42% in phase II studies after administration of the 
SR  formulation.  Inter-individual  variability  in  AUC  was  about  50%,  in  Cmax  about  40%  and in  Cmin 
about 70% after administration of Latixa 1000 mg bid. 
•  Special populations 
The  influence  of  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  have  been  evaluated  in  separate  phase  I  studies.  A 
population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  evaluating  the  influence  of  weight,  creatinine  clearance  and/or 
age,  CHF,  diabetes,  concomitant  administration  of  diltiazem,  atenolol,  amlodipine  and  digoxin  on 
clearance  parameters;  effects  of  weight,  creatinine  clearance  and/or  age,  CHF,  diabetes  on  volume; 
formulation and food effect on absorption rate has been conducted. 
In the renal impairment study, the influence of renal impairment on ranolazine pharmacokinetics was 
unexpectedly  high  with  mean  AUC  75,  71  and  99%  higher  in  the  mild,  moderate  and  severe  RI 
groups, respectively, compared to the control group. The variability in ranolazine exposure was high 
in  subjects  with  renal  impairment.  Already  in  subjects  with  mild  renal  impairment,  the  exposure 
ranged  from  similar  to  that  in  normal  renal  function  up  to  4-fold  higher.  Also  in  severe  renal 
impairment, the variability was high with a similar range in exposure as in mild renal impairment. The 
effect of dialysis on the pharmacokinetics of ranolazine has not been studied. Some of the metabolites 
displayed large increases in exposure (up to 10-fold) with decreased renal function. Exposure to the 
active metabolite CVT-2738 increased almost 5 fold resulting in an unbound exposure exceeding that 
of  ranolazine  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment.  The  terminal  half-life  was  prolonged  and 
steady  state  was  not  reached.  Hence,  a  larger  increase  in  exposure  is  expected  at  steady  state.  This 
metabolite  may  clearly  contribute  to  the  effect  in  patients  with  reduced  renal  function.  If  similar 
distribution to active sites is assumed and the unbound exposure active moieties (ranolazine + CVT-
17/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2738)  calculated,  the  unbound  exposure  of  active  moiety  will  be  increased  approximately  1.8-fold, 
2.5-fold, 3-fold in mild, moderate and severe renal impairment, respectively. 
In  study  CVT-3036  (MERLIN-TIMI  36),  many  of  the  concentration-related  adverse  events  were 
clearly  increased  with  decreased  renal  function.  The  frequency  of  nausea  is  clearly  related  to  renal 
function and is 8, 13 and 23% in patients with CLcr >60, 30-60 and <30 ml/min, respectively. Based 
on  these  data  cautious  titration  of  the  dose  is  recommended  in  patients  with  renal  impairment.  This 
increase in adverse events in severe renal impairment was obtained although these patients received 
only 500 mg bid (i.e. a dose reduction of 50%). Also, the distribution of renal function in the severe 
group is not known. It is likely that the group mainly contains patients with creatinine clearance >20 
ml/min and that patients with lower creatinine clearance are poorly represented. The population model 
predicts  considerable  increase  in  exposure  as  creatinine  clearance  is  reduced  below  20  ml/min.  The 
exposure to the active metabolite is also very variable in severe renal impairment. With an on average 
5-fold  increase  in  AUC  in  severe  renal  impairment,  considerably  higher  exposure  is  expected  in 
patients with very poor renal function. A larger increase in adverse events would be expected in these 
patients. For these reasons use in patients with severe renal impairment is contraindicated in section 
4.3  of  the  SPC,  and  caution  advised  in  mild  to  moderate  impairment  in  section  4.4,  with  additional 
information in SPC section 4.2. 
Mild  hepatic  impairment  did  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ranolazine.  In  moderate  hepatic 
impairment  AUC0-12  was  increased  by  approximately  75%.  There  are  no  data  in  severe  hepatic 
impairment. QT prolongation was observed both in mild and moderate hepatic impairment. Based on 
the  limited clinical data,  the  risk  for  QT  prolongation  and  the  increased ranolazine  exposure,  use in 
patients  with  moderate to severe  hepatic  impairment has  been  contraindicated in  the  SPC  in section 
4.3.  From  a  pharmacokinetic  perspective  there  is  no  need  for  specific  precautions  in  mild  hepatic 
impairment.  However,  given  the  risk  for  QT  prolongation,  caution  is  advised  in  mild  hepatic 
impairment in section 4.4, with additional information in SPC section 4.2. 
The population analysis identified weight, renal function, NYHA class and concomitant administration 
of  diltiazem  as  factors affecting  ranolazine clearance.  Diabetes  and age  had  no clinically  significant 
effect on AUC and it is stated that race and sex did not affect ranolazine PK. Exposure for a 40 kg and 
a 120 kg patient was, respectively, 41% higher and 27% lower than for a typical 70 kg subject. NYHA 
Class  III  or  IV  increased  exposure  by  34%.  Concomitant  administration  of  diltiazem  increased 
exposure by 38%. Exposure for subjects with calculated normalized creatinine clearance representing 
the  various  renal  impairment  categories  (65,  40,  20  and  10 mL/min/1.73m2)  was  2%  (mild),  19% 
(moderate), 48% (severe), and 84% (very severe) higher, respectively, than for subjects with normal 
creatinine clearance. The effects of covariates on Cmax and AUC and steady state concentration time 
profiles  for  different  sub-groups  as  well  as  the  dependency  of  exposure  on  several  risk  factors 
combined  was  presented.  However,  EM/PM  status,  which  is  an  important  factor  for  ranolazine 
exposure,  has  not  been  included  as  covariates  in  the  analysis.  Also,  the  effect  of  diltiazem  on 
ranolazine clearance estimated in the population model is low compared to the conducted interaction 
studies.  Hence,  the  diltiazem  effect  may  to  be  underestimated.  Sex  and  race  were  not  included  as 
covariates in the model. Hence, no conclusions can be drawn regarding these factors. However, other 
data  overall  suggest  that  gender  does  not  seem  to  have  a  clinically  relevant  influence  on  ranolazine 
pharmacokinetics. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro  studies  indicate  that  ranolazine  and  the  metabolites  RS-94287  and  RS-88390  have  low 
potential to inhibit the metabolism of substrates of CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 or 3A4. The 
potential for ranolazine to inhibit CYP2B6 has not been evaluated. 
Concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors results in large increases in ranolazine exposure; 3 
to  4-fold  increase  with  a  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitor  (ketoconazole)  and  2.4-fold  increase  with  a 
moderate  CYP3A4 
therefore  been 
contraindicated in the SPC (section 4.3, 4.5) and cautious titration of the dose is recommended during 
concomitant use with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (SPC section 4.2).  
(diltiazem).  Potent  CYP3A4 
inhibitors  have 
inhibior 
18/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potent CYP3A4 induction caused a major decrease (95%) in ranolazine exposure. Therefore, Latixa 
should not be co-administered with inducers of CYP3A4. This is stated in sections 4.4 and 4.5 of the 
SPC. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  ranolazine  in  CYP2D6  EMs  and  PMs  with  and  without  concomitant 
administration  of  the  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitor  diltiazem  was  evaluated  in  a  specific  drug-drug 
interaction study. During concomitant administration of diltiazem 180 mg bid and ranolazine 500 mg 
bid  ranolazine  AUC  was  increased  2.4-fold  in  EMs  and  2.1-fold  in  PMs.  The  AUC  in  a  PM  at 
ranolazine  500  mg  with  diltiazem  was  3.4  fold  higher  than  the  AUC  of  an  EM  at  500  mg  without 
diltiazem. In both EMs and PMs several subjects withdrew due to adverse events or long PR interval. 
The  number  of  subjects  reporting  adverse  events  (AEs)  was  high  (80–100%)  in  PMs  regardless  of 
diltiazem treatment and in EMs on diltiazem. The EM group receiving ranolazine alone reported fewer 
AEs (RAN 500 mg bid [42%], RAN 1000 mg bid [67%]). Appropriate recommendations for moderate 
CYP3A4 inhibitors are discussed below (see Combination of risk factors). 
Potent inhibition of CYP2D6 (by paroxetine) resulted in a 24% increase in AUC after administration 
of ranolazine 1,000 mg b.i.d. At the dose level 500 mg b.i.d, potent CYP2D6 inhibition is estimated to 
result  in  an  increase  in  ranolazine  AUC  of  about  60%,  which  is  said  to  be  within  a  well  tolerated 
range. Section 4.5 of the  SPC has been amended with this information.   
Ranolazine is a substrate and a moderate inhibitor of P-gp. Verapamil increased ranolazine AUC with 
125%. The mechanism is postulated to be P-gp inhibition in the gut, increasing the bioavailability of 
ranolazine.  However,  data  from  study  3112  where  verapamil  decreased  clearance  of  intravenously 
administered  ranolazine  suggests  that  the  interaction  in  part  is  caused  by  CYP3A4  inhibition. 
Appropriate  recommendations  for  co-administration  with  P-gp  inhibitors  are  discussed  below  (see 
Combination of risk factors). 
Ranolazine increased digoxin AUC with 60% and decreased digoxin CLR by 14%. It seems likely that 
the mechanism of interaction, as proposed by the applicant, is inhibition of P-gp both at the levels of 
intestinal  absorption  and  renal  tubular  excretion  of  digoxin.  The  increased  digoxin  exposure  is 
moderate, but during P-gp inhibition plasma levels may be moderately increased while the increased 
distribution to tissues, e.g. CNS, may be considerably larger. Ranolazine 1,000mg b.i.d., has a similar 
effect on digoxin oral clearance as verapamil. Ranolazine is, thus, a moderate to potent P-gp inhibitor.  
Ranolazine  inhibited  simvastatin  transport  in  vitro  and  increased  the  plasma  concentrations  of 
simvastatin  and  simvastatin  acid  in  vivo  (60  and  39%,  respectively).  The  mechanism  of  interaction 
could be partly P-gp inhibition, partly CYP3A4 inhibition. Either way, the extent of interaction was 
fairly small, and it can be concluded that ranolazine is at most a mild inhibitor of CYP3A4.  
Ranolazine  did  not  affect the  pharmacokinetics  of  warfarin  but  caused a  statistically  significant,  but 
clinically  not  meaningful  effect  on  maximum  prothrombin  time.  The  study  was  conducted  with 
ranolazine IR 400 mg HCl t.i.d. and although firm conclusions cannot be drawn from these data they 
strongly suggest that ranolazine SR at the therapeutic dose range is unlikely to have a significant effect 
on warfarin PK. 
The  nonlinearity  in  ranolazine  clearance  is  at  least  partly  caused  by  autoinhibition  of  CYP2D6.  In 
study  CVT301-13    the  dextromethorphan/dextrorphan  ratio  of  increased  from  0.00674  to  0.05674 
during  4  days  administration  of  ranolazine,  indicating  that  a  partial  inhibition  of  CYP2D6  had 
occurred,  i.e.  that  ranolazine  is  a  weak  CYP2D6  inhibitor.  It  is  however,  unclear  if  the  effect  of 
ranolazine  on  CYP2D6  would  result  in  clinically  relevant  changes  in  exposure  of  concomitantly 
administered CYP2D6 substrates. The applicant has committed to evaluate the effect of ranolazine on 
a sensitive CYP2D6 substrate, e.g. metoprolol. 
19/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Combination of risk factors 
Ranolazine exposure is increased in patients with concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, 
P-gp inhibitors, CYP2D6 inhibitors, patients with renal impairment, patients with hepatic impairment 
and  patients  with  CYP2D6  poor  metaboliser  (PM)  status.  Exposure  is  also  higher  in  patients  in  the 
lower  weight  range  and  in  the  elderly.  In  patients  with  two  or  more  of  these  factors  ranolazine 
exposure might become very high.  
Earlier  studies  have  clearly  demonstrated  a  concentration-related  incidence  of  adverse  events 
including CNS related adverse events. The safety of different sub-groups was evaluated in study CVT-
3036.  However,  this  discussion  only  accounts  for  the  risk  factors  separately  and  does  not  address 
patients with several risk factors.  
Based  on  the  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  evaluation  there  is  a  need  for  375  mg  as  initial  dose  in 
several sub-groups and a need for careful titration in additional sub-groups. In order not to complicate 
the SPC, and to reduce the risk of initiation at a too high dose in some groups, the SPC recommends 
375 mg bid as the initial dose in all patients, with subsequent dose titration to 500 and 750 mg based 
on patient’s response (section 4.2 of the SPC). In addition, a strong warning for a combination of risk 
factors has been included in section 4.4.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Currently  available  anti-anginal  drugs  either  decrease  oxygen  needs  by  reducing  haemodynamic 
factors  such  as  heart  rate,  blood  pressure  or  inotropic  state,  or  increase  oxygen  supply  by  coronary 
vasodilatation.  Ranolazine  alters  the  relationship  between  cardiac  work  and  myocardial  oxygen 
consumption  by  inhibiting  a  number  of  ion  channels,  especially  the  late  INa  channel  and  this  is 
regarded as the main target for effect. The inhibition of the late sodium channel causes a reduction in 
the oxygen requirements and makes the heart generate the same work with less oxygen consumption. 
It  also  attenuates  the  myocardial  sodium  overload  and,  subsequently,  the  intracellular  calcium 
overload, which is a crucial factor for the development of myocardial ischaemia leading eventually to 
cell death. Ranolazine also binds to α1a, b and β1,2-adrenergic receptors with affinities (Ki values) in 
the range of 5 to 20 µM, and to serotonin 5HT1A receptors with an affinity of 2 µM. Ranolazine can 
be  expected  to  attenuate  α1-  and  β1-adrenergic  receptor-mediated  responses,  and  to  have  5HT1A 
receptor agonist activity over this concentration range.  
•  Mechanism of action, Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The knowledge regarding the mode of action of ranolazine originates mainly from pre-clinical studies 
(see above). The same mode of action is probably operative in humans as well.  
The  anti-ischemic  effects,  of  ranolazine  are  achieved  without  a  concomitant  effect  on  heart  rate, 
arterial blood pressure, LV contractility, or vasodilation. The contributions of α1- and β1-adrenergic 
receptor  blocking  effects,  although  not  specifically  investigated  in  humans,  do  not  appear  to  be 
clinically significant at recommended doses. 
With  regard  to  knowledge  of  relative  contribution  of  the  different  mode-of-actions  in  humans,  such 
lack of detailed data was considered acceptable concerning clinical efficacy and safety. 
PK/PD modelling 
A  population  pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic  (PK/PD)  evaluation  of  the  effect  of  ranolazine  on 
exercise  treadmill  time  (ETT)  has  been  performed.  The  drug  related  effect  on  ETT,  excluding  the 
placebo (learning) effect, increased linearly with the ranolazine plasma concentration with an average 
slope  of  16.8  sec  for  each  increase  by  1,000ng/mL  in  males,  and  6.4 sec  for  each  increase  by 
1,000ng/mL  in  females.    The  factors  age,  weight,  race,  CHF  classified  as  NYHA  I–II,  diabetes, 
concomitant anti-anginal medication, and drug formulation (IR or SR) had no effect on the slope. 
20/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
Initially in the development programme, an immediate release formulation was used, but subsequently 
a prolonged release formulation was developed and used in later clinical trials. Furthermore, the doses 
have increased considerably in later trials compared to earlier and the dosing intervals have become 
less frequent with the use of the SR formulation, from 4 times daily to twice daily.  
Table  1  summarises  the  efficacy  and  safety  studies  that  are  included  in  the  application.  Studies 
beginning  with  RAN  were  phase  II  studies  done  with  the  immediate  release  formulation.  All  CVT 
studies  were  performed  with  the  prolonged  release  formulation,  which  marketing  authorisation  is 
applied for. 
In  addition  to  these  studies,  study  CVT  3023,  which  specifically  evaluated  the  tolerability  of 
ranolazine at higher doses, was included in the application. 
Data of study CVT 3036 (MERLIN) was provided by the applicant during the evaluation at day 121 of 
the procedure, to alleviate concerns raised by the CHMP in the day 120 list of questions. This study 
included 6560 patients, of which 3268 received Latixa. 
Table 1 
IR = immediate-release; PR = prolonged-released. 
a Ranolazine free base (PR) molecular weight=427.54 and ranolazine dihydrochloride (IR) molecular 
weight=500.48 
b Crossover study 
•  Dose-response studies 
The main dose-response study is CVT 3031. It was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, 4-
period cross-over study enrolling 191 patients with stable angina pectoris treated with 500, 1000 and 
1500  mg  ranolazine  bid  against  placebo.  Treatment  duration  was,  however,  only  one  week  at  each 
dose  level.  The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  effect  of  ranolazine  SR 
monotherapy  compared  to  placebo  in  patients  with  chronic  stable  angina  on  exercise  treadmill  test 
(ETT)  duration  at  the  time  of  trough  ranolazine  plasma  levels  (12  hours  post-dose).  Some  of  the 
secondary objectives were to determine the effect at trough on time to onset of angina, and time to 1 
mm  ST-segment  depression  of  the  3  doses  of  ranolazine  SR  monotherapy  compared  to  placebo. 
Sublingual nitroglycerin tablets were to be used only as a treatment for acute angina (but not within 60 
minutes  of  the  ETT),  but  anti-anginal  medications  (long-acting  nitrates,  beta  blockers,  and  calcium 
channel blockers) were prohibited for 48 hours prior to Visit 1 and throughout the trial. 
Improvement of exercise duration was statistically significant compared to placebo for all three doses 
of  ranolazine.  The  mean  difference  compared  to  placebo  were  23.8  seconds  (500  mg  bid),  33.7 
seconds  (1000  mg  bid),  and  45.9  seconds  (1500  mg  bid),  showing  a  clear  dose-response  pattern;  in 
addition, there was a statistically significant effect with regard to some secondary outcome parameters 
21/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see figure below). The positive results in the efficacy endpoints at trough were similarly observed for 
the same endpoints at peak concentrations of ranolazine. 
Figure 1 - Key Efficacy Endpoints at Trough – Study CVT 3031 (All/Near Completers) 
However,  most  patients  discontinued  the  study  prematurely  while  on  the  1500  mg  dose  (13/187 
patients, 7%). Rates of withdrawal from the other treatments were: placebo 3/179 patients, 2%; 500 
mg 6/181, 3%; 1000 mg 1/180, 1%. Most who withdrew because of adverse events (AEs) were also 
receiving the 1500 mg dose. The rate of withdrawals because of an AE was: 1500 mg, 11/187 patients, 
6%;  1000  mg,  1/180  patients,  1%;  500  mg  1/181  patients,  1%;  and  placebo,  2/179  patients,  1%. 
Therefore,  the  disproportional  increase  in  adverse  events  on  the  1500  mg  bid  dose  led  to  the 
conclusion that doses above 1000 mg bid could not be used. 
•  The main clinical study 
Study CVT 3033 
Study CVT 3033 was an add-on study, in which ranolazine in two doses (750 mg bid and 1000 mg 
bid) were added to atenolol, amlodipine or diltiazem. The base-line drugs and their respective doses 
were chosen based on data regarding angina pectoris treatment in five European countries and these 
drugs were the most commonly used and the chosen doses the most commonly prescribed.  
Methods 
Study participants 
All patients had had chronic stable angina for at least 3 months. The pre-qualifying exercise test had to 
be  symptom-limited  and  show  the  usual  definite  signs  of  myocardial  ischaemia  during  exercise 
(0.1mV  ST  segment  depression).  Mean  age  of  included  patients  was  64  years.  The  majority  was 
Caucasians.  Only  about  23%  were  females  (table  2).  Twenty-three  percent  were  diabetics  and  29% 
had diagnosed of congestive heart failure. Over 60% were hypertensives and 58% had had a previous 
myocardial infarction (table 3). Few patients were 75 years or older, in the Integrated Safety Database 
these elderly patients accounted for only about 6-7% of the studied subjects. The study population was 
considered to be sufficiently representative for a broad European population with stable angina. 
22/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 - Summary of demographic data. Study CVT 3033 
Ranolazine SR 
Characteristics 
750mg b.i.d. 
N=279 
Mean age, years 
Age category, n(%) 
64.3 
1,000mg b.i.
d. 
N=275 
63.9 
Placebo  
N=269 
Total 
N=823 
p-Value 
63.7 
64.0 
< 65 years 
≥ 65 years 
Gender, n(%) 
Male  
Female  
Race, n(%) 
Caucasian  
Non-caucasian 
141 (50.5) 
138 (49.5) 
138 (50.2) 
137 (49.8) 
129 (48.0) 
140 (52.0) 
408 (49.6) 
415 (50.4) 
217 (77.8) 
62 (22.2) 
219 (79.6) 
56 (20.4) 
202 (75.1) 
67 (24.9) 
638 (77.5) 
185 (22.5) 
269 (96.4) 
10 (3.6) 
269 (97.8) 
6 (2.2) 
265 (98.5) 
4 (1.5) 
803 (97.6) 
20 (2.4) 
ns 
ns 
ns 
Table 3 - Summary of pre-existing cardiovascular conditions. Study CVT 3033 
Ranolazine SR 
Total 
N=823 
n (%) 
Pre-existing condition 
527 (64.0) 
Hypertension 
474 (57.6) 
Prior MI 
242 (29.4) 
CHF 
145 (17.6) 
Prior CABG 
152 (18.5) 
Prior PTCA 
71 (8.6) 
Ventricular arrhythmia 
62 (7.5) 
Intermittent claudication 
65 (7.9) 
Atrial arrhythmia 
41 (5.0) 
Stroke 
13 (1.6) 
Cardiac arrest 
7 (0.9) 
Pulmonary embolism 
CHF = congestive heart failure; CABG = coronary artery bypass graft; MI = myocardial infarction;  
PTCA = percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. 
1,000mg b.i.d.
N=275 
n (%) 
177 (64.4) 
158 (57.5) 
78 (28.4) 
56 (20.4) 
53 (19.3) 
27 (9.8) 
20 (7.3) 
23 (8.4) 
15 (5.5) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
750mg b.i.d. 
N=279 
n (%) 
177 (63.4) 
166 (59.5) 
87 (31.2) 
53 (19.0) 
46 (16.5) 
25 (9.0) 
23 (8.2) 
22 (7.9) 
15 (5.4) 
6 (2.2) 
4 (1.4) 
Placebo  
N=269 
n (%) 
173 (64.3) 
150 (55.8) 
77 (28.6) 
36 (13.4) 
53 (19.7) 
19 (7.1) 
19 (7.1) 
20 (7.4) 
11 (4.1) 
6 (2.2) 
2 (0.7) 
p-Value 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 
Treatments 
Eight hundred and twenty-three patients were randomised to either ranolazine 750 mg bid. (n=279), 
ranolazine  1000  mg  bid.  (n=275)  or  placebo  (n=269)  as  add-on  treatment  to  atenolol  50  mg  od 
(n=236), amlodipine 5 mg od (n=175), or diltiazem 180 mg od (n=143). 
Outcomes and Endpoints 
The  objectives  was  to  determine  the  effects  of  ranolazine  at  doses  of  750  mg  bid  or  1000  mg  bid 
compared to placebo on symptom-limited exercise duration among patients with chronic stable angina 
treated  with  commonly  used  approved  anti-anginal  drugs.  The  primary  efficacy  end  point  was  the 
change  from  baseline  in  exercise  duration  at  trough  after  12  weeks  on  study  drugs  using  LOCF  for 
imputation of missing data.  
Results 
At baseline there were no differences between the three treatment arms, all showed exercise duration 
of approximately 7 minutes. Since one requirement was the ability to perform an exercise test with a 
duration of 3 to 9 minutes (modified Bruce protocol) this result could be expected (table 2). The mean 
increases in exercise duration at trough were statistically significantly greater for patients treated with 
23/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
either dose of ranolazine SR than with placebo (table 4). There was, however, no difference between 
the two doses of ranolazine (table 5).  
Table  4  -    Mean  Change  from  Baseline  in  ETT  Duration  (s)  at  Trough  Levels  of  Placebo, 
Ranolazine 750 mg bid, and Ranolazine 1000 mg bid: ITT Population 
Table 5 - Change from Baseline in ETT Duration (s) at Trough Levels of Ranolazine vs. Placebo 
at Week 12 (LOCF). Differences from ANCOVA: ITT Population. 
The  effects  on  exercise  duration  were  statistically  significant.  However,  the  base-line  treatment  in 
CVT 3033 was not optimised, which created an uncertainty about the importance of the shown change 
and therefore the Applicant submitted a post hoc subgroup analysis in the so called maximally dosed 
patients (249 patients). A patient with angina, a heart rate ≤60 beats/minute, a systolic blood pressure 
≤100 mg  Hg  and/or  an  ECG  PR  interval  ≥200 msec  would,  according  to  the  Applicant,  cause  the 
clinician to exercise considerable caution in initiating or increasing the dose of an anti-anginal drug, 
having  significant  haemodynamic  effects  or  an  effect  on  AV  node  conduction.  The  patient  may  be 
considered,  on  clinical  grounds,  to  be  “maximally  dosed”.  In  study  CVT  3033,  approximately  one 
third of patients (n=249) fell into this category.  
24/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 - Exercise performance by “maximally dosed patients” 
Placebo 
Subgroup 
Ranolazine 750 mg  
b.i.d. 
Subgroup 
Ranolazine 1000 mg 
b.i.d. 
Subgroup 
MD 
Other 
MD 
Other 
MD 
Other 
125.0+13.8  110.8+9.6 
184 
82 
179 
125.6+14.1  111.2+9.8 
34.8+19.9 
19.0+13.3 
0.0800 
0.1538 
88 
179 
92.2+9.8 
79 
90.8+14.5 
Change from Baseline in Duration of Exercise at Trough, sec 
N 
Lease Squares 
Mean + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference p-
value 
34.2+19.5 
0.0803 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
18.6+13.2 
0.1601 
Treatment by subgroup interaction p-value = 0.7509 
88 
79 
179 
Change from Baseline in Time to Onset of Angina at Trough, sec 
N 
184 
Lease Squares 
Mean + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference p-
value 
36.1+21.6 
0.0953 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
26.5 14.7 
0.0715 
116.6+16.1  113.3+10.8 152.7+15.4 139.8+10.7  149.6+15.7  135.9+10.9
82 
179 
33.0+22.0 
22.6+ 4.7 
0.1336 
0.1253 
128.3+16.2  123.6+10.9 137.6+15.6 148.6+10.8  148.6+15.8  145.0+11.2
Treatment by subgroup interaction p-value = 0.9089 
76 
84 
176 
171 
Change from Baseline in Time to 1-mm ST-Segment Depression at Trough, sec 
79 
N 
Lease Squares 
Mean + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference + SE 
RAN vs. Placebo 
Treatment 
Difference p-
value 
24.9+14.9 
9.4+21.9 
0.0940 
0.6689 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
0.3600 
20.3+22.2 
165 
21.4+15.1 
0.1575 
MD = “maximally dosed” 
Treatment by subgroup interaction p-value = 0.8033 
The  “maximally  dosed”  group,  however,  showed  similar  results  as  the  whole  studied  population,  in 
fact  the  exercise  duration  was  slightly  longer  and  therefore  it  is  concluded that  beneficial  effects  of 
ranolazine  have  been  shown  although  the  effects  can  be  regarded  as  modest.  The  results  in  this 
subgroup imply that an effect also in a “state-of-the-art” treated population could be expected.  
Study CVT 3037 
In a supportive study (CVT 3037), ranolazine was studied in 565 patients over 6 weeks. In this study, 
patients reporting an average weekly rate of ≥3 angina attacks were randomised to receive ranolazine 
500 mg b.i.d. or placebo for one week, followed by ranolazine 1,000mg b.i.d. or placebo for 6 weeks 
in addition to the maximum licensed dose of amlodipine, 10mg daily, which they had been receiving 
25/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for at least 2 weeks prior to the start of the study. In addition to treatment with amlodipine, 129/277 
(47%) of patients on ranolazine and 122/281 (43%) of patients on placebo were receiving long-acting 
nitrates (LAN). The study randomised 565 patients and the primary efficacy measure was the average 
weekly rate of angina attacks during the 6 week double-blind treatment phase.  
The summary statistics used to describe the treatment effect on angina attack rates in this study include 
a trimmed mean, computed as the average of all observations up to the 98th percentile, in addition to 
the medium, the 25th and 75th percentiles and the conventional mean. The trimmed mean was added to 
the analysis plan before data lock when a few patients with unusually high rates of angina attacks were 
observed during the blinded data review. 
Table 7 - Average Weekly Rate of Angina Attacks during the 6-Week Double-Blind Treatment 
Phase – Study CVT 3037 
Table 8 - Average Weekly Rate of Angina Attacks During the 6-Week Double-blind Treatment 
by Concomitant Use of LANs – Study CVT 3037 
CMH = Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test of equality of mean scores based on modified ridit score, stratified by pooled center. 
LAN = Long-acting nitrate; SE = Standard error.  
Trimmed mean in each subgroup is calculated by excluding the data points that were trimmed from the overall analysis. 
26/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 - Average Weekly Rate of Nitroglycerin Consumption During the 6-Week Double-blind 
Treatment Phase by Concomitant Use of LANs – Study CVT 3037 
CMH = Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test of equality of mean scores based on modified ridit score, stratified by pooled center. 
Trimmed mean in each subgroup is calculated by excluding the data points that were trimmed from the overall analysis. 
LAN = Long-acting nitrate; SE = Standard error 
Overall, ranolazine 1000 mg b.i.d. did reduce the number of attacks per week (as the primary outcome 
parameter), and nitroglycerin consumption decreased similarly. The mean reduction was less than one 
attack per week. It has not been investigated if similar results are achieved if ranolazine is added to 
optimised  doses  of  a  beta-blocker  or  the  combination  of  a  beta-blocker  and  a  calcium  antagonist. 
Therefore,  study  CVT  3037  has  not  strictly  included  a  patient  population  reflected  in  the  SPC,  and 
thus was considered to be merely supportive.  
Study CVT 3036 (MERLIN-TIMI 36) 
A  report  regarding  CVT  3036  was  submitted  at  day  121  during  the  evaluation.  The  study  was  not 
included in the primary dossier. The studied population had an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) as a 
prerequisite  for  inclusion.  It  was  therefore  considered  to  be  a  somewhat  different  population  than 
studied previously. 
Study design 
CVT 3036  was  a  Phase  3, randomized,  double-blind, parallel-group,  placebo-controlled  clinical  trial 
designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ranolazine for long-term treatment in patients with non-
ST elevation acute coronary syndromes (ACS) treated with other standard therapy. Patients received 
either  placebo  or  ranolazine  IV.  for  up  to  96  hours,  followed  by  ranolazine  1000  mg  bid  per  for 
approximately 12 months.  
Objectives 
The  primary  efficacy  objective  was  to  determine  whether  ranolazine  was  superior  to  placebo  for 
reducing the rate of CV death, MI, or recurrent ischemia during long-term treatment of patients with 
non-ST elevation ACS receiving standard therapy. 
Safety objectives were to evaluate ranolazine compared to placebo with respect to occurrence of the 
following endpoints between randomization and the end of follow-up:   
•  death from any cause 
• 
•  frequency of symptomatic documented arrhythmia 
•  frequency of clinically significant arrhythmias detected during 7 day continuous ECG monitoring 
time to first occurrence of either death from any cause or any cardiovascular hospitalization 
27/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  serious adverse events (SAEs) related to study drug 
• 
laboratory abnormalities considered clinically significant by physician(s) caring for the patient 
Results 
A  total  of  6,560  patients  (3,281  placebo,  3,279  ranolazine)  were  randomized  into  the  study  and 
included  in  the  ITT  analysis  population;  of  these,  6,541  (>99%)  patients  (3,273 placebo, 
3,268 ranolazine) received at least one dose of study drug. 
In general, patients received current standard of care prior to enrollment in the study, which continued 
throughout the treatment period. 
Clinical efficacy results in study CVT 3036 
Key results are the following: 
(cid:131)  Patients  treated  with  ranolazine  did  not  have  a  significantly  reduced  risk  of  occurrence  of  the 
primary endpoint (CV death, MI, or recurrent ischemia) compared to patients treated with placebo 
(cid:131)  There was no evidence of a benefit of ranolazine treatment with respect to CV death or MI 
(cid:131)  However,  the  risk  of  recurrent  ischemia  (defined  as  worsening  angina  or  ischemia  requiring 
to 
additional 
hospitalization, or prompting revascularization) was reduced by ranolazine 
ischemia,  showing  ECG  changes, 
therapy  and  severe  recurrent 
leading 
(cid:131)  In  addition,  worsening  angina  requiring  intensification  of  antianginal  medications  was  reduced 
with  ranolazine  compared  to  placebo.  Concomitant  use  of  antianginal  medications  was  less 
frequent with long-term ranolazine treatment compared to placebo 
(cid:131)  The  results  indicate  that  ranolazine  was  associated  with  improvement  in  the  angina  frequency 
dimension  of  the  SAQ  compared  to  placebo  patients  at  Month  4.  The  physical  limitation 
dimension of the SAQ showed no evidence of a reduction at Month 4 
(cid:131)  A  subgroup  analysis  of  patients  with  chronic  angina  at  study-entry  indicates  that  ranolazine 
prolonged  duration  of  exercise  during  ETT,  reduced  the  need  for  additional  antianginal 
medications, and improved QOL as measured by the angina frequency, treatment satisfaction and 
disease perception dimensions of the SAQ 
Figure 2 - Time from Randomization to First Occurrence of CV Death, MI, or Recurrent 
Ischemia 
Despite  the  fact  that  study  CVT  3036  failed  concerning  the  primary  objective,  some  support  is 
achieved  for  an  anti-ischemic  effect  from  some  of  the  secondary  end  points:  Additional  antianginal 
medications  was  needed  less  often  with  ranolazine:  175  (5.3%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group 
experienced  worsening  angina  or  ischemia  that  required  additional  therapy  during  the  study,  as 
compared to 134 (4.1%) in the ranolazine group. A quality of live assessment with the Seattle Angina 
Questionnaire (SAQ) in patients with a history of angina showed a benefit for ranolazine treatment. In 
patients  with  a  history  of  angina,  the  duration  of  exercise  (combining  treadmill  and  bicycle 
28/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessments)  was  significantly  longer  in  patients  treated  with  ranolazine  (513.7±7.2  seconds)  vs. 
placebo (482.7±7.4 seconds), with the effect observed being larger for patients who exercised on the 
treadmill compared to the bicycle. Taken together, the study therefore showed an effect of ranolazine, 
although this was considered to be modest. 
•  Clinical efficacy in special populations (age, race and gender) 
No specific studies were performed in diabetics, patients with heart failure or chronic obstructive lung 
disease,  but  both  in  study  CVT  3033  and  CVT  3031  patients  with  diabetes  (n=235),  heart  failure 
(n=274) and chronic obstructive lung disease (n=71) were included. In diabetic patients the exercise 
duration  increased  similarly  compared  to  the  non-diabetic  patients.  Heart  failure  patients  showed 
similar improvements as patients without heart failure in all exercise variables at trough. At peak there 
was a significantly greater increase in both exercise duration and time to 1 mm ST segment depression 
among  patients  with  heart  failure.  For  the  obstructive  lung  disease  patients  the  improvement  was 
similar as for those without such disease.  
The exercise performance improving effect in females at peak and trough is reduced to 27.5% and to 
42.2% of that in males in the dose range of 500 mg to 1500 mg b.i.d. There were significantly smaller 
improvements in time to onset of angina among females at peak but not at trough. 
29/54 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 - Change from Baseline in Exercise Treadmill Test Duration (sec) at Trough at Week 
12 Using LOCF. Subgroup Analysis by Gender, study CVT 3033 
As is seen in table 10, the results in women are not significant and not of any clinical importance. It 
was noted previously that women showed less improvement compared to men. There is a difference 
between men and women regarding the results on ETT, but in both CVT 3033 and CVT 3037, there 
was  a  decreases  in  angina  frequency  and  nitroglycerin  consumption  with  ranolazine  treatment 
compared  to  placebo  appeared  comparable  between  women  and  men  (fig  3  and  4,  respectively).  In 
addition, in CVT 3037, improvement in the angina frequency dimension of the SAQ with ranolazine 
treatment was also comparable between women and men (fig 3). 
Figure 3 - Average Weekly Angina Frequency and Nitroglycerin Use Over 12 Weeks in Women 
and Men (CVT 3033) 
k
k
e
e
We
We
er
er
P
P
s 
s 
k
k
c
c
a
a
t
t
At
At
a 
a 
n
n
gi
gi
n
n
A
A
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
Placebo
Placebo
Ran 750
Ran 750
Ran 1000
Ran 1000
p-Value                     0.071  0.029       0.017  <.001
p-Value                     0.071  0.029       0.017  <.001
N =     65   193             59    213             51     210
N =     65   193             59    213             51     210
k
k
e
e
We
We
er
er
P
P
s 
s 
e
e
s
s
U
U
n 
n 
ri
ri
e
e
c
c
y
y
gl
gl
o
o
r
r
t
t
Ni
Ni
5
5
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
Women
Women
Men
Men
Women
Women
Men
Men
Placebo
Placebo
Ran 750
Ran 750
Ran 1000
Ran 1000
P-Value                        0.33  0.030       0.063  0.004
P-Value                        0.33  0.030       0.063  0.004
N =        65   187            58     204            48    196
N =        65   187            58     204            48    196
Note:  P-value from comparison to placebo using analysis of covariance on ranked data
Note:  P-value from comparison to placebo using analysis of covariance on ranked data
with effects for treatment, background therapy, pooled site, gender and the interaction of
with effects for treatment, background therapy, pooled site, gender and the interaction of
treatment with gender.
treatment with gender.
30/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 - Average Weekly Angina Frequency, Nitroglycerin Use Over 6 Weeks, and Change 
from Baseline in SAQ Score in Women and Men (CVT 3037) 
5
5
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
4
4
3
3
2
2
1
1
0
0
30
30
25
25
20
20
15
15
10
10
5
5
0
0
k
k
e
e
We
We
er 
er 
P
P
s 
s 
k
k
c
c
a
a
t
t
At
At
a 
a 
n
n
gi
gi
An
An
k
k
e
e
We
We
er 
er 
P
P
s 
s 
e
e
Us
Us
n 
n 
eri
eri
c
c
y
y
gl
gl
o
o
r
r
t
t
Ni
Ni
e
e
or
or
Sc
Sc
y 
y 
c
c
n
n
e
e
u
u
q
q
e
e
Fr
Fr
a 
a 
n
n
gi
gi
n
n
A
A
Q 
Q 
A
A
S
S
n 
n 
e 
e 
g
g
n
n
a
a
h
h
C
C
i
i
Placebo
Placebo
Ranolazine
Ranolazine
p-Value                                    0.33       0.026
p-Value                                    0.33       0.026
N =     76          205                    79        198
N =     76          205                    79        198
Placebo
Placebo
Ranolazine
Ranolazine
p-Value                                      0.60      0.008
p-Value                                      0.60      0.008
N =      76        205                     79         198
N =      76        205                     79         198
Women
Women
Men
Men
Women
Women
Men
Men
Women
Women
Men
Men
Placebo
Placebo
Ranolazine
Ranolazine
p-Value                                     0.10    0.016
p-Value                                     0.10    0.016
N =     75      204                        79        198
N =     75      204                        79        198
Note:  P-values from comparison to placebo using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for equality of mean
Note:  P-values from comparison to placebo using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for equality of mean
modified ridit score, stratifying by pooled center (angina frequency and NTG use)  and analysis of covariance
modified ridit score, stratifying by pooled center (angina frequency and NTG use)  and analysis of covariance
with effects for treatment, pooled site and baseline value (change in SAQ score).
with effects for treatment, pooled site and baseline value (change in SAQ score).
In CVT 3036, 35% of the patients were female, and the results of this study support the conclusion of 
the earlier studies. An exploratory analysis showed a significant reduction by ranolazine in the risk of 
recurrent ischemia (relative risk 0.865, 95% CI=0.76, 0.98; p=0.027). There was no evidence that this 
effect was less in women (relative risk 0.711) than in men (relative risk 0.966, treatment by subgroup 
interaction test, p=0.026) (Table 11). 
Table 11 - Subgroup Efficacy Analysis: Time from Randomization to First Occurrence of 
Recurrent Ischemia by Gender 
Number of Patients with Events 
Relative Risk (Ranolazine:Placebo) 
95% Confidence Interval  
*p-value 
p-value (Treatment Subgroup 
Interaction) 
Proportion of patients experiencing 
an event (KM estimates) 
30 days 
60 days 
90 days 
180 days 
270 days 
360 days 
450 days 
Male 
Female 
Placebo 
(n=2096) 
Ranolazine 
(n=2173) 
Placebo 
(n=1185) 
Ranolazine 
(n=1106) 
296 
294 
198 
135 
0.966 
(0.82, 1.14) 
0.68 
0.026 
0.711 
(0.57, 0.88) 
0.002 
3.6% 
5.4% 
6.4% 
9.9% 
12.7% 
15.0% 
16.3% 
4.4% 
5.5% 
6.8% 
10.1% 
12.4% 
14.3% 
15.8% 
31/54 
5.3% 
7.2% 
8.4% 
12.8% 
15.5% 
18.2% 
20.2% 
3.0% 
4.5% 
5.5% 
9.0% 
11.6% 
13.0% 
14.3% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
540 days 
Note: *p-value from log-rank test stratifying by the intention for early invasive management. Relative risk 
estimates from Cox regression model stratifying by the intention for early invasive management. KM=Kaplan 
Meier. 
17.7% 
21.4% 
19.2% 
16.6% 
It is concluded that the additional data mainly from study CVT 3036 is reassuring. There is an effect 
also in women, although it is more difficult to show this with a standard ETT. 
Clinical safety 
The  data  on  long  term  safety,  that  were  provided  by  the  applicant  initially,  were  considered  to  be 
insufficient by the CHMP. The applicant then provided additional safety data, in particular from study 
CVT 3036, as summarized subsequently. 
•  Patient exposure 
The ISD (CVT 3036 not included) includes data from 3,463 subjects/patients who received ranolazine 
(any  formulation)  and  1,829  subject/patients  who  received  placebo.  Exposure  to  ranolazine  ranged 
from  a  single  dose  to  >8  years  over  a  dose  range  of  10  mg  once  daily  to  2250  mg  b.i.d.  The  total 
exposure to ranolazine in the ISD is 3,669 patient-years.  
Data from study CVT 3036 is listed in a subsequent section. 
•  Adverse events 
Adverse events were collected by routine monitoring and reporting. In table 12 below the incidence of 
adverse events in subjects/patients on study medication at doses up to 1,000 mg bid from the ISD and 
Phase 2/3 controlled angina studies are shown.  
Table 12 
32/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuations due to AEs occurred infrequently, indicating that ranolazine was generally well 
tolerated at oral doses within the therapeutic range. In the ISD, AEs leading to discontinuation 
occurred in 8.9% of Ranolazine-treated patients. 
The  most  commonly  reported  AEs 
to  discontinuation  for  all  ranolazine-treated 
subjects/patients in both the ISD and the Phase 2/3 PR controlled angina studies subset populations, 
respectively, were dizziness, nausea, and angina pectoris. 
leading 
33/54 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 - Incidence of Most Common Treatment-emergent AEs Resulting in Discontinuation 
Reported for ≥0.5% of Subjects/Patients - Integrated Safety Database and Phase 2/3 PR 
Controlled Angina Studies 
•  Adverse Events at High Doses 
An  evaluation  of  the  safety  experience  with  ranolazine  PR  doses  above  the  initially  proposed 
maximum  recommended  therapeutic  dose  of  1000  mg  bid  is  based on  data  from  Studies  CVT 3031 
and  CVT  3023.  In  addition,  CVT  3111  provides  safety  information  in  healthy  subjects  using 
supratherapeutic IV dosing. The data from CVT 3031 showed that increasing the dose of ranolazine 
from 1000 mg bid to 1500 mg bid resulted in a disproportionate increase in the most frequent AEs, 
including  asthenia  (9.8  times  as  high),  nausea  (7.8  times  as  high),  vomiting  (3.5  times  as  high), 
dizziness (2.7 times as high), headache (2.5 times as high), and constipation (2 times as high). Data 
from the tolerability studies 3111 and 3023 are discussed below.  
•  Serious adverse events  
Table 14 - Incidence of Treatment-emergent SAEs Reported for ≥0.5% of Subjects/Patients - 
Integrated Safety Database and Phase 2/3 PR Controlled Angina Studies 
34/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  most  frequently  reported  SAEs  were  unstable  angina  and  angina  pectoris,  occurring  at  similar 
frequencies  with  ranolazine,  which  is  not  unexpected  in  this  patient  population  studied.  Among  the 
less  frequent  but  medically  important  SAEs  was  syncope.  Review  of  available  information  on  all 
syncope cases in patients treated with ranolazine in the ISD revealed that most of these cases could be 
attributed to vasovagal or orthostatic aetiology. There was no evidence of association with ventricular 
arrhythmias, even in studies in which ranolazine concentrations far exceeded therapeutic levels. Other 
SAEs mirrored the general profile of AEs. The incidence of SAEs during the long-term studies was 
87/143 (60.8%) in Study CVT 3032 and 289/1,108 (26.1%) in Study CVT 3034. The most common 
SAEs in both long-term studies were angina pectoris, MI, and unstable angina. Syncope was reported 
as an SAE for nine patients and vasovagal syncope for an additional two patients, of 1,251 in the long 
term, follow-up studies. 
•  Deaths 
Deaths in the studies were predominantly due to cardiovascular events. As of August 2006, a total of 
110 (2.7%; 110/4,027) patient deaths were identified in all 87 ranolazine clinical studies. Twelve of 
the  110  deaths  occurred  during  the  controlled  observation  period  from  the  Phase  2/3  IR  and  PR 
controlled angina studies (n = 2,667), and one patient died in one of the 16 early studies not included 
in the ISD. Ninety-seven of 110 patients died during the open-label, long-term, follow-up studies; 71 
patients  died  during  treatment  (including  those  who  died  one  day  after  taking  their  last  dose  of 
ranolazine), and 26 patients died after discontinuation. Because these studies did not include a placebo 
comparison  group,  no  conclusions  regarding  mortality  can  be  drawn  directly  from  these  data.  Not 
unexpectedly,  88/110  deaths  were  due  to  cardiovascular  causes,  including  38  deaths  due  to  MI. 
Among cardiovascular deaths 22/88 (25%) deaths were reported as or attributed to sudden death, and 
7/88 (8%) were reported as ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia (VT/VF) or cardiac arrest. Twenty-two 
patients died from non-cardiovascular causes including cancer, trauma, respiratory failure, and sepsis; 
there were three deaths of unknown cause.  
•  Laboratory findings 
35/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No clinically meaningful changes were observed in electrolytes, liver function, endocrine function, or 
in  haematological  parameters 
urinalysis  parameters.  Small  mean  changes  were  observed 
(haemoglobin, haematocrit, eosinophils, and lymphocytes). Ranolazine produced small mean increases 
in  blood  urea  nitrogen  (BUN)  and  creatinine,  which  generally  remained  stable  over  time,  and  were 
reversible with discontinuation of ranolazine.  
•  Electrocardiography, including results from study CVT 3036 
The effects of ranolazine on ECG parameters have been well characterized in healthy volunteers and 
chronic  angina  patients  at  mean  ranolazine  plasma  concentrations  covering  the  proposed  clinical 
dosing regimen. The results of these analyses show that treatment with ranolazine was associated with 
dose-related  increases  in  PR  and  QRS  interval,  and  there  were  small  mean  increases  in  QTc  from 
baseline. 
The  mean  increase  in  QTc  from  baseline  in  the  Phase  2/3  PR  controlled  angina  studies  was  small: 
QTcB = 2.1–4.6 msec, and QTcF = 1.9–5.4 msec (from CVT 3031 and CVT 3033 only) through the 
maximum recommended dose of 1000 mg bid. This increase in QTc did not become more pronounced 
over  time  during  long-term  open-label  treatment.  Outliers  of  QTc  measurements  (defined  as  QTc 
increase from baseline >60 msec or >500 msec) were observed to occur sporadically, but more often 
in the ranolazine treated groups. Female patients did not appear to be at greater risk for developing an 
outlier QTc value compared with male patients. 
A population-based analysis of combined data using data from 16 clinical studies of 1,308 patients and 
healthy  volunteers  demonstrated  that  the  slope  of  the  plasma  concentration-QTc  relationship  was 
estimated to be 2.4 msec per 1000 ng/mL, which is approximately equal to 2 to 7 msec increase over 
the plasma concentration range for ranolazine 500 to 1000 mg bid. Age, weight, gender, race, diabetes, 
presence  or  absence  of  heart  failure,  baseline  heart  rate,  baseline  QTc,  dose  (single  and  total  daily 
dose),  patient  status  (healthy  volunteer/patient),  ranolazine  formulation,  and  study  did  not  affect  the 
slope of the relationship in the population PK model.  
A  prolongation  of  QT  was  observed  in  patients  with both  mild  and  moderate  hepatic impairment  in 
study CVT 3018 (pharmacokinetic study in patients with hepatic impairment). 
Analysis  of  ECG  data  in  the  population  of  patients  participating  in  CVT  3031  and  CVT  3033,  and 
continuing treatment in the long-term extension studies CVT 3032 and CVT 3034 (mean duration of 
exposure in this analysis was 1,080 days) showed that, in general, the incidence of QTc outlier values 
(defined  as  either  an  increase  in  QTc  from  baseline  >60  msec  or  a  value  >500  msec)  was  rare  and 
sporadic.  Outlier  values  were  more  common  on  ranolazine  than  on  placebo,  and  their  incidence 
(independent  of  the  definition  applied)  was  dose-dependent,  with  the  highest  incidence  of  outliers 
associated  with  the  1500  mg  bid  dose.  Of  patients  treated  with  ranolazine  1000  mg  bid,  4.3%  had 
QTcF outlier values. There have been no reported cases of TdP in any clinical study of ranolazine in 
3,669 patient-years of treatment. 
The QT-effects of ranolazine appeared to be well characterised and are dose-dependent. So far there 
has  been  no  reported  case  of  TdP  during  3,  669  patient-years  exposure  to  the  drug.  Since  such  an 
arrhythmia is a rare occasion, this is not particularly surprising. However, the data submitted indicates 
that ranolazine’s arrhythmic potential is relatively low, but with very high plasma concentrations, this 
was  considered  to  become  problematic.  The  safety  results  from  study  CVT  3036  have,  however, 
reduced  the  concerns  for  an  arrhythmogenic  effect  of  ranolazine,  as  presented  in  the  subsequent 
section. 
•  Discontinuation due to AES 
Discontinuations  due  to  AEs  occurred  infrequently,  indicating  that  ranolazine  was  generally  well 
tolerated at oral doses within the therapeutic range. In the Phase 2/3 PR controlled angina studies the 
incidence of AEs leading to study discontinuation was 6.3% for ranolazine-treated patients compared 
with 3.0% for placebo-treated patients (table 17). In the ISD, AEs leading to discontinuation occurred 
in 8.9% of ranolazine-treated patients. 
36/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leading 
to  discontinuation  for  all  ranolazine-treated 
The  most  commonly  reported  AEs 
subjects/patients  were  dizziness,  nausea,  and  angina pectoris.  In  the  Phase 2/3 PR  controlled  angina 
studies  population,  the  frequency  of  discontinuation  due  to  angina  (including  unstable  angina)  was 
approximately the same for both ranolazine and placebo. In the ISD, only two treatment-emergent AEs 
(dizziness  and  nausea)  occurred  with  a  frequency  of  at  least  1%  in  either  ranolazine-  or  placebo-
treated  subjects/patients  and  resulted  in  discontinuation.  The  majority  of  treatment-emergent  AEs 
leading to discontinuation occurred at a low frequency (usually single occurrences). The types of AEs 
leading to discontinuation were the same as those observed overall. 
STUDY CVT 3036 
Safety results 
This study with its large number of participant contributes substantially to the safety data base. It is 
also the study with the longest duration. In general no new safety issues emerged from CVT 3036, 
which was considered to be reassuring. 
37/54 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 - Treatment-emergent Adverse Events with a Frequency of > 3% 
38/54 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious Adverse Events 
The  number  of  patients  experiencing  SAEs  during  the  study  (both  IV  and  oral  dosing  periods)  was 
similar  in  the  placebo  (1,122/3,273  [34%])  and  ranolazine  (1,126/3,268  [34%])  treatment  groups. 
Cardiovascular disorders (22% in both groups) were the most frequently reported SAEs and included 
unstable angina, angina pectoris, cardiac failure, MI, and acute MI.  
Table 16 - Summary of Severe Treatment-emergent Adverse Events with a Frequency of ≥ 1% 
One  concern  has  been  the  risk  for  ranolazine  treated  patients  to  develop  severe  ventricular 
arrhythmias. The table below shows the results regarding such events in the CVT 3036 study. 
39/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 - Incidence and Frequency of Symptomatic Documented Arrhythmias 
The AEs occurring in ranolazine treated patients in CVT 3036 were in general similar to the AEs in 
other studies. The safety results regarding severe arrhythmias are in particular reassuring. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Renal Impairment 
Study CVT 3016 was conducted to assess the pharmacokinetics of ranolazine PR in patients with renal 
impairment, but duration of treatment was only 3 days and steady state had not been reached, which 
limits  the  possibilities  to  draw  any  conclusions  regarding  safety  in  subjects  with  renal  impairment. 
Additional safety data were obtained in study CVT 3036. This study excluded only patients with end-
stage  renal  failure  requiring  dialysis,  but  allowed  for  enrollment  of  other  patients  with  severe  or 
moderate  renal  impairment.  Overall,  102  patients  with  baseline  creatinine  clearance  <30  mL/min 
(severe  renal  impairment,  50  placebo  and  52  ranolazine)  and  1295  patients  with  baseline  creatinine 
clearance <60 mL/min (moderate renal impairment, 651 placebo and 644 ranolazine) were enrolled in 
the study. The protocol specified that patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min should be treated 
with  a  lower  dose  of  ranolazine  (40  mg/h,  rather  than  80 mg/h,  IV  infusion  transitioning  to  an  oral 
dose of 500 mg bid, rather than 1000 mg bid).  Down titration due to renal failure during the study was 
also allowed. Many of the concentration related adverse events were clearly increased with decreased 
renal  function.  All  gastrointestinal  AEs  increased  with  decreased  renal  function,  and  especially  the 
frequency of nausea was clearly related to renal function and was 8, 13 and 23% in patients with CLcr 
>60, 30-60 and <30 ml/min, respectively. This increase in adverse events in severe renal impairment 
was obtained although these patients received only 500 mg bid (i.e. a dose reduction of 50%). 
40/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic Impairment 
Study CVT 3018 considered the effects of ranolazine PR on ranolazine pharmacokinetics in patients 
with  mild  and  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  There  are  no  data  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
impairment. Duration of treatment was 3 days. There were no SAEs and no patient discontinued the 
study early due to an AE. The incidence of all AEs was the same in patients with mild or moderate 
hepatic disease (50%, 4/8 patients in each group) but higher than that in healthy  volunteers (18.8%, 
3/16  volunteers).  The  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  AEs  was  related  to  disease  severity.  As 
discussed  above  QT  prolongation  was  more  pronounced  in  these  patients.  Study  3036  excluded 
patients with clinically significant hepatic impairment. Hence, safety data in patients with moderate to 
severe hepatic impairment are lacking from this study. 
Reactive  Airway  Disease,  Heart  Failure,  Diabetes,  Low  Blood  Pressure  and/or  Low  Heart  Rate 
and/or Prolonged AV Conduction 
The presence of pre-existing reactive airway disease, CHF, diabetes, or low blood pressure and/or low 
heart rate and/or prolonged AV conduction did not alter the general nature or frequency of treatment-
emergent AEs, SAEs, or AEs leading to discontinuation, vital signs, or ECG parameters. 
Age, Gender, and Race 
The  treatment-emergent  response  to  ranolazine  was  similar  in  all  demographic  subgroups  for  all 
parameters examined and was also similar to the overall Phase 2/3 PR population, with the exception 
of  a  higher  incidence  of  ranolazine  treatment-emergent  AEs  in  patients  ≥75  years  of  age  compared 
with younger patients. The most frequent AEs observed in patients treated with ranolazine who were 
≥75  years  of  age  were  constipation  (21/114;  18.4%),  dizziness  (18/114;  15.8%),  nausea  (13/114; 
11.4%),  asthenia  (9/114;  7.9%),  and  headache  (7/114;  6.1%).  Subgroup  analyses  by  race  were 
performed, but the small number of non-Caucasian patients limits the utility of these analyses.  
In  CVT  3036  AEs  and  treatment  discontinuations  due  to  AEs  were  more  frequent  among  elderly 
patients,  although  SAEs  did  not  show  an  increased  incidence  in  the  ranolazine  group  compared  to 
placebo.  Compared  to  placebo-treated  patients  ≥75  years  old,  those  treated  with  ranolazine  had  a 
higher rate of down-titration of study drug (16% vs 9%), mostly due to AEs deemed to be treatment 
related.  Thus,  elderly  patients  apparently  were  more  sensitive  to  ranolazine  than  younger  patients 
judging  from  the  occurrence  of  AEs,  especially  gastro-intestinal  AEs,  but  also  syncope  and 
hypotension was more common. The latter events are particularly worrying since they could lead to 
other complications such as fractures and other kind of trauma. Consequently, recommendations and 
warnings are given in sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC. 
In the earlier studies only 23% of the included patients were women, however, there were no signs of a 
different  safety  profile  in  women.  This  was  also  the  case  in  study  CVT  3036  (MERLIN-TIMI  36), 
which included 34% women. 
The  safety  results  in  the  investigated  subgroups  are  not  in  general  different  from  the  overall  safety 
profile.  However,  the  very  few  non-Caucasians  and  the  few  heart  failure  patients  makes  the  safety 
profile more uncertain for these groups.  
•  Studies especially addressing safety and tolerability 
Study 3111 
Study CVT 3111, primarily conducted to assess the effects of ranolazine on the QTc interval, provided 
information  on  AEs  at  high  plasma  concentrations  following  IV  administration  of  ranolazine  in 
healthy  subjects.  There  was  an  increased  incidence  of  AEs  including  nausea,  dizziness/postural 
dizziness,  and  headache  with  increased  dose.  The  following  AEs  were  observed  only  at  the  highest 
target  concentrations:  blurred  vision,  diplopia,  vasovagal  syncope,  somnolence,  and  lethargy.  It  was 
not  possible  to  achieve  the  highest  targeted  plasma  concentration  of  15,000  ng/mL  in  all  subjects 
because of the emergence of intolerable AEs in the seven subjects who actually received this regimen. 
The  average  plasma  concentration  in  the  two  highest  dose  groups  were  8027  ng/ml  in  the  10,000 
ng/ml  group  and  9196  ng/ml  in  the  15,000  ng/ml  group  No  cardiac  arrhythmias  were  observed, 
including the time period during which continuous ECG monitoring was performed. 
41/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 - Study CVT 3111 Selected Dose-related Adverse Events by Target Ranolazine iv 
Concentration 
Adverse  
Event  
Mean (SD) Obtained 
plasma concentration 
Nausea  
Dizziness  
Headache  
Postural Dizziness  
Vision Blurred  
Diplopia  
Syncope Vasovagal  
Syncope  
Somnolence  
Lethargy  
Target Ranolazine Concentration (ng/mL)  
2,000  
(n = 31)  
1813 (353) 
4,000  
(n = 22)  
4606 (958) 
10,000  
(n = 22)  
8027 (2696) 
15,000  
(n = 7)  
9196 (1046) 
2 (6.5%)  
2 (6.5%)  
1 (3.2%)  
4 (12.9%)  
0  
0  
0  
1 (3.2%)  
0  
0  
6 (27.3%)  
9 (40.9%)  
7 (31.8%)  
3 (13.6%)  
0  
0  
0  
0  
0  
0  
10 (45.5%)  
14 (63.6%)  
12 (54.5%)  
5 (22.7%)  
5 (22.7%)  
2 (9.1%)  
1 (4.5%)  
1 (4.5%)  
1 (4.5%)  
1 (4.5%)  
2 (28.6%)  
6 (85.7%)  
4 (57.1%)  
2 (28.6%)  
3 (42.9%)  
2 (28.6%)  
2 (28.6%)  
0  
1 (14.3%)  
1 (14.3%)  
Thirteen subjects were withdrawn from this study due to AEs; of these, 10 subjects were prematurely 
discontinued  while  receiving  ranolazine  infusion  (4  during  the  10,000  ng/mL  target  treatment 
ranolazine  infusion,  and  6  during  the  15,000  ng/mL  target  treatment  ranolazine  infusion).  The 
ranolazine plasma concentration at the time of discontinuation of the infusion for subjects withdrawn 
prematurely ranged from 5,340 ng/mL to 10,700 ng/mL.  
CVT 3023 
The primary objective of CVT 3023 was to determine the tolerability of ranolazine ER at oral doses up 
to  2,250  mg  twice  a  day.  The  secondary  objective  was  to  characterize  the  adverse  events  and  the 
changes in vital signs and laboratory parameters associated with these doses. The study was double-
blind,  randomized,  parallel-group  with  dose  escalation.  Patients  were  randomized  1:1:1  within  each 
study centre to one of three treatment regimens, with each treatment regimen having three treatment 
periods: 
Table 19 - Study CVT 3023 Treatment Regimens 
Ranolazine Dose (mg, bid) 
Treatment Regimen  
750/750/750  
750/1500/1500  
750/1500/2250  
Treatment Period 1  
Days 1–3  
750  
750  
750  
Treatment Period 2  
Days 4–7  
750  
1500  
1500  
Treatment Period 3  
Days 8–13  
750  
1500  
2250  
Patients  were  resident  in  a  clinical  unit  for  14  days.  Adverse  events  were routinely  assessed.  Blood 
samples were collected for determination of ranolazine plasma concentrations. To be enrolled in this 
study, patients, in short, must have had at least a 3-month history of chronic angina pectoris triggered 
by physical effort and relieved by rest and/or sublingual nitroglycerin; a diagnosis of coronary artery 
disease  (documented  by  angiographic  evidence  of  ≥60%  stenosis  of  one  or  more  major  arteries,  a 
history  of  myocardial  infarction,  a  cardiac  imaging  scan  indicating  coronary  artery  disease);  or  a 
minimum  of  2  weeks  treatment  with  daily  chronic  anti-anginal  medications  prior  to  admission. 
Tolerability  was  measured  by  the  number  of  patients  who  (1)  experienced  syncope,  diplopia, 
symptomatic 
somnolence,  depressed 
hypotension, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, or (2) had any severe adverse event, or (3) terminated from 
the  study  due  to  an  adverse  event.  Safety  was  measured  through  collection  of  adverse  events, 
identification  of  serious  adverse  events,  vital  signs,  laboratory  assessments,  and  electrocardiogram 
measurements. 
level/loss  of  consciousness,  confusion/disorientation, 
42/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
A total of 37 patients were enrolled and dosed (12 in 750/750/750, 13 in 750/1,500/1500, and 12 in 
750/1500/2250),  23  patients  completed  the  study,  and  14  patients  prematurely  terminated  from  the 
study. Tolerability of the ranolazine regimens decreased as the dose increased. The treatment regimens 
that included doses of 1500 mg bid and 2250 mg bid appeared to be intolerable; the most frequently 
observed AEs were nausea, dizziness, and vomiting. As many as 14 patients (of 37) terminated early 
from the study. Five patients were withdrawn from the study due to one or more adverse events, and 1 
patient was withdrawn for QTc interval prolongation.  
Four  patients  voluntarily  withdrew  consent.  Two  patients  were  withdrawn  by  the  sponsor,  1  for  not 
having  met  the  study-entrance  criteria  and  1  for  concomitant  use  of  a  prohibited  medication,  and  2 
patients  were  withdrawn  because  the  study-site  required  evacuation.  Only  one  patient  in  the  lowest 
dose group terminated prematurely, whereas seven in the highest dose group terminated prematurely. 
All patients who discontinued Study CVT 3023 due to AEs were treated with either 1500 mg bid or 
2250  mg  bid  of  ranolazine  and  achieved  ranolazine  plasma  concentrations  (within  12  hours  of  the 
event) in the range of 3,520 ng/mL–14,000 ng/mL. The patient withdrawn due to QTc prolongation 
was  withdrawn  on  Day  11  after  8  days  administration  of  1500  mg  bid.  At  time  of  withdrawal  the 
plasma  concentration  was  7,210  ng/ml  (7  h  after  dose).  The  patient  had  reported  dizziness/light 
headedness or nausea (usually mild) almost every day during ranolazine administration. However, the 
reported adverse events did not result in withdrawal of the patient.  
The  results  show  that  the  tolerability  decreased  as  the  ranolazine  dose  increased;  the  number  and 
percent  of  patients  who  experienced  one  or  more  of  the  endpoint  events  were  as  follows:  1  (8%) 
patient  in  the  750/750/750  regimen,  6  (46%)  patients  in  the  750/1500/1500  regimen,  and  9  (75%) 
patients in the 750/1500/2250 regimen. Patients in the 750/1500/2250 group had the highest incidence 
of the endpoint adverse events compared to patients in the other two treatment regimens, particularly 
nausea  (50%),  dizziness  (42%),  and  vomiting  (25%).  In  addition,  4  (33%)  patients  in  the 
750/1500/2250 group terminated from the study due to an adverse event, compared to 1 (8%) patient 
in the 750/1500/1500 group and no patient in the 750/750/750 group. 
In summary, CVT 3031, CVT 3023, and CVT 3111 show that there is an increased frequency (often 
disproportional) of the most commonly reported AEs with increasing doses above 1000 mg bid. Some 
uncommon events, such as visual disturbance (vision blurred, diplopia), somnolence, or lethargy, have 
been observed more frequently at doses of ranolazine ≥1500 mg bid, and particularly at corresponding 
concentrations for iv dosing. These events were most pronounced when the iv formulation was used to 
achieve  exceptionally  high  plasma  concentrations  in  CVT  3111.  No  life-threatening  events,  such  as 
ventricular arrhythmias, were observed in these studies.  
Overall discussion on tolerability 
Study CVT 3023 confirmed the relation between level of exposure of ranolazine and adverse events. 
Ranolazine  adverse  events  are  clearly  concentration  related.  Withdrawal  from  treatment  occurred  at 
plasma concentrations usually >6,000 ng/ml. In study 3033, the plasma concentration 4 h after dose (at 
approximately Cmax) was about 3000 ng/ml and the concentration 12 h after dose (Cmin) about 2,400 
ng/ml  (corresponding  data  in  healthy  volunteers  were  3,800  ng/ml  and  1,900  ng/ml)  in  patients 
receiving 1000 mg bid. Hence, plasma concentrations that are not tolerated are only 2-3 fold higher 
than  those  at  1000  mg  bid.  The  safety  margin  is  thus  low.  This  was  of  considerable  concern  to  the 
CHMP considering the large variability in ranolazine pharmacokinetics and the many factors resulting 
in increased ranolazine exposure.  
It  is  acknowledged  that  most  of  the  AEs  were  relatively  benign,  the  most  common  being  dizziness, 
nausea  and  vomiting.  However,  with  increasing  exposure,  as  in  CVT  3111,  more  serious  AEs 
occurred,  such  as  disturbed  vision,  syncope,  lethargy  and  somnolence.  The  appearance  of 
uncomfortable  and  disturbing  AEs  might  occur  before  there  are  serious  AEs,  however  in  routine 
clinical practice, those early symptoms, such as nausea, would be needed to be interpreted as a sign of 
increasing exposure to ranolazine.  
43/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To address these concerns, warnings and recommendations were implemented in the SPC. Moreover, 
the applicant has committed to include the concept of a patient alert card, with information for health 
care professionals as well as patients, alerting to the possible contraindication, needed dose reductions, 
or precautions, when taken together with some other medicinal products, and for the patient to speak 
to their doctor, when they have certain specified conditions. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
• 
Ranolazine  has  a  complex  interaction  profile  with  a  large  risk  for  increased  exposure  during  co-
administration  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors,  P-gp  inhibitors  and  CYP2D6  inhibitors  (see  section 
Pharmacokinetics above).  
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Identified Risk: 
Constipation, 
nausea, vomiting 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: Ranolazine 
IMS Disease Analyzer Study CVT 
303 IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion, if 
warranted 
Identified Risk: 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
44/54 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
• SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 
and 4.9).  
Section 4.2: If a patient experiences treatment 
related adverse events (e.g., nausea, or 
vomiting), down-titration of Latixa to 500 mg 
or 375 mg twice daily may be required. If 
symptoms do not resolve after  dose reduction, 
treatment should  be discontinued.  
Section 4.4: Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing or uptitrating ranolazine to 
patients in whom an increased exposure is 
expected. 
Section 4.5: Ranolazine is a substrate of 
cytochrome CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 
increase plasma concentrations of ranolazine. 
The potential for dose-related adverse events 
(e.g., nausea) may also increase with increased 
plasma concentrations.  
Section 4.8: Constipation, nausea, and  
vomiting were commonly reported as an 
undesirable effect during clinical trials. 
Elderly patients (≥ 75 years of age)  
experienced constipation, nausea and vomiting 
more frequently than younger patients (< 75 
years of age), placebo corrected frequencies: 
constipation (8% versus 5%), nausea (6% 
versus 3%), and vomiting (4% versus 1%). 
Section 4.9: In an oral high-dose tolerability 
study in angina patients, the incidence of 
nausea, and vomiting increased in a dose 
dependent manner. 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.7, 4.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dizziness and 
Syncope 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
Identified Risk: 
Confusion 
Identified Risk: 
Hypotension 
Identified Risk: QT 
prolongation 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
45/54 
and 4.9).  
Section 4.2: If a patient experiences treatment 
related adverse events (e.g., dizziness), down-
titration of Latixa to 500 mg or 375 mg twice 
daily may be required. If symptoms do not 
resolve after dose reduction, treatment should 
be discontinued.  
Section 4.4: Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing or uptitrating ranolazine to 
patients in whom an increased exposure is 
expected. 
Section 4.5: Ranolazine is a substrate of 
cytochrome CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 
increase plasma concentrations of ranolazine. 
The potential for dose-related adverse events 
(e.g., dizziness) may also increase with 
increased plasma concentrations. 
Section 4.7: Latixa may cause dizziness and 
blurred vision (see Section 4.8), which may 
affect the ability to drive and use machines. 
Section 4.8: Dizziness was commonly 
reported as an undesirable effect during 
clinical trials. In patients with mild or 
moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance ≥ 30–80 mL/min) compared to those 
with normal renal function (creatinine 
clearance > 80 mL/min), the most commonly 
reported events and their placebo-corrected 
frequencies included: dizziness (7% versus 
5%).  
Section 4.9: In an oral high-dose tolerability 
study in angina patients, the incidence of 
dizziness increased in a dose-dependent 
manner. 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Section 4.8). 
Section 4.8: Confusion was uncommonly 
reported as an undesirable effect during 
clinical studies. 
• SPC language (Section 4.8). 
Section 4.8: Hypotension was uncommonly 
reported as an undesirable effect during 
clinical studies. 
• SPC language (Sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1 and 
5.2).  
Section 4.4: Caution should be observed when 
treating patients with a history of congenital or 
a family history of long QT syndrome, in 
patients with known acquired QT interval 
prolongation, and in patients treated with 
drugs affecting the QTc interval.  
Section 4.5: There is a theoretical risk that 
concomitant treatment of ranolazine with 
other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval 
may give rise to a pharmacodynamic  
interaction and increase the possible risk of 
ventricular arrhythmias. 
Section 4.8: Prolonged QT corrected interval 
was uncommonly reported as an undesirable 
 
effect during clinical studies.  
Section 5.1: Dose and plasma concentration-
related increases in the QTc interval (about 6 
msec at 1000 mg twice daily) have been 
observed in patients treated with Latixa. A 
population analysis of combined data from 
1,308 patients and healthy volunteers  
demonstrated a mean increase in QTc from 
baseline of 2.4 msec per 1000 ng/ml 
ranolazine plasma concentration. This value is 
consistent with data from pivotal 
clinical studies.  
Section 5.2: QT prolongation was more 
pronounced in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
• Patient Alert Card 
• No specific risk minimisation 
activity planned 
SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.6 and 5.2). 
Section 4.2: Latixa is not recommended for 
use in children below the age of 18 years due 
to a lack of data on safety and efficacy. 
Section 4.6: Pregnancy: The potential risk for 
humans is unknown. Latixa should not be 
used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. Lactation: It is unknown whether 
ranolazine is excreted in human breast milk. 
Latixa should not be used during breast-
feeding.  
Section 5.2: The pharmacokinetic parameters 
of ranolazine have not been studied in the 
paediatric population (< 18 years). 
• No risk minimisation activity 
planned 
• SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 5.1 and 
5.2).  
Section 4.2 and 4.3: Careful dose titration is 
recommended in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment. Latixa is contraindicated in  
patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment.  
Section 4.4: Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing or uptitrating ranolazine to 
patients in whom an increased exposure is 
expected, including in patients with mild 
hepatic impairment.  
Section 5.1: Dose and plasma  concentration 
related electrocardiographic effects have been 
observed in patients treated with Latixa; the 
slope is higher in patients with clinically 
significant hepatic impairment.  
Section 5.2: The pharmacokinetics of 
ranolazine have been evaluated in patients 
with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Male infertility 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Pregnancy, Lactation 
and 
Paediatric 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Ethnicity other than 
Caucasian 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Safety information for 
patients 
with moderate and 
severe 
hepatic impairment 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
(Due to confidentiality laws, 
ethnicity data will not be 
solicited, but if ethnicity data 
is volunteered, these data will 
be collected and included in 
the individual case reports 
and PSURs) 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
46/54 
 
hepatic impairment. Ranolazine AUC was 
unaffected in patients with mild hepatic 
impairment but increased 1.8-fold in patients 
with moderate impairment. QT prolongation 
was more pronounced in these patients. 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 
and 5.2).  
Section 4.2 and 4.3: Careful dose titration is 
recommended in patients with mild to 
moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance 30–80 mL/min). Latixa is 
contraindicated in patients with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance < 
30 mL/min).  
Section 4.4: Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing or uptitrating ranolazine to 
patients in whom an increased exposure is 
expected including those with mild to  
moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance 30-80 mL/min). Renal function 
decreases with age and it is therefore 
important to check renal function at regular 
intervals during treatment with ranolazine. 
Section 4.8: In general, adverse events 
occurred more frequently in patients with 
renal impairment. In patients with mild or 
moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance ≥ 30–80 mL/min) compared to those 
with normal renal function (creatinine 
clearance > 80 mL/min), the most commonly 
reported events and their placebo-corrected 
frequencies included: constipation (8% versus 
4%), dizziness (7% versus 5%), and nausea 
(4% versus 2%). 
Section 5.2: In a study evaluating the 
influence of renal function on ranolazine 
pharmacokinetics, ranolazine AUC was on 
average 1.7- to 2- fold higher in subjects with 
mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment 
compared with subjects with normal renal 
function. The influence of dialysis on the 
pharmacokinetics of ranolazine has not been 
evaluated. 
• Monitoring of patients with a 
medical history of severe and end stage renal 
disease requiring dialysis collected in the 
postmarketing safety database, for example, 
data from routine spontaneous reports, 
anonymous single patient reports and reports 
from the literature 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Sections 4.3 and 4.5).  
Section 4.3: Concomitant administration of 
Class Ia or Class III antiarrhythmics other 
than amiodarone is contraindicated.  
Section 4.5: There is a theoretical risk that 
concomitant treatment of ranolazine with 
other drugs known to prolong the QTc 
interval may give rise to a pharmacodynamic 
interaction and increase the possible risk of 
ventricular arrhythmias 
• Monitoring of concomitant medication in 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Patients with severe 
and endstage 
renal disease requiring 
dialysis 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
Important Missing 
Information: 
(Drug-drug 
interactions with 
Class Ia and Class III 
antiarrhythmics except 
amiodarone) 
• Routine pharmacovigilance  
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
47/54 
 
postmarketing data, for example data from 
routine spontaneous reports, anonymised 
single patient reports and reports from the 
literature 
• PSUR focus on identified drug-drug 
interactions 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Section 4.5) 
Section 4.5: There is a theoretical risk that 
concomitant treatment of ranolazine with 
other drugs known to prolong the QTc 
interval may give rise to a pharmacodynamic 
interaction and increase the possible risk of 
ventricular arrhythmias. 
• Monitoring of concomitant medication in 
postmarketing data, for example data from 
routine spontaneous reports, anonymised 
single patient reports and reports from the 
literature 
• PSUR focus on identified 
drug-drug interactions 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 
4.5).  
Section 4.2: Careful dose titration is  
recommended in patients treated with 
moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.  
Section 4.3: Concomitant administration of 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. 
Section 4.4: Caution should be exercised when 
prescribing or uptitrating ranolazine with 
concomitant administration of moderate 
CYP3A4 inhibitors.  
Section 4.5: Ranolazine is a substrate of 
cytochrome CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 
increase plasma concentrations of ranolazine. 
The potential for dose-related adverse events 
(eg, nausea, dizziness) may also increase with 
increased plasma concentrations 
• Monitoring of concomitant medication in 
postmarketing data for example, for example 
data from routine spontaneous reports, 
anonymised single patient reports and reports 
from the literature 
• PSUR focus on identifiable drug-drug 
interactions 
• Patient Alert Card 
• SPC language (Sections 4.4 and 4.5).  
Section 4.4: The potential risk for increased 
exposure leading to adverse events in patients 
lacking CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolisers, 
PM). 
Section 4.5: Ranolazine is partially 
metabolised by CYP2D6; therefore, inhibitors 
of this enzyme may increase plasma 
concentrations of ranolazine 
• Monitoring of concomitant medication in 
postmarketing data, for example data from 
routine spontaneous reports, anonymised 
single patient reports and reports from the 
literature 
• PSUR focus on identifiable drug-drug 
interactions 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Antihistamines (eg, 
terfenadine, 
astemizole, 
mizolastine), certain 
antiarrhythmics (eg, 
quinidine, 
disopyramide, 
procainamide), 
erythromycin, and 
tricyclic 
antidepressants (eg, 
imipramine, doxepin, 
amitriptyline) 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Real-world safety 
information for drug-
drug interactions with 
potent CYP3A 
inhibitors 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease Analyzer 
Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion if warranted 
• Routine pharmacovigilance 
• Drug utilization Study: 
Ranolazine IMS Disease 
Analyzer Study CVT 303 
IMS.001 
• PSUR discussion, if 
warranted 
Important Missing 
Information: 
Drug-drug Interactions 
with 
CYP2D6 substrates 
which 
may need to be down-
titrated 
(tricyclic 
antidepressants and 
antipsychotics) 
48/54 
 
• Patient Alert Card 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report.  
The  Safety  Specification  made  by  the  applicant  in  the  updated  RMP  includes  constipation,  nausea, 
vomiting,  dizziness,  syncope,  hypotension  and  QT-prolongation  as  important  identified  risks.  The 
Safety  Specification  has  been  expanded  considerably,  including  information  of  risk  factors  for 
experiencing ADRs such as age, low weight. 
In  general,  two  factors  dominate  the  clinical  safety  aspects  of  ranolazine;  firstly,  the  narrow 
therapeutic margin and, secondly, the complicated pharmacokinetics of ranolazine and interaction with 
concomitant medications. Regarding the problem of complex interactions, see also discussions in the 
Pharmacokinetic evaluation. 
The Pharmacovigilance Plan has includes routine pharmacovigilance and IMS disease analyser data to 
be collected and analysed. 
This study evaluating prescribing patterns and concomitant medication via the IMS Disease Analyzer, 
could provide valuable information on post marketing use of ranolazine. The Applicant has provided 
an acceptable synopsis of this study. The interim data will be submitted periodically in the PSURs and 
submission  of  final  data  will  be  submitted  following  accrual  of  10,000  patients.  This  is  acceptable 
considering the already existing post-marketing experience. 
As  for  Risk  Minimisation  activities,  this  plan  has  been  revised,  in  line  with  the  comments  on  the 
Safety  Specification.  The  Applicant  has  submitted  a  “Patient  Alert  Card”  (PAC),  which  contains 
information  about  the  risk  of  increased  exposure  under  certain  circumstances.    The  patient  should 
carry  this  card,  in  order  to  inform  other  health  care  providers  than  the  patient’s  usual  (prescribing) 
physician. 
The card includes the contraindications, potential AEs, and the need for the patient to bring a list of all 
medications to any visit with health care professionals; it is also urges the patient to read carefully the 
PIL. 
This  PAC  will  provide  an  additional  safety  measure  for  the  “real  world  setting”,  especially  in  the 
context of a complicated interaction potential associated with the use of ranolazine. 
Both the SPC and the patient information leaflet (PIL) have been updated with information regarding 
the PAC. 
The Applicant has listed several measures to ensure that each patient should be given the PAC. The 
measures described are adequate. Both pharmacies and health care providers will also have access to 
the PAC, as this will further ensure that each patient will be provided with it. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Ranolazine’s mechanism of action is thought to be selective inhibition of late inward sodium current 
(INa)  relative  to  peak  INa  resulting  in  a  decrease  in  intracellular  Na+  and  Ca2+  overload  and  an 
attenuation of the deleterious electrical and mechanical consequences of Ca2+ overload. In the receptor 
screening  assays,  ranolazine  and  its  R-  and  S-enantiomers  were  found  to  have  significant  binding 
49/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activity  only  to  α1-adrenergic  receptors,  β1-adrenergic  receptors,  β2-adrenergic  receptors,  and 
serotonin 5-HT1A and 5-HT2 receptors, however the contribution of these receptor-mediated actions 
to the anti-ischemic and antianginal effects of ranolazine remains to be established. 
Safety pharmacology studies show that ranolazine is generally devoid of detrimental effects at plasma 
concentrations  within  the  expected  therapeutic  range.  Where  effects  were  observed  in  safety 
pharmacology  studies,  they  were  in  general  agreement  with  the  adverse  events  observed  in  clinical 
trials.  In  addition,  in  dogs,  no  significant  haemodynamic  interaction  of  ranolazine  with  long-acting 
nitrates and the phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, sildenafil, was observed. 
From  the  PK  point  of  view,  ranolazine  was  rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  administration  in  all  studied 
species.  Ranolazine  or  its  metabolites  were  distributed  widely,  including  CNS.  The  adrenals  were 
found  to  have  high  concentrations,  finding  which  was  considered  of  relevance  as  the  adrenals  were 
found to be target organs in several toxicity studies, and tumours were found in the adrenals in the rat 
carcinogenicity study. 
It is unknown whether ranolazine or its metabolites passes the placenta and/or secreted into the breast 
milk of lactating animals. However, based on the general behaviour of the molecule it seems likely; in 
view of which a warning has been included in section 4.6. of the SPC. 
The repeat dose toxicity programme revealed that ranolazine appeared to be associated with toxicity to 
the  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  including  convulsions,  ataxia,  prostration,  and  death.  The  pattern 
was relatively consistent across studies of various types and lengths and the effect was thought to be 
related to high Cmax with the immediate release formulation used in the animal studies. In order to 
clarify  this  point  a  pilot  study  using  a  controlled  release  formulation  was  proposed.  The  pilot  study 
however  was  not  feasible  as  severe  toxicity  was  seen  at  about  the  same  AUC  as  previously.  The 
proposed clinical doses therefore can only be supported by the clinical data. 
In a Comet assay performed on liver tissue from rats no signs of DNA damage were seen, the results 
alleviate the remaining concerns about a possible genotoxic or carcinogenic effect of ranolazine or its 
metabolites. These results are further supported by the additional reassurance of no detectable levels of 
the  metabolite  DMA  found  in  human  samples,  even  though  they  were  detected  in  rat  and  mouse 
samples. 
In  the  reproductive  toxicology  atrophy  of  the  testes  and  epididymides,  and  growth  retardation  was 
observed,  but  no  malformations  of  the  foetus  were  seen  at  doses  that  were  toxic  for  the  pregnant 
animals. These findings are reflected in warning against the use of ranolazine during pregnancy. 
Efficacy 
In the pivotal study (CVT 3033) ranolazine was studied as an add-on therapy to base-line drugs,  of 
which the respective doses were chosen based on data regarding angina pectoris treatment in European 
countries.    Ranolazine  (750  mg  bid,1000  mg  bid.  or  placebo)  was  studied  as  add-on  treatment  to 
atenolol 50 mg od (n=236), amlodipine 5 mg od (n=175), or diltiazem 180 mg od (n=143). All patients 
(mean age of 64 years) had had chronic stable angina for at least 3 months. The study population was 
considered to be sufficiently well representative for a broad European population with stable angina. 
As for the primary efficacy end point, there was a change from baseline in exercise duration at 
trough  after  12  weeks  on  study  drugs  with  an  increase in exercise duration of about 24-30 s; in 
addition,  the  onset  of  angina  pectoris  was  delayed  by  about  20  s.  Both  ranolazine  groups  (750  and 
1000 mg b.i.d.) showed similar effects compared to placebo. The design of the study was considered 
suboptimal  regarding  the  base-line  treatment  and  therefore  the  Applicant  performed  a  post  hoc 
subgroup analysis in a non-randomised group of patients on a treatment regime considered to be closer 
to  a  maximal  treatment.  The  results  in  this  group  were  similar  to  the  results  in  the  whole  patient 
population, therefore it is concluded that modest beneficial effects of ranolazine can be expected also 
in maximally dosed patients. 
In a supportive study (CVT 3037), ranolazine was studied over 6 weeks in 565 patients having at least 
3 angina attacks per week on 10 mg of amlodipine. Over 40% of the patients were also treated with 
50/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
long acting nitrates. The primary efficacy variable was change in number of patient recorded angina 
pectoris attacks per week. Ranolazine 1000 mg b.i.d. did reduce the number of attacks per week (as 
the  primary  outcome  parameter),  and  nitroglycerin  consumption  decreased  similarly.  The  mean 
reduction was less than one attack per week. It has not been investigated if similar results are achieved 
if ranolazine is added to optimised doses of a beta-blocker or the combination of a beta-blocker and a 
calcium antagonist. Therefore, study CVT 3037 has not strictly included a patient population reflected 
in the SPC, and thus was considered to be supportive.  
A study in patients with acute coronary syndrome (CVT 3036) failed to show any differences between 
placebo and ranolazine treated patients in the primary efficacy variable (CV death, MI and recurrent 
ischemia). There was a modest significant difference in one secondary end point (mainly worsening 
angina/need for additional antianginal therapy). This study was considered to be supportive from an 
efficacy point of view. However, the study was of high relevance for the assessment of the safety of 
ranolazine (see below). 
Overall, although the effects on exercise duration and other signs of ischemia were relatively modest, 
such modest efficacy is not uncommonly seen in trials in patients with stable angina pectoris. There 
was concern about the clinical relevance of the effects by the CHMP, but a post hoc analysis of the 
group  of  maximally  dosed  patients  in  CVT  3033  provided  some  support  for  the  assumption  that  an 
effect could be anticipated even in patients with optimised conventional therapy, thus alleviating those 
concerns.  This  conclusion  was  supported  by  the  results  from  CVT  3037  with  10  mg  amlodipine  as 
baseline treatment and, but to a lesser extent, from the results of CVT 3036 in ACS patients. It was 
concluded  that  Latixa  could  be  of  value  in  certain  patients,  especially  those  who  are  intolerant  to 
conventional treatment or those who continue to have symptoms despite maximal doses of the usual 
anti-anginal drugs. 
Safety 
Ranolazine  has  a  complex  pharmacokinetic  profile  with  extensive  metabolism  to  a  large  number  of 
metabolites  whereof  one  metabolite  may  contribute  significantly  to  the  efficacy.  The  metabolism  is 
catalyzed  by  both  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6.  Ranolazine  displays  non-linear  pharmacokinetics  with 
saturable  elimination  resulting  in  more  than  proportional  increase  in  exposure  with  increased  dose. 
Ranolazine  has  a  large  interaction  potential  with  increased  exposure  during  co-administration  of 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, P-gp inhibitors and CYP2D6 inhibitors. Exposure is also increased in several sub-
populations  such  as  patient  with  CYP2D6  poor  metaboliser  status  (PM),  patients  with  renal 
impairment or hepatic impairment, patients in the lower weight range and in the elderly. Very large 
increase in exposure could be expected in patients with several risk factors for increased exposure. 
Ranolazine is a moderate to potent inhibitor of P-gp and a mild inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is likely also 
a mild inhibitor of CYP2D6.  
leading 
The adverse events seen with the use of ranolazine are dose related and usually of moderate intensity. 
The most common are dizziness, nausea, vomiting and angina pectoris. The ISD includes data from 
3,463  subjects/patients  who  received  ranolazine  (any  formulation)  and  1,829  subject/patients  who 
received placebo. Exposure to ranolazine ranged from a single dose to >8 years over a dose range of 
10 mg once daily to 2250 mg b.i.d. The total exposure to ranolazine in the ISD is 3,669 patient-years.  
to  discontinuation  for  all  ranolazine-treated 
The  most  commonly  reported  AEs 
subjects/patients in both the ISD and the Phase 2/3 PR controlled angina studies subset populations, 
respectively,  were  dizziness,  nausea,  and  angina  pectoris.  Among  the  less  frequent  but  medically 
important  SAEs  was  syncope.  Most  of  these  cases  could  be  attributed  to  vasovagal  or  orthostatic 
aetiology, without any evidence of association with ventricular arrhythmias. With increasing exposure, 
not only do the number and proportion of patients experiencing AEs increase but also the severity of 
the AEs increase. A dose-response study (CVT 3031) showed a disproportionate increase in the most 
frequent  AEs,  including  asthenia,  nausea,  vomiting,  dizziness,  headache,  and  constipation  upon 
increasing the dose of ranolazine from 1000 mg bid to 1500 mg bid. In tolerability study (CVT 3111), 
AEs observed at the highest target concentrations were: blurred vision, diplopia, vasovagal syncope, 
somnolence, and lethargy. The QTc interval increases by a mean of 2.4 msec with every 1,000 ng/ml 
increase  in  plasma  concentration.  Outlier  values  for  QTc-prolongation  were  more  common  on 
51/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ranolazine than on placebo, and their incidence was dose-dependent. In the study in patients with acute 
coronary  syndrome  (CVT  3036),  the  data  of  which  was  provided  during  the  evaluation  of  the 
application, the occurrence of severe ventricular arrhythmias in the ranolazine group did not increase 
compared to placebo-treated patients, which did alleviate the concerns of the CHMP. The study did 
also show a very similar pattern of AEs as outlined above. 
Thus,  at  targeted  therapeutic  concentrations  of  ranolazine,  the  AEs  were  relatively  benign  and  the 
frequency  of  SAEs  was  low,  but  this  changes  with  higher  plasma  levels,  with  intolerable  adverse 
events at exposure only 2-3 folds higher than the mean exposure at 1000 mg bid. The safety margin is 
thus  low.  This  was  of  considerable  concern  to  the  CHMP  considering  the  large  variability  in 
ranolazine pharmacokinetics and the many factors resulting in increased ranolazine exposure. Given 
the similar efficacy at 750 mg bid and 1000 mg bid and the dose dependent adverse events, the benefit 
risk of the 1000 mg bid dose was questioned in the day 180 List of Outstanding Issues. In response to 
this major objection, the applicant has withdrawn the 1000 mg dose and now ranolazine 750 mg bid is 
recommended as the maximum dose. 
Safety  evaluation  of  different  sub-groups  with  risk  for  increased  exposure  in  study  3036  reveal  an 
increased  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  these  patients.  Hence,  there  was  a  need  identified  in  those 
sub-populations  for  an  initial  dose  lower  than  500mg  bid.  To  accommodate  this  need  and  not  to 
complicate  the  SPC,  the  initial  dose  recommended  has  therefore  been  reduced  generally  to  375  mg 
bid. Moreover, the SPC specifically recommends cautious titration of the dose in all sub-groups with 
risk for increased exposure and adverse events. Specific warnings for patients with several risk factors 
have been included. The reduction of the maximum dose from 1000 mg to 750 mg bid has increased 
the safety margin.  
Within  additional  risk  minimisation  activities,  a  Patient  Alert  Card  has  been  introduced  in  order  to 
alert patients, as well as health care professionals, on the possible contraindications, dose reductions 
needed, and precautions, when taken together with some other medicinal products. It also advises the 
patients to speak to their doctor, when they have certain specified conditions. The Patient Alert Card is 
therefore  expected  to  be  a  useful  additional  tool  to  provide  safety  measures  for  the  “real  world 
setting”. 
•  User consultation 
In the D121 response documentation the applicant has submitted results from user testing of the PIL. 
The test was performed in English by Unicus Regulatory Services.  2 test rounds with 10 persons in 
each  round  were  performed.  No  revisions  of  the  PIL  were  made  between  the  test  rounds.  The 
conclusions of the test report are clear and concise. The methodology follows the readability guideline 
and the results fulfil the success criteria (In round 2, only 8 of 10 could find the information regarding 
question 7 but when combining both rounds the criteria are fulfilled). 
The applicant adequately commented on certain aspects of the test as discussed in the day 180 List of 
Outstanding Issues. An additional review was performed in order to discuss the changes made in the 
PIL  during  the  procedure,  concluding  that  further  readability  testing  of  the  PIL  was  not  necessary. 
This conclusion was endorsed by the CHMP. In conclusion, the user testing of the PIL is judged as 
acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
Latixa (750 mg bid and 1000 mg bid) increased exercise duration by about 24 s and delayed the onset 
of angina pectoris by about 20 s in patients pre-treated with other anti-anginal agents (pivotal study 
CVT 3033). The design of the study was considered suboptimal regarding the base-line treatment and 
therefore  the  Applicant  performed  a  post  hoc  subgroup  analysis  in  a  group  of  patients  labelled 
“maximally  dosed”.  The  results  in  this  group  were  similar  to  the  results  in  the  whole  patient 
52/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population, therefore it is concluded that modest beneficial effects of ranolazine can be expected also 
in maximally dosed patients. Although there was no difference between the two groups in the primary 
efficacy  endpoint,  exercise  duration, there  was  an improvement  in  two  secondary  endpoints  (angina 
attacks and nitrogen consumption) with the 1000 mg dose compared to the 750 mg dose. Latixa also 
had  an  effect  (study  CVT  3037)  when  added  to  patients  treated  with  10  mg  of  amlodipine  with 
remaining  symptoms,  irrespective  of  treatment  with  long  acting  nitroglycerin  or  not,  resulting  in  a 
mean  reduction  of  angina  attacks  (reduction  by  less  than  one  attack  per  week)  and  nitroglycerin 
consumption.  In  patients  with  acute  coronary  syndrome,  Latixa  failed  to  show  any  differences  to 
placebo in  the  primary  efficacy  variable  (CV death, MI  and  recurrent ischemia)  (Study  CVT  3036). 
There was a modest significant difference in one secondary end point (mainly worsening angina/need 
for additional antianginal therapy). Overall, the effects on exercise duration are modest, and there is 
also a modest effect on other signs and symptoms of myocardial ischemia. However, Latixa represents 
a novel pharmacological principle and the studies inidicated that Latixa could be of value in certain 
patients, especially those who are intolerant to conventional treatment or those who continue to have 
symptoms despite maximal doses of the usual anti-anginal drugs. 
Risks 
The  most  commonly  reported  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  were  dizziness,  nausea,  and  angina 
pectoris.  However,  not  only  do  the  side  effects  increase  in  number  and  proportion  with  higher 
concentration, but their severity is also increasing. In a tolerability study (CVT 3111), the following 
AEs were observed at the highest target concentrations: blurred vision, diplopia, vasovagal syncope, 
somnolence, and lethargy. Furthermore the QTc interval increases by a mean of 2.4 msec with every 
1,000  ng/ml  increase  in  plasma  concentration.  However,  in  a  large  study  in  patients  with  acute 
coronary  syndrome  (CVT  3036),  there  was  no  increase  in  the  occurrence  of  severe  ventricular 
arrhythmias in the ranolazine group compared to placebo-treated patients. Thus, at targeted therapeutic 
concentrations of ranolazine, the AEs were relatively benign and the frequency of SAEs was low, but 
this  changes  with  higher  plasma  levels,  with  intolerable  adverse  events  at  exposure  only  2-3  folds 
higher than the mean exposure at 1000 mg bid.  
Ranolazine  has  a  complex  pharmacokinetic  profile  with  several  sub-groups  at  risk  for  increased 
exposure;  CYP3A4  inhibitors,  P-gp  inhibitors,  CYP2D6  inhibitors,  patient  with  CYP2D6  poor 
metaboliser  status  (PM),  patients  with  renal  impairment  or  hepatic  impairment.  Exposure  is  also 
higher in patients in the lower weight range and in the elderly. Larger increase in exposure could be 
expected in patients with several risk factors for increased exposure. 
Thus in summary the safety aspects of ranolzine are dominated by a high PK variability, large 
interaction potential, narrow therapeutic margins regarding tolerability and severe ADRs and a 
potential for QTc prolongation. These points add up to a drug with a narrow therapeutic window.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Postive findings with Latixa were: 
(cid:131)  A  relatively  modest  but  clinically  relevant  effect  demonstrated  in  a  broad  group  of  patients 
with stable angina pectoris 
(cid:131)  Lack of negative haemodynamic effects 
On the side of risks there was mainly a high risk for adverse events due to: 
a)   Narrow therapeutic margin 
b)   Fragile population with co-morbidities and treatment with multiple drugs 
c)   Complex pharmacokinetic profile with high risk for increased exposure due to drug-
drug or drug-disease interactions 
The concern of the CHMP was addressed during the procedure by changes of the proposed usage of 
Latixa  with  a  lower  dose  range  and  contraindications  and  precautions,  and  with  additional  risk 
minimisation activities. The benefit/risk balance for Latixa is thus considered positive. 
53/54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. The following additional risk minimisation 
activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.3.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Latixa as add-on therapy for the symptomatic treatment of 
patients  with  stable  angina  pectoris  who  are  inadequately  controlled  or  intolerant  to  first-line 
antianginal therapies (such as beta-blockers and/or calcium antagonists) was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
54/54 
 
 
 
 
 
