Summary of risk management plan for Ranivisio 
(ranibizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ranivisio. The RMP details important risks of 
Ranivisio, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Ranivisio's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ranivisio's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ranivisio should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ranivisio should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ranivisio's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ranivisio is indicated in adults for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular 
degeneration (nAMD), visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV), visual impairment 
due to diabetic macular oedema (DME), visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal 
vein occlusion ([RVO]; branch RVO or central RVO), and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). It 
contains ranibizumab as the active substance and it is given by intravitreal injection. It must be 
administered by a qualified ophthalmologist experienced in intravitreal injections. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ranivisio’s benefits can be found in Ranivisio’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ranivisio. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Ranivisio, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Ranivisio's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Ranivisio, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures 
mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Ranivisio is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ranivisio are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ranivisio. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of 
the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
lntraocular inflammation 
Infectious endophthalmitis 
• 
• 
•  Retinal detachment and retinal tear 
• 
lntraocular pressure increase 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk Infectious endophthalmitis 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Infectious endophthalmitis can possibly lead to a loss of vision and 
to the medicine 
sometimes even to the loss of the eye itself. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Ranibizumab is contraindicated in patients with active or suspected 
ocular or periocular infections or in patients with active severe 
intraocular inflammation. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 6.6. SmPC section 6.6 where 
advice is given on how to administer an IVT injection and 
information for physicians and patients on how to manage this 
event 
PL Sections 2, 3, 4 
Pack size: one single-use vial. 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: Educational plan for adult 
patients (for indications of nAMD, CNV, DME, RVO and PDR)  
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk Intraocular inflammation 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Intraocular inflammation can possibly lead to a loss of vision and 
to the medicine 
sometimes even to the loss of the eye itself. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Proper aseptic injection techniques must always be used when 
administering ranibizumab and injection must not be given to 
patients with active severe intraocular inflammation. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation: 
SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4 
PL Sections 2, 4 
Pack size limited to one single-use vial. 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional routine risk minimisation measures: Educational plan for 
adult patients (for indications of nAMD, CNV, DME, RVO and PDR) 
Important identified risk Retinal detachment and retinal tear 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Retinal detachment leads to visual distortion, and untreated retinal 
to the medicine 
detachment leads to retinal cell death and loss of vision. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The following conditions might increase the risk for retinal 
detachment: previous retinal detachment or retinal tear, eye 
tumours, inflammation in the choroid or the retina, eye injury, or 
severe high blood pressure. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation: 
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8 
PL Sections 2, 4 
Pack size limited to one single-use vial. 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional routine risk minimisation measures: Educational plan for 
adult patients (for indications of nAMD, CNV, DME, RVO and PDR) 
Important identified risk Intraocular pressure increase 
Evidence for linking the risk 
The injection of a volume of 50 μL of ranibizumab may lead to an 
to the medicine 
increase in IOP. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pre-existing high IOP is a risk factor. Ranibizumab should not be 
administered in the event of an IOP of ≥30 mmHg. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation: 
 
 
 
 
 
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8, 4.9 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring IOP and the 
perfusion of the optic nerve head. 
PL Section 2, 4 
Pack size limited to one single-use vial. 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: Educational plan for adult 
patients (for indications of nAMD, CNV, DME, RVO and PDR) 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ranivisio. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ranivisio. 
 
 
