EMA/629273/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005019 
Ranivisio (ranibizumab) 
An overview of Ranivisio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ranivisio and what is it used for? 
Ranivisio is a medicine used to treat adults  with certain sight problems caused by damage to the retina 
(the light-sensing  layer at the back of the eye), and more specifically its central region, known as the 
macula. The macula provides the vision needed to see detail for everyday tasks such as driving, 
reading and recognising faces. Ranivisio is used to treat: 
• 
‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The wet form of AMD is caused by choroidal 
neovascularisation (abnormal growth of blood vessels beneath the  retina, which  may leak fluid  and 
blood and cause swelling); 
•  macular oedema (swelling of the macula) caused by diabetes or by occlusion (blockage) of the 
veins behind the  retina; 
• 
• 
proliferative diabetic retinopathy (growth of abnormal tiny blood vessels in the eye, associated with 
diabetes); 
other sight problems associated with choroidal neovascularisation. 
Ranivisio is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that  Ranivisio is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the  ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Ranivisio is Lucentis.  For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Ranivisio contains the active substance ranibizumab. 
How is Ranivisio used? 
Ranivisio is a solution for injection of 0.5 mg into the vitreous humour, the jelly-like fluid in the  eye. It 
can only be obtained with  a prescription and must be given by a qualified eye doctor who is 
experienced in giving injections into  the eye. 
Treatment is started with one injection every month, with  regular checks of the patient’s vision and 
examination of the back of the  eye, until maximum vision is achieved and/or there are no signs of 
disease activity. The interval between two  injections of Ranivisio into  the same eye must  be at least 
four weeks. Treatment with Ranivisio should be stopped if the patient  is not benefitting  from it. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Ranivisio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ranivisio work? 
The active substance in Ranivisio, ranibizumab, is a small piece of a monoclonal antibody. A 
monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that  has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific 
target (called an antigen)  that is found in  certain cells in the body.  
Ranibizumab has been designed to attach  to and block a substance called vascular endothelial growth 
factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a protein that makes blood vessels grow and leak fluid  and blood, 
damaging the macula. By blocking VEGF-A, ranibizumab reduces the growth of the blood vessels and 
controls the leakage and swelling. 
What benefits of Ranivisio have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Ranivisio with  Lucentis have shown that  the active substance in Ranivisio 
is highly similar to that in  Lucentis in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have 
also shown  that giving Ranivisio produces similar levels of the active substance in the  body to giving 
Lucentis. 
In addition, a study involving 477 patients with  age-related macular degeneration found that Ranivisio 
produced comparable improvements in the condition  to those seen with  Lucentis. In this  study, the 
average number of letters patients could recognise on a standard eye test  improved by 5 in patients 
treated with  Ranivisio and by 6 in  patients given Lucentis  after 8  weeks of treatment. 
Because Ranivisio is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of ranibizumab 
carried out with  Lucentis  do not  all need to be repeated for Ranivisio. 
What are the risks associated with Ranivisio? 
The safety of Ranivisio has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the  reference medicine Lucentis. 
The most common side effects with  ranibizumab (which may affect more than  1 in 10 people) are 
increased intraocular pressure (pressure within  the eye), headache, vitritis (inflammation in the  eye), 
vitreous detachment (separation of the vitreous from the back of the eye), retinal haemorrhage 
(bleeding at the back of the eye), visual disturbance, eye pain, vitreous floaters (spots in the vision), 
conjunctival haemorrhage (bleeding at the front of the eye), eye irritation, sensation of a foreign body 
in the eye, increased lacrimation (watery eyes), blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelids), dry eye, 
ocular hyperaemia (increased blood supply to the  eye, leading to redness of the  eye), eye pruritis 
(itching),  arthralgia (joint pain) and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). Rarely, 
endophthalmitis  (an infection  inside the  eye), blindness, serious damage to the  retina and cataract 
(clouding of the lens) can occur.  
Ranivisio must  not be used in patients  who may have an infection of the eye or of the area around the 
eye, or who have severe inflammation within  the  eye. For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of 
Ranivisio, see the package leaflet. 
Ranivisio (ranibizumab)  
EMA/629273/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Ranivisio authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that,  in accordance with  EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Ranivisio has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Lucentis and is 
distributed  in the body in the  same way. In addition,  studies in patients with  age-related macular 
degeneration have shown  that the safety and effectiveness of Ranivisio is equivalent to that  of Lucentis 
in this  indication. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Ranivisio will behave in the same way as 
Lucentis in  terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that,  as for Lucentis, the  benefits of Ranivisio outweigh  the identified risks and it  can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ranivisio? 
The company that  markets Ranivisio will provide information packs to  patients to help them prepare 
for treatment, recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent attention  from their 
doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Ranivisio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ranivisio are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Ranivisio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ranivisio 
Ranivisio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on 25 August 2022. 
Further information on Ranivisio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ranivisio   
This overview was last updated in  08-2022. 
Ranivisio (ranibizumab)  
EMA/629273/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
