EMA/505828/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000273 
Rapamune (sirolimus) 
An overview of Rapamune and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Rapamune and what is it used for? 
Rapamune is a medicine used to prevent the body from rejecting a newly transplanted kidney. It is 
used in adults who are at a low to moderate risk of rejection. It is recommended that Rapamune is 
used with ciclosporin and corticosteroids (other medicines to prevent organ rejection) for two to three 
months. Rapamune can then be used for continuing treatment with corticosteroids, but only if 
ciclosporin treatment can be stopped. 
Rapamune is also used for treating patients with sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (S-LAM) with 
moderate lung disease or worsening lung function. S-LAM is a rare lung disease that causes worsening 
symptoms such as shortage of breath and occurs mainly in women who are at an age when they can 
have children. 
Rapamune contains the active substance sirolimus.  
How is Rapamune used? 
Rapamune treatment should be started by and remain under the guidance of a doctor who is a 
qualified specialist in transplantation. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Rapamune is available as an oral solution (1 mg/ml) and tablets (0.5, 1 and 2 mg).  
To prevent organ rejection, the first dose is usually 6 mg given soon after the transplantation followed 
by 2 mg once a day. The doctor will adjust the dose to achieve appropriate levels of sirolimus in the 
patient’s blood.  
To treat patients with S-LAM, the dose of Rapamune is 2 mg daily and after 10 to 20 days the doctor 
will adjust the dose to achieve appropriate levels of sirolimus in the patient’s blood. 
For more information about using Rapamune, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Rapamune work? 
The active substance in Rapamune, sirolimus, is an immunosuppressant (a medicine that reduces the 
activity of the immune system). In the body, sirolimus attaches to a protein inside cells to make a 
‘complex’. This complex then blocks another protein called ‘mammalian target of rapamycin’ (mTOR). 
Since mTOR is involved in the multiplication of activated T-lymphocytes (white blood cells that are 
responsible for attacking the transplanted organ), Rapamune reduces the number of these cells, 
reducing the risk of organ rejection. 
In S-LAM, mTOR is overactive, causing excessive multiplication of cells that cause the disease. By 
blocking mTOR, Rapamune reduces the multiplication of these cells. 
What benefits of Rapamune have been shown in studies? 
Prevention of rejection 
Rapamune was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) or azathioprine (another 
immunosuppressive medicine) in two main studies involving a total of 1,295 patients who were having 
a kidney transplant. All patients were also treated with ciclosporin and corticosteroids and were at low 
to moderate risk of rejection. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of treatment failures 
(rejection or loss of the new kidney, or death) after 6 months. In the first study, treatment failed in 
19% (53 out of 284) of the patients adding Rapamune after 6 months, compared with 32% (52 out of 
161) of those adding azathioprine. In the second study, treatment failed in 30% (68 out of 277) of the 
patients adding Rapamune, compared with 48% (62 out of 130) of those adding placebo. 
Two additional studies looked at Rapamune as continuing treatment for up to 5 years in 765 patients 
who were able to stop ciclosporin after 2 to 3 months. Rapamune was effective in helping the new 
kidney to survive, with an improvement in how well it worked and an improvement in blood pressure 
when ciclosporin treatment was stopped. 
Treatment of S-LAM 
Rapamune was more effective than placebo in improving lung function in a study involving 81 patients 
with S-LAM. The main measure of effectiveness was a change of FEV1 (the maximum volume of air a 
person can breathe out in 1 second). FEV1 improved by an average of 1 ml per month in patients 
treated with Rapamune compared with a worsening by 12 ml per month in patients receiving placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Rapamune? 
The most common side effects with Rapamune (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
infections, fever, slow wound healing, low counts of various blood cells, blood tests showing  altered 
levels of various substances (including low potassium and phosphate; raised fats, cholesterol, glucose 
and markers for tissue breakdown and for liver and kidney function), diabetes, lymphocele (collection 
of lymph fluid usually in the lower belly), pain in various parts of the body, rapid heartbeat, raised 
blood pressure, problems affecting the gut, proteinuria (protein in the urine), menstrual disorders, 
oedema (swelling because of fluid build-up), rash and acne. 
Patients allergic to peanut or soya must not take Rapamune oral solution because the solution contains 
soya oil. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Rapamune, see the package leaflet. 
Rapamune Rapamune (sirolimus)  
EMA/505828/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Rapamune authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Rapamune is effective for the prevention of rejection 
of a transplanted kidney in patients at low to moderate risk of rejection. The Agency noted that no 
medicinal product has been approved for the treatment of S-LAM and Rapamune’s effect on lung 
function is considered important. The Agency decided that Rapamune’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rapamune? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Rapamune have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Rapamune are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Rapamune are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Rapamune 
Rapamune received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 March 2001. 
Further information on Rapamune can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018. 
Rapamune Rapamune (sirolimus)  
EMA/505828/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
