Summary of risk management plan for SRL 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Rapamune.  The RMP details the 
important identified risk of Rapamune, how this risk can be minimised and how more 
information will be obtained about Rapamune uncertainties (missing information). 
The Rapamune summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its patient information leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Rapamune should 
be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Rapamune should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
RMP for Rapamune. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Rapamune is currently authorised for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients at 
low to moderate immunological risk receiving a renal transplant and the treatment of patients 
with sporadic LAM with moderate lung disease or declining lung function. The medicine 
contains sirolimus as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of sirolimus can be found in the 
EPAR for sirolimus, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/000273/WC500046438.pdf 
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
The important risk of Rapamune together with measures to minimise this risk and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Rapamune's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of sirolimus is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Rapamune are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Rapamune. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long term use of the medicine); 
Table 1.  List of Important risks and missing information  
Important identified risk 
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
Malignancy 
None 
None 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2. 
Important identified risk: Malignancy 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Malignancy has been reported with the use of immunosuppressant medications 
such as sirolimus. 
All patients on immunosuppressant agents may be at an increased risk of 
malignancy.  The risk of malignancy also depends on the immunosuppressant 
used.  Patients on CNIs may have an increased incidence of malignancy 
compared to those on sirolimus.  
Unintended transmission of malignant cells from a donor, although rare, may 
also result in cancer in the immunosuppressed transplant recipient. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
•  Category 1 (imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are 
conditions of the marketing authorisation): None 
•  Category 2 (imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are 
Specific Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances): None 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
•  Category 3 (required additional pharmacovigilance activities): None 
