ANNEX 1 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rapiscan 400 microgram solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 400 micrograms regadenoson in 5ml solution (80 micrograms/ml).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection  
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
4.1 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
Therapeutic indications 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Rapiscan is a selective coronary vasodilator for use in adults as a pharmacological stress agent for: 
•  myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. 
•  the measurement of fractional flow reserve (FFR) of a single coronary artery stenosis during 
invasive coronary angiography, when repeated FFR measurements are not anticipated (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Rapiscan is restricted to use in a medical facility where cardiac monitoring and 
resuscitation equipment are available. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is a single injection of 400 micrograms regadenoson (5 ml) into a peripheral 
vein, with no dose adjustment necessary for body weight. 
Patients should avoid consumption of any products containing methylxanthines (e.g. caffeine) as well 
as any medicinal products containing theophylline for at least 12 hours before Rapiscan administration 
(see section 4.5). 
When possible, dipyridamole should be withheld for at least two days prior to Rapiscan administration 
(see section 4.5). 
Aminophylline may be used to attenuate severe and/or persistent adverse reactions to regadenoson but 
should not be used solely for the purpose of terminating a seizure induced by Rapiscan (see section 
4.4). 
Regadenoson causes a rapid increase in heart rate (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). Patients should remain 
sitting or lying down and be monitored at frequent intervals after the injection until the ECG 
parameters, heart rate and blood pressure have returned to pre-dose levels. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeated use 
For use in MPI: This product is to be administered only once within a 24 hour period. Safety and 
tolerability of repeated use of this product within 24 hours has not been characterised. 
For use in FFR: This product is to be administered no more than twice, no less than10 minutes apart, 
during any 24-hour period. When administered twice 10 minutes apart in a 24-hour period, full safety 
data for the second injection of Rapiscan are not available. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of regadenoson in children below the age of 18 years have not yet been 
established. 
No data are available. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary (see section 5.2). 
Method of administration  
For intravenous use. 
Myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI):  
•  Rapiscan should be administered as a rapid, 10-second injection into a peripheral vein using a 
22-gauge or larger catheter or needle. 
•  5 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection should be administered 
immediately after the injection of Rapiscan. 
• 
   The MPI acquisition protocol should be in line with clinical practice guidelines. 
Fractional flow reserve (FFR): 
•  Rapiscan should be administered as a rapid 10-second injection into a peripheral vein, using a 
22-gauge or larger catheter or needle 
•  10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection should be administered 
immediately after the injection of Rapiscan.  
•  FFR should be measured as the lowest value of Pd/Pa achieved during steady state hyperemia. 
4.3 
Contraindications 
•  Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
•  Second or third degree atrioventricular (AV) block or sinus node dysfunction, unless these patients 
have a functioning artificial pacemaker. 
•  Unstable angina that has not been stabilised with medical therapy. 
•  Severe hypotension. 
•  Decompensated states of heart failure. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Regadenoson has the potential to cause serious and life-threatening reactions, including those listed 
below (see also section 4.8). Continuous ECG monitoring should be performed and vital signs should 
be monitored at frequent intervals until the ECG parameters, heart rate and blood pressure have 
returned to pre-dose levels. Regadenoson should be used with caution and should only be administered 
in a medical facility with cardiac monitoring and resuscitation equipment. Aminophylline may be 
administered in doses ranging from 50 mg to 250 mg by slow intravenous injection (50 mg to 100 mg 
over 30-60 seconds) to attenuate severe and/or persistent adverse reactions to regadenoson but should 
not be used solely for the purpose of terminating a seizure induced by regadenoson. 
Myocardial ischaemia 
Fatal cardiac arrest, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction may result 
from the ischaemia induced by pharmacologic stress agents like regadenoson. 
Regadenoson should be used with  caution in patients with recent myocardial infarction.  
Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) MPI clinical trials conducted with 
regadenoson excluded patients with recent (within 3 months) myocardial infarction.  
Clinical trials for the measurement of FFR excluded patients with an acute myocardial infarction, or 
within 5 days of an acute myocardial infarction. 
Sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodal block 
Adenosine receptor agonists including regadenoson can depress the sinoatrial (SA) and AV nodes and 
may cause first, second or third degree AV block, or sinus bradycardia. 
Hypotension 
Adenosine receptor agonists including regadenoson induce arterial vasodilation and hypotension. The 
risk of serious hypotension may be higher in patients with autonomic dysfunction, hypovolemia, left 
main coronary artery stenosis, stenotic valvular heart disease, pericarditis or pericardial effusions, or 
stenotic carotid artery disease with cerebrovascular insufficiency. 
Elevated blood pressure 
Regadenoson may cause clinically significant increases in blood pressure, which in some patients can 
lead to hypertensive crisis (see section 4.8). The risk of significant increases in blood pressure may be 
higher in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Consideration should be given to delaying 
regadenoson administration until blood pressure is well controlled 
Combination with exercise 
Use of regadenoson involving exercise has been associated with serious adverse reactions including 
hypotension, hypertension, syncope and cardiac arrest. Patients who have had any symptoms or signs 
suggestive of acute myocardial ischaemia during exercise or recovery are likely to be at especially 
high risk of serious adverse reactions. 
Transient ischaemic attacks and cerebrovascular accident 
Regadenoson can cause transient ischaemic attack (see section 4.8). In post-marketing experience 
there have also been reports of cerebrovascular accident (CVA).  
Risk of seizure  
Caution should be used when administering regadenoson to patients with a history of seizures or other 
risk factors for seizures, including the concomitant administration of medicinal products that lower 
seizure threshold (e.g. antipsychotics, antidepressants, theophyllines, tramadol, systemic steroids and 
quinolones). 
Aminophylline should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures or who have other 
risk factors for seizures as it may prolong a seizure or cause multiple seizures because of its 
proconvulsant effect. Therefore administration of aminophylline solely for the purpose of terminating 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a seizure induced by regadenoson is not recommended. 
Atrial fibrillation or flutter 
Regadenoson should be used with caution in patients with a history of atrial fibrillation or flutter. In 
post- marketing experience there have been cases of worsening or recurrence of atrial fibrillation after 
administration of regadenoson. 
Bronchoconstriction 
Regadenoson may cause bronchoconstriction and respiratory arrest (see section 4.8) , especially in 
patients with known or suspected bronchoconstrictive disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) or asthma. Appropriate bronchodilator therapy and resuscitative measures should be available 
prior to regadenoson administration. 
Long QT syndrome 
Regadenoson stimulates sympathetic output and may increase the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias 
in patients with a long QT syndrome. 
Warnings related to excipients 
This medicinal product contains less than1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose. However, the injection of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution given after regadenoson contains 45 mg of sodium. To be 
taken into consideration by patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Methylxanthines 
Methylxanthines (e.g., caffeine and theophylline) are non-specific adenosine receptor antagonists and 
may interfere with the vasodilation activity of regadenoson (see section 5.1). Patients should avoid 
consumption of any medicinal products containing methylxanthines as well as any medicinal products 
containing theophylline for at least 12 hours before regadenoson administration (see section 4.2). 
Dipyridamole 
Dipyridamole increases blood adenosine levels and the response to regadenoson may be altered when 
blood adenosine levels are increased. When possible, dipyridamole should be withheld for at least two 
days prior to regadenoson administration (see section 4.2). 
Cardioactive medicinal products 
In clinical studies, regadenoson was administered to patients taking other cardioactive medicinal 
products (i.e., β-blockers, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, nitrates, cardiac glycosides, and 
angiotensin receptor blockers) without apparent effects on the safety or efficacy profile of 
regadenoson. 
Other interactions 
Regadenoson does not inhibit the metabolism of substrates for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 in human liver microsomes, indicating that it is unlikely to alter the 
pharmacokinetics of medicinal products metabolised by these cytochrome P450 enzymes. 
Regadenoson does not significantly inhibit the transporters OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, MATE1, MATE2-K, BCRP, P-gp, BSEP, ENT 1 or ENT2 at 1 µM. The data are 
insufficient to conclude about the risk of interactions at the level of these transporters given that a 
single concentration was evaluated in most instances.  
Regadenoson may have a modest inhibitory effect on the active renal transporter, OCT2, and has been 
found to be likely substrate for BCRP, ENT1 or ENT2 mediated transport. However, given the 
proposed duration of use, the effects of the drug transporters are unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no adequate data from the use of regadenoson in pregnant women. Animal studies on pre- 
and post-natal development have not been conducted. Fetotoxicity, but not teratogenicity, was noted in 
embryo-fetal development studies (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Regadenoson should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether regadenoson is excreted in human breast milk. The excretion of regadenoson in 
milk has not been studied in animals. A decision should be made whether to discontinue breast- 
feeding or to abstain from regadenoson administration taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding 
for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. If regadenoson is administered, the woman 
should not breast-feed for at least 10 hours (that is, at least 5 times the plasma elimination half-life) 
following regadenoson administration. 
Fertility 
Fertility studies with regadenoson have not been performed (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Regadenoson administration may result in adverse reactions such as dizziness, headache, and 
dyspnoea (see section 4.8) soon after administration. However, most adverse reactions are mild and 
transient, resolving within 30 minutes after receiving regadenoson. Therefore, regadenoson would be 
expected to have no or negligible influence on the ability to drive or use machines once treatment has 
been completed and these reactions have resolved. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adverse reactions in most patients receiving regadenoson in clinical trials were mild, transient (usually 
resolving within 30 minutes after receiving regadenoson) and required no medical intervention. 
Adverse reactions occurred in approximately 80% of patients. The most common adverse reactions 
reported during clinical development in a total of 1,651 patients/subjects were: dyspnoea (29%), 
headache (27%), flushing (23%), chest pain (19%), electrocardiogram ST segment changes (18%), 
gastrointestinal discomfort (15%) and dizziness (11%). 
Regadenoson may cause myocardial ischaemia (potentially associated with fatal cardiac arrest, life- 
threatening ventricular arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction), hypotension leading to syncope and 
transient ischaemic attacks, elevated blood pressure leading to hypertension and hypertensive crises, 
and SA/AV node block leading to first, second or third degree AV block, or sinus bradycardia 
requiring intervention (see section 4.4). Signs of hypersensitivity (rash, urticaria, angioedema, 
anaphylaxis and/or throat tightness) may be immediate or delayed onset. Aminophylline may be used 
to attenuate severe or persistent adverse reactions to regadenoson but should not be used solely for the 
purpose of terminating a seizure induced by regadenoson (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Assessment of adverse reactions for regadenoson is based on safety data from clinical studies and 
post-marketing experience. All adverse reactions are presented in the table below and are listed by 
system organ class and frequency. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) and rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000). Within each 
frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Immune system disorders: 
Uncommon 
Hypersensitivity reactions including: Rash, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylaxis 
and/or throat tightness. 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Uncommon 
Anxiety, insomnia 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headache, dizziness 
Paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia 
Convulsions, syncope, transient ischaemic attack, unresponsiveness to stimuli, 
depressed level of consciousness, tremor, somnolence 
Cerebrovascular accident 
Vision blurred, eye pain 
Nervous system disorders: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Eye disorders: 
Uncommon 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Tinnitus 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Electrocardiogram ST segment changes 
Angina pectoris, atrioventricular block, tachycardia, palpitations, other 
ECG abnormalities including electrocardiogram QT corrected interval prolonged 
Cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, complete AV block, bradycardia, atrial flutter, 
new-onset, worsening or recurrence of atrial fibrillation 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Hypertension, pallor, peripheral coldness 
Vascular disorders: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: 
Dyspnoea 
Very common 
Throat tightness, throat irritation, cough 
Common 
Tachypnoea, wheezing 
Uncommon 
Bronchospasm, Respiratory arrest 
Not known 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: 
Hyperhidrosis 
Common 
Uncommon 
Erythema 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 
Common 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions: 
Chest pain 
Very common 
Malaise, asthenia 
Common 
Pain at injection site, general body pain 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal discomfort 
Vomiting, nausea, oral discomfort 
Abdominal distension, diarrhoea, faecal incontinence 
Back, neck or jaw pain, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal discomfort 
Arthralgia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Fatal cardiac arrest, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarction may result from 
the ischaemia induced by pharmacologic stress agents. Cardiac resuscitation equipment and trained 
staff should be available before administering regadenoson (see section 4.4). 
Sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodal block 
Regadenoson, can depress the SA and AV nodes and may cause first, second or third degree AV 
block, or sinus bradycardia requiring intervention. In clinical trials first degree AV block (PR 
prolongation > 220 msec) developed in 3% of patients within 2 hours of regadenoson administration; 
transient second degree AV block with one dropped beat was observed in one patient receiving 
regadenoson. In postmarketing experience, third degree heart block and asystole have been reported 
within minutes of regadenoson administration. 
Hypotension 
Adenosine receptor agonists, including regadenoson induce arterial vasodilation and hypotension. In 
clinical trials, decreased systolic blood pressure (> 35 mm Hg) was observed in 7% of patients and 
7 
 
 
 
 
decreased diastolic blood pressure (> 25 mm Hg) was observed in 4% of patients within 45 minutes of 
regadenoson administration. The risk of serious hypotension may be higher in patients with autonomic 
dysfunction, hypovolemia, left main coronary artery stenosis, stenotic valvular heart disease, 
pericarditis or pericardial effusions, or stenotic carotid artery disease with cerebrovascular 
insufficiency. In postmarketing experience, syncope and transient ischaemic attacks have been 
reported. 
Elevated blood pressure 
In clinical trials, increased systolic blood pressure (≥ 50 mm Hg) was observed in 0.7% of patients and 
increased diastolic blood pressure (≥ 30 mm Hg) in 0.5% of patients. Most increases resolved within 
10 to 15 minutes, but in some cases, increases were observed at 45 minutes following administration. 
Long QT syndrome 
Regadenoson increases sympathetic tone, which causes an increase in heart rate and a shortening of 
the QT interval. In a patient with a long QT syndrome, sympathetic stimulation can result in less 
shortening of the QT interval than is normal and may even cause a paradoxical increase in the QT 
interval. In these patients, the phenomenon of R-on-T syndrome can occur, wherein an extra beat 
interrupts the T wave of the previous beat, and this increases the risk of a ventricular tachyarrhythmia. 
Headache 
Headache was reported by 27% of subjects who received regadenoson in clinical trials. The headache 
was considered severe in 3% of subjects. 
Elderly population 
Older patients (≥ 75 years of age; n = 321) had a similar adverse reaction profile compared to younger 
patients (< 65 years of age; n = 1,016), but had a higher incidence of hypotension (2% versus < 1%). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In a study of healthy volunteers, symptoms of flushing, dizziness and increased heart rate were 
assessed as intolerable at regadenoson doses greater than 0.02 mg/kg. 
Treatment 
Aminophylline may be used to attenuate severe or persistent adverse reactions to regadenoson. 
Administration of aminophylline, solely for the purpose of terminating a regadenoson-induced seizure 
is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
5. 
5.1 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cardiac therapy, other cardiac preparations, ATC code: C01EB21 
Mechanism of action 
Regadenoson is a low affinity agonist (Ki ≈ 1.3 µM) for the A2A adenosine receptor, with at least 10-
fold lower affinity for the A1 adenosine receptor (Ki > 16.5 µM), and very low, if any, affinity for the 
A2B and A3 adenosine receptors. Activation of the A2A adenosine receptor produces coronary 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vasodilation and increases coronary blood flow (CBF). Despite low affinity for the A2A adenosine 
receptor, regadenoson has high potency for increasing coronary conductance in rat and guinea pig 
isolated hearts, with EC50 values of 6.4 nM and 6.7-18.6 nM, respectively. Regadenoson shows 
selectivity (≥ 215-fold) for increasing coronary conductance (A2A-mediated response) relative to 
slowing of cardiac AV nodal conduction (A1-mediated response) as measured by AV conduction time 
(rat heart) or the S-H interval (guinea pig heart). Regadenoson preferentially increases blood flow in 
coronary relative to peripheral (forelimb, brain, pulmonary) arterial vascular beds in the anaesthetised 
dog. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Coronary blood flow 
Regadenoson causes a rapid increase in CBF which is sustained for a short duration. In patients 
undergoing coronary catheterisation, pulsed-wave Doppler ultrasonography was used to measure the 
average peak velocity (APV) of CBF before and up to 30 minutes after administration of regadenoson  
(400 micrograms, intravenously). Mean APV increased to greater than twice baseline by 30 seconds 
and decreased to less than half of the maximal effect within 10 minutes (see section 5.2). 
Myocardial uptake of the radiopharmaceutical is proportional to CBF. Because regadenoson increases 
blood flow in normal coronary arteries with little or no increase in stenotic arteries, regadenoson 
causes relatively less uptake of the radiopharmaceutical in vascular territories supplied by stenotic 
arteries. Myocardial radiopharmaceutical uptake after regadenoson  administration is therefore greater 
in areas perfused by normal relative to stenosed arteries. The same applies to the FFR measurement 
where the maximal myocardial blood flow is decreased in presence of severe coronary artery stenosis.  
Myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) 
Haemodynamic effects 
The majority of patients experience a rapid increase in heart rate. The greatest mean change from 
baseline (21 bpm) occurs approximately 1 minute after administration of regadenoson. However, heart 
rate increases of up to 42 bpm are reported in the literature (discussed below in the CMR MPI 
section). Heart rate returns to baseline within 10 minutes. Systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood 
pressure changes were variable, with the greatest mean change in systolic pressure of −3 mm Hg and 
in diastolic pressure of −4 mm Hg approximately 1 minute after regadenoson  administration. An 
increase in blood pressure has been observed in some patients (maximum systolic blood pressure of 
240 mm Hg and maximum diastolic blood pressure of 138 mm Hg). 
Respiratory effects 
The A2B and A3 adenosine receptors have been implicated in the pathophysiology of 
bronchoconstriction in susceptible individuals (i.e., asthmatics). In in vitro studies, regadenoson has 
been shown to have little binding affinity for the A2B and A3 adenosine receptors. The incidence of a 
FEV1 reduction > 15% from baseline after regadenoson  administration was assessed in three 
randomised, controlled clinical studies. In the first study in 49 patients with moderate to severe COPD, 
the rate of FEV1 reduction > 15% from baseline was 12% and 6% following regadenoson  and 
placebo dosing, respectively (p=0.31). In the second study in 48 patients with mild to moderate asthma 
who had previously been shown to have bronchoconstrictive reactions to adenosine monophosphate, 
the rate of FEV1 reduction > 15% from baseline was the same (4%) following both regadenoson  and 
placebo dosing. In the third study in 1009 patients with mild or moderate asthma (n=537) and 
moderate or severe COPD (n=472) the incidence of FEV1 reduction >15% from baseline was 1.1% 
and 2.9% in patients with asthma (p=0.15) and 4.2% and 5.4% in patients with COPD (p=0.58) 
following regadenoson  and placebo dosing, respectively. In the first and second studies, dyspnoea 
was reported as an adverse reaction following regadenoson  dosing (61% for patients with COPD; 
34% for patients with asthma) while no subjects experienced dyspnoea following placebo dosing. In 
the third study dyspnoea was reported more frequently following regadenoson  (18% for patients with 
COPD; 11% for patients with asthma) than placebo, but at a lower rate than reported during clinical 
development (see Section 4.8). A relationship between increased severity of disease and the increased 
incidence of dyspnoea was apparent in patients with asthma, but not in patients with COPD. The use 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of bronchodilator therapy for symptoms was not different between regadenoson  and placebo. 
Dyspnoea did not correlate with a decrease in FEV1. 
Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) 
Haemodynamic Effects 
In the measurement of FFR, the time to peak maximum hyperaemia was 30±13 seconds. The mean 
duration of hyperaemic plateau was 163 (±169) seconds and maximum hyperaemia lasted at least 
19 seconds in 90% of patients, however, in the individual patient the duration of hyperaemia varied 
between 10 seconds to more than 10 minutes. Hyperaemia may fluctuate between sub-maximum and 
maximum until it slowly vanishes. The 10-second window of steady state hyperaemia can be too short 
for performing extensive pressure pullback recordings to assess complex or diffuse coronary artery 
disease. Repeat dosing within 10 minutes – except in patients where the duration of hyperaemia lasted 
for more than 10 minutes – caused a similar effect on peak and duration of maximum hyperaemia.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Clinical studies have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of regadenoson  in patients indicated for 
pharmacologic stress Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT), Positron Emission 
Tomography (PET), Cardiac Magnetic Resonance (CMR) and MultiDetector Computed Tomography 
(MDCT)  MPI and for the measurement of FFR. 
Regadenoson-stress SPECT MPI 
The efficacy and safety of regadenoson for regadenoson-stress SPECT MPI were determined relative 
to adenosine in two randomised, double-blind studies (ADVANCE MPI 1 and ADVANCE MPI 2) in 
2,015 patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease who were referred for a clinically-
indicated pharmacologic stress MPI. A total of 1,871 of these patients had images considered valid for 
the primary efficacy evaluation, including 1,294 (69%) men and 577 (31%) women with a median age 
of 66 years (range 26-93 years of age). Each patient received an initial stress scan using adenosine 
(6-minute infusion using a dose of 0.14 mg/kg/min, without exercise) with a gated SPECT (single 
photon emission computed tomography) imaging protocol. After the initial scan, patients were 
randomised to either regadenoson  or adenosine, and received a second stress scan with the same 
SPECT protocol as that used for the initial scan. The median time between scans was 7 days (range of 
1-104 days). 
The most common cardiovascular histories included hypertension (81%), coronary artery bypass graft 
(CABG), percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or stenting (51%), angina (63%), 
and history of myocardial infarction (41%) or arrhythmia (33%); other medical history included 
diabetes (32%) and COPD (5%). Patients with a recent history of serious uncontrolled ventricular 
arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina, a history of greater than first degree AV block, 
or with symptomatic bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, or a heart transplant were excluded. A number 
of patients took cardioactive medicinal products on the day of the scan, including β-blockers (18%), 
calcium channel blockers (9%), and nitrates (6%). 
Comparison of the images obtained with regadenoson  to those obtained with adenosine was 
performed as follows. Using the 17-segment model, the number of segments showing a reversible 
perfusion defect was calculated for the initial adenosine study and for the randomised study obtained 
using regadenoson  or adenosine. In the pooled study population, 68% of patients had 0-1 segments 
showing reversible defects on the initial scan, 24% had 2-4 segments, and 9% had ≥ 5 segments. The 
agreement rate for the image obtained with regadenoson  or adenosine relative to the initial adenosine 
image was calculated by determining how frequently the patients assigned to each initial adenosine 
category (0-1, 2-4, 5-17 reversible segments) were placed in the same category with the randomised 
scan. The agreement rates for regadenoson  and adenosine were calculated as the average of the 
agreement rates across the three categories determined by the initial scan. The ADVANCE MPI 1 and 
ADVANCE MPI 2 studies, individually and combined, demonstrated that regadenoson  is similar to 
adenosine in assessing the extent of reversible perfusion abnormalities: 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADVANCE 
MPI 1 
(n = 1,113) 
61 ± 3% 
372 
Adenosine – Adenosine Agreement Rate (± SE) 
Number of Patients (n) 
Adenosine – regadenoson  Agreement Rate (± SE)  62 ± 2% 
Number of Patients (n) 
Rate Difference (regadenoson  – Adenosine) (± SE)  1 ± 4% 
95% Confidence Interval 
741 
-7.5, 9.2% 
ADVANCE  Combined 
MPI 2 
(n = 758) 
64 ± 4% 
259 
63 ± 3% 
499 
-1 ± 5% 
-11.2, 8.7% 
Studies 
(n = 1,871) 
62 ± 3% 
631 
63 ± 2% 
1,240 
0 ± 3% 
-6.2, 6.8% 
In ADVANCE MPI 1 and ADVANCE MPI 2, the Cicchetti-Allison and Fleiss-Cohen weighted 
kappas of the median score of three blinded readers with respect to ischaemia size category (not 
counting segments with normal rest uptake and mild/equivocal reduction in stress uptake as 
ischaemic) for the combined studies of regadenoson with the adenosine scan were moderate, 0.53 and 
0.61, respectively; as were the weighted kappas of two consecutive adenosine scans, 0.50 and 0.55, 
respectively. 
Regadenoson-stress PET MPI 
Intraindividual comparison of regadenoson (0.4 mg/ 5 ml bolus) versus dipyridamole (0.57 mg/kg for 
4 minutes) was performed in a prospective study recruiting 32 subjects (23 males and 9 females, mean 
age of 62 ± 12.1).  From those,26 had a reversible perfusion defect already identified on a previous 
clinically indicated dipyridamole-stress PET study with 82RbCl and 6 subjects with <5% pre-test 
likelihood for CAD showed no defects on dipyridamole PET images.  The study included patients with 
a mild-moderate degree of ischemia with a small proportion of patients having moderate to severe 
ischemia, and they had normal or near-normal left ventricular function.   
In this study the 82RbCl infusion started promptly after regadenoson injection (that is, imaging started 
2 minutes following start of 82Rb infusion). Visual interpretation of PET images indicated no 
difference in the number of segments with reversible defects between regadenoson and dipyridamole 
for 30/32 image pairs. 
Results may not be generalizable to patients with slowed circulation times associated with left or right 
heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, or morbid obesity, who may have a delay in transit of the tracer 
arriving after the peak phase. 
Regadenoson-stress CMR MPI 
 Intraindividual  comparison  of  regadenoson-  versus  adenosine-stress  CMR  MPI  was  performed  in  a 
prospective study in relation to the caused coronary hyperemia across the range of body sizes seen in a 
clinical setting.  Twenty-eight subjects (12 female, 16 males) were imaged: 43% were obese and 25% 
had one or more known coronary risk factors.  MR imaging  with Gd-BOPTA was done first at rest, 
then during adenosine infusion (140 µg/ kg/min) and 30 min later with regadenoson (0.4 mg over 10 s/ 
5  ml  bolus).  The  study  showed  both  vasodilators  having  a  similar  efficacy  on  vasodilation  (good 
agreement between myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) measured with adenosine and regadenoson (y 
= 1.1x - 0.06, r = 0.7)). The studied population would likely not include the broad spectrum of  body 
sizes as might be seen in patients in daily CMR MPI. 
Intraindividual comparison of regadenoson versus adenosine was performed in a prospective study to 
evaluate the effects of vasodilators on CMR-derived ventricular volumes and function in 25 healthy 
subjects.  CMR was performed following adenosine (140 µg/kg/min IV for 6 min) and regadenoson 
(0.4 mg IV over 10 s) at baseline, immediately following administration, then at 5 min intervals up to 
15  min.  Peak  heart  rate  was  observed  early  following  administration  of  both  adenosine  and 
regadenoson.  The  increase  from  baseline  to  peak  heart  rate  immediately  following  vasodilator 
administration was 64 ± 8 to 96 ± 13 bpm for adenosine vs 65 ± 13 to 107 ± 10 bpm for regadenoson. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heart  rate  returned  to  baseline  by  10  min  post-adenosine  while  remaining  elevated  at  15  min  post-
regadenoson.  Left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  (LVEF)  increased  immediately  following  both 
vasodilators and returned to baseline following adenosine by 10 min, but remained increased at 15 min  
following  regadenoson.  Regadenoson  resulted  in  a  similar  magnitude  reduction  in  both  LV  end-
diastolic  volume  index  (LVEDVi)  and  LV  end-systolic  volume  index  (LVESVi)  at  15  min  whereas 
LVESVi resolved at 15 min following adenosine and LVEDVi remained below baseline values. 
 Intraindividual comparison was conducted in a prospective study to determine the relative potency of 
regadenoson (400 μg in bolus), adenosine (140 μg/kg/min over 5 to 6 minutes), and dipyridamole 
(0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes) by quantifying stress and rest myocardial perfusion using CMR in 15 
young healthy normal volunteers. The protocol used in this study as rest-stress imaging is different 
from currently used protocols: initial rest perfusion CMR imaging, followed twenty minutes later by 
stress imaging performed at peak vasodilation.  Regadenoson produced higher stress myocardial blood 
flow (MBF) than dipyridamole and adenosine (3.58±0.58  vs.  2.81±0.67 vs. 2.78±0.61 ml/min/g, 
p=0.0009 and p=0.0008 respectively). Regadenoson had a  higher heart rate response than adenosine 
and dipyridamole (95±11 vs.76±13 vs. 86±12 beats/minute respectively).  When stress MBF was 
adjusted for heart rate, there were no differences between regadenoson and adenosine 
(37.8±6vs.36.6±4μl/sec/g,), but differences between regadenoson and dipyridamole persisted 
(37.8±6vs.32.6±5μl/sec/g, p=0.03).  
Regadenonon-stress MDCT MPI  
A Phase 2, multicenter, open-label, randomized, cross-over prospective study was sponsored (Study 
3606-CL-2001) to determine agreement rate between regadenoson stress SPECT and regadenoson-
stress CT perfusion for detecting the presence of ischemia (defined as 2 or more reversible defects 
seen visually) in 110 patients with suspected or known CAD referred for one of these diagnostic tests 
as being clinically indicated. Subjects were randomized to 1 of 2 imaging procedure sequences and to 
undergo both a rest/stress SPECT and a rest/stress MDCT.  Regadenoson was administered as 0.4 mg 
in a 5 mL IV bolus prior to each stress CT perfusion and stress SPECT procedure. 
While regadenoson stress SPECT imaging identified 100 subjects as having 0 – 1 reversible defects 
(i.e. no ischemia) and 10 subjects as having ≥ 2 reversible defects (i.e. ischemia), regadenoson stress  
MDCT imaging identified 85 and 25 subjects as having 0 –1 or ≥ 2 reversible defects, respectively. 
The agreement rate between regadenoson stress SPECT and regadenoson stress MDCT MPI was 87% 
(95% CI: 77%, 97%).  
Suboptimal Exercise Stress Test 
In the EXERRT trial the efficacy and safety of regadenoson was evaluated in patients with suboptimal 
Exercise Stress in an open-label randomized, multi-center, non-inferiority study when regadenoson 
administered either at 3 minutes during recovery (exercise with regadenoson) or at rest 1 hour later 
(regadenoson only). 
All 1404 patients initially had a baseline SPECT MPI scan at rest in accordance with ASNC 2009 
guidelines. 
Patients initiated exercise using a standard or modified Bruce protocol. Patients who did not achieve ≥ 
85% maximum predicted heart rate (MPHR) and/or ≥ 5 METS (metabolic equivalents), transitioned 
into a 3-5 minutes walking recovery where during the first 3 minutes of recovery, patients were 
randomized 1:1. 
Therefore, 1147 patients were randomized in two groups: 578 patients from the exercise with 
regadenoson group and 569 from the regadenoson only group to either 3 minutes recovery (for the 
exercise with regadenoson group) or at rest 1 hour later (for the regadenoson only group). 
Patients from both groups (exercise with regadenoson and regadenoson only) underwent a SPECT 
Myocardial Perfusion Imaging (MPI) at 60-90 minutes post-regadenoson administration.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The baseline MPI scan at rest, and the MPI scans for the exercise with regadenoson and regadenoson 
only groups constituted the MPI 1 phase. 
Subsequentially, patients from both groups, returned 1-14 days later, to undergo a second stress MPI 
regadenoson study without exercise.  
The baseline MPI scans at rest and those without exercise at 1-14 days later from both groups, 
constituted the MPI 2 phase. 
The images from MPI 1 and MPI 2 were compared for presence or absence of perfusion defects.  
The level of agreement between the MPI 1 (exercise with regadenoson) and the MPI 2 reads was 
similar to the level of agreement between MPI 1 (regadenoson only) and MPI 2 reads.  
For two patients from the exercise with regadenoson group, a serious cardiac adverse reaction was 
reported. Upon case review, both patients, experienced ischemic symptoms and ECG changes during 
exercise or recovery prior to regadenoson administration.  
No serious cardiac adverse reactions occurred in patients receiving regadenoson 1 hour following 
inadequate exercise stress.  
Measurement of FFR 
For the measurement of FFR, five independent studies have been conducted. A total of 249 patients, 
who were clinically indicated to undergo coronary angiography with invasive measurement of FFR, 
received regadenoson, with 88 of those patients receiving regadenoson twice.  
FFR was measured after IV infusion of adenosine and IV injection of regadenoson (400 μg). 
Adenosine was administered first, followed by regadenoson as its hyperaemia may last unpredictably 
and the measured FFR values were compared. 
The most common cardiovascular conditions were patients with a medical history of hypertension, 
dyslipidemia / hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, smoking, prior PCI and prior MI.  
For FFR measurement, a diagnosis of inducible ischemia was made according to the measurement of 
FFR of 0.8 (>0.8 represents the absence of inducible ischemia vs ≤ 0.8 representing the presence of 
inducible ischemia). Adenosine was treated as a gold standard to estimate sensitivity, specificity, and 
the proportion of accuracy. 
Study 
Sensitivity  Specificity 
Stolker et al. 2015 (n=149) 
van Nunen et al. 2015 (n=98) 
98% 
98% 
97% 
95% 
Classification agreement 
Cohen’s kappa 
0.94 
0.94 
Aminophylline 
Aminophylline (100 mg, administered by slow intravenous injection over 60 seconds) injected 1 
minute after 400 micrograms regadenoson in subjects undergoing cardiac catheterisation, was shown 
to shorten the duration of the coronary blood flow response to regadenoson as measured by pulsed- 
wave Doppler ultrasonography. Aminophylline has been used to attenuate adverse reactions to 
regadenoson (see section 4.4). 
Effect of caffeine 
In a study of adult patients undergoing pharmacological stress SPECT MPI with regadenoson , 
randomized to placebo (n=66) or caffeine (200 mg, n=70 or 400 mg, n=71) administered 90 minutes 
before the test, caffeine compromised the diagnostic accuracy of detecting reversible perfusion defects 
(p<0.001). There was no statistical difference between 200 mg and 400 mg caffeine with regadenoson 
. Also, there was no apparent effect of 200 mg or 400 mg of caffeine on regadenoson plasma 
13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations. 
Safety and tolerability testing 
In ADVANCE MPI 1 and ADVANCE MPI 2, the following pre-specified safety and tolerability 
endpoints comparing regadenoson  to adenosine achieved statistical significance: (1) a summed score 
of both the presence and severity of the symptom groups of flushing, chest pain, and dyspnoea was 
lower with regadenoson  (0.9 ± 0.03) than with adenosine (1.3 ± 0.05); and (2) the symptom groups of 
flushing (21% vs 32%), chest pain (28% vs 40%), and ‘throat, neck or jaw pain’ (7% vs 13%) were 
less frequent with regadenoson ; the incidence of headache (25% vs 16%) was more frequent with 
regadenoson . 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
regadenoson  in one or more subsets of the paediatric population with myocardial perfusion 
disturbances (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Regadenoson  is administered by intravenous injection for pharmacologic stress MPI. The 
regadenoson plasma concentration-time profile in healthy volunteers is multi-exponential in nature 
and best characterised by 3-compartment model. The maximal plasma concentration of regadenoson is 
achieved within 1 to 4 minutes after injection of regadenoson  and parallels the onset of the 
pharmacodynamic response (see section 5.1). The half-life of this initial phase is approximately 2 to 4 
minutes. An intermediate phase follows, with a half-life on average of 30 minutes coinciding with loss 
of the pharmacodynamic effect. The terminal phase consists of a decline in plasma concentration with 
a half-life of approximately 2 hours. Within the dose range of 0.003-0.02 mg/kg (or approximately 
0.18-1.2 mg) in healthy subjects, clearance, terminal half-life or volume of distribution do not appear 
dependent upon the dose. 
Distribution 
Regadenoson is moderately bound to human plasma proteins (25-30%). 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of regadenoson is unknown in humans. Incubation with rat, dog, and human liver 
microsomes as well as human hepatocytes produced no detectable metabolites of regadenoson. 
Following intravenous administration of 
radioactivity (85-96%) was excreted in the form of unchanged regadenoson. These findings indicate 
that metabolism of regadenoson does not play a major role in the elimination of regadenoson. 
C-radiolabeled regadenoson to rats and dogs, most 
14
Elimination 
In healthy volunteers, 57% of the regadenoson dose is excreted unchanged in the urine (range 19-
77%), with an average plasma renal clearance around 450 ml/min, i.e., in excess of the glomerular 
filtration rate. This indicates that renal tubular secretion plays a role in regadenoson elimination. 
Multiple injections 
Up to three consecutive injections of regadenoson (100 and 200 μg) have been tested in healthy 
volunteers, and two consecutive doses of 400 μg in healthy volunteers, as well as in patients assessed 
for FFR. Transient dose dependent increases in heart rate occurred following administration of each 
dose of regadenoson, whereas no consistent dose-related effect on systolic blood pressure was 
observed. Mean plasma concentrations increased in a dose-related manner and by successive doses as 
observed in healthy volunteers. 
Special populations 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis including data from subjects and patients demonstrated that 
regadenoson clearance decreases in parallel with a reduction in creatinine clearance (CLcr) and 
increases with increased body weight. Age, gender, and race have minimal effects on the 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetics of regadenoson. 
Renal impairment 
The disposition of regadenoson was studied in 18 subjects with various degrees of renal function and 
in 6 healthy subjects. With increasing renal impairment, from mild (CLcr 50 to < 80 ml/min) to 
moderate (CLcr 30 to < 50 ml/min) to severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/min), the fraction of 
regadenoson excreted unchanged in urine and the renal clearance decreased, resulting in increased 
elimination half-lives and AUC values compared to healthy subjects (CLcr ≥ 80 ml/min). However, 
the maximum observed plasma concentrations as well as volumes of distribution estimates were 
similar across the groups. The plasma concentration-time profiles were not significantly altered in the 
early stages after dosing when most pharmacologic effects are observed. No dose adjustment is needed 
in patients with renal impairment.  
The pharmacokinetics of regadenoson in patients on dialysis has not been assessed.  
Hepatic impairment 
Greater than 55% of the regadenoson dose is excreted unchanged in the urine and factors that decrease 
clearance do not affect the plasma concentration in the early stages after dosing when clinically 
meaningful pharmacologic effects are observed. The pharmacokinetic parameters of regadenoson have 
not been specifically evaluated in those with varying degrees of hepatic impairment. However, post-
hoc analysis of data from the two Phase 3 clinical trials showed that the pharmacokinetics of 
regadenoson were not affected in a small subset of patients with laboratory values suggestive of 
impaired hepatic function (2.5-fold transaminase elevation or 1.5-fold elevation of serum bilirubin or 
prothrombin time). No dose adjustment is needed in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Elderly patients 
Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, age has a minor influence on the pharmacokinetics of 
regadenoson. No dose adjustment is needed in elderly patients. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of regadenoson have not yet been studied in the paediatric population 
(< 18 years). 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, or embryo-fetal development. Signs of 
maternal and fetal toxicity were seen in rats and rabbits (reduced fetal weights, delays in ossification 
[rats], reduced litter size and number of live fetuses [rabbits]), but not teratogenicity. Fetal toxicity was 
noted following repeated daily administration of regadenoson, but at doses sufficiently in excess of the 
recommended human dose. Fertility and pre- and post-natal studies have not been conducted. 
6. 
6.1 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
List of excipients 
Disodium phosphate  
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate  
Propylene glycol 
Disodium edetate  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3 
Shelf life 
5 ml vial: 4 years 
7 ml vial: 2.5 years 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
5 ml solution in a single use 5 ml or 7 ml Type 1 glass vial with (butyl) rubber stopper and aluminium 
over-seal.  
Pack size of 1. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
This medicinal product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GE Healthcare AS 
Nycoveien 1 
NO-0485 Oslo 
Norway 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/643/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 06/09/2010 
Date of latest renewal: 24/04/2015 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH  RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Limited,  
Block 7, City North Business Campus,  
Stamullen, Co Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Haupt Pharma Wolfratshausen GmbH 
Pfaffenrieder Str. 5 
D-82515 Wolfratshausen,  
Germany 
GE Healthcare AS 
Nycoveien 1 
NO-0485 Oslo 
Norway 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING   
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rapiscan 400 microgram solution for injection  
regadenoson 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 400 micrograms regadenoson in 5 ml solution (80 micrograms/ml). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Disodium phosphate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, propylene glycol, disodium edetate, 
water for injections 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 vial  
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Use product only in medical facilities with cardiac monitoring and resuscitation equipment. 
For diagnostic use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GE Healthcare AS 
Nycoveien 1 
NO-0485 Oslo 
Norway 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/10/643/001 
BATCH NUMBER 
13. 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number} 
NN: {number}  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Rapiscan 400 microgram solution for injection  
Regadenoson 
Intravenous use 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
EXPIRY DATE 
BATCH NUMBER 
2. 
3. 
EXP 
4. 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
400 micrograms 
6. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
Rapiscan 400 microgram solution for injection 
Regadenoson 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
- 
- 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
What is in this leaflet: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Rapiscan is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you are given Rapiscan 
How Rapiscan is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Rapiscan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Rapiscan is and what it is used for 
Rapiscan contains the active substance regadenoson. This belongs to a group of medicines called 
‘coronary vasodilators’. It makes the heart arteries expand and heart rate increase. This makes more 
blood flow to the muscles of the heart. 
This medicine is for diagnostic use only. 
Rapiscan is used in a type of heart scan in adults called ‘myocardial perfusion imaging’. 
The scan uses a diagnostic agent to create images. These images show how well blood flows to the 
muscles of the heart. Usually, exercise on a treadmill is used to put the heart under stress before a 
scan. During the exercise, a small amount of the diagnostic agent is injected into the body, often into a 
vein in the hand. Images are then taken of the heart. The doctor can then see if the heart muscles are 
getting enough blood flow when it is under stress.  
If you are unable to exercise enough to reach sufficient stress to the heart, Rapiscan will be injected to 
provide a stress of similar amplitude to the heart to increase the blood flow.  
Rapiscan is also used during catheterisation and imaging arteries of the heart (invasive coronary 
angiography) to expand the arteries of the heart to measure the difference in pressure, caused by a 
narrowing within one or more arteries. During cardiac catheterisation, a long thin tube called a 
catheter is inserted either through your femoral or radial artery and threaded through your blood 
vessels to your heart. The doctor performing the catheterisation may also want to measure the 
difference in pressure (fractional flow reserve) due to a narrowing detected in one or more arteries of 
the heart. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given  Rapiscan 
Do not take Rapiscan: 
• 
if you have slow heart rate (high degree heart block or sinus node disease), and don’t have a 
pacemaker fitted. 
• 
• 
• 
if you have chest pain that occurs unpredictably (unstable angina) and that has not improved after 
treatment. 
if you have low blood pressure (hypotension). 
if you have heart failure. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
if you are allergic to regadenoson or any of the other ingredients of Rapiscan listed in section 6 of 
this leaflet. 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before taking Rapiscan 
Your doctor needs to know before you are given Rapiscan: 
• 
if you have had a recent serious heart problem (for example a heart attack or abnormal heart 
rhythms). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a heart rhythm where your heartbeat is very fast or uneven (atrial fibrillation or atrial 
flutter) 
if you have high blood pressure that is not controlled, especially if this has been accompanied by 
recent episodes of nose bleed, headache or blurred or double vision. 
if you have had episodes of mini strokes (called transient ischaemic attacks)  
if you have a heart rhythm disorder called long QT syndrome. 
if you have episodes of heart block (which can slow the heart down) or a very slow heart rate.  
if you have any heart or blood vessel condition, particularly one that gets worse when your 
blood pressure decreases. These include low blood volume (caused, for example, by severe 
diarrhoea or dehydration or taking water pills), inflammation around the heart (pericarditis) and 
some forms of heart valve or artery disease (for example, aortic or mitral stenosis). 
if you have a condition that causes fits (seizures), such as epilepsy, or if you have ever had fits. 
if you have asthma or lung disease. 
• 
• 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before you are given the injection. 
Children and adolescents  
Rapiscan should not be used in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Rapiscan 
Please tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines including 
medicines obtained without prescription. 
Particular care should be taken with the following medicines: 
• 
theophylline, a medicine used to treat asthma and other lung diseases, must not be used for at 
least 12 hours before you are given Rapiscan because it can block the effect of Rapiscan. 
•  dipyridamole, a medicine used to prevent blood clots, must not be used for at least two days 
before you are given Rapiscan because it can change the effect of Rapiscan. 
Rapiscan with food and drink 
Do not eat food or have drinks containing caffeine (for example, tea, coffee, cocoa, cola or chocolate) 
for at least 12 hours before you are given Rapiscan. This is because caffeine can interfere with the 
effect of Rapiscan. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Before you are given Rapiscan, tell your doctor: 
• 
if you are pregnant, think you are pregnant or planning to have a baby. There is no adequate 
information on the use of Rapiscan in pregnant women. Harmful effects have been seen in 
animal studies but it is not known if there is a risk to humans. Your doctor will only give you 
Rapiscan if it is clearly necessary. 
• 
if you are breast-feeding. It is not known whether Rapiscan can pass into breast milk and will 
only be given to you if your doctor thinks it is necessary. You should avoid breast-feeding for at 
least 10 hours after you are given Rapiscan. 
Ask your doctor for advice before using any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Rapiscan may make you feel dizzy. It may cause other symptoms (headache or shortness of breath) 
that could affect your ability to drive or use machinery. These effects usually do not last longer than 
30 minutes. Do not drive or operate machinery until these effects have improved. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapiscan contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose. After you have been given 
Rapiscan, you will be given an injection of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution which contains 
45 mg of sodium. To be taken into consideration if you are on a controlled sodium diet. 
3. 
How Rapiscan is given 
Rapiscan is injected by a healthcare professional (a doctor, nurse or medical technician) in a 
medical facility where your heart and blood pressure can be monitored. It is injected directly into a 
vein, as a single dose of 400 micrograms in a 5 ml solution – the injection will take about 10 seconds 
to complete. The dose injected does not depend on your weight. 
You will also be given an injection of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution (5 ml), and an 
injection of a small amount of a diagnostic agent. 
When you are given Rapiscan, your heart rate will increase quickly. Your heart rate and blood 
pressure will be monitored. 
After the Rapiscan injection you will need to sit or lie down until your heart rate and blood pressure 
return to your normal levels. The doctor, nurse or medical technician will let you know when you can 
stand up. 
A scan of your heart will be made after enough time has passed to allow the diagnostic agent to reach 
the heart muscle.  
During catheterisation of the arteries of the heart, your doctor may measure the pressure difference 
(also known as fractional flow reserve – FFR) due to a narrowing in one or more arteries of the heart.  
If deemed necessary, a second dose of 400 micrograms can be injected at least 10 minutes after the 
first dose for such pressure difference measurement during the same catheterization procedure. Heart 
rate and blood pressure will be monitored during the entire procedure. 
If you are given more Rapiscan than you should 
Some people have had flushing, dizziness and increased heart rate when they have been given too 
much Rapiscan. If your doctor thinks that you are having severe side effects, or the effects of Rapiscan 
are lasting too long, they may give you an injection of a medicine called aminophylline that reduces 
these effects. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Rapiscan can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The side effects are usually mild. They normally start soon after the Rapiscan injection and are 
usually over within 30 minutes. They don’t usually need any treatment. 
More serious side effects include: 
• 
• 
• 
sudden stopping of the heart or damage to the heart, heart block (a disorder of the heart’s electrical 
signal, where the signal cannot pass from the upper to the lower chambers), rapid heart beat 
low blood pressure which may result in fainting or mini strokes (including weakness of the face or 
an inability to speak). Rarely, Rapiscan can cause a stroke (also known as a cerebrovascular 
accident). 
an allergic reaction which can cause rash, wheals/weals, swelling under the skin near the eyes or 
throat, throat tightness, and difficulty in breathing may occur immediately or have delayed onset 
after Rapiscan injection 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor straight away if you think you are having severe side effects. Your doctor may then 
give you an injection of a medicine called aminophylline that reduces these effects. 
Very common  
(may affect more than 1  in 10 people) 
•  headache, dizziness 
• 
shortness of breath 
• 
chest pain 
• 
changes in heart tracing tests (electrocardiogram) 
• 
flushing 
•  discomfort in the stomach 
Common  
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
•  heart pain (angina), abnormal heart rhythms, rapid heart beat, feeling the heart skipping a beat, 
fluttering, or beating too hard or fast (palpitations) 
feeling unwell or weak 
excessive sweating 
• 
low blood pressure 
• 
throat tightness, throat irritation, cough 
•  being sick (vomiting), feeling sick (nausea) 
• 
• 
•  pain in the back, arms, legs, neck or jaw 
•  discomfort in the bones and muscles 
•  pins and needles, reduced sensation, taste changes 
•  discomfort in the mouth 
Uncommon  
(may affect up to  1  in 100) 
• 
sudden stopping of the heart or damage to the heart, heart block (a disorder of the heart’s electrical 
signal, where the signal cannot pass from the upper to the lower chambers), slow heart beat 
fits, fainting, mini strokes (including weakness of the face or an inability to speak), reduced 
responsiveness (which may include a comatose state), trembling, sleepiness 
an allergic reaction which can cause rash, wheals/weals, swelling under the skin near the eyes or 
• 
• 
throat, throat tightness, difficulty breathing 
rapid breathing 
•  wheezing 
• 
•  high blood pressure, paleness, cold extremities 
•  blurred vision, eye pain 
• 
• 
•  bloating, diarrhoea, involuntary loss of faeces 
• 
•  pain in the joints 
•  pain or discomfort around the area injected, body pain 
anxiety, difficulty sleeping 
ringing in the ears 
redness of the skin 
Not known 
(frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
difficulty in breathing (bronchospasm) 
respiratory arrest 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Rapiscan 
Keep out of the reach and sight of children. 
Do not use Rapiscan after the expiry date which is stated on the vial and carton after EXP. This 
medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Rapiscan must not be used if the solution if it is discoloured or particulate matter is present. 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. These measures will help to 
protect the environment . The healthcare professionals will be responsible for the storage and disposal 
of this medicinal product.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and further information  
What Rapiscan contains 
The active substance in Rapiscan is regadenoson. Each vial of Rapiscan solution for injection contains 
400 micrograms of regadenoson in 5 ml solution. 
The other ingredients are: disodium edetate, disodium phosphate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate , 
propylene glycol, water for injections. 
What Rapiscan looks like and contents of the pack 
Rapiscan solution for injection is a clear, colourless solution with no particles visible. Rapiscan is 
supplied in a carton containing a single use glass vial with a rubber stopper and aluminium sealed cap. 
Rapiscan is supplied in a 5 ml or 7 ml glass vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder:  
GE Healthcare AS 
Nycoveien 1 
NO-0485 Oslo 
Norway 
Manufacturer:  
Millmount Healthcare Limited  
Block 7, City North Business Campus,  
Stamullen, Co Meath, K32 YD60 Ireland 
Haupt Pharma Wolfratshausen GmbH 
Pfaffenrieder Str. 5 
D-82515 Wolfratshausen,  
Germany 
GE Healthcare AS 
Nycoveien 1 
NO-0485 Oslo 
Norway 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Rapiscan should be administered as a rapid, 10-second injection into a peripheral vein using a 22-gauge or 
larger catheter or needle. 
5 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection should be administered immediately after the 
injection of Rapiscan. 
The diagnostic agent for the myocardial perfusion imaging agent should be administered 10-20 seconds after 
the sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. The diagnostic agent may be injected directly 
into the same catheter as Rapiscan. 
For the measurement of FFR, Rapiscan should be administered as a rapid, 10-second injection into a 
peripheral vein using a 22-gauge or larger catheter or needle. 10 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) solution for injection should be administered immediately after the injection of Rapiscan. 
Standard catheterisation and FFR measurement techniques are to be followed, and FFR should be measured 
as the lowest value of Pd/Pa achieved during steady state maximum hyperemia. 
If deemed necessary, a second dose of 400 micrograms can be injected at least 10 minutes after the 
first dose for FFR measurement during the same catheterization procedure. 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
This medicinal product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
For further information, please refer to the complete Summary of Product Characteristics.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
