EMA/55700/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000105 
EPAR summary for the public 
Rapilysin 
reteplase 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Rapilysin. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Rapilysin. 
What is Rapilysin? 
Rapilysin is a powder and solvent that are made up into a solution for injection. It contains the active 
substance reteplase. 
What is Rapilysin used for? 
Rapilysin is used within 12 hours of a suspected heart attack to help dissolve the blood clots 
obstructing the flow of blood to the heart muscle. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Rapilysin used? 
Rapilysin should be prescribed by doctors who have experience in using medicines that dissolve blood 
clots and who can monitor its use. 
Treatment with Rapilysin should be started as soon as possible after the start of heart attack 
symptoms. Rapilysin is given as two injections, 30 minutes apart. Each injection is given into a vein 
slowly, but in less than two minutes. Other medicines that prevent clotting (aspirin and heparin) 
should be given before and after the Rapilysin injection to stop clots from forming again. However, 
Rapilysin and heparin or aspirin must not be given in the same syringe. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Rapilysin work? 
The active substance in Rapilysin, reteplase, is a copy of a natural enzyme called t-PA that has been 
modified so that it starts working faster and for longer. Reteplase activates the production of an 
enzyme called plasmin, which breaks up blood clots. Following a heart attack, Rapilysin can help 
dissolve blood clots that have formed in the arteries supplying the heart muscle, thereby restoring 
normal blood flow to the heart. 
How has Rapilysin been studied? 
Rapilysin has been studied in more than 21,000 patients in four studies. Rapilysin has been compared 
with other medicines used to dissolve blood clots: streptokinase in 6,000 patients and alteplase in 
about 15,000 patients. The studies looked at the number of patients who had died 30 to 35 days after 
treatment, and at the number of patients who had heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump 
enough blood around the body) or a stroke. 
What benefit has Rapilysin shown during the studies? 
Rapilysin was more effective than streptokinase in reducing the number of patients with heart failure, 
and it was as effective as streptokinase in preventing death. Rapilysin was also as effective as 
alteplase in preventing death and stroke. 
What is the risk associated with Rapilysin? 
The most common side effects with Rapilysin (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are bleeding at the 
injection site, recurrent ischaemia (reduced blood supply to parts of the body) or angina (severe chest 
pain), hypotension (low blood pressure), heart failure or pulmonary oedema (build-up of fluid on the 
lungs), and reactions at the site of the injection, such as burning sensations. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Rapilysin, see the package leaflet. 
Rapilysin must also not be used in patients who are at risk of bleeding because of other diseases, 
treatment with other medicines, high blood pressure, previous bleeding or recent surgery. For the full 
list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Rapilysin been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Rapilysin’s benefits are greater than its risks for and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Rapilysin 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Rapilysin on 9 November 1996.  
The full EPAR for Rapilysin can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Rapilysin, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2016. 
Rapilysin  
EMA/55700/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
