EMA/281859/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004064 
EPAR summary for the public 
Rasagiline Mylan 
rasagiline 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Rasagiline Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Rasagiline Mylan. 
For practical information about using Rasagiline Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Rasagiline Mylan and what is it used for? 
Rasagiline Mylan is a medicine used to treat adults with Parkinson’s disease (a progressive brain 
disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle stiffness). 
Rasagiline Mylan can be used either alone, or as an add-on to levodopa (another medicine used in 
Parkinson’s disease) in patients who are having fluctuations in the control of their condition. 
Fluctuations happen when the effects of the medication wear off and symptoms re-emerge before the 
next dose is due. They are linked to a reduction in the effect of levodopa, when the patient experiences 
sudden switches between being ‘on’ and able to move, and being ‘off’ and having difficulty moving 
about. 
Rasagiline Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Rasagiline Mylan is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Azilect. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Rasagiline Mylan contains the active substance rasagiline. 
How is Rasagiline Mylan used? 
Rasagiline Mylan is available as tablets (1 mg). The standard dose is one tablet once a day. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How does Rasagiline Mylan work? 
The active substance in Rasagiline Mylan, rasagiline, is a ‘monoamine oxidase B inhibitor’. It blocks the 
enzyme monoamine oxidase type B, which breaks down a substance called dopamine in the brain. 
Dopamine is important for controlling movement and coordination. In patients with Parkinson’s 
disease, the cells that produce dopamine begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain 
decreases. The patients then lose their ability to control their movements reliably. By increasing levels 
of dopamine in the parts of the brain that control movement and coordination, Rasagiline Mylan 
reduces the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, such as stiffness and slowness of movement. 
How has Rasagiline Mylan been studied? 
Because Rasagiline Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Azilect. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Rasagiline Mylan? 
Because Rasagiline Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Rasagiline Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Rasagiline Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Azilect. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Azilect, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Rasagiline Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Rasagiline Mylan? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Rasagiline Mylan is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Rasagiline Mylan, including the appropriate precautions to be 
followed by healthcare professionals and patients.   
Other information about Rasagiline Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Rasagiline Mylan on 4 April 2016. 
The full EPAR for Rasagiline Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Rasagiline Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016. 
Rasagiline Mylan  
EMA/281859/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
