EMA/744222/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Rasagiline ratiopharm (rasagiline) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Rasagiline ratiopharm, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Rasagiline ratiopharm is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Rasagiline ratiopharm, which can be found on Rasagiline ratiopharm’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Rasagiline ratiopharm (rasagiline) is a medicine used to treat adults with Parkinson’s disease. 
Parkinson's disease is a progressive brain disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle 
stiffness. The rate of progression of Parkinson's disease, as well as the array of parkinsonian signs and 
symptoms, differs widely among individual patients. 
The disease affects about 1% of the population over the age of 55 years, with a male-to-female 
ratio of 3:2.  
Risk factors for Parkinson's disease include a family history, male gender, head injury, exposure to 
pesticides, consumption of well water and rural living.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Rasagiline ratiopharm blocks the action of an enzyme called monoamine oxidase type B, which breaks 
down a substance in the brain called dopamine, levels of which are lowered in Parkinson’s disease; by 
blocking the enzyme, the medicine helps to increase the amount of dopamine in the parts of the brain 
that control movement and coordination, thereby improving the symptoms of the disease such as 
stiffness and slowness of movement. 
The medicine has been shown in three studies, involving 1,563 patients, to be effective in both 
relieving the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and in reducing the time patients spend in their ‘off’ 
periods.  
In one of the studies, a 26-week treatment with Rasagiline ratiopharm resulted in an average fall of 
0.13 points in UPDRS (a standard scale for assessing symptoms of Parkinson’s disease) from a starting 
value of 24.69 compared with a rise of 4.07 points in the patients taking placebo (dummy treatment) 
from a starting value of 24.54. A fall in the UPDRS score indicates an improvement in symptoms, while 
a rise indicates a worsening of symptoms. 
In the two other studies, Rasagiline ratiopharm was given as ‘add-on’ to patients with later stage 
disease who were already being treated with levodopa, and compared with placebo and another 
medicine entacapone (also used as add-ons). The studies included 1,159 patients and lasted 26 and 18 
weeks, respectively. In both studies, patients taking Rasagiline ratiopharm spent an average of around 
Page 1/5 
 
 
one hour less in the ‘off’ state than those taking placebo. Similar reductions in time spent in the ‘off’ 
state were seen in patients taking entacapone. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Post-marketing experience in the therapeutic practice does not indicate any sub-populations requiring 
further studies. All data consistently support that the safety and efficacy is the same across races. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Low blood 
Orthostatic hypotension is a common 
Healthcare professionals and patients 
pressure when 
side effect of rasagiline (may affect 
should be aware of this risk. 
rising to a 
up to 1 in 10 people) 
standing position, 
with symptoms 
like 
dizziness/light-
headedness 
(orthostatic 
hypotension) 
High levels of 
Serotonin syndrome is a condition 
Healthcare professionals should avoid 
serotonin in the 
caused by excess serotonin in the 
using Rasagiline ratiopharm together 
body (serotonin 
body. Symptoms can range from mild 
with the SSRI antidepressants fluoxetine 
syndrome)  
(shivering and diarrhoea) to severe 
or fluvoxamine. In addition, healthcare 
(muscle rigidity, fever and seizures). 
professionals should wait until the 
Severe serotonin syndrome can be 
antidepressant is completely cleared 
fatal if not treated. Rasagiline belongs 
form the body before starting rasagiline, 
to the class of ‘monoamine oxidase 
or vice versa. 
(MAO) B inhibitor’ which are known to 
increase serotonin levels in the body. 
Using MAO inhibitors with other 
medicines known to increase 
Treatment with rasagiline should only be 
started 5 weeks after stopping fluoxetine 
treatment. 
serotonin levels such as 
Treatment with fluoxetine or fluvoxamine 
antidepressants (tricyclic 
should only be started 14 days after 
antidepressants, serotonin-
stopping rasagiline treatment.  
Other antidepressants should be used 
with caution when using Rasagiline 
ratiopharm. 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors 
[SNRIs], selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors [SSRIs]) may cause 
serotonin syndrome.   
There were no cases of serotonin 
syndrome in the rasagiline clinical 
program in which 115 patients were 
exposed concomitantly to rasagiline 
and tricyclic antidepressants and 141 
patients were exposed to rasagiline 
and SSRIs/ SNRIs. However, in the 
Page 2/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
post-marketing period, cases of 
serotonin syndrome have been 
reported by patients treated with 
antidepressants including SNRIs 
together with rasagiline.  
Temptation to 
There have been cases of patients 
Doctors should monitor patients 
carry out certain 
who, while taking one or more 
regularly for the development of impulse 
activities such as 
medications for Parkinson’s disease, 
control disorders and should consider 
addictive 
gambling, 
excessive 
were unable to resist the temptation 
dose adjustments or stopping treatment 
to perform an action that could be 
in case they occur. Patients should tell 
harmful or detrimental to themselves 
their doctor if they notice that unusual 
spending, and 
or others. 
impulsive 
behaviour and an 
abnormally high 
sex drive (impulse 
control disorders). 
behaviours where they cannot resist the 
temptation to carry out certain harmful 
or detrimental activities to themselves or 
others.  
Concomitant use 
Rasagiline is removed from the body 
Doctors should avoid prescribing these 
with other 
predominantly by certain enzymes in 
medicines together. Patients should tell 
medications 
the liver. Other medicines that affect 
their doctor if they are taking or have 
(antidepressants, 
the same liver enzymes can increase 
recently taken any other medicines, 
CYP1A2 inhibitors, 
the side effects or reduce the 
including medicines obtained without 
MAO inhibitors) 
therapeutic effects of rasagiline. 
prescription.  
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
High blood pressure 
In the post-marketing period, cases of elevated blood pressure, including rare 
(Hypertension)  
cases of hypertensive crisis (dangerously high blood pressure) associated with 
ingestion of foods rich in tyramine (e.g. aged cheeses, cured meats) have 
been reported in patients taking Rasagiline ratiopharm. 
However, results of five clinical studies, together with results of home 
monitoring of blood pressure after meals (of 464 patients treated with 0.5 or 1 
mg/day of rasagiline or placebo along with levodopa for six months without 
tyramine restrictions) showed no interaction and support that rasagiline can 
be used safely without dietary tyramine restrictions. In addition there no 
reports of tyramine/rasagiline interaction in clinical studies conducted without 
tyramine restriction. 
Skin cancer 
(Malignant 
melanoma) 
Skin cancer was reported in around 1% of patients in the placebo-controlled 
clinical trials. Nevertheless, scientific evidence suggests that Parkinson’s 
disease itself is associated with a risk of cancer in general and that this risk is 
not specific to a particular medicine.  
Concomitant use with  Serious adverse reactions have been reported with the concomitant use of 
Page 3/5 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
other medications 
pethidine and MAO inhibitors including products that work in a similar way to 
(pethidine, 
rasagiline).  
sympathomimetics) 
There have been reports of interactions between MAO inhibitors and 
sympathomimetic medicines (such as nasal and oral decongestants containing 
ephedrine and pseudoephedrine) when used at the same time.  
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Limited information 
For Rasagiline ratiopharm no clinical data on use during pregnancy are 
on use in pregnant 
available. Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with 
and breastfeeding 
respect to pregnancy. It is not known whether rasagiline is excreted in human 
women 
milk.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Rasagiline ratiopharm can be found on Rasagiline ratiopharm’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Registry-based 
1) To estimate and 
Safety concern: 
Planned  
Final study report 
study: risk of 
compare the incidence rate 
malignant 
June 2015 
melanoma among 
of melanoma in patients 
melanoma  
PD patients (TVP-
with Parkinson’s disease 
1012/401 study) 
who start treatment with 
rasagiline and those who 
start treatment with other 
anti-Parkinson’s medicines. 
2) To examine the 
association between use of 
rasagiline and malignant 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
melanoma among 
Parkinson’s disease 
patients. 
3) To compare the 
incidence rate of 
melanoma in patients with 
Parkinson’s disease not 
treated with rasagiline with 
the rate in subjects without 
Parkinson’s disease. 
In addition, the incidence 
rates of other (non-
melanoma) malignant 
neoplasms of the skin will 
be evaluated to examine 
the presence of reporting  
bias secondary to potential 
increased monitoring of 
users of rasagiline. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2014. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
