Summary of risk management plan for Rasagiline Mylan (Rasagiline) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Rasagiline  Mylan.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of 
Rasagiline  Mylan,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about Rasagiline Mylan's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Rasagiline Mylan's summary of product  characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Rasagiline Mylan should 
be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Rasagiline  Mylan  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Rasagiline 
Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Rasagiline Mylan is indicated in adults for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) 
as monotherapy (without levodopa) or as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end 
of dose fluctuations. It contains rasagiline as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Rasagiline  Mylan’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Rasagiline Mylan’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important  risks  of  Rasagiline  Mylan,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Rasagiline Mylan is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Rasagiline Mylan are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken by 
patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Rasagiline Mylan. Potential risks 
are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in 
special patient populations etc.); 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Concomitant use with antidepressants (SSRI, SNRI, 
tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants), CYP1A2 
            inhibitors or MAO inhibitors 
• 
Impulse-control disorders 
•  Orthostatic hypotension 
•  Serotonin syndrome 
Important potential risks 
•  Concomitant use with pethidine or 
•  Excessive daily sleepiness/sudden onset of sleep 
sympathomimetics 
•  Hypertension 
•  Malignant melanoma 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnant and lactating women 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Rasagiline Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Rasagiline Mylan. 
