SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Essential  hypertension  (EHTN)  affects  approximately  1  billion  individuals  worldwide.  It  has  been 
identified as a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases such as stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), 
and  congestive  heart  failure  (CHF):  it’s  widely  recognised  that  an  adequate  control  of  EHTN  is 
important  to  significantly  decrease  cardiovascular  mortality  and  morbidity.  All  international 
guidelines for the management of EHTN recommend a general target blood pressure (BP) < 140/90 
mm Hg for most hypertensive patients. A lower BP target (<130/80 mm Hg) is recommended in high-
risk  patient  populations  such  as  those  with  target  organ  damage,  diabetes  mellitus  or  renal  disease. 
Several therapeutic choices are currently available to lower BP, including diuretics, β-blockers (BB), 
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB) and calcium 
channel  blockers  (CCB).  Inhibition  of  the  renin-angiotensin  system  (RAS)  is  an  effective  way  to 
intervene in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular and renal disorders. Renin is the enzyme responsible 
for the conversion of angiotensinogen (AGT) to angiotensin I (Ang I). Then the ACE transforms Ang 
I into the active octapeptide angiotensin II (Ang II), which acts via type-1 angiotensin II receptors to 
increase  arterial  tone,  adrenal  aldosterone  secretion,  renal  sodium  reabsorption,  sympathetic 
neurotransmission,  and  cellular  growth.  Some  of  currently  used  antihypertensive  drugs  intervene  at 
different points of RAS. BB reduce the release of renin from the juxtaglomerular apparatus and lower 
BP.  ACE  inhibitors  reduce  the  conversion  of  Ang  I  to  Ang  II.  They  also  inhibit  the  inactivation  of 
bradykinin and substance P, causing some typical side effects of ACE inhibitors, such as cough and 
angioedema. ARBs block the interaction of Ang II with the AT1 receptor.  
to 
the 
Aliskiren  (ALI)  contains  a  new  chemical  entity,  aliskiren,  which  belongs 
pharmacotherapeutic  group  of  Renin  inhibitor  (RI),  ATC  code:  C09XA02.  It  is  proposed  as  film-
coated tablets in strengths of 150 and 300 mg for treatment of EHTN. The recommended dose is 150 
mg once daily. In patients whose BP is not adequately controlled, the dose may be increased to 300 
mg once daily. ALI is proposed to be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 
ALI  exhibits  a  new  mode  of  action  compared  with  other  drugs  acting  on  the  RAS.  It  selectively 
inhibits human renin, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of AGT to Ang I; therefore the final 
production of the potent vasoconstrictor Ang II (increase arterial tone, adrenal aldosterone secretion, 
renal  sodium  reabsorption,  sympathetic  neurotransmission  and  cellular  growth)  is  inhibited  by 
blocking  the  renin  system  at  its  very  origin.  Ang  II  also  inhibits  renin  release,  thus  providing  a 
negative  feedback  to  the  system.  Elevated  PRA  has  been  independently  associated  with  increased 
cardiovascular  risk  in  hypertensive  and  normotensive  patients.  All  agents  that  inhibit  this  system, 
including  RIs,  suppress  the  negative  feedback  loop,  leading  to  a  compensatory  rise  in  plasma  renin 
concentration.  When  this  rise  occurs  during  treatment  with  ACE  inhibitors  and  ARB,  it  is 
accompanied  by  increased  levels  of  PRA.  During  treatment  with  ALI,  however,  the  feedback  loop 
effects are neutralised. As a result, PRA, Ang I, and Ang II are all reduced. RIs like ALI do not block 
the  degradation  of  bradykinin,  so  they  might  have  a  lower  hypotensive  effect  compared  with  ACE 
inhibitors,  although  they  show  fewer  side  effects.  In  addition  RIs  do  not  block  renin-like  enzymes, 
such as cathepsin D or tonins, which are present in the vascular wall and which release Ang I from 
AGT. Renin has a unique specificity for its only known physiological substrate, AGT. This specific 
inhibition  of  the  renin  system  by  diminishing  renin  activity  has  the  advantage  to  not  interfere  with 
other metabolic pathways. 
The  development  program  consisted  of  efficacy  and  safety  studies  of  ALI  as  monotherapy  or  in 
combination  with  other  classes  of  anti-hypertensive  drugs,  including  a  diuretic  (HCTZ),  an  ARB 
(valsartan [VAL]), an ACEI (ramipril [RAM]), CCB (amlodipine, [AML]), and BB (atenolol [ATE]).. 
All  completed  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  with  essential  HTN.  Specific  studies  were 
conducted in hypertensive patients with diabetes, obesity, systolic HTN (in patients over 65 years of 
age),  and  severe  HTN.  Studies  are  being  conducted  in  populations  with  diabetic  nephropathy, 
congestive  heart  failure,  and  left  ventricular  hypertrophy,  as  well  as  in  hypertensive  patients 
the  CHMP 
unresponsive 
(EMEA/H/SA/466/1/2004/III) and followed during the development process. No clinical development 
in pediatric population was submitted with this application. 
agents.  The  Scientific  Advice  was  given  by 
to  other 
©EMEA 2007 
1/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  applied  to  obtain  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Rasilez,  immediate  release  film-
coated  tablets  as  150  mg  and  300  mg  dosage  strengths.  It  contains  aliskiren,  an  orally  potent  and 
selective inhibitor of human renin. 
Active Substance  
Aliskiren  hemifumarate  has  4  chiral  centres,  but  is  obtained  as  a  single  diastereoisomer,  all  
S-configured. Sufficient scientific information has been presented on physicochemical properties such 
as  appearance,  solubility  in  standard  aqueous  buffers  and  in  non-aqueous  solvents,  pKa,  specific 
rotation, log P, melting point and thermal behaviour. This molecule shows polymorphs. Satisfactory 
identification was performed by X-ray powder spectra, DSC and TGA analysis.  
CH3O
O
CH3O
OH
NH2
H
N
O
CONH2
. 0.5
COOH
HOOC
•  Manufacture 
The synthesis of the active substance can be summarized in 10 main steps. The process predominantly 
involves  the  construction  of  an  appropriately  substituted  octanamide  backbone  with  controlling  the 
stereochemistry.  The  manufacturing  process  has  been  fully  detailed,  including  operating  conditions, 
quantities of solvents, reagents, catalysts. Adequate in-process controls have been applied as well as 
controls  of  the  reagents,  solvents,  catalysts,  starting  materials,  and  intermediates  used  in  the 
manufacture of aliskiren hemifumarate. Critical steps include the step where the 4 chiral centres are 
stereochemically formed and the crystallisation of aliskiren hemifumarate, and relevant intermediates 
have  been  controlled  accordingly.  Adequate  specifications  have  been  included  for  the  starting 
materials, solvents, and intermediates. Validation data are available and the robustness of the process 
has been demonstrated. The structure of aliskiren hemifumarate has been fully elucidated with usual 
techniques such as elementary analysis, IR spectroscopy, 1H-NMR and 13C-NMR spectroscopy, mass 
spectroscopy  and  X-ray  powder  diffractometry  (XRDP),  optical  rotation  (single  diasteroisomer), 
particle size analysis.  
•  Specification 
Appropriate  specification  has  been  set  up  and  includes  appearance,  particle  size,  appearance  of  the 
solution, identification (by IR, by XR and optical rotation), residual solvents, water content, sulfated 
ash, heavy metals, related substances, assay (by titration and HPLC), assay of the salt (fumaric acid), 
microbiological  quality.  The  skip-testing  approach  for  the  microbiological  quality  is  considered 
acceptable.  Specification  of  the  active  substance  including  residual  solvents  (in  line  with  ICH 
requirements)  and  impurities  (justified  by  toxicological  data)  are  appropriately  justified.  Analytical 
methods  have  been  adequately  detailed  and  non-compendial  methods  validated  in  accordance  with 
ICH  guidelines.  The  bulk  of  the  active  substance  is  packed  in  sealed  triple  bags  (polyethylene 
PE/aluminium/ polyethylene terephthalate PET) or  quadruple bags (PE /PET/aluminium /PET). The 
bags are stored in drums with a tamper resistant seal. Results based on the analysis of 31 batches have 
demonstrated the uniformity and the consistency of the synthesis.  
•  Stability 
Stability data on 3 pilot batches have been carried out under ICH long term (24 months, 25°C/60%RH 
)  and  accelerated  conditions  (6  months,  40°C/75%RH)  as  well  as  photostability  and  stress  testing 
under  different  conditions.  All  parameters  were  found  in  accordance  with  the  specification  and  no 
major  degradation  could  be  observed.  Post-approval,  the  applicant  will  perform  stability  studies  on  
©EMEA 2007 
2/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 production batches according to the registered protocol. The proposed re-test period is supported by 
the results of the stability study. 
Medicinal Product  
The formulation is an immediate release oral formulation available in two strengths 150 mg and 300 
mg.  Film-coated  tablets  were  chosen  as  it  is  the  most  convenient  and  suitable  dosage  form.  The  
2 strengths have different shapes and colors. They have the same qualitative composition with regard 
to the active substance and the excipients in the cores whereas the coatings are slightly different.  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  choice  of  the  active  substance  has  been  adequately  described.  In  particular  the  choice  of  the 
hemifumarate  salt  is  justified.  The  choice  of  excipients  is  based  upon  their  suitability  with  the 
manufacturing process, on compatibility and on pharmaceutical technological experience gained from 
immediate  release  oral  solid  dosage  forms.  Excipients  used  are 
development  of  similar 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  crospovidone,  povidone,  magnesium  stearate  and  silica,  colloidal 
anhydrous,  and  premix  coating  mixtures.  All  excipients  comply  with  PhEur  or  USP  specifications, 
except the basic coating premixes that are commercially available mixtures of standard components 
used for film-coat. The excipients are common excipients used for oral dosage forms. The colorants 
titanium dioxide and iron oxide comply with Directive 95/45/EEC. Film-coating is only used to mask 
the  bitter  taste  of  the  active  substance  and  has  no  impact  on  the  dissolution  properties.  Satisfactory 
specification as well as certificates of analysis are presented for each excipient and analytical methods 
have  been  described  and  validated  when  non-compendial.  The  manufacturing  development  of  the 
drug  product  has  been  described  in  detail,  Differences  between  clinical  formulation  and  the 
formulation to be marketed were discussed and the biopharmaceutical equivalence demonstrated. The 
manufacturing  process  development  of  the  drug  product  has  been  appropriately  described  and 
validated.  The  description  of  the  manufacturing  process  changes  showed  that  the  manufacturing 
process  is  robust  and  consistently  yields  a  drug  product  which  meets  the  proposed  requirements. 
Adequate in-process controls have been selected to monitor the manufacturing process. For primary 
stability studies drug product were packaged in different standard packaging types commonly used for 
solid oral dosage forms. Rasilez will be marketed in PA/AL/PVC blister packs (Alu-Alu blisters).  
•  Adventitious Agents 
All excipients are of vegetable or mineral origin therefore no TSE risk assessment is needed.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  considered  a  standard  manufacturing  process  involving  standard 
technology  such  as  mixing,  granulation,  compressing  and  film-coating  unit  operations  and  is 
appropriately controlled by in-process controls. No process steps were considered as critical. 
•  Product Specification 
Specification for the film-coated tablets at release and at the end of shelf-life include parameters such 
as  dimensions,  appearance,  identification  (UV  and  HPLC),  identification  of  the  colorants  (colour 
reaction),  mean  mass,  dissolution  test  (UV,  PhEur,  USP),  water  content  (Karl-Fischer),  residual 
solvents  (GC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  microbial  quality  (PhEur,  USP),  uniformity  of  dosage 
(mass  variation  and  content  uniformity,  PhEur),  assay  (HPLC).  Specification  has  been  justified.. 
Furthermore, the applicant has discussed and analysed the  possible formation of chiral impurities in 
the  drug  product  during  shelf  life.  Impurity  limits  are  in  line  with  ICH/Q6A  and  justified  by 
toxicological  studies  and  batch  data.  Residual  solvents  are  in  line  with  ICH  guidelines.  Analytical 
methods  have  satisfactorily  described  and  validated  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines.  Batch 
analysis of 4 batches of each strength have been presented. The results comply with the specification 
and confirm the consistency of the product. 
The  primary  packaging  for  the  film-coated  tablets  consists  of  PA/Al/PVC  blister  packs  (Alu-Alu 
blisters).  The  components  of  the  PA/Al/PVC  blisters  are  tested  for  cleanliness,  total  thickness  and 
identity  (IR).  In  addition  the  Applicant  states  that  the  packaging  components  comply  with  PhEur 
requirements and/or EU foodstuff legislation. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  have  been  conducted  in  3  types  of  blisters  including  the  commercial  packaging. 
Stability  program  under  ICH  conditions  consisted  of  long  term  testing  at  25°C/60%  RH  and 
30°C/70% RH (changed to 30°C/75 % RH as of 1st October 2005), accelerated testing at 40°C/75% 
RH,  as  well  as  testing  under  other  conditions  (-20°C/ambient  RH,  5°C/ambient  RH,  50°C/ambient 
RH)  and  special  tests  (photostability,  microbial  limit  test,  freeze/thaw  cycle).  Parameters  such  as 
appearance,  dissolution,  water  content,  degradation  products  and  assay  have  been  tested.  Only  the 
commercial packaging (PA/Al/PVC blister) was retained. Based on stability data, the proposed shelf 
life can be accepted under the precautions of storage described in the Product Information. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance aliskiren hemifumarate is optically active with four chiral carbons but exists as a 
single  diastereoisomer.  It  is  manufactured  via  a  10  steps    stereochemically  controlled  synthesis. 
Control  of  stereochemistry,  polymorphism  and  impurities  have  been  fully  discussed.  Appropriate 
specification has been presented. Stability studies conducted according to the ICH guidelines showed 
that aliskiren hemifumarate is stable and the re-test period of 2 years, in very tight packaging (due to 
the hygroscopic nature of the substance), protected from light, at temperature not above 25°C can be 
granted.  Rasilez  film-coated  tablets  150  mg  and  300  mg  are  formulated  as  an  immediate  release 
formulation  with  well-known  excipients.The  two  strengths  have  the  same  qualitative  composition 
with regard to the active substance and the excipients in the cores; the coatings are slightly different. 
Compatibility  with  regard  to  excipients  is  justified  by  stability  results.  The  pharmaceutical 
development  is comprehensive and adequate. Manufacturing method has been described and allows 
the production of a consistent and homogeneous product.The tablets are kept in PA/AL/PVC blister 
packs (Alu-Alu blisters). The description and choice of the container is acceptable based on stability 
data.  Drug  product  specification  are  satisfactory  and  in  line  with  ICH  guidelines.  Stability  data 
support the proposed shelf life under the precautions of storage described in the Product Information.   
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical development program sufficiently follows the worldwide regulatory guidance and it 
was  considered  complete  by  the  CHMP  (SA  procedure  EMEA/H/SA/466/I/2004/III).  A  sufficient 
number of in vitro tests showed the selectivity of ALI to renin. Since renin displays strong species-
dependent substrate specificity, the main in vivo experimental models used BP response to a human 
renin.  They  provided  insight  into  the  PD  properties  demonstrating  antihypertensive  effects  of  ALI, 
with range of effective doses between 0.3 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg, depending on the models and on the 
administration  route.  The  toxicity  studies  employed  rats  and  marmosets,  species  used  as 
pharmacological  models,  which  displayed  metabolic  profiles  similar  to  humans.  Safety  margin 
calculations have been performed considering the human exposure after the highest expected clinical 
dose of 300 mg. All non-clinical studies in the toxicology program were performed with oral route, 
except one study in rats when ALI was administered intravenously and local tolerance studies. In the 
PD  program,  oral,  iintravenous  and  osmotic  minipump  administration  have  been  used.  ALI  showed 
generally a non-linear pharmacokinetics (PK) with low bioavailability and overproportional exposure 
after  oral  dosing  in  all  species.  Many  of  the  administration/distribution/metabolism/elimination 
(ADME) studies were conducted using a 3H and 14C labelled drug substances.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies with ALI showed its potency in inhibition of human recombinant renin and marmoset 
renin. ALI is less potent in various non-primate species. Moreover, ALI was inactive or only weakly 
active against human aspartic proteinases and HIV-1 proteinase. In vivo ALI was tested in marmosets, 
mice, and two stains of transgenic rats: (1) double transgenic rats (dTGR) expressing the human genes 
for  renin,  and  (2)  transgenic  rats  (TGR),  that  express  mouse  renin.  Spontaneously  hypertensive  rats 
(SHR),  in  which  ALI  monotherapy  evokes  a  weak  antihypertensive  response,  were  used  to  test  the 
antihypertensive effect of combining this RI with other inhibitors of the RAS. The in vivo models for 
©EMEA 2007 
4/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
testing antihypertensive properties of human rennin inhibitors are limited and not fully representative 
of  the  human  disease.  In  particular  the  elevated  species-specificity  of  renin  rendered  useless  the 
classic preclinical models of EHTN like SHR rats. This problem has been partially solved by using 
transgenic  models that are considered representative of the “state of the art” for RIs and suitable to 
demonstrate ALI primary PD effects, as well as the choice of comparators and statistical analysis. In 
particular in the TGR rat the acute BP lowering effect of ALI given in a single oral dose was rapid 
and seems to be dose-depedent between 3 and 100 mgEq/kg. The highest dose resulted in prolonged 
effect persisting for greater than 24 hours after dosing. The acute antihypertensive effect of ALI was 
10-fold less strong, than that of enalapril. After repeated dose for 10 days (1, 3 or 10 mgEq/kg/day 
orally  once  daily)  no  loss  or  gain  in  effect  over  the  10  days  study  was  demonstrated.  A  small  but 
significant increase in HR occurred following daily dosing with ALI at 10 mgEq/kg. Enalapril (ENA) 
at  a  dose  of  1  1  mgEq/kg/day  induced  a  significant  tachycardia.  The  in  vivo  potency  of  ALI  given 
orally was an order of magnitude less potent than that of VAL and ENA. Given i.v. these three agents 
exhibited comparable dose response profiles. The ALI PK/PD relationship is relatively log-linear over 
a 10-fold range of doses and over the entire duration of action from peak to recovery. In marmosets 
single  ALI  dose  between  0.3  and  1  mg/kg  lowered  mean  arterial  blood  pressure  (MAP)  to  a 
significantly  greater  extent  compared  with  either  benazepril  or  VAL.  In  these  animals  ALI  plasma 
levels increased dose dependently. PRA was completely inhibited 1.5 and 3 hrs after the lowest p.o. 
dose  of  0.3  mg/kg.  PRA  was  still  inhibited  by  87%  after  6  hrs  and  had  returned  to  above  baseline 
levels after 24 h. After the higher p.o. doses, the complete inhibition of PRA persisted even longer; 
PRA  was  completely  inhibited  (100%)  for  at  least  24  h  after  administration  of  the  3  and  10  mg/kg 
doses.  Lower  doses  of  ALI  were  required  for  inhibition  of  PRA  than  to  lower  MAP.  In  renin-
dependent  mice  ALI  given  at  50  mg/kg/day  s.c.  for  four  weeks  prevented  the  development  of  the 
renovascular HTN and significantly inhibited the rise of BP in renin-independent mice. ALI inhibited 
PRA  in  renin-dependent  mice  by  58%  relative  to  vehicle-treated  animals.  The  studies  performed  in 
dTGR to investigate organ protective effect of ALI are not considered really suitable for evaluation 
due to high variability. In diabetic-hypertensive TGR rats  ALI given s.c. for 10 weeks significantly 
lowered  the  BP.  In  summary  the  studies  performed  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  proved  the  significant  and 
selective inhibitory effect against human renin, and antihypertensive effect of ALI in different animal 
models. According to the pharmacological studies ALI, as a RI, provide the pharmacologic rationale 
for the use in the treatment of EHTN.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies were not conducted, but there are no concerns derived from the 
lack of these data.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
CNS,  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and  renal  safety  pharmacology  investigations  performed  did  not 
indicate undue risk for patients with regard to CNS adverse effects and QT prolongation-related even 
considering  the  available  clinical  data  including  a  specific  assessment  of  cardiac  conduction.  No 
effects on the rate and force of contraction of isolated guinea pig atria were observed. ALI affinity for 
main body receptors was  analysed in in vitro and in vivo data  and it is considered unlikely that the 
compound  will  interact  with  the  tested  receptors  at  therapeutic  doses  in  vivo.  In  summary,  no 
significant effects from safety pharmacology studies were observed at employed doses, which could 
preclude the use of ALI in man. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  effect  on  BP  and  HR  of  combining  ALI  with  other  RAS-blocking  agents  was  studied  in 
telemetered  SHR.  When  ALI  and  VAL  were  administered  simultaneously  at  submaximal  doses  (30 
mg/kg/day  and  1  mg/kg/day  s.c.,  respectively)  an  apparent  synergistic  BP  lowering  effect  occurred. 
The  decrease  in  BP  was  particularly  pronounced  with  the  combination  during  the  second  week  of 
administration, at a time when the antihypertensive effects in the monotherapy groups had dissipated. 
A  similar  synergy  was  observed  with  the  combination  of  ALI  (30  mg/kg/day)  and  a  higher  dose  of 
VAL  (3  mg/kg/day).  Combinations  of  ALI  and  VAL  or  ALI  and  benazepril  caused  significant 
(p<0.05) increases in the HR compared with vehicle controls and with the respective monotherapies. 
The elevation in HR diminished somewhat after the first week, consistent with baroreceptor resetting 
over  time.  However,  a  minimal,  but  sustained  tachycardia  was  observed  during  the  second  week  of 
©EMEA 2007 
5/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug  administration.  While  chronic  RAS  inhibition  is  generally  not  associated  with  significant 
elevations of HR, the extent and speed of the BP fall when ALI was combined with either VAL or 
benazepril led to tachycardia in SHR.  
Pharmacokinetics (and toxicokinetics) 
Conventional ADME studies were conducted extensively using single oral dose, to determine the PK 
behaviour, the type of decay plasma concentration time curves and the linearity of kinetics. Moreover 
supporting  information  on  repeated  administration  was  derived  from  numerous  toxicokinetic  data 
available. The conventional ADME studies have been performed in rats and  marmosets after single 
and  repeated  oral  doses  mainly  measuring  the  parent  compound  which  represents  the  predominant 
systemically  available  component  in  the  plasma.  ALI  shows  a  low  bioavailability  after  oral 
administration (absolute oral bioavailability in rats, marmosets and humans is 3.4, 16 and about 2%, 
respectively).  The  exact  mechanism  of  the  low  bioavailability  has  not  been  elucidated.  Doses 
administered in the TK studies were suitable to cover the range of doses as those studied in patients 
only in term of mg/kg. Plasma exposure however, based on dose normalized Cmax and AUC values, 
in relevant animals species was in many cases lower than in humans. However, it was demonstrated 
that safety ratios calculated on plasma ALI levels were less informative that safety margins based on 
faecal  and  mucosal  concentrations.  The  plasma  profile  of  rats  and  marmosets  and  humans  shows  a 
slowly  terminal  elimination  half  life  at  23,  26  and  24  hours  respectively  with  contribution  of  an 
entero-hepatic  recirculation.  There  is  no  trend  of  Cl  decrease  with  repeated  doses.  ALI  is  highly 
bound (approximately 92%) to plasma proteins in marmoset as determined from in vitro studies, and 
moderately  bound  (about  50%)  in  rats  and  humans.  Most  of  the  ALI  seems  mainly  confined  to  the 
blood  circulation.  ALI  is  slightly  metabolized  in  humans  and  marmosets  (20%)  and  moderately  in 
rodents  (50%).  The  pattern  of  metabolites  of  ALI  observed  in  liver  microsomes  of  human,  rat,  and 
marmoset  were  qualitatively  comparable.  Primary  metabolic  pathways  were  oxidation.  These 
oxidation processes had been found to be catalysed largely by CYP3A4/5 enzymes. The elimination 
of  ALI  from  the  body  occurred  almost  exclusively  via  the  faeces,  whereas  less  than  12%  of  the 
administered  dose  was  excreted  with  the  urine,  mainly  as  unchanged  compound.  Cyclosporin  or 
ritonavir  are  advised  to  probe  interactions  involving  MDR1,  because  these  drugs  block  several 
metabolic and transport pathways. The applicant provided a commitment to submit results of the ALI- 
cyclosporin interaction trial. The terminal elimination half-lives (t½) for ALI was 23.1 hours in rats 
and 36 hours in marmosets. Independently of the route of administration, in all investigated species, 
excretion of radioactivity after p.o. dosing occurred mainly via bile/faeces and was virtually complete 
within 7 days. Available data of ALI kinetics after single and repeated administration in rats, monkeys 
and humans shows that the plasma concentration-time profiles and the derived PK parameters showed 
substantial variability. However, when all studies were considered together, it is possible to conclude 
that generally the exposure increased in an approximately dose-proportional manner. Dose dependent 
or  dose-linear  exposure  was  more  obvious  in  gavage  studies  than  in  dietary  dose  studies.  No 
accumulation beyond steady state levels was found. The observed steady state kinetics indicates that 
no  autoinduction  of  clearance  processes  occurred  during  the  treatment.  In  three  rat  studies,  and 
possibly in the mouse carcinogenicity study, some trend to higher exposure of females was seen. In 
the  marmoset  study,  exposure  of  males  may  have  been  higher  than  that  of  females.  Considering  all 
data  and  the  variability  of  the  individual  data,  it  was  concluded  that  there  was  no  general  gender 
difference in exposure, in none of the investigated animal species. In mechanistic toxicology studies 
investigating  the  gastrointestinal  irritation  potential  of  ALI  in  rats  and  marmosets  concentrations  of 
ALI were measured in feces. The fecal concentrations of ALI increased roughly with dose. ALI was 
also measured in the lumen and mucosa of various intestinal segments in rats. The concentrations did 
not  show  significant  differences  between  the  intestinal  segments.  In  summary,  the  usually  safety 
margin  calculation,  comparing  human  and  animals  Cmax  and  AUC,  is  complicated  by  the  high 
variability  and  low  bioavailability,  showing  a  plasma  picture  that  could  be  probably  different  in 
patients,  however  more  suitable  safety  margins  are  based  on  faecal  and  mucosal  concentrations 
comparison between animals and humans.  
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
These studies, as conducted with ALI, do not provide information regarding the signs and symptoms 
©EMEA 2007 
6/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of an acute intoxication in humans. A single species, the rat was used, treatment was carried out in a 
few animals by gavage at 1000 then at a 2000 mg/kg limit dose. As no alterations were found it was 
concluded that the acute oral toxicity (LD50) of ALI in rats is higher than 2000 mg/kg. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
The daily administration of ALI to rats for 13-weeks was associated with premature deaths of a total 
of  17  animals  treated  at  200  or  600  mg/kg/day.  Findings  in  these  animals  comprised  respiratory 
disturbances  and  histopathological  alterations  in  the  respiratory  tract.  Decreased  red  blood  cell 
parameters at the dose 600 mg/kg/day were attributable to the pharmacological action of the test item. 
Other  histopathological  changes  in  animals  found  dead  or  killed  before  schedule  and  in  surviving 
animals comprised minimal to slight, dose-related hypertrophy/hyperplasia of the cecal mucosa at 200 
and 600 mg/kg, which may showed a tendency towards reversibility after the 4-week recovery period. 
The dose of 60 mg/kg/day was identified as the no-observed-effect-level (NOEL) under the conditions 
of  this  study.  The  daily  administration  of  ALI  to  rats  for  26  weeks  at  doses  up  to  250  mg/kg/day 
resulted  in  dose  dependent  plasma  toxicokinetics,  mild  clinical  signs  and  slight  reductions  in  body 
weight  gain.  The  only  histopathological  change  of  note  at  250  mg/kg/day  was  minor  inflammatory 
and degenerative changes of the respiratory epithelium at the tracheal bifurcation and the lungs, which 
were associated with the noisy breathing noted clinically. On the basis of the above results, a NOAEL 
was defined as 50 mg/kg/day for rats treated with daily oral doses of ALI for 26 weeks. This study 
was extensively discussed during the evaluation process. Finally, it was considered by the CHMP to 
be  suitable  following  the  applicant  explanations  regarding  the  contamination  of  control  and  GLP 
compliance status of necroscopy and histopathology examinations.The daily administration of ALI for 
13  weeks  in  marmosets  up  to  50  mg/kg/day,  resulted  in  dose  dependent  plasma  toxicokinetics, 
increased  incidence  of  vomiting  and  post-dose  salivation  and  frequent  incidences  of  diarrhea  were 
noted  at  the  high  dose.  Blood  alterations  consisted  of  moderate  reductions  in  RBCs,  with  minimal 
increases  in  reticulocyte  counts.  Mild  to  moderate  increase  in  urea  and/or  creatinine  concentration 
were occasionally found. There were no treatment-related changes during the electrocardiography and 
BP  measurements. NOEL was not established for female animals in this study; the NOEL for male 
animals  was  5  mg/kg/day.  The  daily  administration  of  ALI  for  39  weeks  in  marmosets  up  to  20 
mg/kg/day  resulted  in  no  clinical  signs  observed  throughout  the  experimental  period  that  could  be 
ascribed to treatment with ALI. Principal drug-related findings following oral administration of ALI 
included minimal to moderate microscopic renal lesions in animals of either sex at the high dose level 
of  20  mg/kg/day.  These  drug-related  changes  partly  correlated  with  increased  creatinine  and  blood 
urea  values  seen  on  occasions  in  animals  receiving  the  test  material  at  5  and  20  mg/kg/day. 
Furthermore,  the  renal  microscopic  findings  were  associated  with  elevated  kidney  weights  in  high 
dose males at the terminal sacrifice. Changes proved to be fully reversible at the end of the recovery 
period.  Based  on  these  findings,  the  NOEL  for  this  study  was  the  low  dose  of  2  mg/kg/day.  The 
toxicity  profile  in  mice  and  rats  was  consisted  of  inflammatory  and  degenerative  changes  of  the 
respiratory  epithelium  and  hypertrophy/hyperplasia  of  the  cecal  mucosa.  Diarrhea  was  the  primary 
gastrointestinal  effect  of  ALI  in  marmosets  but  there  were  no  associated  treatment-related 
histopathological findings. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Most  studies  conducted  to  evaluate  the  genotoxic potential of  ALI were  compliant  with  current  ICH 
Guidance,  however,  a  non-GLP  study  was  also  performed  early  in  the  development  program  as  a 
screen to assist in internal decision making. Studies in bacterial in  vitro  systems and in mammalian 
in vitro and in vivo systems with and without metabolic activation did not reveal any evidence for a 
genotoxic  potential  of  ALI  including  studies  in  target  organs  identified  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity 
study. In a rat comet assay by the oral route at high doses (1000 mg/kg and 2000 mg/kg) ALI did not 
induce DNA migration in liver cells, colon cells and cecum mucosa cells of Crl:WI (Han) rats.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of ALI was assessed following dietary administration to transgenic mice 
for 26 weeks or Wistar rats for 104 weeks. In the 104-week dietary carcinogenicity study in rats ALI 
in feed admixtures was not carcinogenic at doses up to 1500 mg/kg/day in females, and at doses up to 
750 mg/kg/day in males. One colonic adenoma and one cecal adenocarcinoma were observed in males 
at 1500 mg/kg/day which were not statistically significant but were of uncertain relationship to ALI 
©EMEA 2007 
7/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment  given  the  low  incidence  of  these  neoplasms  in  historical  controls.  No  treatment-related 
tumors  were  observed.  Diffuse  hyperplasia  in  the  small  intestine  and  cecum  as  well  as  the  focal 
atypical mucosal hyperplasia were noted in the colon at 1500 mg/kg/day. The main target organs for 
non-neoplastic lesions were small and large intestine, mesenteric lymphonode and gall bladder in both 
sexes,  and  reproductive  organs  and  bone  marrow  in  females.  A  dose  of  250  mg/kg/day  cannot  be 
considered the NOEL under the conditions of the present study, because at the low dose used i.e. 250 
mg/kg/day, the number of cecum mucosal hyperplasia increased of two fold and this was considered a 
certain  adverse  effect.  The  5.3  section  of  the  SmPC  has  been  updated  to  reflect  this  aspect.  In  the  
26-week  dietary  study  in  transgenic  mice  ALI  did  not  induced  treatment-related  tumors.  Diffuse 
hyperplasia  in  the  small  intestine  and  cecum  as  well  as  the  focal  atypical  mucosal  hyperplasia  was 
noted  in  the  colon  at  1500  mg/kg/day.  Hence  the  compound  was  not  considered  to  show  any 
carcinogenic potential in this study. The main target organs for non-neoplastic lesions were small and 
large  intestine,  mesenteric  lymph  node  and  gall  bladder  in  both  sexes,  and  reproductive  organs  and 
bone  marrow  in  females.  Based  on  AUC(0-24h)  values,  a  trend  to  over-exposure  of  animals  with 
increasing dose was seen in both males and females. M. A dose of 250 mg/kg/day can be considered 
as the NOEL under the conditions of the present study 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Studies  on  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development,  embryo-fetal  and  prenatal-postnatal 
development studies were performed in rats and rabbits by oral route. 
Fertility and early embryonic development study in rats 
The administration of ALI at doses of 50, 150 and 250 mg/kg/day elicited no parental toxicity and no 
AEs on fertility or early embryonic development in rats following oral gavage administration 
Embryo-fetal development study in rats 
The purpose of the study was to investigate any adverse effects of ALI on the pregnant rat and the 
development  of  the  embryo  and  fetus  consequent  to  exposure  of  the  pregnant  female  from 
implantation to closure of the hard palate following administration by daily oral gavage dose levels of 
0,  60,  300  or  600  mg/kg/day  of  ALI  on  gestation  days  6  through  to  17.  There  were  no  treatment-
related  maternal  mortalities  or  effects  on  necropsy  observations,  and  no  effects  of  treatment  on 
reproductive  parameters,  fetal  body  weights,  sex  ratios  or  fetal  gross,  visceral  or  skeletal 
examinations.  
Embryo-fetal development range-finding study in rabbits 
The purpose of this study was to provide information on dose selection for a subsequent embryo-fetal 
development study of ALI in rabbits. No treatment-related effects were noted in clinical or necropsy 
observations, food consumption, body weight parameters or evaluated reproductive parameters. Oral 
administration of ALI to pregnant rabbits on gestation days 7 through 20 produced no adverse effects 
at doses as high as 100 mg/kg/day.  
Embryo-fetal development range-finding study in rabbits 
The  purpose  of  this  follow-up  study  was  to  provide  additional  information  on  dose  selection  for  a 
subsequent  embryo-fetal  development  study  of  ALI  (at  dose  levels  of  200,  400,  600  or  1000 
mg/kg/day) in rabbits. Treatment-related mortalities and sacrifices occurred at doses ≥400 mg/kg/day 
and no animals survived to terminal sacrifice in these groups. There were no effects on reproductive 
parameters or fetal gross examinations at 200 mg/kg/day, which was the only dose group to survive to 
terminal C-section. 
Embryo-fetal development study in rabbits 
The purpose of this study was to investigate any adverse effects of ALI (at doses of 0, 50, 100 or 200 
mg/kg/day)  on  the  embryonic  and  fetal  development  of  the  rabbit  when  administered  orally,  by 
gavage. The doses of 50 or 100 mg/kg/day elicited mild maternal toxicity in terms of slight reductions 
in body weight gain, food and water intake but without adverse effects on the embryo or fetus. 
Pre- and postnatal development study in rats 
The purpose of the study was to assess the effects of ALI (at doses of 50, 150 or 250 mg/kg/day) on 
©EMEA 2007 
8/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the pre- and postnatal development, including maternal function, of the rats receiving ALI orally, by 
gavage, from day 6 of gestation to day 21 post-partum, inclusive. The ALI administration to female 
rats  during  gestation  and  lactation  elicited  no  maternal  toxicity  and  no  adverse  effects  on  the 
development or reproductive performance.  
In  summary,  effects  on  the  fetal  or  pre/postnatal  development  are  observed  in  animal  studies  with 
drugs  affecting  the  RAS.  Reproductive  toxicity  studies  did  not  show  such  effects  for  ALI. 
Reproductive toxicity studies with aliskiren did not reveal any evidence of embryofoetal toxicity or 
teratogenicity  at  doses  up  to  600 mg/kg/day  in  rats  or  100 mg/kg/day  in  rabbits.  Fertility,  pre-natal 
development and post-natal development were unaffected in rats at doses up to 250 mg/kg/day. The 
doses in rats and rabbits provided systemic exposures of 1 to 4 and 5 times higher, respectively, than 
the maximum recommended human dose (300 mg). 
•  Local tolerance  
A series of studies has been performed in order to characterised to irritation potential of ALI. ALI did 
not increase the haemolytic potential at any concentration tested. It induced severe acute inflammation 
with  ulceration  in  the  trachea,  larynx  and  bronchi,  and  bronchopneumonia  in  rats  receiving  intra-
tracheal administration of a single 0.05 mL dose of the product at a concentration of 20 mg/mL. ALI 
administered by subcutaneous injection to rats at doses of 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg/day for 2 wk, induced 
sore formation, brown or black discoloration, swelling and erythema. The incidence and severity of 
these changes was broadly dose-related ranging from minimal at 10 mg/kg/day to moderate/severe at 
100  mg/kg/day.  Haematoma  formation  and  necrosis  were  also  recorded  at  the  injection  sites  of 
animals treated at 30 or 100 mg/kg/day. ALI applied topically with occlusive bandage to non-abraded 
New Zealand white rabbit skin did not induce reactions. ALI was administered to three New Zealand 
white rabbits as single intravenous (i.v.), perivenous (p.v.) or intra-arterial (i.a.) injections (0.3 mL) as 
a 1 mg/mL solution and the animals has been observed for 7 days. After i.v. and p.v. administration a 
slight erythema was observed for up to 4 -5 days. Intra-arterial application resulted not only in slight 
erythema  but  also  slight  oedema  for  up  to  4  days  after  treatment.  In  addition,  slight  to  moderate 
haematomas developed at all injection sites after application and remained visible for between 4 and 7 
days. These findings were present also with the vehicle and were common in the rabbit following i.v., 
p.v.or  i.a.  injection  due  to  the  low  vascular  stability  of  this  animal.  Macroscopic  or  microscopic 
evaluation of the sites of injection showed that there were no apparent differences between the local 
reactions at injection sites treated with ALI or vehicle. The administration of ALI at a concentration of 
20 mg/ml into the trachea of anaesthetized rats resulted in rapid necrosis of the epithelium and after 
s.c. route in view of the severity of the observed findings, the animals were killed with the minimum 
of  delay  and  the  changes  in  the  skin  were  confirmed  at  necropsy.  It  was  concluded  that  the  s.c. 
administration of it to rats at doses of 10, 30 or 100 mg/kg/day caused signs  of minimal to marked 
local irritation at the injection sites, while the product appeared equally tolerated in the rabbit by the 
i.v., p.v. and i.a. routes of administration in comparison to control group. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The maximum anticipated daily dose of ALI is 300 mg. After oral intake, ALI is absorbed to 1.5 - 3%. 
The absorbed fraction is excreted largely unmetabolised, with an overall metabolism rate of less than 
1% of dose. In total, > 99% of dose is being excreted as unchanged ALI into the environment. The 
available evidence suggests ALI to have a very low chronic toxicity towards aquatic organisms. The 
data further shows that soil and sediment can be regarded of low concern regarding the environmental 
exposure of ALI. The assessment therefore focused on the aquatic environment, i.e. sewage treatment 
plants,  surface  water  and  ground  water.  As  demonstrated  by  the  respective  studies,  ALI  is  not 
removed from the water phase by either hydrolysis or photolysis to a significant extent. The highest 
respective risk ratio  is 0.00028, which is far below unity, and is the accepted risk ratio. The present 
assessment suggests that, based on the scientific information available, the placement of the foreseen 
amounts  of  ALI  on  the  EU  market  does  not  constitute  any  significant  risk  to  the  environment.  No 
specific  labeling  or  risk  mitigation  measures  are  deemed  necessary.  As  with  all  non-readily 
biodegradable  human  medicines,  patients  should  be  advised  not  to  dispose  of  unused  ALI  via 
domestic sewage. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
©EMEA 2007 
9/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The transgenic rats and marmoset models and methodology used are considered representative of the 
“state of the art” for RIs. The in vivo models for testing antihypertensive properties of human RIs are 
limited and not fully representative of the human disease. In particular the elevated species-specificity 
of renin rendered useless the classic preclinical models of HTN like SHR rats. This problem has been 
partially solved by using models in which RAS was activated either in the absence or in the presence 
of  hypertensive  state.  Another  source  of  difficulties  in  RIs  preclinical  studies  is  due  to  their  low 
biovailability  by  oral  route,  which  imposed  subcutaneous  continuous  administration  in  sub-chronic 
studies. Administered through a subcutaneous route ALI caused marked cutaneous irritative damage 
so  that  some  studies  were  stopped  before  the  end  of  the  treatment.  From  the  studies  submitted  it  is 
possible  to  conclude  that  ALI  is  a  potent  specific  RI  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  After  oral 
administration  ALI  exerts  a  strong  and  long-lasting  BP  lowering  effect  without  any  effect  on  HR. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  did  not  reveal  any  adverse  effects  on  central  nervous,  respiratory  or 
cardiovascular function. Findings during repeat-dose toxicity studies in animals were consistent with 
the known local irritation potential or the expected pharmacological effects of aliskiren. In spite of a 
single in vitro reassuring data showing a less sensitivity to ALI effects for human colon in comparison 
to  rat  colon,  the  overall  in  vivo  data  do  not  permit  to  completely  rule  out  a  risk  of  intestinal 
hyperplasia  for  humans  after  long-term  administration.  Carcinogenic  potential  was  assessed  in  a  
2-year rat study and a 6-month transgenic mouse study. No carcinogenic potential was detected. One 
colonic adenoma and one cecal adenocarcinoma recorded in rats at the dose of 1500 mg/kg/day were 
not statistically significant. Although ALI has known irritation potential, safety margins obtained in 
humans at the dose of 300 mg during a study on healthy volunteers were considered to be appropriate 
at 9-11-fold based fecal concentrations or 6-fold based on mucosa concentrations in comparison with 
250 mg/kg/day in the rat carcinogenicity study. Aliskiren was devoid of any mutagenic potential in 
the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  mutagenicity  studies.  The  assays  included  in  vitro  assays  in  bacterial  and 
mammalian cells and in vivo assessments in rats. Reproductive toxicity studies with aliskiren did not 
reveal any evidence of embryofoetal toxicity or teratogenicity at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day in rats or 
100 mg/kg/day  in  rabbits.  Fertility,  pre-natal  development  and  post-natal  development  were 
unaffected  in  rats  at  doses  up  to  250 mg/kg/day.  The  doses  in  rats  and  rabbits  provided  systemic 
exposures  of  1  to  4  and  5 times  higher,  respectively,  than  the  maximum  recommended  human  dose 
(300 mg). There are no data on the use of ALI in pregnant women. Aliskiren was not teratogenic in 
rats or rabbits. ALI was secreted in the milk of lactating rats.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  development  program  consisted  of  efficacy  and  safety  studies  of  ALI  as  monotherapy  or  in 
combination with other classes of  anti-hypertensive drugs, including a diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide 
[HCTZ]), an ARB (VAL), an ACEI (RAM), CCB (AML) and BB (ATE). All completed studies were 
conducted  in  patients  with  essential  HTN.  Specific  studies  were  conducted  in  hypertensive  patients 
with  diabetes,  obesity,  systolic  HTN  (in  patients  over  65  years  of  age),  and  severe  HTN.  Ongoing 
studies  are  being  conducted  in  populations  with  diabetic  nephropathy,  CHF,  and  left  ventricular 
hypertrophy, as well as in hypertensive patients unresponsive to other agents.  
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. The assessment of the 
clinical documentations did not raise concerns about compliance with GCP.  
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Absorption  
Following  oral  absorption,  peak  plasma  concentrations  of  ALI  are  reached  after  1-3 hours.  The 
absolute  bioavailability  of  aliskiren  is  approximately  2-3%.  Steady-state-plasma  concentrations  are 
reached within 5-7 days following once-daily administration and steady-state levels are approximately 
2-fold greater than with the initial dose. Meals with a high fat content reduce Cmax by 85% and AUC 
©EMEA 2007 
10/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by 70%. Administration following a high fat meal reduces the drug bioavailability by 60-70%. This 
means  that  assumption  of  drug  under  fasting  condition  increases  the  drug  bioavailability 
approximately 3-fold, with respect to assumption with food. The effect of different meal contents, and 
in particular of a lighter breakfast, has not been investigated. Nor has been investigated whether the 
food effect is influenced by the drug product formulation.  
•  Distribution 
Following  intravenous  administration,  the  mean  volume  of  distribution  at  steady  state  is 
approximately 135 litres, indicating that aliskiren distributes extensively into the extravascular space. 
ALI plasma protein binding is moderate (47-51%) and independent of the concentration. 
•  Metabolism  
The  mean  half-life  is  about  40 hours  (range  34-41 hours).  ALI  is  mainly  eliminated  as  unchanged 
compound in the faeces (78%). Approximately 1.4% of the total oral dose is metabolised. The enzyme 
responsible  for  this  metabolism  is  CYP3A4.  Approximately  0.6%  of  the  dose  is  recovered  in  urine 
following oral administration.  
•  Elimination 
In  all  species,  ALI  is  mainly  eliminated  as  unchanged  drug  by  biliary  excretion  into  the  faeces. 
Unchanged  drug  accounted  for  77.5%  of  the  faecal  radioactivity  but  most  of  the  unchanged  drug 
eliminated with faeces was unabsorbed drug. The drug is eliminated mainly through the hepatobiliary 
route mainly as unchanged drug. Following intravenous administration, the mean plasma clearance is 
approximately  9 l/h.  Terminal  half-life  was  found  to  be  23.7  ±  7.6  hours  after  i.v.  administration; 
similar values were found after oral administration. In subsequent studies, substantially higher mean 
values  were  found,  ranging  from  30  to  60  hours.  Exposure  to  aliskiren  increased  more  than  in 
proportion to the increase in dose. After single dose administration in the dose range of 75 to 600 mg, 
a  2-fold  increase  in  dose  results  in  a  ~2.3  and  2.6  fold  increase  in  AUC  and  Cmax,  respectively.  At 
steady  state  the  nonlinearity  may  be  more  pronounced.  Mechanisms  responsible  for  deviation  from 
linearity have not been identified. A possible mechanism is saturation of transporters at the absorption 
site or at the hepatobiliary clearance route. 
Consequences of possible genetic polymorphism 
Given the complex PK involving different transport systems there may be a genetic background for 
variability of PK and outliers. Yet, at present there is limited information on genetic polymorphism of 
transporters  and  the  clinical  relevance  of  transporter  genetic  variations  is  not  well  established. 
Therefore, and taking into account the data on efficacy and safety, investigation of the consequences 
of possible genetic polymorphism of transport systems were not considered necessary. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The PKs is slightly nonlinear in the whole range of investigated doses probably due to the saturation 
of  a  pre-systemic  elimination  process.  Systemic  exposure  after  multiple  dose  administration  of  the 
300 mg dose has been evaluated in several studies in healthy subjects. Time needed to reach steady-
state  could  not  be  determined  accurately;  it  was  comprised  between  7  and  12  days.  Comparison 
between AUC following a single dose and AUC at steady-state indicate a 1.5 to 2-fold accumulation 
of ALI. Apparent clearance did not change with repeated administration. 
•  Special populations 
Renal impairment 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  aliskiren  were  evaluated  in  patients  with  varying  degrees  of  renal 
insufficiency. Relative AUC and Cmax of aliskiren in subjects with renal impairment ranged between 
0.8 to 2 times the levels in healthy subjects following single dose administration and at steady state. 
These  observed  changes,  however,  did  not  correlate  with  the  severity  of  renal  impairment.  No 
adjustment of the initial dosage of Rasilez is required in patients with mild to severe renal impairment, 
however caution should be exercised in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
©EMEA 2007 
11/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren were not significantly affected in patients with mild to severe liver 
disease. Consequently, no adjustment of the initial dose of Rasilez is required in patients with mild to 
severe hepatic impairment 
Gender 
The influence of gender on PKs was evaluated using data from 7 selected studies in healthy subjects. 
Data show that the mean AUC value in females was 31% higher than in males, the mean Cmax value 
45%  higher  than  in  males.  Pooled  data  analysis  indicated  that  gender  difference  was  caused  by 
weight. 
Race 
One  study  compared  PK  and  PD  between  Caucasians  and  Japanese  following  a  single  dose  and  at 
steady-state.  There  was  an  about  20%  increase  in  the  total  exposure  of  ALI  in  the  Japanese  group 
compared  to  the  Caucasians,  which  probably  has  no  clinical  consequence.  This  difference  might  be 
due  to  Cyp  3A4  or  MDR1  polymorphism.  Pooled  data  from  7  steady-state  studies  in  healthy 
volunteers  were  used  to  investigate  the  effect  of  ethnic  origin  on  PK.  There  were  no  apparent 
differences in PK parameters among ethnicities 
Weight 
Pooled  data  from  17  multiple  dose  studies  were  examined  for  the  influence  of  weight  on  PK.  The 
correlation  analysis  indicated  a  significant  negative  correlation  between  PK  and  weight.  The 
correlations  were  not  statistically  significant  when  PK  values  were  adjusted  by  weight.  The  actual 
impact  of  weight  on  PK  was  examined  through  regression  analysis  of  PK  on  weight  based  on  log-
transformed  data.  It  can  be  noted  that  with  a  20%,  40%  or  60%  increment  in  weight,  the  predicted 
drop  should  be  around  14%,  24%  or  31%,  respectively,  in  AUC  and  18%,  30%  or  40%  in  Cmax. 
These changes in PK are considered not clinically significant.  
Elderly 
The influence of age on ALI PK was investigated in a single-dose (300 mg) study in healthy subjects. 
Elderly subjects (16 subjects 65-75 and 13 subjects >75 years) were matched to young subjects (18 to 
≤45 years) by gender, weight, and race. PK analysis showed a 50% increase in the total exposure and 
a 30% increase in Cmax, with no difference between subjects aged 65-74 and those aged ≥75 years. 
There was a trend toward an increase of half-life in the elderly group, with concomitant decrease of 
apparent  clearance  and  apparent  volume  of  distribution.  The  increase  in  drug  exposure  may  be 
explained by several changes in pharmacokinetics usually occurring in the elderly due to age-related 
physiologic perturbations. 
Type II diabetic patients  
One study evaluated ALI PK (and PD) following a single 300 mg dose in 30 type II diabetic patients 
vs. 30 healthy volunteers, selected to match type 2 diabetes with regard to age, weight and race. The 
diabetic  group  was  not  homogenous  with  regard  to  sex  and  race.  In  addition,  sex  rates  in  the  two 
groups  slightly  differed  (male/female:  16/14  in  diabetic  patients,  13/17  in  healthy  volunteers). 
Diabetic  patients  were  not  homogenous  with  regard  to  the  drug  assumed  for  treating  diabetes 
(metformin,  glipizide,  glybenclamide).  At  least  one  of  these  drugs,  metformin,  has  been  shown  to 
influence  ALI  PK,  decreasing  Cmax  and  AUC.  Because  of  the  small  sample  size,  this  lack  of 
homogeneity added further sources of variability, thus hampering the detection of differences due to 
the  diabetic  state.  Healthy  subjects  had  a  14%  higher  clearance  than  type  2  diabetic  patients.  The 
increase  in  CL/F  led  to  slight  increases  in  Cmax  (13%),  AUC0-t  (13%)  and  t1/2  (10%)  in  type2 
diabetic patients relative to healthy subjects. PD effect appeared  to be lower in diabetic patients. In 
particular, Ang II levels were higher in diabetics 24 hours post-dose, but it is not known whether this 
difference was statistically significant. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
As  it  is  described  in  the  SPC  ALI  has  no  known  clinically  relevant  interactions  with  medicinal 
products commonly used to treat HTN or diabetes. Compounds that have been investigated in clinical 
PK  studies  include  acenocoumarol,  atenolol,  celecoxib,  pioglitazone,  allopurinol,  isosorbide-5-
identified.  Co-
mononitrate,  ramipril  and  hydrochlorothiazide.  No 
interactions  have  been 
©EMEA 2007 
12/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration  of  ALI  with  either  valsartan  (↓28%),  metformin  (↓28%),  amlodipine  (↑29%)  or 
cimetidine  (↑19%)  resulted  in  between  20%  and  30%  change  in  Cmax  or  AUC  of  aliskiren.  When 
administered with atorvastatin, steady-state ALI AUC and Cmax increased by 50%. Co-administration 
of ALI had no significant impact on atorvastatin, VAL, metformin or AML PK. As a result no dose 
adjustment for ALI or these co-administered medicinal products is necessary. Digoxin bioavailability 
may  be  slightly  decreased  by  ALI.  Preliminary  data  suggest  that  IRB  may  decrease  ALI  AUC  and 
Cmax.  In  experimental  animals,  it  has  been  shown  that  P-gp  is  a  major  determinant  of  aliskiren 
bioavailability.  Inducers  of  P-gp  (St.  John’s  wort,  rifampin)  might  therefore  decrease  the 
bioavailability of aliskiren. The Applicant has planned an interaction study with cyclosporine, a P-gp 
inhibitor as a part of the follow-up measures. ALI does not inhibit the CYP450 isoenzymes (CYP1A2, 
CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A). ALI does not induce CYP3A4. ALI 
is  metabolised  minimally  by  the  cytochrome  P450  enzymes,  therefore  interactions  with  agents  that 
inhibit, induce or are metabolised by these enzymes are not expected. As a result no dose adjustment 
for  ALI  is  necessary.  Based  on  experience  with  the  use  of  other  substances  that  affect  the  RAS, 
concomitant  use  of  potassium-sparing  diuretics,  potassium  supplements,  salt  substitutes  containing 
potassium  or  other  substances  that  may  increase  serum  potassium  levels  (e.g.  heparin)  may  lead  to 
increases  in  serum  potassium.  If  co-medication  is  considered  necessary,  caution  is  advisable.  When 
ALI  was  co-administered  with  furosemide,  the  AUC  and  Cmax  of  furosemide  were  reduced  by  28% 
and  49%  respectively.  It  is  therefore  recommended  to  monitor  the  effects  when  initiating  and 
adjusting  furosemide  therapy  to  avoid  possible  underutilisation  in  clinical  situations  of  volume 
overload.  Co-administration  of  ketoconazole  200 mg  twice  daily  with  ALI  resulted  in  a  1.8-fold 
increase  in  plasma  levels  of  ALI  (AUC  and  Cmax).  The  change  in  plasma  levels  in  the  presence  of 
ketoconazole is expected to be within the range that would be achieved if the dose were doubled; ALI 
doses  of  up  to  600 mg,  or  twice  the  highest  recommended  therapeutic  dose,  have  been  found  to  be 
safe  in  well-controlled  clinical  trials.  Preclinical  studies  indicate  that  ALI  and  ketoconazole  co-
administration enhances  ALI gastrointestinal absorption and decreases biliary excretion. The effects 
of  ALI  on  warfarin  pharmacokinetics  have  not  been  evaluated.  Meals  with  a  high  fat  content  have 
been shown to reduce the absorption of ALI substantially. Interaction with isosorbide-5-mononitrate: 
the study showed a trend towards reduction of isosorbide-5-mononitrate AUC.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
All  agents  that  block  the  RAS,  including  RIs,  inhibit  the  negative  feedback  loop,  leading  to  a 
compensatory  rise  in  RC.  When  this  rise  occurs  during  treatment  with  ACEIs  and  ARBs,  it  is 
accompanied by increased levels of PRA. The decreasing effect of ALI on PRA is maintained despite 
the compensatory increase in RC. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
PD has been  poorly investigated. The relevant information comes from a  single dose-finding study. 
ALI at doses of 40-640 mg dose-dependently inhibited PRA following single dose administration and 
at steady state. A concomitant increase of RC was observed with doses ≥ 80 mg. Maximal inhibition 
of PRA was reached within one hour of administration. PRA was inhibited for up to 24 hours at doses 
of 80 mg and higher. ALI dose-dependently reduced plasma Ang I and Ang II levels following single 
dose administration and at steady state. ALI at the 160 mg dose suppressed Ang II levels to a similar 
extent  as  enalapril  20  mg  with  somewhat  greater  suppression  at  the  640  mg  dose.  The  observed 
changes in PRA, Ang I and Ang II provided direct evidence for RAS blockade. Urinary aldosterone 
excretion  over  24  hours  was  reduced  by  ALI  at  doses  of  80-640  mg  following  single  dose 
administration  (up  to  56%)  and  at  steady  state  (up  to  31%).  Treatment  with  ALI  reduced  plasma 
aldosterone  concentrations  following  single  dose  administration  at  3  hours  post-dose.  This  effect 
persisted for up to 24 hours at the highest dose (640 mg). The suppression of aldosterone with ALI is 
attributable to a decrease in Ang II-mediated activation of the AT1 receptor, which triggers secretion 
of aldosterone, providing additional evidence for RAS blockade. PRA and RC were also collected in  
2 of the PLA-controlled studies, and in 2 of the long-term studies (Study 2306 and Study 2302) as PD 
measures.  Data  indicate  that  during  treatment  with  ALI,  the  increase  in  RC  does  not  overcome  the 
drug’s effect in decreasing PRA or BP whether ALI is used as monotherapy or in combination with 
other antihypertensive agents. PD was  also studied in Type II diabetic subjects, in comparison with 
©EMEA 2007 
13/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
healthy subjects after single dose (300 mg). PRA was significantly inhibited in both healthy subjects 
(60 %) and in patients with type 2 diabetes (72%). Baseline PRA was higher in patients with diabetes 
(1.8 ± 3.2 ng/mL/h) compared to the healthy subjects (1.2 ± 0.9 ng/mL/h). RC increased by 8.6 and 
9.5-fold  in  diabetics  and  healthy  subjects,  respectively.  Baseline  RC  was  also  higher  in  diabetic 
patients. One study compared PRA inhibition under fasted and fed status after a single dose (150 mg), 
formulated as two different film-coated tablets. ALI given as the film coated tablet after food resulted 
in  a  less  pronounced  decrease  in  PRA  compared  to  the  fasted  state,  with  50%  of  subjects  showing 
detectable levels of PRA at all time-points following dosing, but no statistical analysis was performed. 
No  bibliographic  reference  was  found  showing  that  food  has  an  acute  effect  on  PRA.  Also,  the 
relationship between PRA levels and the antihypertensive effect has not been established.  
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The PK/PD relationship has been very poorly investigated. The PRA-ALI concentration plots show a 
flat anticlockwise hysteresis loop for PRA at steady state, suggesting that activity increases when the 
drug  is  distributed  to  the  kidney.  The  Ang  II-ALI  concentration  profile  is  similar  to  the  PRA-ALI 
profile, but there is no flattening following multiple dose administration. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Introduction 
All  efficacy  studies  but  one  (1201)  were  done  in  3  or  more  countries  and  included  various 
ethnic groups. Study 1201 was limited to Japanese individuals. All studies had a randomised, double-
blind, parallel-group design and included washout (WO) and/or RI periods. Inclusion criterium was a 
diagnosis  of  mild-to-moderate  EHTN  for  all  of  the  studies  but  one  (2303).  Study  2303  was 
specifically designed on severe EHTN. 
Data for comparison of aliskiren as a single drug vs PLA were collected in five studies (2201, 
2203, 2204, 2308, and 1201). These studies were done with use of different ALI doses for analyses on 
dose-response relationship. Data for analyses on the ALI effects in combination with other registered 
antihypertensive  drugs  (comparison  of  ALI+other  drug  vs  other  drug  alone)  were  collected  in  six 
studies  (2203,  2204,  2305,  2307,  2309,  and  2304).  Data  for  comparison  of  ALI  vs  other  registered 
antihypertensive drugs (ALI vs another drug) were collected in nine studies (2201, 2203, 2303, 2307, 
2309,  2324,  2323,  2306,  and  2304).  The  comparison  was  between  regimens  based  on  the 
administration  of  one  drug  in  five  studies  (2201,  2307,  2323,  2324,  and  2304),  between  regimens 
based  on  the  administration  of  more  drugs  in  the  remaining  studies  (2203,  2303,  2309,  2323,  and 
2306). Other registered antihypertensive drugs included in the studies were two different ARB (IRB 
and VAL), two different ACEi (LIS and RAM), one CCB (AML), one diuretic (HTC), and one BB 
(ATE). 
Active treatment with ALI lasted 8 wk for eight studies that included all the five studies vs 
PLA. In the other four studies, active treatment lasted between 6 and 26 wk. Analyses of duration of 
withdrawal  (DW)  effects  were  included  in  four  studies  (2201,  2308,  1201,  and  2306).  DW  lasted 
between 4 d and 4 wk. All studies included male and female patients. Age distribution was relatively 
similar  across  all  studies  (median  or  mean  age  of  about  55  y,  age  range  including  young  and  older 
ages)  with  exception  of  study  2324  that  was  specifically  designed  for  analyses  on  individuals  with 
ages ≥65y. The primary end-point was the change induced by active treatment in msDBP in ten of the 
twelve studies. Two studies focused on msSBP: the 2303 study in severe EHTN and the 2324 study in 
individuals with age ≥ 65y. 
Results  of  studies  on  efficacy  will  be  described  focusing  on  three  points:  dose-response 
relation and effects of ALI as a single antihypertensive drug (comparison vs PLA of ALI at different 
doses); effects of ALI in combination with other antihypertensive drugs (comparison of ALI + other 
drug  vs  other  drug  alone);  comparison  of  ALI  to  other  drugs  (comparison  of  ALI  vs  other  drug 
between regimens based on the use of one or more drugs).  
Brief overview of the clinical studies is presented in table 1 below:
©EMEA 2007 
14/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration  Gender 
M/F; age  
Dg/ Incl. 
criteria 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Study 
Nr. 
Nr. of 
centers 
Design 
Study 
Posology 
29 
68 
1201 
5.3.5.1 
Part 5 
2308 
5.3.5.1.
Part 4 
94 
2203 
5.3.5.1 
Part 2 
Randomized, 
placebo-
controlled, 4 
arm dose-
finding 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled 
75 mg, 150 mg, 300 
mg ALI/day; placebo 
150 mg, 300 mg, 600 
mg ALI/day - placebo 
75, 150, 300 mg 
ALI/day; valsartan 80, 
160, 320 mg; 
ALI/valsartan 75/80, 
150/160, 300/320 mg, 
valsartan/HCTZ 
160/12.5 mg; placebo 
312 
2327 
5.3.5.1 
Part 2 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group 
150, 300 mg ALI/day; 
valsartan 160, 320 mg; 
ALI/valsartan  
150/160, 300/320 mg; 
placebo 
207 
2204 
5.3.5.1 
Part 3 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo-
controlled, 
parallel group 
75, 150, 300 ALI 
mg/day; HCTZ 6.25, 
12.5, 25 mg; ALI/ 
HCTZ 150/6.25, 
150/12.5, 150/25 mg; 
ALI/ HCTZ 300/12.5, 
300/25 mg; PLA 
81 
2305 
5.3.5.1 
Part 7 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
ALI/amlodipine 150/5 
mg; amlodipine 5, 10 
mg 
©EMEA 2007 
Study 
Objective 
Subjects by 
arm/ entered/ 
completed 
Efficacy/ 
safety/ dose 
finding 
Efficacy/ 
safety/ dose 
finding 
455 entered;  
434 (104-
111/arm) 
completed:  
672 entered; 
608 (163-
167/arm 
completed 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
Efficacy/ 
safety of 
ALI 
(compared 
with 
valsartan 
combination
s) 
Efficacy/ 
safety of 
ALI 
(compared 
with 
valsartan 
combination
s) 
Efficacy and 
safety of 
ALI 
(compared 
with 
combination
s with 
HCTZ) 
Efficacy of 
combination 
therapy 
8 weeks 
1123 entered; 
1034 (58-
177/arm) 
completed 
8 weeks 
1797 entered; 
1601 (384-
412/arm) 
completed 
8 weeks 
2776 entered; 
2558 (159-179 
per arm) 
completed 
545 entered; 
523 (170-
182/arm) 
4 weeks 
amlodipin
e +6 
males (70-
80%), 
mean age: 
53.5 ys 
Males 
(58-63%), 
mean age: 
52-54 ys 
(10-16% 
over 65 
ys) 
Males 
55.9%, 
median 
age: 57 
(range: 
19-88 ys) 
Males 
60.89%, 
median 
age: 52 
(range: 
24-84 ys) 
Males: 
54.8%; 
mean age: 
55 ys 
(range: 
19-87 ys) 
Males: 
53.6%, 
mean age 
15/38  
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP  
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP  
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP  
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP  
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP  
EHTN (m-t-
m; not fully 
response to 
Change in 
msDBP  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
125 
2307 
5.3.5.1 
Part 8 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
150 mg ALI (with 
dose escalation to 300 
mg); RAM 5 or10 mg; 
ALI/RAM 300/10 mg 
Efficacy of 
combination 
therapy 
completed 
837 entered; 
742 (246-
249/arm) 
completed 
69 
2309 
5.3.5.1 
Part 9 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
300 mg ALI + 25 mg 
HCTZ; 
irbesartan/HCTZ, 
amlodipine/HCTZ; 
HCTZ 
Efficacy/saf
ety of 
combined 
therapy 
489 entered; 
448 (109-
115/arm) 
completed 
weeks 
combined 
8 weeks 
Male: 
58.7%, 
mean age: 
59.8 ys 
(range: 
26-85) 
12 weeks  Males: 
43.6%), 
mean age: 
54.1 ys 
53 ys 
amlodipine) 
26 
58 
2303 
5.3.5.1 
Part 6 
2324 
5.5.5.1 
Part 10 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
150-300 mg ALI ± 
HCTZ vs 20-40 mg 
lisinopril ± HCTZ 
Efficacy of 
combined 
therapy 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
75, 150, 300 mg ALI / 
10 mg lisinopril 
Efficacy/ 
safety 
93 
2306 
5.3.5.1 
Part 12 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
150 mg, 300 mg ± 
HCTZ  vs. 5,10 mg 
RAM ± HCTZ 
173 
2323 
5.3.5.1 
Part 11 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel group 
2302 
5.3.5.2 
185 
Randomized, 
open-label 
150 mg, 300 mg ALI 
± 5/10 mg amlodipine 
vs 12.5/25 mg HCTZ 
± 5/10 mg amlodipine 
150 and 300 mg ALI 
(mono), 300 mg ALI + 
12.5/25 mg HCTZ 
(combo) 
2302E
78 
Extension of 
300 mg ALI + 25 mg 
Long-term 
efficacy/ 
safety 
compared to 
RAM 
(±HCTZ) 
Long term 
efficacy/ 
safety, 
compared to 
HCTZ  
Long-term 
safety/effica
cy of mono 
and combo 
therapy 
Long-term 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
183 entered; 
165 (54-
111/arm) 
completed 
355 entered; 
330 (79-
88/arm) 
completed 
842 entered; 
687 (338-
349/arm) 
completed 
26 weeks 
+ 4 weeks 
withdrawa
l 
1124 entered; 
978 (469-
509/arm) 
completed 
26 weeks 
+ 26 
weeks 
extension 
Male: 
56.8%, 
mean age: 
55 ys) 
Male: 
40.3%, 
mean age: 
73.5 ys 
(range: 
65-90 ys) 
Male: 
57%, 
mean age: 
53.3 ys) 
Male: 
54.1-56%, 
median 
age: 56-57 
ys 
1951 entered 
(open label); 
1625 (659-
966/arm) 
completed 
198 entered; 
52 weeks  Male: 
50.3-
55.3%, 
mean age: 
54.8-57 ys 
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Safety/ 
change in 
msDBP 
16 weeks  Male: 
EHTN (m-t-
Long-term 
©EMEA 2007 
16/38  
EHTN (m-t- 
m) with 
diabetes 
mellitus 
EHTN (m-t- 
m) with 
obesity, not 
adequately 
responsive 
to HCTZ) 
Uncomplicat
ed severe 
EHTN 
EHTN (m-t-
m in aged 
(≥65 ys) 
persons 
Change in 
msDBP 
Change in 
msDBP  
msDPB 
(vs baseline 
compared 
within arms) 
Change in 
mean 24-h 
SBP 
(ABPM) 
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP 
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
msDBP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HCTZ 
safety 
189 completed 
1 
56 
2201 
5.3.5.1 
Part 1 
2304 
#2302 
(Randomized 
open-label) 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
PLA-
controlled, 
parallel group 
Randomised, 
double blind 
150, 300, 600 mg ALI 
(and 150 mg 
irbesartan) 
300 mg ALI vs ATE 
100mg/ALI300 mgvs 
ATE 100m 
Efficacy, 
also 
compared 
with 
irbesartan 
Efficacy of 
combined 
therapy 
ITT: 649, PP: 
559 
8 weeks 
m) 
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
49.5%, 
mean age: 
57.2 ys 
Male: 
50.2%, 
median 
age: 56 
safety/ 
change in 
msDBP 
msDBP 
(vs baseline 
compared 
with arms) 
23/arm 
6 weeks + 
6 weeks 
EHTN (m-t-
m) 
Change in 
nsDBP 
©EMEA 2007 
17/38  
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
All studies include participants with a large range of age and of both sexes. Data are more numerous for 
men than women in all studies. Age distribution was relatively similar across all studies (median or mean 
age  of  about  55  y,  age  range  including  young  and  older  ages)  with  exception  of  study  2324  that  was 
specifically designed for analyses on individuals with age ≥65y. Studies in special populations were done 
for  diabetes  mellitus  (Study  2307),  obesity  (Study  2309),  and  older  ages  (Study  2324).  The  studies 
included pre- and post- menopausal women, and patients with BMI<20 kg/m2. In all studies, the presence 
of a renal disorder was an exclusion criteria (as a secondary form of HTN and/or a condition altering the 
kinetics of any medicinal product). Prevalence of overweight/obesity likely differed among participants in 
pivotal studies as suggested by the difference in the median BMI. This difference was a major confounder 
in  the  analysis  of  results  since  life-style  are  important  for  BP  regulation  and  blood  response  to 
antihypertensive treatment.  
Treatments 
All study medication (investigational and reference material) was provided by the Applicant as capsules 
packaged  in  bottles  labelled  with  batch  and  formulation  numbers.  Each  dose  was  taken  with  water  at 
approximately  8:00  a.m.,  except  on  the  morning  of  the  office/clinic  visit.  No  instruction  was  given  for 
fasting/fed conditions.  
Objectives 
With the exception of Study 2303, studies were performed in mild-to-moderate EHTN. The efficacy was 
assessed: (I) in monotherapy, compared with PLA, (II) in combined therapy compared with PLA, (III) in 
combined therapy compared with a reference drug, (IV) in combined therapy compared with a reference 
drug in combination. In one study (2303), the efficacy of ALI was assessed in uncomplicated severe HTN. 
In this study the efficacy of ALI with or without HCTZ was compared with RAM with or without HCTZ. 
In  this  study,  however,  the  number  of  patients  treated  with  ALI  was  relatively  small.  One  study  (2324) 
analysed  the  efficacy  of  ALI  in  elderly  (age  over  65  years)  patients  with  mild-to-moderate  EHTN.  The 
efficacy of ALI in patients with diabetes mellitus was measured in Study 2307. In the majority of studies 
patients with obesity, and metabolic syndrome and/or diabetes were included.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary end-point was the change induced by active treatment in msDBP in ten of the twelve studies. 
Two studies focused on msSBP: the 2303 study in severe EH and the 2324 study in individuals with age  
≥  65y.  Five  studies  investigated  the  effects  of  ALI  withdrawal  using  ALI  as  a  single  drug  (2201,  2308, 
1201,  and  2306).  Primary  endpoint  was  in  almost  all  studies  the  change  in  msDBP  as  a  ‘surrogate 
endpoint’.  BP  was  measured  according  to  CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Clinical  Investigation  of 
Medicinal  Products  in  the  treatment  of  hypertension  (CPMP/EWP/238/95/Rev2).  In  none  of  the  studies 
there  were  mortality,  morbidity  data  analyzed  or  target  organ  damage  assessed.  In  the  ‘diabetes’  study 
(2307),  the  microalbuminuria  was  measured,  but  the  study  was  too  short  to  obtain  significant  changes. 
Key  secondary  endpoints  were  changes  in  systolic  BP,  proportion  of  patients  with  successful  response 
(diastolic BP <90 mmHg or ≥10 mmHg reduction from baseline), proportion of patients with BP control 
(<140/90), effects on plasma renin concentration and activity. 
Sample size 
Overall, the studies completed the protocol in 9476 individuals out of the 10,743 randomised individuals. 
Among  individuals  with  completed  protocols,  3,507  were  treated  with  aliskiren  as  a  single 
antihypertensive drug, 2,684 were treated with aliskiren in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, 
2,851 were treated with other registered antihypertensive drugs, and 664 were treated with PLA. Percent 
of completed patients was higher in studies lasting 6-8 wk than in studies lasting 12-26 wk. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
Was  performed  using  a  randomization  list  produced  by  the  Applicant  using  a  validated  system  that 
automates  the  random  assignment  of  treatment  groups  to  randomization  numbers  in  the  specified  ratio. 
The randomization scheme was reviewed by a Biostatistics Quality Assurance Group and locked by them 
after approval. 
Blinding (masking) 
Once patients fulfilled the entry criteria to enter the double-blind treatment period, patients, investigator 
staff, persons performing the assessments, and data analysts were blinded to the identity of the treatment 
from the time of randomization until database lock, using the following methods: (1) randomization data 
were kept strictly confidential until the time of unblinding and were not accessible by anyone else directly 
involved  in  the  study  except  for  those  individuals  as  defined  in  (2)  the  identity  of  the  treatments  were 
concealed  by  the  use  of  study  drugs  that  are  all  identical  in  packaging,  labeling,  schedule  of 
administration,  appearance,  and  odor.  If  a  comparator  drug  was  alos  used,  a  double-dummy  design  was 
used  because  the  identity  of  the  study  drugs  could  not  be  disguised  due  to  their  different  forms. 
Unblinding only occurred in the case of patient emergencies and at the conclusion of the study.  
Statistical methods 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  (mean  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  msDBP  at  trough  in  the  ITT 
population) was analyzed by a pre-specified two-way analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with treatment 
and region as factors, and baseline as a covariate. A statistical adjustment for multiple comparisons using 
Dunnett’s  procedure  was  used  for  studies  including  multiple  ALI  doses.  The  key  secondary  efficacy 
endpoint,  msSBP,  was  analyzed  similarly.  The  proportion  of  responders  and  the  control  rate  were 
analyzed  by  means  of  a  logistic  regression  model  with  treatment  and  region  as  factors,  and  baseline 
msDBP  as  a  covariate.  In  many  cases  pairwise  comparisons  between  parameters  of  each  ALI  dose  and 
PLA were also done. When comparing ALI to other antihypertensive drugs the statistical hypothesis was 
non-inferiority,  if  non-inferiority  was  statistically  detected,  a  superiority  test  was  performed.  This  is 
acceptable; however, in the majority of the active-controlled studies, treatment was too short (8 weeks) to 
compare  antihypertensive  effects.  Moreover,  due  to  the  (m-to-m  EHTN)  population,  there  was  a 
significant  PLA  effect.  Therefore,  in  all  active-controlled  studies,  at  least  in  all  short-term  studies,  PLA 
control should have been included. 
RESULTS 
Recruitment 
Patients  with  m-to-m  EHTN  were  recruited  in  American,  European,  and  Asian  countries.  Patients  who 
were  on  antihypertensive  drug  treatment  entered  a  single-blind, PLA,  run-in period  after  wash-out  from 
previous treatment. Patients who were not on any antihypertensive drug treatment entered directly into the 
run-in period. After the run-in period, patients who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria were randomised 
to investigational or reference treatment. 
Conduct of the study 
After  randomization,  patients  entered  a  double-blind  study  with  control  of  concomitant  therapies, 
measurement  of  treatment  compliance;  standardized  morning  visits  at  given  time-points.  The  visits 
included  medical  examinations  and  lab  tests  in  agreement  with  GCP.  Results  of  medical  examinations 
(physical conditions, ECGs, anthropometrical data, etc.), adverse events, pregnancies, and lab tests were 
monitored during the studies. 
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics were similar for the different groups of the study. Median BMI was substantially 
lower  in  one  study  (1201)  than  in  the  remaining  studies  suggesting  a  lower  prevalence  of 
overweight/obesity.  Prevalence  of  overweight  (BMI  25-25.99  kg/m2)  was  not  reported  in  any  study. 
©EMEA 2007 
19/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevalence  of  menopausal  status  was  not  reported  in  any  study.  Prevalence  of  treatment  with  estrogens 
was reported. This information is relevant since estrogens affect the RAS.  
Numbers analysed 
Number  of  patients/arm  is  adequately  reported  for  each  study  with  detailed  information  on  patients  not 
completing the study protocol. 
•  Dose response studies and BP effects of ALI as a single drug 
Table  2  summarizes  the  results  of  8-wk  studies  on  clinical  efficacy  investigating  the  dose-response 
relationship and the effects of ALI as a single drug in comparison to PLA. Thus, data are shown as mean 
difference vs PLA in the BP change induced by ALI from baseline to endpoint (intent-to-treat population). 
The  mean  difference  is  negative  (with  minus  sign)  when  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  ALI  was  greater 
than the BP reduction induced by PLA. The mean difference is positive in the opposite case. 
Table 2 – BP effects of ALI as a single drug in m-to-m EHTN:  
mean BP change from baseline to endpoint corrected for effects of PLA 
Study 2201 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2203 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
ALI dose 
75 mg 
--- 
--- 
150 mg 
-2.6* 
-6.1*** 
300 mg 
-5.6*** 
-10.5*** 
600 mg 
-5.0*** 
-10.4*** 
P vs PLA: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
ALI dose 
75 mg 
-1.7ns 
-2.2ns 
150 mg 
-1.7ns 
-2.1ns 
300 mg 
-3.7*** 
-5.0*** 
600 mg 
---- 
---- 
P vs PLA: nsnot significant, *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
Study 2204 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
ALI dose 
75 mg 
-1.8* 
-1.9ns 
150 mg 
-2.0* 
-4.8*** 
300 mg 
-3.3*** 
-8.3*** 
600 mg 
--- 
--- 
P vs PLA: nsnot significant, *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
Study 2308 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 1201 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2327 
Difference vs PLA in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference vs PLA in msSBP change, mm Hg 
ALI dose 
75 mg 
---- 
---- 
150 mg 
-5.4*** 
-9.3*** 
300 mg 
-6.2*** 
-10.9*** 
600 mg 
-7.6*** 
-12.1*** 
P vs PLA: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
ALI dose 
75 mg 
-4.0*** 
-5.7*** 
150 mg 
-4.5*** 
-5.9*** 
300 mg 
-7.5*** 
-11.2*** 
600 mg 
---- 
---- 
P vs PLA: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
ALI dose 
75 mg 
---- 
---- 
150 mg 
---- 
---- 
300 mg 
-4.95*** 
-8.40*** 
600 mg 
---- 
---- 
P vs PLA: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
©EMEA 2007 
20/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All the studies were done in mild-to-moderate (m-to-m) EHTN patients. The 75 mg dose was investigated 
in three studies and induced a consistent BP reduction (significant for msSBP and msDBP) only in study 
1201, not in studies 2203 and 2204. Study 1201 was with low power and low representativity because it 
was  with  the  lowest  number  of  patients  and  was  limited  to  individuals  from  Japan.  As  compared  to 
patients  of  other  studies,  patients  of  study  1201  differed  substantially  also  for  their  anthropometrical 
characteristics (median BMI 25.1 kg/m2 vs median BMI >28 kg/m2 for patients of other studies). Thus, a 
BP  reduction  for  the  75  mg  dose  cannot  be  considered  as  proved.  The  600  mg  dose  induced  a  BP 
reduction  smaller  than  the  300  mg  dose  in  one  of  the  two  studies  with  complete  data  (2201).  Thus,  the 
evidence  is  not  reached  that  an  increase  in  the  dose  from  300  to  600  mg  induces  an  increase  in  the  BP 
reduction. The trend between ALI dose and BP reduction was not linear in study 2201 (range of dose 150-
600 mg) and in study 2203 (range of dose 75-300 mg). Altogether, the results support the existence of a 
dose-response  relationship  only  for  doses  in  the  range  150-300  mg  because,  after  correction  for  PLA 
effects, the BP reduction was greater for dose 300 mg than for dose 150 mg in all the five studies. In all 
studies, the BP reduction induced by both doses was stable after 4-wk treatment and slowly disappeared 
after DW. The 150 mg dose did not induce a significant BP reduction in study 2203. This negative result 
cannot be explained by a limited power of the study as per the pre-study calculations and the finding of a 
significant BP reduction in similar studies with lower power (2201 and 1201). Data indicate a large inter-
study  variability  in  the  BP  reduction  not  only  for  the  150  mg  dose  but  also  for  300  mg  dose.  This 
variability deserves further data analysis. It could reflect variability among different study groups in the 
patients’ characteristics or in the ALI bioavailability (food effect on ALI absorption: no breakfast vs light 
breakfast  vs  full  breakfast).  For  the  DW  period,  study  results  show  that  msDBP  and  msSBP  slowly 
increased  over  the  value  found  at  the  end  of  active  treatment.  The  BP  increase  was  detectable  already  
4 d after DW (study 2201) and stayed constant up to 4 wk (study 2306).  
Study 2308 differed from the above discussed studies with regards to the definition of the EHTN, which 
was defined as a msDBP ≥ 95 mm Hg and < 110 mm Hg. This is not a general definition of EHTN. That 
is why despite the majority of patients had systolic and diastolic HTN the results of the study cannot be 
extrapolated to patients with isolated systolic HTN, since in this study, as in the majority of the presented 
clinical  studies,  the  inclusion  criteria  were  limited  to  patients  with  diastolic  arterial  HTN.  The  primary 
hypothesis of the study was that ALI was superior to PLA in reducing msDBP. All ALI treatment groups 
significantly  reduced  ambulatory  BP  better  than  PLA  during  both  day-  and  nighttime  as  measured  in 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). The responder rates (when “responder” was defined as a 
patient with a msDBP < 90 mm Hg and/or a ≥ 10 mm Hg reduction from Baseline) for the ALI groups 
were significantly superior to PLA. Given the inclusions criteria in this study according to the CHMP the 
responder rate should include only patients in whom DBP achieved values lower than 90 mm Hg.  
In summary, clinical studies represent convincing evidence that ALI, used as monotherapy is an effective 
antihypertensive medicinal product for the short term period and for longer periods (6 months to 1 year). 
There was a variability in the BP effects among different studies. The variability in the BP effects might 
reflect a variable bioavailability of the medicinal product as it was administered without respect to fast/fed 
conditions. The long-term efficacy of aliskiren as a single antihypertensive drug was investigated as per 
relevant guideline.  
•  Effects of ALI in combination with other drugs 
Table 3 summarizes the results of studies on clinical efficacy investigating the use of ALI in combination 
with other antihypertensive drugs. In these studies, the clinical efficacy is evaluated comparing the effects 
of  the  combination  ALI+other  drug  to  the  effects  of  the  other  drug  alone  used  as  reference.  Data  are 
shown  as  mean  difference  vs  other  drug  in  the  BP  change  induced  by  the  combination  ALI+other  drug 
from  baseline  to  endpoint.  The  mean  difference  is  negative  (with  minus  sign)  when  the  BP  reduction 
induced by the combination ALI+other drug was greater than the BP reduction induced by the reference 
drug, positive (with plus sign) in the opposite case. 
©EMEA 2007 
21/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 – BP effects of ALI in combination with other drugs: mean BP change induced by ALI from 
baseline to endpoint compared to effects of other drug alone  
Study 2203 – comparison ALI+VAL vs VAL alone 
8 wk, m-to-m EHTN 
VAL 80 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
VAL 160 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
VAL 320 mg 
Study 2204 – comparison ALI+HCT vs HCT alone 
8 wk, m-to-m EHTN 
HCT 6.25 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
HCT 12.5 mg 
HCT 25 mg 
75 mg 
ALI dose 
150 mg 
300 mg 
-1.3ns 
-3.2ns 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
-1.1ns 
-1.1ns 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
-1.7ns 
-1.5ns 
P vs other drug alone: nsnot significant
-1.7* 
-3.3* 
-1.0ns 
-1.7ns 
-1.3ns 
-4.4** 
-1.8* 
-3.7** 
---- 
---- 
-3.8*** 
-5.9*** 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
-4.9*** 
-6.9*** 
P vs other drug alone: nsnot significant, *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
-3.3*** 
-5.2*** 
-2.1* 
-3.0* 
Study 2305 – comparison ALI+AML vs AML alone 
6 wk, m-to-m EHTN 
AML 5 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
Study 2307 – comparison ALI+RAM vs RAM alone 
8 wk, diabetics T1/T2 m-to-m EHTN 
RAM 10 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
Study 2309 – comparison ALI+HCT vs HCT alone 
8-wk time point (12-wk study), obese m-to-m EHTN 
HCT 25 mg 
---- 
---- 
-3.6*** 
-6.0*** 
P vs other drug alone: ***<0.001
---- 
---- 
-2.1** 
-4.6*** 
P vs other drug alone: **<0.01, ***<0.001
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
-4.0*** 
-7.2*** 
P vs other drug alone: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
Study 2304 – comparison ALI alone vs ALI+ATE vs ATE alone  
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
-0.49ns 
-3.02* 
Study 2327  - Comparison ALI alone vs ALI+VAL 
©EMEA 2007 
22/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
VAL 320 mg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msDBP change, mmHg 
Difference vs other drug alone in msSBP change, mmHg 
-2.47*** 
-4.44*** 
 P vs other drug alone: *<0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
These studies investigated doses of ALI ranging between 75 and 300 mg, not 600 mg.  
Results  of  study  2203  show  that,  after  8-wk  of  treatment  in  m-to-m  EHTN,  the  BP  reduction 
induced by the combination ALI+VAL is not greater than the BP reduction induced by VAL alone. This 
negative finding is consistent at various doses of both drugs. The study cannot give information on ALI 
doses 150-300 mg in combination with low dose VAL (80 mg). Thus, ALI did not induce significant BP 
effects when used in combination with VAL in m-to-m EHTN in this preliminary study. 
Results of a second study 2327 with a robust design to assess the ALI/VAL combination, where 
ALI  was  studied  alone  and  in  combination  with  VAL  indicate  that  the  combination  of  ALI  and  VAL 
reduced ms DBP and ms SBP more than either ALI or VAL monotherapy. 
Results of study 2204 show that, after 8-wk treatment in m-to-m EHTN, the BP reduction induced 
by  the  combination  ALI+HCT  is  greater  than  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  HCT  alone.  This  trend  is 
detectable  in  all  arms  of  the  study  but becomes  consistently  significant  (for  DBP  and  SBP)  with  use  of 
regimens combining ALI doses of 150-300 mg with HCT doses of 12.5-25 mg. The difference in the BP 
reduction  between  ALI+HCT  and  HCT  alone  tends  to  be  greater  with  increasing  the  ALI  dose  for  any 
given HCT dose as  well as with increasing the HCT  dose for any given ALI dose. The findings appear 
independent  of  PLA  effects  because  HCT  alone  (12.5-25  mg)  reduced  BP  more  than  PLA.  Thus,  when 
used in combination with HCT, ALI induces a further and significant BP reduction over the HCT effects. 
Results  of  study  2305  show  that,  after  6-wk  treatment,  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  the 
combination ALI+AML is greater than the BP reduction induced by AML alone. The lack of a PLA group 
impeached to differentiate the effects of 5  mg AML from a PLA. In fact, the results could reflect  a BP 
reduction induced by ALI over the BP reduction induced either by AML or by a PLA. A role for a PLA 
effect  is  likely  for  two  reasons.  First,  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  5  mg  AML  alone  was  modest  and 
similar to BP reduction induced by PLA in other studies. Second, the 6-wk duration of active treatment 
was  not  long  enough  to  hypothesize  an  attenuation of  a  PLA  effect.  In  patients  who  did  not  adequately 
respond to 5 mg of the calcium channel blocker AML, the addition of ALI 150 mg had a blood-pressure-
lowering effect similar to that obtained by increasing AML dose to 10 mg, but had a lower incidence of 
oedema (ALI 150 mg/AML 5 mg 2.1% vs. AML 10 mg 11.2%). Thus, the study does not prove that, when 
used in combination with AML, ALI induces BP reduction only in patients non-responding to AML.  
Results of study 2307 in diabetic hypertensives show that, after 8-wk treatment, the BP reduction 
induced  by  the  combination  ALI+RAM  is  greater  than  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  RAM  alone.  The 
study  does  not  include  a  PLA  group.  A  role  for  a  PLA  effect  does  not  seem  likely  because  the  BP 
reduction  induced  by  RAM  alone  was  greater  to  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  PLA  in  other  studies 
enclosed in this submission. Thus, the study suggests but does not prove that, when used in combination 
with  RAM,  ALI  induces  in  diabetic  hypertensives  a  further  BP  reduction  over  the  RAM  effects. 
Furthermore the Study 2307 combines diabetic patients with type 1 and 2 pooled, a subset analysis of type 
1 and type 2 should be performed 
Results  of  study  2309  in obese  hypertensives  show  that,  after  8-wk  treatment,  the  BP  reduction 
induced  by  the  combination  ALI+HCT  is  greater  than  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  HCT  alone.  These 
results confirm the evidence in favour of the combination ALI+HCT investigated also by study 2204. The 
lack of a PLA group does not appear important because study 2204 shows that the synergistic effect of the 
combination  ALI+HCT  was  independent  of  PLA  effects.  Thus  the  study  confirms  that,  when  used  in 
combination with HCT, ALI induces a further and significant BP reduction over the HCT effects. 
Results of study 2304 where ALI was studied alone and in combination with ATE indicate that 
the  combination  of  ALI  and  ATE  reduced  msDBP  more  that  ALI  alone  but  not  more  than  ATE  alone. 
However, the combination reduced systolic BP more than either ALI or ATE monotherapy.  
©EMEA 2007 
23/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Altogether,  the  results  support  the  view  that  other  antihypertensive  agents  affect  the  efficacy  of  ALI. 
However, none of these studies was done with use of a crossover design. Thus, the possibility cannot be 
excluded  that  inter-group  differences  in  the  individual  factors  responsible  for  high  BP  level  (volume 
expansion,  high  adrenergic  tone,  renin-  angiotensin  system  activatio,  etc.)  biased  the  BP  response  to 
treatment in the various arms of the studies. The efficacy of ALI as antihypertensive drug is maintained in 
the  presence  of  treatment  with  a  diuretic  (HTC,  studies  2204  and  2309)  and  BB  (ATE).  ALI  in 
combination with an angiotensin receptor antagonist (VAL) showed an additive antihypertensive effect in 
the study specifically designed to investigate the effect of the combination therapy (study 2327). Results 
are inconclusive for the possible effects of ACE-i (study 2307, in diabetics only, without control for PLA) 
and of CCB (study 2305, BP reduction by ALI proved only in patients non-responding to AML). There 
are no data available for non-dihydropiridinic CCB. 
•  Effects of ALI in comparison to other antihypertensive medicinal products 
Tables  4  and5  summarizes  the  results of  studies on clinical efficacy investigating the use  of ALI in 
comparison  to  other  antihypertensive  medicinal  products.  Clinical  efficacy  is  evaluated  comparing  the 
ALI effects to the effects of the other drug used as reference. Data are shown as mean difference vs other 
drug in the BP change induced from baseline to endpoint. The mean difference is negative (with minus 
sign) if the BP reduction induced by ALI was greater than the BP reduction induced by the reference drug, 
positive (with plus sign) in the opposite case. 
Table 4 – BP effects of ALI vs other drug in mono-therapy regimens:  
Difference between ALI and other drug in mean BP change from baseline to endpoint  
Study 2201 – comparison ALI to 150 mg IRB  
m-to-m EHTN, 8 wk 
Difference ALI vs IRB in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs IRB in msSBP change, mm Hg 
ALI dose 
75 mg 
150 mg 
300 mg 
600 mg 
---- 
---- 
-0.4ns 
+1.1ns 
-2.9** 
-3.3ns 
-2.6* 
-3.2ns 
P vs IRB: nsnot significant, *<0.05, **<0.01
Study 2307 – comparison ALI to 10 mg RAM, 
diabetics T1/T2, m-to-m EHTN, 8 wk 
Difference ALI vs RAM in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs RAM in msSBP change, mm Hg 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
-0.6ns 
-2.7* 
P vs RAM: nsnot significant, *<0.05
---- 
---- 
Study 2324 – comparison ALI to 10 mg LIS 
Ages ≥65, m-to-m EHTN, 8 wk 
Difference ALI vs LIS in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs LIS in msSBP change, mm Hg 
-0.2ns 
+1.9ns 
-0.8ns 
+1.5ns 
-1.0ns 
+0.4ns 
---- 
---- 
P vs LIS: nsnot significant
Study 2323 – Comparison ALI vs 25 mg HCT 
m-to-m EHTN, 12 wk (26-wk study, 8-wk time point not given) 
Difference ALI vs HCT in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs HCT in msSBP change, mm Hg 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
-2.0*** 
-2.8*** 
P vs HCT:***<0.001
---- 
---- 
Study 2304 – Comparison ALI vs ATE 100 mg m-to-m EHTN, (6 weeks + 6 weeks) 
Difference ALI vs ATE in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs ATE in msSBP change, mm Hg 
---- 
---- 
---- 
---- 
+2.39**  
-0,08ns 
---- 
---- 
Results  of  the  study  2201  show  that,  after  8-wk  treatment  in  m-to-m  EHTN,  the  BP  reduction 
induced  by  ALI  is  not  consistently  different  compared  to  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  IRB  at  various 
doses of ALI. Thus, ALI has BP effects not different from those ones of IRB in m-to-m EHTN.  
©EMEA 2007 
24/38  
P vs HCT:***<0.001
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of the study 2307 show that, after 8-wk treatment in diabetics with m-to-m EHTN, the BP 
reduction induced by 300 mg ALI is not consistently different compared to the BP reduction induced by 
10 mg RAM. Thus, ALI has BP effects not different from those ones of RAM in diabetics with m-to-m 
EHTN. 
Results of the study 2324 show that, after 8-wk treatment in individuals with age ≥ 65 y and m-to-
m EHTN, the BP reduction induced by various doses of ALI is not different compared to the BP reduction 
induced  by  10  mg  LIS.  Thus,  ALI  has  BP  effects  not  different  from  those  ones  of  LIS  in  older 
hypertensives. 
Results of the study 2323 show that, after 12-wk treatment in m-to-m EHTN (26-wk study, data 
not given for 8-wk time-point), the BP reduction induced by 300 mg ALI is slightly higher than the BP 
reduction induced by 25 mg HCT. Thus, ALI has BP effects not different from those ones of HCT in m-
to-m EHTN. 
Table 5 – BP effects of ALI vs other drug in multi-therapy regimens :  
difference between ALI and other drug in mean BP change from baseline to endpoint  
Study 2203 – Comparison ALI+VAL vs HCT+VAL 
m-to-m EHTN, 8-wk 
Doses: ALI = 150 mg, VAL = 160 mg, HCT = 12.5 mg                                
Difference ALI vs HCT in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs HCT in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2303 – Comparison ALI+HCT vs LIS+HCT 
severe EHTN, 8-wk 
Doses: ALI = 150/300 mg, LIS = 20-40 mg, HCT = 25 mg 
Difference ALI vs LIS in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs LIS in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2309 – Comparison ALI+HCT vs IRB+HCT vs AML+HCT 
obese m-to-m EHTN, 8-wk end-point (12-wk study) 
Doses: ALI = 300 mg, IRB = 300 mg, HCT = 25 mg, AML 10 mg 
Difference ALI vs IRB in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs IRB in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs AML in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs AML in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2323 – Comparison ALI+AML vs HCT+AML 
m-to-m EHTN, 26 wk 
Doses: ALI = 300 mg, HCT = 25 mg, AML 5/10 mg 
Difference ALI vs HCT in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs HCT in msSBP change, mm Hg 
Study 2306 – Comparison ALI+HCT vs RAM+HCT 
m-to-m EHTN, 26 wk 
Doses: ALI = 150/300 mg, RAM = 5/10 mg, HCT = 12.5/25 mg 
Difference ALI vs RAM in msDBP change, mm Hg 
Difference ALI vs RAM in msSBP change, mm Hg 
+1.4ns 
+2.2ns 
P vs HCT: nsnot significant
+1.6ns 
+2.3ns 
P vs LIS: nsnot significant
-0.6ns 
-0.4ns 
-1.6ns 
-2.2ns 
P vs IRB or AML: nsnot significant
-1.2** 
-1.7* 
P vs HCT: *<0.05, **<0.01
-1.2* 
-2.6** 
P vs RAM: *<0.05, **<0.01
©EMEA 2007 
25/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of study 2203 show that, after 8-wk treatment in m-to-m EHTN, the BP reduction induced 
by ALI+VAL is not different compared to the BP reduction induced by HCT+VAL. Thus, in combination 
with VAL, ALI has BP effects not different from those ones of HCT in m-to-m EHTN. 
Results of study 2303 show that, after 8-wk treatment in severe EHTN, the BP reduction induced 
by ALI+HCT is not different compared to the BP reduction induced by LIS+HCT. Thus, in combination 
with HCT, ALI has BP effects not different from those ones of LIS in severe EHTN. 
Results of study 2309 show that, after 8-wk treatment in obese individuals with m-to-m EHTN, 
the  BP  reduction  induced  by  ALI+HCT  is  not  different  compared  to  the  BP  reduction  induced  by 
IRB+HCT and AML+HCT. This is a 12-wk-study. However, data are shown for the 8-wk time-point for 
comparability with other studies. Thus, in combination with HCT, ALI has BP effects not different from 
those ones of IRB and AML in obese individuals with m-to-m EHTN. 
Results  of  study  2323  show  that,  after  26-wk  treatment  in  m-to-m  EHTN,  the  BP  reduction 
induced  by  ALI+AML  is  slightly  higher  than  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  HCT+AML.  Thus,  in 
combination with AML, ALI has BP effects not lower than those ones of HCT in m-to-m EHTN. 
Results  of  study  2306  show  that,  after  26-wk  treatment  in  m-to-m  EHTN,  the  BP  reduction 
induced  by  ALI+HCT  is  slightly  higher  than  the  BP  reduction  induced  by  RAM+HCT.  Thus,  in 
combination with HCT, ALI has BP effects not lower than those ones of HCT in m-to-m EHTN. 
Altogether, the results provide the evidence that the efficacy of ALI is not inferior in comparison 
to  diuretics,  ARB,  ACEi,  CCB  and  BB.  Data  are  missing  for  other  antihypertensive  drugs  (non-
dihydropiridinic CCB, non-thiazide diuretics, etc.). 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Demographic  subgroups  of  age,  sex,  race,  ethnicity,  obesity  and  renal  function  for  their  efficacy 
response  and  dosing  needs.  Summary  statistics  of  the  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  for  msDBP, 
msSBP, responder rate, and control rate were produced by treatment group for each of the demographic 
subgroups.  Number  of  hypothesis  tests  were  performed  for  the  subgroup  analyses.  The  results  were 
generally  consistent  and  indicated  that  ALI  was  more  effective  than  PLA  regardless  of  age,  sex,  race, 
ethnicity, obesity or renal function. The population was pooled according to the following 3 age groups: 
<65  years,  ≥65  years,  and  ≥75  years.  The  mean  baseline  SBP  was  higher  in  the  older  age  group,  while 
DBP  was  slightly  lower,  consistent  with  the  known  prevalence  of  systolic  HTN  and  increased  pulse 
pressure in the elderly. Responder rates and control rates, which are based on both SBP and DBP, were 
lower for PLA in the older patients, while the PLA-subtracted rates were comparable for all treatments. 
Change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  msDBP  and  msSBP  by  age  group,  ITT  population  (pooled  PLA-
controlled studies: 2201, 2203, 2204, 2308, 1201): 
©EMEA 2007 
26/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Females  had  a  slightly  greater  PLA  response  than  males  for  reductions  in  SBP  and  DBP  and  for  both 
responder rate and control rate. When the PLA subtracted responses were compared, they were similar for 
both genders. There is no evidence of a gender difference in response to ALI. Overall, the PLA-subtracted 
treatment  effects  for  ALI  as  measured  by  changes  in  SBP,  DBP,  responder  rate,  and  control  rate  were 
smaller for blacks than for Caucasians, and greater for Asians than for Caucasians at the two higher doses 
of ALI. These differences may simply be a chance effect due to relatively small numbers of black patients 
in  the  ALI  treatment  groups.  The  differences  may  also  have  been  driven,  in  part,  by  the  lower  PLA 
responses for all variables in both blacks and Asians than in Caucasians. No meta-analysis was performed. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Studies  in  special  populations  were  done  for  diabetes  mellitus,  obesity,  and  older  ages.  No  separate 
analysis  was  performed  for  patients  with  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes  (study  2307).  Obesity  was  highly 
prevalent in most of studies but one (1201). No study was done in non-overweight individuals.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In hypertensive patients, once-daily administration of ALI at doses of 150 mg and 300 mg provided dose-
dependent reductions in both systolic and diastolic BP that were maintained over the entire 24-hour dose 
interval (maintaining benefit in the early morning) with a mean peak to trough ratio for diastolic response 
of  up  to  98%  for  the  300 mg  dose.  85  to  90%  of  the  maximal  BP-lowering  effect  was  observed  after 
2 weeks. The BP-lowering effect was sustained during long-term treatment, and was independent of age, 
gender, body mass index and ethnicity. ALI has been studied in 1,864 patients aged 65 years or older, and 
in  426 patients  aged  75 years  or  older.  ALI  monotherapy  studies  have  shown  BP  lowering  effects 
comparable to other classes of antihypertensive agents including ACEI and ARB. Compared to a diuretic 
(HCTZ),  ALI  300 mg  lowered  systolic/diastolic  BP  by  17.0/12.3 mmHg,  compared  to  14.4/10.5 mmHg 
for  HCTZ  25 mg  after  12 weeks  of  treatment.  In  diabetic  hypertensive  patients,  ALI  monotherapy  was 
safe  and  effective.  Aliskiren  was  studied  in  combination  with  HCTZ,  ARB,  ACE,  CCB  and  BB.  These 
combinations were well tolerated. Combination therapy studies have shown clear additive  BP-lowering-
effects  of  ALI  when  added  to  HCTZ.  In  patients  who  did  not  adequately  respond  to  5  mg  of  the  CCB 
(AML), the addition of ALI 150 mg had a BP-lowering effect similar to that obtained by increasing AML 
dose  to  10  mg,  but  had  a  lower  incidence  of  oedema  (ALI  150 mg/AML  5 mg  2.1%  vs.  AML  10 mg 
11.2%).  In  diabetic  hypertensive  patients,  ALI  provided  additive  BP  reductions  when  added  to  RAM, 
while the combination of ALI and RAM had a lower incidence of cough (1.8%) than ramipril (4.7%). ALI 
in combination with VAL showed an additive antihypertensive effect in the study specifically designed to 
investigate  the  effect  of  the  combination  therapy.  Beneficial  effects  of  aliskiren  on  mortality  and 
cardiovascular morbidity and target organ damage are currently unknown. 
Clinical safety 
• 
Introduction 
ALI is a new chemical entity and a member of a new class of drugs, RIs, that to date does not include any 
agents in clinical use. Therefore, little data exist outside the ALI clinical program regarding the potential 
safety  risks  of  drugs  in  this  pharmacologic  class.  Preclinical  safety  pharmacology  studies  with  ALI 
revealed no significant effects on the CNS, cardiovascular, respiratory, or renal systems. Local irritation at 
the site of administration was a key feature of the toxicity studies and is hypothesized to be related to the 
increased  incidence  of  inflammatory  and  proliferative  changes  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract  during  the 
carcinogenicity studies at doses well in excess of the maximum tolerated. The key studies supporting the 
safety  claim  include  all  larger  studies  examining  relevant  doses  and  duration  of  therapy  in  the  claimed 
indication. These consist of 2 dose selection studies, 9 adequate and well-controlled confirmatory efficacy 
and safety studies (4 PLA-controlled and 5 active-controlled) and 4 long-term studies, including an open-
label  12-month  study  with  a  PLA-controlled  withdrawal  period  and  a  4-month  extension  and  2  double-
blind, active controlled 6-month studies. Additional safety data were obtained from pilot efficacy studies, 
©EMEA 2007 
27/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical  pharmacology  and  biopharmaceutical  studies,  and  ongoing  studies  from  13  clinical  trials  and  
6 clinical pharmacology studies. 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety data were obtained in a total of 11,566 treated patients. Of these patients, 9611 received treatment 
only  in  controlled  studies,  1525  received  treatment  only  in  the  long-term  open-label  study,  and  430 
received treatment in the PLA-controlled (Study 2203) and subsequently received treatment in the long-
term (Study 2302). There were 7896 patients who received at least one dose of ALI of whom 2,367 were 
exposed to ALI for 6 months and 1,270 for 12 months. Of these, 5734 were exposed to ALI monotherapy 
(of  whom  1,398  for  up  to  1  year)  and  at  least  3100  received  ALI  in  combination  with  other 
antihypertensives.  There  were  5664  patients  who  received  treatment  in  the  PLA-controlled  studies  and 
2412 who received treatment in the short-term active-controlled studies. Of the patients in the five 8-week, 
phase II-III, PLA-controlled studies using ALI doses of 75 to 600 mg, 2316 received ALI monotherapy, 
1642 ALI in combination with other antihypertensives, 925 other antihypertensives and 781 PLA. Of the 
patients in the short-term active-controlled studies, 676 received ALI monotherapy, 654 received ALI in 
combination with other antihypertensives, and 1149 received the active control. 
•  Adverse events  
Overall number of AEs was lower in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with PLA (37.7% 
vs  40.2%).  Among  the  common  AEs,  diarrhoea,  cough,  peripheral  oedema,  fatigue,  rash,  and  influenza 
were more incident in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with PLA. Among these AEs: (I) 
diarrhoea  was  the  most  common  AE  and  was  2-time  more  frequent  in  patients  treated  with  ALI  than 
patients  treated  with  PLA  (2.4%  vs  1.2%),  (II)  cough  was  the  second  most  common  AE  but  was 
substantially less frequent in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with ACE-inhibitors (1.0% 
vs  3.8%),  (III)  peripheral  oedema  was  substantially  less  frequent  in  patients  treated  with  ALI  than  in 
patients treated with AML (0.9% vs 7.3%). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
• 
The proportion of patients with any SAE was similar across all treatment groups in both populations; in 
the  combined  group  of  all  patients  who  took  ALI,  the  rate  was  0.8%  in  the  PLA-controlled  studies  and 
0.9%  in  the  short-term  controlled  studies,  compared  to  0.6  %  for  the  PLA-treated  patients.  In  both 
populations,  the  system  organ  class  with  the  most  SAEs  was  cardiac  disorders.  Results  were  consistent 
with the data from the short-term studies given the relative lengths of treatment exposure in the one-year 
and  6-month  trials  and  the  8-week  trials,  respectively.  Three  SAEs  occurred  during  the  randomized 
withdrawal period in Study 2306 and none occurred during the withdrawal period in Study 2302. There 
were no drug-related SAEs in the healthy volunteers or patients included in the completed  and ongoing 
clinical pharmacology studies Two patients in the early dose-ranging study (Study 04HTNDR) had SAEs. 
There were no SAEs during active treatment in any of the other trials. Summaries of the SAEs leading to 
study  discontinuation  in  the  PLA-controlled  studies,  the  short-term  controlled  studies,  the  long-term 
double-blind  studies,  and  the  long-term  open-label  studies  are  presented  by  system  organ  class  and 
preferred  term  in.  In  all  populations,  the  system  organ  class  with  the  most  SAEs  leading  to  study 
discontinuation  was  cardiac  disorders  and  the  proportion  of  patients  with  any  SAE  leading  to  study 
discontinuation  was  similar  across  all  treatment  groups.  Two  patients  in  the  early  dose-ranging  study 
discontinued due to SAEs (Study 04HTNDR). There were no SAEs leading to study discontinuation in the 
clinical pharmacology studies, except  for one patient discontinued due to pregnancy. Overall, 32 deaths 
occurred during completed or ongoing studies with ALI through 01-June 2006: 11 patients known to have 
taken ALI at any time, 8 patients randomized to active treatment in ongoing studies whose treatment codes 
have not been unblinded, 4 patients on PLA, 4 during initial washout, and 5 on active comparators. Most 
deaths  were  related  to  cardiovascular  or  cerebrovascular  events,  as  would  be  expected  in  an  older 
hypertensive  population.  The  causes  of  death  were  similar  in  all  groups,  and  the  rate  was  no  higher  in 
patients-treated with ALI compared with active comparators or PLA. The overall frequency of SAEs was 
not  significantly  higher  for  the  ALI  groups  compared  with  the  PLA  groups.  The  proportion  of  patients 
with any SAE leading to study discontinuation was similar across all treatment groups.  
©EMEA 2007 
28/38  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Laboratory findings 
Drugs  that  inhibit  the  RAS  system  may  be  associated  with  changes  in  renal  function  in  susceptible 
individuals.  These  changes  may  manifest  as  increases  in  potassium,  urea  nitrogen  (BUN)  and  serum 
creatinine,  especially  in  patients  with  pre-existing  renal  disease  or  diabetes.  In  controlled  clinical  trials, 
clinically  relevant  changes  in  standard  laboratory  parameters  were  uncommonly  associated  with  the 
administration of ALI. In clinical studies in hypertensive patients, ALI had no clinically important effects 
on total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), fasting triglycerides, fasting glucose or 
uric acid. Small decreases in haemoglobin and haematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.05 mmol/l 
and 0.16 volume percent, respectively) were observed. No patients discontinued therapy due to anaemia. 
This effect is also seen with other agents acting on the RAS, such as ACEi and ARB. Increases in serum 
potassium were minor and infrequent in patients with EHTN treated with ALI alone (0.9% compared to 
0.6%  with  placebo).  However,  in  one  study  where  ALI  was  used  in  combination  with  an  ACEI  in  a 
diabetic population, increases in serum potassium were more frequent (5.5%). Therefore as with any agent 
acting  on  the  RAS  system,  routine  monitoring  of  electrolytes  and  renal  function  is  indicated  in  patients 
with diabetes mellitus, kidney disease, or heart failure. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Elderly:  overall,  subgroup  analysis  results  were  consistent  with  main  safety  analysis  results.  The 
frequency  of  SAEs  was  not  higher  for  ALI  than  for  PLA  in  subjects  ≥  65  years  of  age.  Patients  with 
diabetes mellitus: ALI alone and in combination with RAM was assessed in type II diabetic patients with 
m-t-m EHTN (Study 2307). ALI was well tolerated in this study with overall AE rates for ALI, RAM, and 
the combination that did not exceed those in the pooled data base. Diabetic patients were more likely to 
develop laboratory abnormalities including elevations of BUN>14.28 mmol/L, creatinine >176.8 μmol/L, 
and hyperkalaemia, but these were not different in the different treatment groups in Study 2307 except for 
the greater rate of hyperkalaemia with ALI/RAM combination treatment. 
Renal  dysfunction:  Although  renal  excretion  is  not  a  significant  pathway  for  ALI  elimination  (<1%), 
clinical pharmacology (Study 2209) revealed increased exposure both after single doses and at steady state 
in renally impaired subjects compared to normal controls. This increase in exposure did not correlate with 
the  severity  of  renal  impairment  and  was  maximal  in  the  moderately  impaired  group.  Although  this 
finding may have been due to chance, adverse events and laboratory abnormalities were examined in an 
exploratory  analysis  of  patients  with  at  least  moderate  renal  dysfunction  (estimated  GFR  <  60 
ml/min/1.73m²) compared to those with normal or only mildly decreased renal function. Patients with at 
least  moderate  renal  dysfunction  were  infrequent  but  comprised  4.2%  of  the  population  in  the  all-
controlled  studies.  Overall  AEs  were  similar  in  patients  with  at  least  moderate  renal  dysfunction  and 
without renal dysfunction among those treated with ALI alone (40.0% vs. 37.6%) and those treated with 
ALI alone or in combination with other agents (38.7% vs. 37.8%). There was no excess of gastrointestinal 
adverse events (the only class of adverse events associated with ALI therapy) in the patients with lower 
GFR,  and  during  treatment  with  ALI  these  patients  were  not  more  likely  to  experience  adverse  events 
related to the renal and urinary disorders system organ class than those with normal GFR (1.2 % vs 1.3%). 
Among  patients  treated  with  ALI  monotherapy,  specified  percent  change  in  BUN  occurred  in  8.6%  of 
patients with estimated GFR < 60 compared to 7.0% of patients with GFR ≥ 60. There were no patients 
with  low  GFR  with  the  specified  percent  change  in  creatinine.  Although  the  number  of  patients  with 
impaired renal function receiving 600 mg of ALI was small (n=12), none had meaningful changes in BUN 
or creatinine.  
Children: No clinical trials were performed in children.  
Pregnancy and lactation: Other substances that act directly on the RAS have been associated with serious 
foetal malformations and neonatal death. As for any medicine that acts directly on the RAS, ALI will be 
contraindicated  during  pregnancy  (2nd  and  3rd  trimester)  and  should  not  be  used  in  women  planning  to 
become  pregnant.  Healthcare  professionals  prescribing  any  agents  acting  on  the  RAS  should  counsel 
women of childbearing potential about the potential risk of these agents during pregnancy. If pregnancy is 
©EMEA 2007 
29/38  
 
 
 
 
 
detected during therapy, ALI should be discontinued as soon as possible. It is not known whether ALI is 
excreted in human milk. Its use is therefore not recommended in women who are breast-feeding. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
• 
In  vitro  studies  showed  that  ALI  does  not  inhibit  any  of  the  CYP450  enzymes  at  therapeutic 
concentrations.  Although  specific  studies  were  not  performed  to  assess  metabolic  induction,  it  was  not 
seen  in  animal  or  human  studies.  The  interaction  potential  of  ALI  with  other  co-medications  frequently 
used  in  the  hypertensive  and  diabetic  population  was  determined  in  several  drug  interaction  studies.  In 
addition, the effect of maximum inhibition of P-glycoprotein was also investigated using a probe inhibitor 
ketoconazole.  ALI  showed  a  low  potential  for  interaction  with  many  concomitant  medications.  Co-
administration  of 
irbesartan,  furosemide,  digoxin,  RAMl,  HCTZ,  ATE,  celecoxib,  fenofibrate, 
pioglitazone,  allopurinol,  and  isosorbide-5-mononitrate  with  ALI  had  no  effect  on  ALI  steady-state 
pharmacokinetics.  Co-administration  of  VAL  and  metformin  resulted  in  a  25-30%  reduction  in  ALI 
steady-state  AUC  and  Cmax.  Co-administration  of  AML  resulted  in  a  29%  increase  in  ALI  steady-state 
AUC.  Coadministration  of  cimetidine  resulted  in  20%  and  25%  increases  in  ALI  steady-state  AUC  and 
Cmax respectively. Co-administration of ALI did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin, 
VAL,  AML,  metformin,  RAM,  HCT,  pioglitazone,  ATE,  celecoxib,  isosorbide-5-  mononitrate, 
fenofibrate, and allopurinol. Coadministration of ALI did not have an effect on acenocoumarol exposure 
or PD effect as assessed by PT and INR. Coadministration of ALI and furosemide does not alter the PK of 
ALI  but  decreases  the  AUC  and  Cmax  of  furosemide  (28%  and  49%  respectively).  It  is,  therefore, 
recommended  that  the  effects  of  furosemide  be  monitored  and  the  dose  adjusted,  if  necessary,  when 
initiating treatment with ALI. Co-administration of ALI and atorvastatin does not alter the steady-state PK 
of atorvastatin or its metabolites, but increases the steady-state AUC and Cmax of ALI by approximately 
50%. Ketoconazole, a potent P-glycoprotein and CYP3 A4 inhibitor, increases exposure to ALI 300 mg 
by 1.8 fold [Study 2334]. It is likely that this is due to the inhibition of P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4 by 
ketoconazole  since  ALI  is  a  substrate  for  P-glycoprotein  and  is  metabolized  by  CYP3A4,  although  less 
than 1.4% of an oral dose is recovered as excreted metabolites. It is not anticipated that dose adjustment 
will be required when inhibitors of P-glycoprotein and ALI are used concomitantly at recommended doses 
as  these  exposures  would  be  within  the  range  studied  in  the  clinical  trials.  The  fact  that  some  drugs, 
potentially  co-administered  with  ALI,  can  significantly  affect  the  disposition  (AUC  and  Cmax)  of  ALI 
requires further studies.  
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Few  patients  overall  discontinued  prematurely  in  PLA-controlled  studies  (2.3%)  or  in  the  short-term 
controlled  studies  (2.4%).  In  the  PLA-controlled  studies,  the  PLA  group  had  the  largest  proportion  of 
patients with AEs leading to study discontinuation (3.5%). The rate of discontinuation was 1.7% in the all- 
ALI group and 1.9% in the ALI monotherapy group. The only notable difference among individual AEs 
was for headache, which led to discontinuation in 1.0% of the PLA-treated patients and 0.3% of all-ALI-
treated  patients  and  therefore  accounted  for  about  half  of  the  excess  rate  for  all  AEs  in  the  PLA  group 
compared  with  the  ALI  groups.  There  was  no  evidence  for  a  dose-response  relationship  for  any  events 
leading  to  discontinuation  in  the  ALI  treatment  groups.  In  the  short-term  controlled  studies,  the  ACE 
inhibitor  group  had  the  largest  proportion  of  patients  with  AEs  leading  to  study  discontinuation  (4.0%). 
The rate of discontinuation was 2.2% in the ALI group and 2.0% in the ALI monotherapy group and the 
pattern  of  events  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  the  PLA-controlled  studies.  Overall,  the  most  frequently 
reported AEs leading to discontinuation in the long-term double-blind studies were headache (13 patients, 
0.7%)  and  dizziness  (8  patients,  0.7%).  Similarly,  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation in the long-term open-label studies were headache (15 patients, 0.8%) and dizziness (13 
patients, 0.7%). There were no discontinuations due to AEs during the randomized withdrawal period of 
Study  2302.  Discontinuations  during  the  randomized  withdrawal  period  of  Study  2306  were 
predominantly in those randomized to PLA (3 of 3 for ALI regimen and 3 of 4 for RAM regimen). 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Studies were pooled for analyses on the overall safety profile. The safety population consisted of adults 
©EMEA 2007 
30/38  
 
 
 
 
with m-to-m EHTN with exception of patients of study 2303 (with severe EHTN) and study 2307 (with 
m-to-m EHTN and type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus). Studies lasting more than 8 weeks in general had 
the optional addition of other antihypertensive agents in patients whose BP was uncontrolled. However, a 
significant number of patients were exposed to Aliskiren as monotherapy for 6 months and 1 year.  List of 
investigated  AEs  was  complete.  Overall  number  of  AEs  was  lower  in  patients  treated  with  ALI  than  in 
patients  treated  with  PLA  (37.7%  vs  40.2%).  Among  the  common  AEs,  diarrhoea,  cough,  peripheral 
oedema,  fatigue,  rash,  and  influenza  were  more  incident  in  patients  treated  with  ALI  than  in  patients 
treated  with PLA.  As far as data of laboratory tests are concerned, effects of  8-wk treatment with ALI 
were of minor statistical or medical significance 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization 
activates 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Diarrhoea 
Rash 
Hyperkalemia 
Haemoglobin and haematocrit 
decrease 
Important potential risks 
Colorectal hyperplasia 
Peripheral oedema 
Hypotension 
Identified drug interactions 
Routine  PV,  aggregate  analyses 
through 
in  PSUR,  Monitor 
targeted  follow  up  from  post-
marketing  use  and  in  clinical 
trials. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine PV, review of clinical 
trials, aggregate analyses in 
PSUR. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine  PV,  aggregate  analyses 
in  PSUR,  Monitor 
through 
targeted  follow  up  from  post-
marketing  use  and  in  clinical 
trials. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
©EMEA 2007 
31/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Furosemide 
Potential drug interactions 
P-glycoprotein inhibitors 
Pharmacological class effects 
Cough 
Angioedema 
Renal dysfunction 
Important missing information 
Pregnancy 
Pediatric population 
Severe renal impairment 
Reno-vascular hypertension 
Reduction of cardiovascular 
risk 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine and additional) 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Proposed risk minimization 
activates 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
interaction 
PK 
study  with 
cyclosporine  A,  routine  PV, 
aggregate analyses in PSUR. 
Routine 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine  PV,  aggregate  analyses 
in  PSUR,  Monitor 
through 
targeted  follow  up  from  post-
marketing  use  and  in  clinical 
trials. 
Routine  PV,  aggregate  analyses 
in  PSUR  Monitor  in  clinical 
trials of population at risk. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. 
No studies planned. 
No studies planned. 
Routine PV, aggregate analyses 
in PSUR. Clinical CV morbidity 
and mortality program. 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
Routine 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no dditional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this medicinal product is considered satisfactory when used with the conditions defined in 
the  SPC.  The  documentation  provided  for  the  active  substance  ALI  is  comprehensive  and  adequately 
detailed.The  pharmaceutical  development  is  adequate  and  took  into  consideration  the  properties  and  the 
stability of the active substance. The excipients used are common excipients for immediate release dosage 
forms. Similarly, the packaging material is well documented and no incompatibility has been noticed.The 
validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  ensures  consistency  and  reproducibility  of  the  finished 
product.The finished product has been satisfactorily controlled and stability studies conducted under ICH 
conditions showed that the product is stable throughout the proposed shelf-life. 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  some  outstanding  quality  issues  with  no  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk. The applicant undertook to provide the necessary information as follow-up measures within 
©EMEA 2007 
32/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
an  agreed  timeframe  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this  additional 
information. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  studies  performed  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  proved  the  significant  and  selective  inhibitory  effect  against 
human  renin,  and  antihypertensive  effect  of  ALI  in  different  animal  models.  According  to  the 
pharmacological studies ALI, as a RI, provide the pharmacologic rationale for the use in the treatment of 
the HTN. ALI was evaluated for its possible effects on CNS, cardiovascular, respiratory and renal systems 
as well as for its interaction with a series of CNS receptors. Only minor effects were observed and these 
do not produce serious side effects. The primary PD program and safety pharmacology studies provided 
sufficient information regarding the affinity, the selectivity and the non-clinical PD efficacy of ALI. The 
overall actual data are considered reassuring for short and long term ALI administration to humans, but 
are  less  definitive  for  chronic  administration.  A  complete  toxicology  safety  evaluation  program  was 
conducted  to  support  the  chronic  administration  of  ALI  to  adult  patients.  The  toxicology  program  was 
consistent with the ICH M3 Guideline on Non-clinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical 
Trials for Pharmaceuticals as well as all other relevant guidelines. The rat and marmoset were selected as 
the rodent and non-rodent species for toxicity testing as both species are used routinely as animal models 
in toxicity evaluations. Furthermore, both the rat and the marmoset were used as pharmacological models 
for  the  evaluation  of  ALI  PD,  and  both  species  displayed  metabolic  profiles  similar  to  humans.  The 
toxicity  profile  in  mice  and  rats  was  consisted  of  inflammatory  and  degenerative  changes  of  the 
respiratory  epithelium  and  hypertrophy/hyperplasia  of  the  cecal  mucosa.  Diarrhea  was  the  primary 
treatment-related 
gastrointestinal  effect  of  ALI 
histopathological  findings.  Reproductive  toxicity  studies  with  aliskiren  did  not  reveal  any  evidence  of 
embryofoetal toxicity or teratogenicity at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day in rats or 100 mg/kg/day in rabbits. 
Fertility,  pre-natal  development  and  post-natal  development  were  unaffected  in  rats  at  doses  up  to 
250 mg/kg/day. The doses in rats and rabbits provided systemic exposures of 1 to 4 and 5 times higher, 
respectively, than the maximum recommended human dose (300 mg). 
there  were  no  associated 
in  marmosets  but 
Efficacy 
The  claimed  indication  for  RAS  is  treatment  of  EHTN,  alone  or  in  combination  with  other 
antihypertensive agents. Inclusion criterium was a diagnosis of m-t-m EHTN for all of the studies but one 
that  was  specifically  designed  for  severe  HTN.  Overall,  the  studies  completed  the  protocol  in  9,476 
individuals out of the 10,743 randomised individuals. Among individuals with completed protocols, 3,507 
were treated with ALI as a single antihypertensive drug, 2,684 were treated with ALI in combination with 
other  antihypertensive  drugs,  2,851  were  treated  with  other  registered  antihypertensive  drugs,  and  664 
were treated with PLA. The primary end-point was the change induced by active treatment in msDBP in 
ten of the twelve studies. Two studies focused on msSBP. Clinical studies represent the evidence that ALI, 
used as mono-therapy, is an effective antihypertensive medicinal product. In clinical trials the change in 
msDBP varied from -1.7 to -7.6 mmHg for the effects of ALI as a single drug in m-to-m EHTN. There is 
some variability in the BP effects among different studies. The variability in the BP effects might reflect a 
variable  bioavailability  of  the  drug.  In  fact,  drug  administration  was  not  standardized  with  regard  to 
fed/fasting  conditions  although  other  studies  show  that  ALI  absorption  is  substantially  affected  by  food 
ingestion.  The  long-term  efficacy  of  ALI  as  a  single  antihypertensive  drug  was  investigated  as  per 
suggested guidelines. Clinical studies address also the BP effects of ALI used as in combination with other 
antihypertensive  drugs.  These  studies  represent  convincing  evidence  that  ALI  is  an  effective 
antihypertensive drug when used in combination with thiazide diuretics and with BB (ATE). ALI when 
used in combination with ARB (VAL) was effective in the study specifically designed to investigate the 
effect of the combination therapy. As far as the combination with other drugs, study results are partially 
conclusive  for  combination  with  CCB,  or  limited  to  a  specific  subgroup  of  patients  (combination  with 
RAM).  The  change  in  msDBP  induced  by  combination  with  ALI  varied  from  -1.0  to  -4.9  mmHg 
compared  to  effects  of  other  drug  alone.  Subgroup  analyses  were  adequately  performed  for  patients 
without  overweight,  and  pre/post  menopausal  women,  but  not  for  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes  mellitus 
©EMEA 2007 
33/38  
 
 
 
 
patients. Beneficial effects of ALI on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity and target organ damage are 
currently unknown. 
Safety 
Studies  were  pooled  for  analyses  of  an  overall  safety  profile.  The  safety  population  consisted  of  adults 
with m-t-m EHTN with exception of one study (with severe EHTN). Studies lasting more than 8 weeks in 
general had the optional addition of other antihypertensive agents in patients whose BP was uncontrolled. 
However,  a  significant  number  of  patients  were  exposed  to  Aliskiren  as  monotherapy  for  6  months  and 
 1 year. Overall number of AEs was lower in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with PLA. 
Among  the  common  AEs,  diarrhoea,  cough,  peripheral  oedema,  fatigue,  rash,  and  influenza  were  more 
incident in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with PLA. Among these AEs: diarrhoea was 
the most common AE and was 2-time more frequent in patients treated with ALI than patients treated with 
PLA  (2.4%  vs  1.2%).  Cough  was  the  second  most  common  AE  but  was  substantially  less  frequent  in 
patients  treated  with  ALI  than  in  patients  treated  with  ACEi  (1.0%  vs  3.8%).  Peripheral  oedema  was 
substantially less frequent in patients treated with ALI than in patients treated with AML (0.9% vs 7.3%). 
As far as data of laboratory tests are concerned, effects of treatment with ALI were of minor statistical or 
medical  significance.  From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have 
been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the 
RMP,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  proposed  activities  described  in  section  3.5  adequately  addressed 
these concerns.  
•  User consultation 
The  user  testing  provided  was  adherent  to  the  EC  Guideline.  The  results  reported  met  the  readability 
success criteria. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The benefits of the new RI ALI, in lowering BP in a large cohort of patients with m-t-m EHTN and in a 
group  of  patients  with  severe  HTN  are  well  documented.  There  is  some  variability  in  the  BP  effects 
among different studies very likely due to a variable bioavailability of the drug and no standardisation of 
administration  with  regard  to  fed/fasting  conditions.  No  specific  clinical  trials  were  carried  out  to  show 
ALI beneficial effect in hypertensive patients with concomitant morbidities. Ali was well tolerated when 
given  alone  and  in  combination  with  other  antihypertensive  drugs  and  particularly  effective  in 
combination with diuretics (HCTZ). A structured review and evaluation of the entire ALI safety database 
has led to the identification of adverse drug reactions related to administration of ALI: diarrhoea and rash. 
Data on ALI safety are not available in children, pregnant or nursing females, patients with severe renal or 
hepatic  impairment,  recent  or  ongoing  major  cardiovascular  disorders  or  cerebrovascular  disorders,  or 
secondary HTN. Long-term studies in general had the optional addition of other antihypertensive agents in 
patients whose BP was uncontrolled. However, a significant number of patients were exposed to Aliskiren 
as  monotherapy  for  up  to  1  year.  A  rapid  and  reversible  local  toxicity  of  ALI  in  the  lower  intestinal 
mucosa is a species-specific finding in rodents and did not occur in humans, as shown by colonoscopy, 
after 8 wk treatment with ALI. In addition, ALI did not behave as a classical tumour promoter agent. A 
specific  RMP  ensure  the  monitoring,  during  long-term  treatment  with  ALI,  GI  adverse  reactions  and 
potential carcinogenetic lesions. In conclusion, the therapeutic antihypertensive effects of ALI given alone 
or in combination with other antihypertensive agents outweigh the negative effects. 
A  risk  management  plan  was  submitted.  The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the 
opinion that:  
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product 
AND 
no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information.  
©EMEA 2007 
34/38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Rasilez  in  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
35/38  
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
Angiotensin converting enzyme (inhibitor) 
Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and Excretion 
adverse event 
Aliskiren 
alanine aminotransferase/glutamic pyruvic transaminase/SGPT 
angiotensin I/II 
amlodipine 
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid 
accelerator mass spectrometry 
Angiotensin I, II 
Angiotensinogen 
Atrial natriuretic peptide 
Apolipoprotein E knock out 
Angiotensin receptor blocker 
aspartate aminotransferase/glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase/SGOT 
Anti-thrombin-III 
ACE(i)  
ADME  
AE  
ALI 
ALT  
Ang I/II  
AMLO  
AMPA  
AMS  
Ang I, II 
AOGEN  
ANP  
ApoE-/-  
ARB  
AST  
AT-III  
ATE 
AUC  
AUC(0-t)   Area under the plasma/blood concentration-time curve from time zero to time t, using the log-linear 
Area under the curve 
         Atenolol 
trapezoidal rule.  
 Area under the plasma/blood concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity.  
Bromodeoxyuridine 
AUC(0-∞) 
BrdU  
AUC AUC   area under the curve of the time vs. ALI concentration profile 
βMHC  
BAV  
BB 
BMI  
BUN  
BP  
14C  
CAR  
CCB 
CHO  
CK  
CL  
Cmax 
CNS  
CRP  
CSF 
Css  
rhCYP  
d  
DMF  
DMSO  
DRF  
dTGR  
EH 
EHTN 
EFD  
EFT  
EHR  
ELISA  
F%  
FACS  
FDA  
fu  
Beta myosin heavy chain 
bioavailability 
betablockers 
body mass index 
blood urea nitrogen 
Blood pressure 
carbon-14 radioisotope 
carcinogenicity study 
calcium channel blockers 
Chinese hamster ovary 
creatine kinase 
Clearance 
Maximum plasma/blood concentration after a single dose 
Central nervous system 
C-reactive protein 
Colony stimulating factor (or cerebrospinal fluid) 
steady-state concentration  
recombinant human cytochrome P450 
day 
Dimethyl formamide 
Dimethyl sulfoxide 
dose range finding study 
Double transgenic rat  
hepatic extraction ratio 
essential hypertension 
embryo-fetal development study 
embryo-fetal transfer distribution study 
enterohepatic recirculation 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
absolute oral bioavailability 
Fluorescein activated cell scanning 
Food and Drug Administration 
fraction unbound (in plasma) 
©EMEA 2007 
36/38  
 
 
 
 
 
Heart rate 
Hypertension 
5-hydroxytryptamine 
healthy volunteer 
intraarterial 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Concentration required to inhibit by 25% 
Concentration required to inhibit by 50% 
intraduodenal 
international non-proprietary name, generic drug name 
intraperitoneal dosing 
Immunoradiometric assay 
intra-tracheal dosing 
intravenous dosing 
1 kidney 1 clip model of hypertension 
2 kidney 1 clip model of hypertension 
kilogram 
Liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry 
Good Laboratory Practice 
GLP  
hour 
h  
3H  
tritium radioisotope 
glycosylated hemoglobin 
HbA1c  
Human ether-a-go-go-related gene 
hERG  
Mercury 
Hg  
Human immunodeficiency virus 
HIV  
1H-NMR  
proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
HPLC  
High performance liquid chromatography 
HPLC-MS-MS HPLC coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (MS2) 
HPLC-UV   high performance liquid chromatography coupled to ultraviolet detection 
HR  
HTN 
5HT  
HV  
i.a.  
ICH  
IC25  
IC50  
i.d.  
INN  
i.p.  
IRMA  
i.t.  
i.v.  
1K1C  
2K1C  
kg  
LC-MS  
LC-MS-MS   Liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry 
LDH  
LLNA  
LOD  
LOQ  
LLOQ  
LLNA  
LSC  
M  
MADBP  
MAP  
MDR1  
MF  
mg  
mgEq  
mm  
mM  
µM  
mRen-2 rat   Transgenic rats expressing mouse ren-2 gene 
MRP2  
msDBP/SBP  mean sitting diastolic BP/systolic BP 
Maximum tolerated dose 
MTD 
Experimental number 
N  
not determined 
n.d.  
Natural killer cells  
NK cells  
nanomolar 
nM  
N-methyl-D-aspartate 
NMDA  
No observed adverse effect level 
NOAEL  
No observed effect level 
NOEL  
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
NSAID  
lactic acid dehydrogenase 
Local lymph node assay 
Limit of detection 
Limit of quantification 
Lower limit of quantification 
Local lymph node assay 
Liquid scintillation counting 
Male 
mean ambulatory diastolic blood pressure 
Mean arterial blood pressure 
Multidrug resistance protein (P-glycoprotein (P-gp); ABCB1) 
market formulation 
milligram 
milligram equivalent 
millimeter 
millimolar 
micromolar 
Multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (ABCC2) 
©EMEA 2007 
37/38  
 
 
human Organic anion transporting polypeptide 
h: human, r: rat 
human Organic cation transporter 
omnia die/once a day 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
Per oral dosing 
Pharmacokinetics written summary 
Plasma renin activity 
Plasma renin concentration 
Quantitative whole body autoradiography 
Quantitative whole body autoradioluminography 
ramipril 
Renin angiotensin system 
Serious Adverse Event 
Summary of biopharmaceutic studies and associated analytical methods 
Summary of Clinical Efficacy 
Summary of Clinical Safety 
standard deviation 
standard error 
subcutaneous 
Standard error of the mean 
Spontaneously hypertensive rats 
Standard Operating Procedure 
hOATP  
rOatp  
hOCT  
o.d.  
PK/PD  
p.o.  
PKWS 
PRA  
PRC  
QWBA  
QWBAL  
RAM 
RAS 
SAE  
SBS  
SCE  
SCS  
SD  
SE  
s.c.  
SEM  
SHR  
SOP  
SPP 100 ALI 
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor 
SSRI  
Streptozotocin 
STZ  
terminal half-life 
t½  
terminal elimination half-life (unit: h) 
t½λz  
time to the maximum observed plasma/blood concentration 
tmax  
TGF-β  
Transforming growth factor-beta 
TGR(mRen-2)27 Transgenic rats expressing mouse ren-2 gene 
TK  
TKWS 
TNF-α  
TWA  
ULN  
UAE  
VAL  
Vdβ  
Vss  
v/v  
WBC  
WHO  
wk  
w/v  
w/w 
Toxicokinetic  
Toxicokinetic written summary 
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
Time-weighted average  
upper limit of normal 
Urinary albumin excretion 
valsartan 
distribution volume at terminal elimination phase (unit: L or L/kg) 
Steady-state volume of distribution 
volume per volume 
white blood cell 
World Health Organization 
week 
weight per volume 
weight per weight 
©EMEA 2007 
38/38  
 
 
 
