ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Light-pink, biconvex, round tablet, imprinted “IL” on one side and “NVR” on the other side. 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Light-red, biconvex, ovaloid tablet, imprinted “IU” on one side and “NVR” on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Rasilez is 150 mg once daily. In patients whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled, the dose may be increased to 300 mg once daily. 
The antihypertensive effect is substantially present within two weeks (85-90%) after initiating therapy 
with 150 mg once daily. 
Rasilez may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents with the exception of 
use in combination with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or angiotensin II receptor 
blockers (ARB) in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
(GFR) < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No adjustment of the initial dose is required for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). Aliskiren is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (GFR 
< 30 ml/min/1.73 m2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No adjustment of the initial dose is required for patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
Elderly patients aged 65 years and over 
The recommended starting dose of aliskiren in elderly patients is 150 mg. No clinically meaningful 
additional blood pressure reduction is observed by increasing the dose to 300 mg in the majority of 
elderly patients. 
Paediatric population 
Rasilez is contraindicated in children from birth to less than 2 years. Rasilez should not be used in 
children aged 2 to less than 6 years because of safety concerns due to potential aliskiren overexposure 
(see sections 4.3, 4.4, 5.2, and 5.3). The safety and efficacy of Rasilez in children aged 6 to 17 years 
have not yet been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. Use 
of Rasilez is not recommended in this population.  
Method of administration 
Oral use. The tablets should be swallowed whole with some water. Rasilez should be taken once a day, 
always with or always without food, preferably at the same time each day. Patients should establish a 
convenient daily schedule of medicinal product intake and maintain a steady temporal relationship 
with food intake. Concomitant intake with fruit juice and/or drinks containing plant extracts (including 
herbal teas) should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
History of angioedema with aliskiren. 
Hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
The concomitant use of aliskiren with ciclosporin and itraconazole, two highly potent  
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitors, and other potent P-gp inhibitors (e.g. quinidine), is 
contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
-  The concomitant use of Rasilez with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor(ACEI) or an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or 
renal impairment (GFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
- 
Children from birth to less than 2 years (see sections 4.2 and 5.3). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
General 
In the event of severe and persistent diarrhoea, Rasilez therapy should be stopped (see section 4.8). 
Aliskiren should be used with caution in patients with serious congestive heart failure (New York 
Heart Association (NYHA) functional class III-IV) (see section 5.1). 
Aliskiren should be used with caution in patients with heart failure treated with furosemide or 
torasemide (see section 4.5). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Hypotension, syncope, stroke, hyperkalaemia, and decreased renal function (including acute renal 
failure) have been reported in susceptible individuals, especially if combining medicinal products that 
affect this system (see section 5.1). Dual blockade of the RAAS by combining aliskiren with an ACEI 
or an ARB is therefore not recommended. If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, 
this should only occur under specialist supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal 
function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
Risk of symptomatic hypotension 
Symptomatic hypotension could occur after initiation of treatment with aliskiren in the following 
cases: 
- 
Patients with marked volume depletion or patients with salt depletion (e.g. those receiving high 
doses of diuretics) or 
Combined use of aliskiren with other agents acting on the RAAS. 
- 
The volume or salt depletion should be corrected prior to administration of Rasilez, or the treatment 
should start under close medical supervision. 
Renal impairment 
In clinical studies aliskiren has not been investigated in hypertensive patients with severe renal 
impairment (serum creatinine ≥ 150 μmol/l or 1.70 mg/dl in women and ≥ 177 μmol/l or 2.00 mg/dl in 
men and/or estimated GFR < 30 ml/min/1.73 m2), history of dialysis, nephrotic syndrome or 
renovascular hypertension. It is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (GFR 
< 30 ml/min/1.73 m2). 
As for other medicinal products acting on the renin-angiotensin system, caution should be exercised 
when aliskiren is given in the presence of conditions pre-disposing to kidney dysfunction such as 
hypovolaemia (e.g. due to blood loss, severe prolonged diarrhoea, prolonged vomiting, etc.), heart 
disease, liver disease, diabetes mellitus or kidney disease. Acute renal failure, reversible upon 
discontinuation of treatment, has been reported in at-risk patients receiving aliskiren in post-marketing 
experience. In the event that any signs of renal failure occur, aliskiren should be promptly 
discontinued. 
Increases in serum potassium have been observed with aliskiren in post-marketing experience and 
these may be exacerbated by concomitant use of other agents acting on the RAAS or by non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Consistent with standard medical practice, periodic determination 
of renal function including serum electrolytes is advised if co-administration is considered necessary. 
Renal artery stenosis 
No controlled clinical data are available on the use of aliskiren in patients with unilateral or bilateral 
renal artery stenosis, or stenosis to a solitary kidney. However, there is an increased risk of renal 
insufficiency, including acute renal failure, when patients with renal artery stenosis are treated with 
aliskiren. Therefore, caution should be exercised in these patients. If renal failure occurs, treatment 
should be discontinued. 
Anaphylactic reactions and angioedema 
Anaphylactic reactions have been observed during treatment with aliskiren from post-marketing 
experience (see section 4.8). Angioedema or symptoms suggestive of angioedema (swelling of the 
face, lips, throat and/or tongue) have been reported in patients treated with aliskiren. 
A number of these patients had a history of angioedema or symptoms suggestive of angioedema, 
which in some cases followed use of other medicinal product that can cause angioedema, including 
RAAS blockers (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers) (see 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.8). 
In post-marketing experience, angioedema or angioedema-like reactions have been reported when 
aliskiren was co-administered with ACEIs and/or ARBs (see section 4.8). 
In a post-authorisation observational study, the co-administration of aliskiren with ACEIs or ARBs has 
been associated with an increased risk of angioedema. The mechanism of this effect has not been 
established. In general, dual blockade of the RAAS by combining aliskiren with an ACEI or an ARB 
is not recommended (see section “Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system 
(RAAS)” above and also sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Special caution is necessary in patients with a hypersensitivity predisposition. 
Patients with a history of angioedema may be at increased risk of experiencing angioedema during 
treatment with aliskiren (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). Caution should therefore be exercised when 
prescribing aliskiren to patients with a history of angioedema, and such patients should be closely 
monitored during treatment (see section 4.8) especially at the beginning of the treatment. 
If anaphylactic reactions or angioedema occur, treatment should be promptly discontinued and 
appropriate therapy and monitoring provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and 
symptoms has occurred. Patients should be informed to report to the physician any signs suggestive of 
allergic reactions, in particular difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of face, extremities, 
eyes, lips or tongue. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx adrenaline should be 
administered. In addition, measures necessary to maintain patent airways should be provided. 
Paediatric population 
Aliskiren  is  a  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp)  substrate,  and  there  is  a  potential  for  aliskiren  overexposure  in 
children with an immature P-gp drug transporter system. The age at which the transporter system is 
mature  cannot  be  determined  (see  sections 5.2  and  5.3).  Therefore,  Rasilez  is  contraindicated  in 
children from birth to less than 2 years and should not be used in children aged 2 to less than 6 years 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The safety and efficacy of aliskiren in children aged 6 to 17 years have not 
yet been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Contraindicated (see section 4.3) 
P-gp potent inhibitors 
A single dose interaction study in healthy subjects has shown that ciclosporin (200 and 600 mg) 
increases Cmax of aliskiren 75 mg approximately 2.5-fold and AUC approximately 5-fold. The increase 
may be higher with higher aliskiren doses. In healthy subjects, itraconazole (100 mg) increases AUC 
and Cmax of aliskiren (150 mg) by 6.5-fold and 5.8-fold, respectively. Therefore, concomitant use of 
aliskiren and P-gp potent inhibitors is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Not recommended 
Fruit juice and drinks containing plant extracts 
Administration of fruit juice with aliskiren resulted in a decrease in AUC and Cmax of aliskiren. 
Co-administration of grapefruit juice with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 61% decrease in aliskiren 
AUC and co-administration with aliskiren 300 mg resulted in a 38% decrease in aliskiren AUC. 
Co-administration of orange or apple juice with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 62% decrease in 
aliskiren AUC or in a 63% decrease in aliskiren AUC, respectively. This decrease is likely due to an 
inhibition of organic anion transporting polypeptide-mediated uptake of aliskiren by components of 
fruit juice in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, because of the risk of therapeutic failure, fruit juice 
should not be taken together with aliskiren. The effect of drinks containing plant extracts (including 
herbal teas) on the absorption of aliskiren has not been investigated. However, compounds potentially 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inhibiting organic anion transporting polypeptide-mediated uptake of aliskiren are widely present in 
fruits, vegetables, and many other plant products. Therefore, drinks containing plant extracts, 
including herbal teas, should not be taken together with aliskiren (see section 4.2) 
Dual blockade of the RAAS with aliskiren, ARBs or ACEIs 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACEIs, 
ARBs or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, stroke, 
hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a 
single RAAS-acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Caution required with concomitant use 
P-gp interactions 
MDR1/Mdr1a/1b (P-gp) was found to be the major efflux system involved in intestinal absorption and 
biliary excretion of aliskiren in preclinical studies (see section 5.2). Rifampicin, which is an inducer of 
P-gp, reduced aliskiren bioavailability by approximately 50% in a clinical study. Other inducers of 
P-gp (St. John’s wort) might decrease the bioavailability of aliskiren. Although this has not been 
investigated for aliskiren, it is known that P-gp also controls tissue uptake of a variety of substrates 
and P-gp inhibitors can increase the tissue-to-plasma concentration ratios. Therefore, P-gp inhibitors 
may increase tissue levels more than plasma levels. The potential for drug interactions at the P-gp site 
will likely depend on the degree of inhibition of this transporter. 
Moderate P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of ketoconazole (200 mg) or verapamil (240 mg) with aliskiren (300 mg) resulted in 
a 76% or 97% increase in aliskiren AUC, respectively. The change in plasma levels of aliskiren in the 
presence of ketoconazole or verapamil is expected to be within the range that would be achieved if the 
dose of aliskiren were doubled; aliskiren doses of up to 600 mg, or twice the highest recommended 
therapeutic dose, have been found to be well tolerated in controlled clinical studies. Preclinical studies 
indicate that aliskiren and ketoconazole co-administration enhances aliskiren gastrointestinal 
absorption and decreases biliary excretion. Therefore, caution should be exercised when aliskiren is 
administered with ketoconazole, verapamil or other moderate P-gp inhibitors (clarithromycin, 
telithromycin, erythromycin, amiodarone). 
Medicinal products affecting serum potassium levels 
Concomitant  use  of  other  agents  affecting  the  RAAS,  of  NSAIDs  or  of  agents  that  increase  serum 
potassium levels (e.g. potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium,  heparin)  may  lead  to  increases  in  serum  potassium.  If  co-administration  with  an  agent 
affecting the level of serum potassium is considered necessary, routine monitoring of potassium levels 
would be advisable. 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
NSAIDs may reduce the anti-hypertensive effect of aliskiren. In some patients with compromised 
renal function (dehydrated patients or elderly patients) aliskiren given concomitantly with NSAIDs 
may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is 
usually reversible. Therefore the combination of aliskiren with an NSAID requires caution, especially 
in elderly patients. 
Furosemide and torasemide 
Oral co-administration of aliskiren and furosemide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren 
but reduced exposure to furosemide by 20-30% (the effect of aliskiren on furosemide administered 
intramuscularly or intravenously has not been investigated). After multiple doses of furosemide 
(60 mg/day) co-administered with aliskiren (300 mg/day) to patients with heart failure the urinary 
sodium excretion and the urine volume were reduced during the first 4 hours by 31% and 24%, 
respectively, as compared to furosemide alone. The mean weight of patients concomitantly treated 
with furosemide and 300 mg aliskiren (84.6 kg) was higher than the weight of patients treated with 
furosemide alone (83.4 kg). Smaller changes in furosemide pharmacokinetics and efficacy were 
observed with aliskiren 150 mg/day. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The available clinical data did not indicate that higher doses of torasemide were used after 
co-administration with aliskiren. Torasemide renal excretion is known to be mediated by organic anion 
transporters (OATs). Aliskiren is minimally excreted via the renal route, and only 0.6% of the 
aliskiren dose is recovered in urine following oral administration (see section 5.2). However, since 
aliskiren has been shown to be a substrate for the organic anion-transporting polypeptide 1A2 
(OATP1A2) (see section “Organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP” below) inhibitors), there is 
a potential for aliskiren to reduce plasma torasemide exposure by an interference with the absorption 
process. 
In patients treated with both aliskiren and oral furosemide or torasemide, it is therefore recommended 
that the effects of furosemide or torasemide be monitored when initiating and adjusting furosemide, 
torasemide or aliskiren therapy to avoid changes in extracellular fluid volume and possible situations 
of volume overload (see section 4.4). 
Warfarin 
The effects of aliskiren on warfarin pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated. 
Food interactions 
Although meals (low or high fat content) have been shown to reduce the absorption of aliskiren 
substantially, the efficacy of aliskiren was shown to be similar when taken either with a light meal or 
without a meal (see section 4.2). The available clinical data do not suggest an additive effect of 
different types of foods and/or drinks, however the potential for decreased aliskiren bioavailability due 
to this additive effect has not been studied and therefore cannot be excluded. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction with other medicinal products 
Compounds that have been investigated in clinical pharmacokinetic studies include acenocoumarol, 
atenolol, celecoxib, pioglitazone, allopurinol, isosorbide-5-mononitrate and hydrochlorothiazide. No 
interactions have been identified. 
Co-administration of aliskiren with either metformin (↓28%), amlodipine (↑29%) or cimetidine 
(↑19%) resulted in between 20% and 30% change in Cmax or AUC of Rasilez. When administered with 
atorvastatin, steady-state Rasilez AUC and Cmax increased by 50%. Co-administration of Rasilez had 
no significant impact on atorvastatin, metformin or amlodipine pharmacokinetics. As a result no dose 
adjustment for Rasilez or these co-administered medicinal products is necessary. 
Digoxin and verapamil bioavailability may be slightly decreased by Rasilez. 
CYP450 interactions 
Aliskiren does not inhibit the CYP450 isoenzymes (CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A). 
Aliskiren does not induce CYP3A4. Therefore, aliskiren is not expected to affect the systemic 
exposure of substances that inhibit, induce or are metabolised by these enzymes. Aliskiren is 
metabolised minimally by the cytochrome P450 enzymes. Hence, interactions due to inhibition or 
induction of CYP450 isoenzymes are not expected. However, CYP3A4 inhibitors often also affect 
P-gp. Increased aliskiren exposure during co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors that also inhibit 
P-gp can therefore be expected (see other P-gp references in section 4.5). 
P-gp substrates or weak inhibitors 
No relevant interactions with atenolol, digoxin, amlodipine or cimetidine have been observed. When 
administered with atorvastatin (80 mg), steady-state aliskiren (300 mg) AUC and Cmax increased by 
50%. In experimental animals, it has been shown that P-gp is a major determinant of Rasilez 
bioavailability. Inducers of P-gp (St. John’s wort, rifampicin) might therefore decrease the 
bioavailability of Rasilez. 
Organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) inhibitors 
Preclinical studies indicate that aliskiren might be a substrate of organic anion transporting 
polypeptides. Therefore, the potential exists for interactions between OATP inhibitors and aliskiren 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when administered concomitantly (see section “Fruit juice and drinks containing plant extracts” 
above). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of aliskiren in pregnant women. Aliskiren was not teratogenic in rats or 
rabbits (see section 5.3). Other substances that act directly on the RAAS have been associated with 
serious foetal malformations and neonatal death. As for any medicine that acts directly on the RAAS, 
alsikiren should not be used during the first trimester of pregnancy or in women planning to become 
pregnant and is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters (see section 4.3). Healthcare 
professionals prescribing any agents acting on the RAAS should counsel women of childbearing 
potential about the potential risk of these agents during pregnancy. If pregnancy is detected during 
therapy, treatment should be discontinued accordingly. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether aliskiren/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Aliskiren was secreted in the 
milk of lactating rats. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Aliskiren should not be used 
during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Rasilez has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or using 
machines it must be borne in mind that dizziness or drowsiness may occasionally occur when taking 
Rasilez. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Serious adverse reactions include anaphylactic reaction and angioedema which have been reported in 
post-marketing experience and may occur rarely (less than 1 case per 1,000 patients). The most 
common adverse reaction is diarrhoea. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Aliskiren has been evaluated for safety in more than 7,800 patients, including over 2,300 treated for 
over 6 months, and more than 1,200 for over 1 year. The adverse reactions are ranked under heading 
of frequency, the most frequent first, using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common 
(≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Immune system disorders 
Rare: 
Anaphylactic reactions, hypersensitivity reactions 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Dizziness 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon: 
Vascular disorders 
Vertigo 
Palpitations, oedema peripheral 
Uncommon: 
Hypotension 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Cough 
Dyspnoea 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: 
Not known: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Not known: 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea, vomiting 
Liver disorder*, jaundice, hepatitis, liver failure** 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens 
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and oral mucosal 
reactions, rash, pruritus, urticaria 
Angioedema, erythema 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common: 
Arthralgia 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon: 
Acute renal failure, renal impairment 
Investigations 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Not known: 
Hyperkalaemia 
Liver enzyme increased 
Haemoglobin decreased, haematocrit decreased, blood creatinine 
increased 
Hyponatraemia 
*Isolated cases of liver disorder with clinical symptoms and laboratory evidence of more marked 
hepatic dysfunction. 
**Including one case of ‘liver failure fulminant’ reported in the post-marketing experience, for which 
a causal relationship with aliskiren cannot be excluded. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema 
In controlled clinical studies, angioedema and hypersensitivity reactions occurred rarely during 
treatment with aliskiren with rates comparable to treatment with placebo or comparators. 
Cases of angioedema or symptoms suggestive of angioedema (swelling of the face, lips, throat and/or 
tongue) have also been reported in post-marketing experience. A number of these patients had a 
history of angioedema or symptoms suggestive of angioedema which in some cases was associated 
with the administration of other medicines known to cause angioedema, including RAAS blockers 
(ACEIs or ARBs). 
In post-marketing experience, cases of angioedema or angioedema-like reactions have been reported 
when aliskiren was co-administered with ACEIs and/or ARBs. 
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions have also been reported in post-marketing 
experience (see section 4.4). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of any signs suggesting a hypersensitivity reaction/angioedema (in particular difficulties 
in breathing or swallowing, rash, itching, hives or swelling of the face, extremities, eyes, lips and/or 
tongue, dizziness) patients should discontinue treatment and contact the physician (see section 4.4). 
Arthralgia has been reported in post-marketing experience. In some cases this occurred as part of a 
hypersensitivity reaction. 
Renal dysfunction 
In post-marketing experience, renal dysfunction and cases of acute renal failure have been reported in 
patients at risk (see section 4.4). 
Laboratory findings 
In controlled clinical trials, clinically relevant changes in standard laboratory parameters were 
uncommonly associated with the administration of aliskiren. In clinical studies in hypertensive 
patients, Rasilez had no clinically important effects on total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (HDL-C), fasting triglycerides, fasting glucose or uric acid. 
Haemoglobin and haematocrit 
Small decreases in haemoglobin and haematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.05 mmol/l and 
0.16 volume percent, respectively) were observed. No patients discontinued therapy due to anaemia. 
This effect is also seen with other agents acting on the renin-angiotensin system, such as ACEIs and 
ARBs. 
Serum potassium 
Increases in serum potassium have been observed with aliskiren and these may be exacerbated by 
concomitant use of other agents acting on the RAAS or by NSAIDs. Consistent with standard medical 
practice, periodic determination of renal function including serum electrolytes is advised if 
co-administration is considered necessary. 
Paediatric population 
Aliskiren has been evaluated for safety in a randomised, double-blind, 8-week study in 
267 hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years, mostly overweight/obese, followed by an extension 
study including 208 patients treated for 52 weeks. An additional 52 to 104 week non-interventional 
observational extension study in 106 patients (no study treatment administered) was conducted with 
the objective to evaluate the long-term safety in terms of growth and development of children 6-17 
years of age with hypertension (primary or secondary) at baseline in the core study, previously treated 
with aliskiren.  
The frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children were generally similar to those seen 
in hypertensive adults. No overall clinically relevant adverse impact on paediatric patients aged 6 to 
17 years was observed after treatment with aliskiren for up to one year based on physical 
development, assessed in patients with primary or secondary hypertension, and  neurocognitive 
development assessed only in patients with secondary hypertension (19 patients: 9 previously treated 
with aliskiren and  10 previously treated with enalapril) (see section 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Limited data are available related to overdose in humans. The most likely manifestations of 
overdosage would be hypotension, related to the antihypertensive effect of aliskiren. 
Treatment 
If symptomatic hypotension should occur, supportive treatment should be initiated. 
In a study conducted in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving haemodialysis, dialysis 
clearance of aliskiren was low (< 2% of oral clearance). Therefore, dialysis is not adequate to treat 
aliskiren over-exposure. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Agents acting on the renin-angiotensin system; renin inhibitor, ATC 
code: C09XA02 
Mechanism of action 
Aliskiren is an orally active, non-peptide, potent and selective direct inhibitor of human renin. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
By inhibiting the enzyme renin, aliskiren inhibits the RAAS at the point of activation, blocking the 
conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I and decreasing levels of angiotensin I and angiotensin 
II. Whereas other agents that inhibit the RAAS (ACEI and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB)) 
cause a compensatory rise in plasma renin activity (PRA), treatment with aliskiren decreases PRA in 
hypertensive patients by approximately 50 to 80%. Similar reductions were found when aliskiren was 
combined with other antihypertensive agents. The clinical implications of the differences in effect on 
PRA are not known at the present time. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In hypertensive patients, once-daily administration of aliskiren at doses of 150 mg and 300 mg 
provided dose-dependent reductions in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure that were maintained 
over the entire 24-hour dose interval (maintaining benefit in the early morning) with a mean peak to 
trough ratio for diastolic response of up to 98% for the 300 mg dose. 85 to 90% of the maximal 
blood-pressure-lowering effect was observed after 2 weeks. The blood-pressure-lowering effect was 
sustained during long-term treatment, and was independent of age, gender, body mass index and 
ethnicity. Aliskiren has been studied in 1,864 patients aged 65 years or older, and in 426 patients aged 
75 years or older. 
Aliskiren monotherapy studies have shown blood pressure lowering effects comparable to other 
classes of antihypertensive agents including ACEI and ARB. Compared to a diuretic 
(hydrochlorothiazide - HCTZ), Rasilez 300 mg lowered systolic/diastolic blood pressure by 
17.0/12.3 mmHg, compared to 14.4/10.5 mmHg for HCTZ 25 mg after 12 weeks of treatment. 
Combination therapy studies are available for aliskiren added to the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, the 
calcium channel blocker amlodipine and the beta blocker atenolol. These combinations were well 
tolerated. It induced an additive blood-pressure-lowering effect when added to hydrochlorothiazide. In 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who did not adequately respond to 5 mg of the calcium channel blocker amlodipine, the 
addition of aliskiren 150 mg had a blood-pressure-lowering effect similar to that obtained by 
increasing amlodipine dose to 10 mg, but had a lower incidence of oedema (aliskiren 
150 mg/amlodipine 5 mg 2.1% vs. amlodipine 10 mg 11.2%). 
The efficacy and safety of aliskiren-based therapy were compared to ramipril-based therapy in a 
9-month non-inferiority study in 901 elderly patients (≥ 65 years) with essential systolic hypertension. 
Aliskiren 150 mg or 300 mg per day or ramipril 5 mg or 10 mg per day were administered for 
36 weeks with optional add-on therapy of hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg or 25 mg) at week 12, and 
amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) at week 22. Over the 12 week period, aliskiren monotherapy lowered 
systolic/diastolic blood pressure by 14.0/5.1 mmHg, compared to 11.6/3.6 mmHg for ramipril, 
consistent with aliskiren being non-inferior to ramipril at the doses chosen and the differences in 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure were statistically significant. Tolerability was comparable in both 
treatment arms, however cough was more often reported with the ramipril regimen than the aliskiren 
regimen (14.2% vs. 4.4%), whilst diarrhoea was more common with the aliskiren regimen than for the 
ramipril regimen (6.6% vs. 5.0%). 
In a 8-week study in 754 hypertensive elderly (≥ 65 years) and very elderly patients (30% ≥ 75 years) 
aliskiren at doses of 75 mg, 150 mg and 300 mg provided statistically significant superior reduction in 
blood pressure (both systolic and diastolic) when compared to placebo. No additional blood pressure 
lowering effect was detected with 300 mg aliskiren compared to 150 mg aliskiren. All three doses 
were well tolerated in both elderly and very elderly patients. In a pooled analysis of efficacy and safety 
data from clinical studies up to 12 months duration, there was no statistically significant difference in 
blood pressure reduction between aliskiren 300 mg and aliskiren 150 mg in elderly patients 
(≥ 65 years). 
In obese hypertensive patients who did not adequately respond to HCTZ 25 mg, add-on treatment with 
aliskiren 300 mg provided additional blood pressure reduction that was comparable to add-on 
treatment with irbesartan 300 mg or amlodipine 10 mg. 
There has been no evidence of first-dose hypotension and no effect on pulse rate in patients treated in 
controlled clinical studies. Excessive hypotension was uncommonly (0.1%) seen in patients with 
uncomplicated hypertension treated with aliskiren alone. Hypotension was also uncommon (<1%) 
during combination therapy with other antihypertensive agents. With cessation of treatment, blood 
pressure gradually returned towards baseline levels over a period of several weeks, with no evidence 
of a rebound effect for blood pressure or PRA. 
In a 36-week study involving 820 patients with ischaemic left ventricular dysfunction, no changes in 
ventricular re-modelling as assessed by left ventricular end systolic volume were detected with 
aliskiren compared to placebo on top of background therapy. 
The combined rates of cardiovascular death, hospitalisation for heart failure, recurrent heart attack, 
stroke and resuscitated sudden death were similar in the aliskiren group and the placebo group. 
However, in patients receiving aliskiren there was a significantly higher rate of hyperkalaemia, 
hypotension and kidney dysfunction when compared to the placebo group. 
Aliskiren was evaluated for cardiovascular and/or renal benefit in a double-blind placebo controlled 
randomised trial in 8,606 patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease (evidenced by 
proteinuria and/or GFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) with or without cardiovascular disease. In most patients 
arterial blood pressure was well controlled at baseline. The primary endpoint was a composite of 
cardiovascular and renal complications. 
In this study, aliskiren 300 mg was compared to placebo when added to standard of care which 
included either an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker. The 
study was discontinued prematurely because the participants were unlikely to benefit from aliskiren. 
The final study results indicated a hazard ratio for the primary endpoint of 1.097 in favour of placebo 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(95.4% Confidence Interval: 0.987, 1.218, 2-sided p=0.0787). In addition, an increased incidence of 
adverse events was observed with aliskiren compared to placebo (38.2% versus 30.3%). In particular 
there was an increased incidence of renal dysfunction (14.5% versus 12.4%), hyperkalaemia (39.1% 
versus 29.0%), hypotension-related events (19.9% versus 16.3%) and adjudicated stroke endpoints 
(3.4% versus 2.7%). The increased incidence of stroke was greater in patients with renal insufficiency. 
Aliskiren 150 mg (increased to 300 mg if tolerated) added to conventional therapy was evaluated in a 
double-blind placebo-controlled randomised trial in 1,639 patients with reduced ejection fraction 
hospitalised for an episode of acute heart failure (NYHA Class III–IV) who were haemodynamically 
stable at baseline. The primary endpoint was cardiovascular death or heart failure rehospitalisation 
within 6 months; secondary endpoints were assessed within 12 months. 
The study showed no benefit of aliskiren when administered on top of standard therapy for acute heart 
failure and an increased risk of cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes mellitus. Study results 
indicated a non-significant effect of aliskiren with a hazard ratio of 0.92 (95% Confidence Interval: 
0.76-1.12; p=0.41, aliskiren vs. placebo). Different treatment effects of aliskiren were reported for 
overall mortality within 12 months dependent on diabetes mellitus status. In the subgroup of patients 
with diabetes mellitus the hazard ratio was 1.64 in favour of placebo (95% Confidence Interval: 
1.15-2.33), whereas the hazard ratio in the subgroup of patients without diabetes was 0.69 in favour of 
aliskiren (95% Confidence Interval: 0.50-0.94); p-value for interaction = 0.0003. An increased 
incidence of hyperkalaemia (20.9% versus 17.5%), renal impairment/renal failure (16.6% versus 
12.1%) and hypotension (17.1% versus 12.6%) was observed in the aliskiren group compared with 
placebo and was greater in patients with diabetes. 
Aliskiren was evaluated for cardiovascular mortality and morbidity benefit in a double-blind active 
controlled randomised study in 7,064 patients with chronic heart failure and reduced left ventricular 
ejection fraction, of which 62% had a history of hypertension. The primary endpoint was a composite 
of cardiovascular death and first hospitalisation for heart failure. 
In this study, aliskiren at a target dose of 300 mg was compared to enalapril at a target dose of 20 mg 
when added to standard of care which included a beta blocker (and a mineralocorticoid receptor 
antagonist in 37% of patients) and a diuretic as needed. The study also evaluated the combination of 
aliskiren and enalapril. Mean duration of follow-up was 3.5 years. The final results of the study did not 
demonstrate statistically that aliskiren was non-inferior to enalapril on the primary endpoint, however 
there was essentially no difference in the observed incidence rates between aliskiren and enalapril 
(hazard ratio of 0.99 with 95% Confidence Interval: 0.90-1.10). There was no significant benefit of 
adding aliskiren to enalapril (primary endpoint: hazard ratio of 0.93 with 95% Confidence Interval: 
0.85-1.03; p=0.1724, combination versus enalapril). Treatment effects were similar in patients with 
diabetes and with renal insufficiency. The incidence of adjudicated stroke was not significantly 
different between the aliskiren and enalapril groups (4.4% versus 4.0%; HR 1.12, 95% CI 0.848, 
1.485) or between the combination and enalapril groups (3.7% versus 4.0%; HR 0.93, 95% CI 0.697, 
1.251). The incidence of adverse events tended to be higher in patients with diabetes, or with GFR 
<60 ml/min/1.73 m², or with age ≥ 65 years; however, there was no difference between patients treated 
with aliskiren and those treated with enalapril. 
The incidence of certain adverse events was similar between aliskiren and enalapril groups while there 
was an increased incidence of adverse events with the combination of aliskiren and enalapril: 
hyperkalaemia (21.4%, 13.2%, and 15.9% for combination, aliskiren and enalapril respectively); renal 
impairment/renal failure (23.2%, 17.4% and 18.7%) and hypotension related events (27.0%, 22.3% 
and 22.4%). 
There was a statistically significant increased incidence of syncope with the combination of aliskiren 
and enalapril compared to enalapril in the overall population (4.2% versus 2.8%; RR 1.51, 95% CI 
1.11-2.05) and in the subgroups NYHA I/II overall (4.8% versus 3.0%; RR 1.62, 95% CI 1.14-2.29). 
The incidence of atrial fibrillation was 11.1%, 13.3%, and 11.0% in the combination, aliskiren, and 
enalapril groups, respectively. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistically significantly higher incidences in the occurrence of cardiac failure and ischaemic stroke 
were also found for aliskiren compared to enalapril in patients with NYHA I/II with hypertension, and 
in the occurrence of chronic cardiac failure and ventricular extrasystole in patients with NYHA III/IV 
with hypertension. For the combination of aliskiren and enalapril there were statistically significant 
differences in the rate of angina unstable compared to enalapril. 
No clinically relevant differences in efficacy or safety results were observed in the subpopulation of 
elderly patients with a history of hypertension and chronic heart failure Class I-II compared to the 
overall study population. 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
No effect on QT interval was reported in a randomised, double-blind, placebo, and active-controlled 
study using standard and Holter electrocardiography. 
Paediatric population 
In a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 8-week study with aliskiren monotherapy (3 dose groups 
by weight category [≥20 kg to <50 kg; ≥50 kg to <80 kg; ≥80 kg to ≤150 kg]: low 6.25/12.5/25 mg 
[0.13-0.31 mg/kg]; mid 37.5/75/150 mg [0.75-1.88 mg/kg]; and high dose 150/300/600 mg 
[3.0-7.5 mg/kg], with a wide dose ratio between the low, mid and high dose groups [1:6:24]) in 267 
paediatric hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years, mostly overweight/obese, aliskiren lowered office 
and ambulatory blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner during the initial 4 week dose-finding 
phase of the study (Phase 1). However, in the subsequent 4 week randomised withdrawal phase of the 
study (Phase 2), the effect of aliskiren overlapped with the effects observed in patients switched to 
placebo in all dose groups (low, p=0.8894; mid, p=0.9511; high, p=0.0563). The average differences 
between aliskiren and placebo for the low and mid dose groups were <0.2 mmHg. The treatment with 
aliskiren was well tolerated in this study. 
This study was extended with a 52-week double-blind, randomised study to evaluate the safety, 
tolerability and efficacy of aliskiren compared to enalapril in 208 paediatric hypertensive patients aged 
6 to 17 years (at baseline in the previous study). The starting dose in each group was assigned 
depending on weight with three groups: ≥20 to <50 kg, ≥50 to <80 kg, and ≥80 to ≤150 kg. The 
starting doses for aliskiren were 37.5/75/150 mg in the low, mid and high weight groups, respectively. 
The starting doses for enalapril were 2.5/5/10 mg in the low, mid and high weight groups, 
respectively. Optional titration of the respective study drug doses to the next highest weight-based 
dose level was available by doubling the dose with each of the two allowed dose titrations, up to 
600 mg (highest studied dose in adults) for aliskiren and 40 mg for enalapril in the ≥80 to ≤150 kg 
weight group, if medically necessary to control the mean sitting systolic blood pressure (i.e. msSBP 
should be less than the 90th percentile for age, gender and height). Overall, the mean age of the 
patients was 11.8 years with 48.6% of patients being in the 6-11 years age group and 51.4% in the 
12-17 years age group. Mean weight was 68.0 kg with 57.7% of patients having BMI greater than or 
equal to the 95th percentile for age and gender. At the end of this extension study, changes in msSBP 
from baseline were similar with aliskiren compared to enalapril (-7.63 mmHg vs. -7.94 mmHg) in the 
full analysis set. However, the significance of the non-inferiority testing was not maintained when the 
analysis was performed on the per-protocol set in which the least square mean change in msSBP from 
baseline was -7.84 mmHg with aliskiren and -9.04 mmHg with enalapril. In addition, due to the 
possibility of up-titration if medically necessary to control the msSBP, no conclusion can be drawn on 
the appropriate posology of aliskiren in patients aged 6 to 17 years. 
After the first 52 week extension study, eligible male and female paediatric patients aged 6 to 17 years 
with primary or secondary hypertension, were enrolled in a 52 to 104 week off-therapy non-
interventional observational extension study designed to evaluate the LT growth and development, 
through height and weight measurement, with added neurocognitive and renal function evaluations as 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
follow-up measures performed only in patients with secondary hypertension (19 patients: 9 previously 
treated with aliskiren and  10 previously treated with enalapril). 
There were no statistically significant differences in the mean changes in weight, height, or BMI 
between the treatment groups from Baseline to LT Visit 18 (Week 104) (primary analysis). 
In patients after 104 weeks (at LT Visit 19 [Week 156]), there were LS mean decreases from Baseline 
in weight and BMI in both treatment groups, with a slightly larger decrease in the aliskiren compared 
to the enalapril treatment group.  
There was a greater LS mean increase from Baseline in height after 104 weeks (at LT Visit 19 [Week 
156], secondary hypertension patients) compared to the increase observed after 52 weeks (at LT Visit 
18 [Week 104], primary hypertension patients), which is expected in these growing paediatric patients.  
Results of the neurocognitive assessments showed some improvements in most of the test scores, with 
no meaningful difference between the treatment groups. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
aliskiren in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in hypertension (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following oral absorption, peak plasma concentrations of aliskiren are reached after 1-3 hours. The 
absolute bioavailability of aliskiren is approximately 2-3%. Meals with a high fat content reduce Cmax 
by 85% and AUC by 70%. At steady state meals with low fat content reduce Cmax by 76% and 
AUC0-tau by 67% in hypertensive patients. However, the efficacy of aliskiren was similar when taken 
with a light meal or under fasted state. Steady-state-plasma concentrations are reached within 5-7 days 
following once-daily administration and steady-state levels are approximately 2-fold greater than with 
the initial dose. 
Transporters 
MDR1/Mdr1a/1b (P-gp) was found to be the major efflux system involved in intestinal absorption and 
biliary excretion of aliskiren in pre-clinical studies. 
Distribution 
Following intravenous administration, the mean volume of distribution at steady state is approximately 
135 litres, indicating that aliskiren distributes extensively into the extravascular space. Aliskiren 
plasma protein binding is moderate (47-51%) and independent of the concentration. 
Biotransformation 
Approximately 1.4% of the total oral dose is metabolised. The enzyme responsible for this metabolism 
is CYP3A4. 
Elimination 
The mean half-life is about 40 hours (range 34-41 hours). Aliskiren is mainly eliminated as unchanged 
compound in the faeces (78%). Approximately 0.6% of the dose is recovered in urine following oral 
administration. Following intravenous administration, the mean plasma clearance is approximately 
9 l/h. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Exposure to aliskiren increased more than in proportion to the increase in dose. After single dose 
administration in the dose range of 75 to 600 mg, a 2-fold increase in dose results in a ~2.3 and 
2.6-fold increase in AUC and Cmax, respectively. At steady state the non-linearity may be more 
pronounced. Mechanisms responsible for deviation from linearity have not been identified. A possible 
mechanism is saturation of transporters at the absorption site or at the hepatobiliary clearance route. 
Characteristics in patients 
Aliskiren is an effective once-a-day antihypertensive treatment in adult patients, regardless of gender, 
age, body mass index and ethnicity. 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren were evaluated in patients with varying degrees of renal 
insufficiency. Relative AUC and Cmax of aliskiren in subjects with renal impairment ranged between 
0.8 to 2 times the levels in healthy subjects following single dose administration and at steady state. 
These observed changes, however, did not correlate with the severity of renal impairment. No 
adjustment of the initial dosage of treatment is required in patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). It is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 30 ml/min/1.73 m2). 
The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren were evaluated in patients with end stage renal disease receiving 
haemodialysis. Administration of a single oral dose of 300 mg aliskiren was associated with very 
minor changes in the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren (change in Cmax of less than 1.2 fold; increase in 
AUC of up to 1.6 fold) compared to matched healthy subjects. Timing of haemodialysis did not 
significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren in ESRD patients. Therefore, if administration of 
aliskiren in ESRD patients receiving haemodialysis is considered necessary, no dose adjustment is 
warranted in these patients. However, the use of aliskiren is not recommended in patients with severe 
renal impairment (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren were not significantly affected in patients with mild to severe liver 
disease. Consequently, no adjustment of the initial dose of aliskiren is required in patients with mild to 
severe hepatic impairment. 
Elderly patients aged 65 years and over 
The AUC is 50% higher in elderly (> 65 years) than in young subjects. Gender, weight and ethnicity 
have no clinically relevant influence on aliskiren pharmacokinetics. 
Paediatric population 
In a pharmacokinetic study of aliskiren treatment in 39 paediatric hypertensive patients aged 6 to 
17 years given daily doses of 2 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg aliskiren administered as granules (3.125 mg/tablet), 
pharmacokinetic parameters were similar to those in adults. The results of this study did not suggest 
that age, body weight or gender have any significant effect on aliskiren systemic exposure (see 
section 4.2). 
In an 8-week randomised, double-blind study with aliskiren monotherapy in 267 paediatric 
hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years, mostly overweight/obese, fasting trough aliskiren 
concentrations at day 28 were comparable to those observed in other studies in both adults and 
children using similar aliskiren doses (see section 5.1). 
Results from an in vitro MDR1 human tissue study suggested an age and tissue dependent pattern of 
MDR1 (P-gp) transporter maturation. A high inter-individual variability of mRNA expression levels 
was observed (up to 600-fold). Hepatic MDR1 mRNA expression was statistically significantly lower 
in samples from foetuses, neonates and infants up to 23 months. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The age at which the transporter system is mature cannot be determined. There is a potential for 
aliskiren overexposure in children with an immature MDR1 (P-gp) system (see section “Transporters” 
above and sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.3). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Safety pharmacology studies did not reveal any adverse effects on central nervous, respiratory or 
cardiovascular function. Findings during repeat-dose toxicity studies in animals were consistent with 
the known local (gastrointestinal tract) irritation potential or the expected pharmacological effects of 
aliskiren. 
No carcinogenic potential for aliskiren was detected in a 2-year rat study and a 6-month transgenic 
mouse study. One colonic adenoma and one caecal adenocarcinoma recorded in rats at the dose of 
1500 mg/kg/day were not statistically significant. 
Although aliskiren has known local (gastrointestinal tract) irritation potential, safety margins obtained 
in humans at the dose of 300 mg during a study in healthy volunteers were considered to be 
appropriate at 9-11-fold based on faecal concentrations or 6-fold based on mucosa concentrations in 
comparison with 250 mg/kg/day in the rat carcinogenicity study. 
Aliskiren was devoid of any mutagenic potential in the in vitro and in vivo mutagenicity studies. 
Reproductive toxicity studies with aliskiren did not reveal any evidence of embryofoetal toxicity or 
teratogenicity at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day in rats or 100 mg/kg/day in rabbits. Fertility, pre-natal 
development and post-natal development were unaffected in rats at doses up to 250 mg/kg/day. The 
doses in rats and rabbits provided systemic exposures of 1 to 4 and 5 times higher, respectively, than 
the maximum recommended human dose (300 mg). 
Juvenile animal studies 
In a juvenile toxicity study in 8-day-old rats, aliskiren administration at 100 mg/kg/day and 
300 mg/kg/day (2.3- and 6.8-fold the maximum recommended human dose) was associated with high 
mortality and severe morbidity. In another juvenile toxicity study in 14-day-old rats, aliskiren 
administration at 300 mg/kg/day (8.5-fold the maximum recommended human dose) was associated 
with delayed mortality. The systemic exposure to aliskiren in 8-day old rats was >400-fold higher than 
in adult rats. Results from a mechanistic study showed that the MDR1 (P-gp) gene expression in 
juvenile rats was significantly lower when compared to adult rats. The increased aliskiren exposure in 
juvenile rats appears to be attributed mainly to lack of maturation of P-gp in the gastrointestinal tract. 
There is therefore a potential for aliskiren overexposure in paediatric patients with immature MDR1 
efflux system (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2). 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Crospovidone, type A 
Magnesium stearate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Povidone, K-30 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Hypromellose substitution type 2910 (3 mPa·s) 
Macrogol 4000 
Talc 
Black iron oxide (E 172) 
Red iron oxide (E 172) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) – Alu blisters: 
Unit packs containing 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 90 or 98 tablets. 
Unit packs containing 56x1 tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Multipacks containing 280 (20x14) tablets. 
Multipacks containing 98 (2x49x1) tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) – Alu blisters: 
Unit packs containing 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 90 or 98 tablets. 
Unit packs containing 56x1 tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Multipacks containing 280 (20x14) tablets. 
Multipacks containing 98 (2x49x1) tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/07/405/021-030 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/07/405/031-040 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 August 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Delpharm Milano S.R.L., 
Via Carnevale, 1, 
Segrate (MI), 
20054, 
Italy. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR UNIT PACK CONTAINING PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
56 x 1 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street  
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/021 
EU/1/07/405/022 
EU/1/07/405/023 
EU/1/07/405/024 
EU/1/07/405/025 
EU/1/07/405/026 
EU/1/07/405/027 
EU/1/07/405/028 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 150 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
26 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
BLISTER (CALENDAR) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) CONTAINING 
PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
49 x 1 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/029 
EU/1/07/405/030 
98 film-coated tablets (2x49x1) 
280 film-coated tablets (20x14) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 150 mg 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) CONTAINING 
PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 280 (20 packs of 14) film-coated tablets 
Multipack: 98 (2 packs of 49 x 1) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/029 
EU/1/07/405/030 
98 film-coated tablets (2x49x1) 
280 film-coated tablets (20x14) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 150 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON BOX FOR UNIT PACK CONTAINING PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
56 x 1 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/031 
EU/1/07/405/032 
EU/1/07/405/033 
EU/1/07/405/034 
EU/1/07/405/035 
EU/1/07/405/036 
EU/1/07/405/037 
EU/1/07/405/038 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
56 x1 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
34 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
BLISTER (CALENDAR) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) CONTAINING 
PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
49 x 1 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/039 
EU/1/07/405/040 
98 film-coated tablets (2x49x1) 
280 film-coated tablets (20x14) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 300 mg 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACKS (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) CONTAINING 
PCTFE/PVC BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
aliskiren 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 280 (20 packs of 14) film-coated tablets 
Multipack: 98 (2 packs of 49 x 1) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/07/405/039 
EU/1/07/405/040 
98 film-coated tablets (2x49x1) 
280 film-coated tablets (20x14) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Rasilez 300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Aliskiren 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Rasilez is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Rasilez 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Rasilez 
Possible side effects 
How to store Rasilez 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Rasilez is and what it is used for 
This medicine contains an active substance called aliskiren. Aliskiren belongs to a class of medicines 
called renin inhibitors. Renin inhibitors reduce the amount of angiotensin II the body can produce. 
Angiotensin II causes blood vessels to tighten, which increases the blood pressure. Reducing the 
amount of angiotensin II allows the blood vessels to relax, which lowers blood pressure. 
This helps to lower high blood pressure in adult patients. High blood pressure increases the workload 
of the heart and arteries. If this continues for a long time, it can damage the blood vessels of the brain, 
heart and kidneys, and may result in a stroke, heart failure, heart attack or kidney failure. Lowering the 
blood pressure to a normal level reduces the risk of developing these disorders. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Rasilez 
Do not take Rasilez 
- 
- 
- 
- 
angioedema when taking aliskiren. 
hereditary angioedema. 
angioedema without any known cause. 
if you are allergic to aliskiren or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
if you have experienced the following forms of angioedema (difficulties in breathing or 
swallowing, or swelling of the face, hands and feet, eyes, lips and/or tongue): 
- 
- 
- 
during the last 6 months of pregnancy or if you are breast-feeding, see section “Pregnancy and 
breastfeeding”. 
if you are taking ciclosporin (a medicine used in transplantation to prevent organ rejection or for 
other conditions, e.g. rheumatoid arthritis or atopic dermatitis), itraconazole (a medicine used to 
treat fungal infections) or quinidine (a medicine used to correct heart rhythm). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor such as enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with either of the following 
classes of medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
- 
or 
- 
if the patient is less than 2 years of age. 
an angiotensin II receptor blocker such as valsartan, telmisartan, irbesartan. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Rasilez: 
- 
an angiotensin II receptor blocker such as valsartan, telmisartan, irbesartan. 
if you are taking a diuretic (a type of medicine also known as “water” tablets which increases 
the amount of urine you produce). 
if you are taking either of the following classes of medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
- 
an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor such as enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril 
or 
- 
if you have impaired kidney function, your doctor will carefully consider whether this medicine 
is suitable for you and may wish to monitor you carefully. 
if you have already experienced angioedema (difficulties in breathing or swallowing, or 
swelling of the face, hands and feet, eyes, lips and/or tongue). If this happens, stop taking this 
medicine and contact your doctor. 
if you have renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the blood vessels to one or both kidneys). 
if you have serious congestive heart failure (a type of heart disease where the heart cannot pump 
enough blood around the body). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have severe and persistent diarrhoea you should stop taking Rasilez. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also section “Do not take Rasilez”. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine must not be used in babies from birth to less than 2 years of age. It should not be used 
in  children  from  2  to  less  than  6 years  of  age,  and  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  children  and 
adolescents from 6 to less than 18 years of age. This is because the safety and benefits of this medicine 
are not known in this population.  
Elderly 
The usual recommended starting dose of aliskiren in elderly patients aged 65 years or older is 150 mg. 
In the majority of patients aged 65 years or older, the 300 mg dose of Rasilez shows no additional 
benefit in reducing blood pressure compared to the 150 mg dose. 
Other medicines and Rasilez 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions if you are taking one of 
the following medicines: 
- 
medicines that increase the amount of potassium in your blood. These include 
potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements. 
furosemide or torasemide, medicines belonging to the type known as diuretics, or “water” 
tablets, which are used to increase the amount of urine you produce. 
an angiotensin II receptor blocker or an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (see sections 
“Do not take Rasilez” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
ketoconazole, a medicine used to treat fungal infections. 
verapamil, a medicine used to lower high blood pressure, to correct heart rhythm or to treat 
- 
- 
- 
- 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
angina pectoris. 
certain types of pain killers called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs). 
- 
Rasilez with food and drink 
You should take this medicine either with a light meal or without a meal once a day, preferably at the 
same time each day. You should avoid taking this medicine together with fruit juice and/or drinks 
containing plant extracts (including herbal teas), as it could cause a decrease in the effectiveness of 
this medicine. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
Do not take this medicine if you are pregnant (see section “Do not take Rasilez”). If you become 
pregnant while taking this medicine, stop taking it immediately and talk to your doctor. If you think 
you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before 
taking this medicine. Your doctor will normally advise you to stop taking this medicine before you 
become pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of this medicine. It is not 
recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may 
cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. This medicine is not 
recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment for 
you if you wish to breast-feed. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine may make you feel dizzy and this can affect your ability to concentrate. Before you 
drive a vehicle, use machinery, or carry out other activities that require concentration, you should 
make sure you know how you react to the effects of this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Rasilez 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
People who have high blood pressure often do not notice any signs of the problem. Many may feel 
quite normal. It is very important that you take this medicine exactly as your doctor tells you to get the 
best results and reduce the risk of side effects. Keep your appointments with the doctor even if you are 
feeling well. 
The usual starting dose is one 150 mg tablet once daily. The blood pressure lowering effect is present 
within two weeks after beginning treatment. 
Elderly people 
The usual recommended starting dose of aliskiren in elderly patients is 150 mg. In the majority of 
patients aged 65 years or older, the 300 mg dose of aliskiren shows no additional benefit in reducing 
blood pressure compared to the 150 mg dose. 
Depending on how you respond to the treatment your doctor may prescribe a higher dose of one 
300 mg tablet once daily. Your doctor may prescribe this medicine together with other medicines used 
to treat high blood pressure. 
Method of administration 
Swallow the tablet whole with some water. You should take this medicine once a day, always with or 
always without food, preferably at the same time each day. You should establish a convenient daily 
schedule to take the medicine the same way each day, in a regular pattern with respect to the timing of 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
your meals. You should avoid taking this medicine together with fruit juice and/or drinks containing 
plant extracts (including herbal teas). During your treatment, your doctor may adjust your dose 
depending on your blood pressure response. 
If you take more Rasilez than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many tablets of this medicine, consult a doctor immediately. You 
may require medical attention. 
If you forget to take Rasilez 
If you forget to take a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as you remember and then take the next 
dose at its usual time. However, if it is almost time for your next dose you should simply take the next 
tablet at the usual time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects can be serious (frequency not known): 
A few patients have experienced these serious side effects. If any of the following occur, tell your 
doctor straight away: 
• 
Severe allergic reaction with symptoms such as rash, itching, swelling of face or lips or tongue, 
difficulty breathing, dizziness. 
Possible side effects: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): Diarrhoea, joint pain (arthralgia), high level of potassium 
in the blood, dizziness. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): Skin rash (this may also be a sign of allergic reactions 
or angioedema – see “Rare” side effects below), kidney problems including acute renal failure 
(severely decreased urine output), swelling of hands, ankles or feet (peripheral oedema), severe skin 
reactions (toxic epidermal necrolysis and/or oral mucosal reactions - red skin, blistering of the lips, 
eyes or mouth, skin peeling, fever), low blood pressure, palpitations, cough, itching, itchy rash 
(urticaria), increased liver enzymes. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): increased level of creatinine in the blood, decreased level of 
haemoglobin in the blood (anaemia), decreased level of red blood cells, red skin (erythema). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): spinning sensation, low level of 
sodium in the blood, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, signs of liver disorder (nausea, loss of 
appetite, dark coloured urine or yellowing of skin and eyes). 
If any of these affect you severely, tell your doctor. You may need to stop Rasilez. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Rasilez 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Rasilez contains 
- 
The active substance is aliskiren (as hemifumarate).  
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets  
- 
Each tablet contains 150 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). The other ingredients are 
crospovidone type A, hypromellose substitution type 2910 (3 mPa s), magnesium stearate, 
macrogol 4000, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K-30, colloidal anhydrous silica, talc, 
titanium dioxide (E 171), black iron oxide (E 172), red iron oxide (E 172). 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets 
- 
Each tablet contains 300 mg aliskiren (as hemifumarate). The other ingredients are 
crospovidone type A, hypromellose substitution type 2910 (3 mPa s), magnesium stearate, 
macrogol 4000, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K-30, colloidal anhydrous silica, talc, 
titanium dioxide (E 171), black iron oxide (E 172), red iron oxide (E 172). 
What Rasilez looks like and contents of the pack 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets are light-pink, biconvex round tablets, imprinted “IL” on one side 
and “NVR” on the other side. 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets are light-red, biconvex, ovaloid tablets, imprinted “IU” on one side 
and “NVR” on the other side. 
Rasilez 150 mg film-coated tablets are available in the following packs: 
Unit packs containing 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 90 or 98 tablets 
- 
Unit packs containing 56x1 tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters 
- 
Multipacks containing 280 (20x14) tablets 
- 
Multipacks containing 98 (2x49x1) tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters 
- 
Rasilez 300 mg film-coated tablets are available in the following packs: 
Unit packs containing 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 90 or 98 tablets 
- 
Unit packs containing 56x1 tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters 
- 
Multipacks containing 280 (20x14) tablets 
- 
Multipacks containing 98 (2x49x1) tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters 
- 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Noden Pharma DAC 
D'Olier Chambers 
16A D'Olier Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Delpharm Milano S.R.L., 
Via Carnevale, 1, 
Segrate (MI), 
20054, 
Italy. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 02/2023 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
46 
 
 
