EMA/434816/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000825 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ratiograstim 
filgrastim 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ratiograstim. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Ratiograstim. 
What is Ratiograstim? 
Ratiograstim is a solution for injection or for infusion (drip into a vein). It contains the active substance 
filgrastim. 
Ratiograstim is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that Ratiograstim is similar to a biological medicine 
that is already authorised in the European Union (EU) and contains the same active substance (also 
known as the ‘reference medicine’). The reference medicine for Ratiograstim is Neupogen. For more 
information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Ratiograstim used for? 
Ratiograstim is used to stimulate the production of white blood cells in the following situations: 
• 
• 
• 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) and the 
occurrence of febrile neutropenia (neutropenia with fever) in patients receiving chemotherapy 
(cancer treatment) that is cytotoxic (cell-killing); 
to reduce the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing treatment to destroy the bone 
marrow cells before a bone marrow transplant (such as in some patients with leukaemia) if they 
are at a risk of long-term, severe neutropenia; 
to increase levels of neutrophils and reduce the risk of infections in patients with neutropenia who 
have a history of severe, repeated infections; 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
to treat persistent neutropenia in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection, to reduce the risk of bacterial infections when other treatments are not appropriate. 
Ratiograstim can also be used in patients who are about to donate blood stem cells for transplant, to 
help release these cells from the bone marrow. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ratiograstim used? 
Ratiograstim is given by injection under the skin or infusion into a vein. How it is given, the dose and 
the duration of treatment depend on why it is being used, the patient’s body weight and the response 
to treatment. Ratiograstim is usually given in a specialised treatment centre, although patients who 
receive it by injection under the skin may inject themselves once they have been trained appropriately. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Ratiograstim work? 
The active substance in Ratiograstim, filgrastim, is very similar to a human protein called granulocyte 
colony stimulating factor (G CSF). Filgrastim is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA 
technology’: it is made by bacteria into which a gene (DNA) has been introduced, which makes them 
able to produce filgrastim. The replacement acts in same way as naturally produced G CSF by 
encouraging the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells. 
How has Ratiograstim been studied? 
Ratiograstim was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Neupogen. 
Ratiograstim was compared with Neupogen and with placebo (a dummy treatment) in one main study 
involving 348 patients with breast cancer. The study looked at the duration of severe neutropenia 
during the patients’ first cycle of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
To study the safety of Ratiograstim, two further studies were carried out in patients with lung cancer 
and with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. 
What benefit has Ratiograstim shown during the studies? 
Treatment with Ratiograstim and Neupogen brought about similar reductions in duration of severe 
neutropenia. During the first 21-day chemotherapy cycle, patients treated with either Ratiograstim or 
Neupogen had severe neutropenia for an average of 1.1 days, compared with 3.8 days in those 
receiving placebo. Therefore, the effectiveness of Ratiograstim was shown to be equivalent to that of 
Neupogen. 
What is the risk associated with Ratiograstim? 
The most common side effect with Ratiograstim (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is musculoskeletal 
pain (pain in the muscles and bones). Other side effects may be seen in more than 1 patient in 10, 
depending on the condition that Ratiograstim is being used for. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Ratiograstim  
EMA/434816/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why has Ratiograstim been approved? 
The CHMP decided that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ratiograstim has been shown to have a 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Neupogen, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Ratiograstim be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ratiograstim? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Ratiograstim is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Ratiograstim, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Ratiograstim 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Ratiograstim 
on 15 September 2008. 
The full EPAR for Ratiograstim can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ratiograstim, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014. 
Ratiograstim  
EMA/434816/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
