Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary  of 
phenylbutyrate) 
risk  management  plan 
for  RAVICTI 
(glycerol 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for RAVICTI. The RMP details important risks of 
RAVICTI,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
RAVICTI's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
RAVICTI's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how RAVICTI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for RAVICTI should be read in the context of all this information, including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of RAVICTI's RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
RAVICTI  is  authorized  for  use  as  adjunctive  therapy  for  chronic  management  of  patients  with  urea 
cycle disorders (UCDs) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains glycerol phenylbutyrate as the 
active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  RAVICTI’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  RAVICTI’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ravicti. 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of RAVICTI, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about RAVICTI's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of RAVICTI is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II. A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  RAVICTI  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  RAVICTI.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None  
Missing information 
•  Use in patients with renal impairment 
•  Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
•  Long-term safety 
II. B 
Summary of important risks 
Missing information: Use in patients with renal impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.2 including recommendation to maintain 
lowest necessary dose 
•  SmPC Section 5.2 
•  PL Section 2 and 3 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.4, and PL Section 2 where advice to use 
effective contraceptive measures by women of child-bearing 
potential 
•  SmPC Section 4.6and 5.3 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  None 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
•  None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  None 
II. C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of marketing authorisation 
None 
II.C.2 Other studies in post authorisation development plan 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
