EMA/851451/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003822 
Ravicti (glycerol phenylbutyrate) 
An overview of Ravicti and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ravicti and what is it used for? 
Ravicti is a medicine used to manage urea cycle disorders in adults and children, when the diseases 
cannot be managed by changes in diet alone. Patients with urea cycle disorders are not able to get rid 
of waste nitrogen from the body because they lack some liver enzymes. In the body, waste nitrogen is 
turned into ammonia, which is harmful when it accumulates. Ravicti is used in patients who lack one or 
more of the following enzymes: carbamoyl phosphate synthase-I, ornithine carbamoyltransferase, 
argininosuccinate synthetase, argininosuccinate lyase, arginase I and ornithine translocase.  
Ravicti contains the active substance glycerol phenylbutyrate. 
Urea cycle disorders are rare, and Ravicti was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) for several forms of the disease on 10 June 2010. Further information on the orphan 
designations can be found on the European Medicines Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/ 
/ema_group_types/ema_orphan. 
How is Ravicti used? 
Ravicti is available as a liquid (1.1 g/ml) to be taken by mouth, or given through a tube that goes from 
the nose to the stomach or through the belly into the stomach. It can only be obtained with a 
prescription and should be prescribed by a doctor who has experience in treating patients with urea 
cycle disorders.  
Since proteins are a source of nitrogen, Ravicti must be used together with a special low-protein diet, 
and sometimes with dietary supplements (depending on the daily protein intake needed for growth and 
development). 
The dose of Ravicti depends on the patient’s diet, height and weight. Regular blood tests are needed to 
adjust the dose. The total daily dose of Ravicti should be divided into equal amounts and given with 
each meal. Ravicti may be a life-long treatment unless the patient has a successful liver transplant. 
For more information about using Ravicti, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Ravicti work? 
The active substance in Ravicti, glycerol phenylbutyrate, is converted to phenylacetate in the body. 
Phenylacetate attaches to the amino acid glutamine found in proteins to form a substance that the 
kidneys can remove from the body. This removal of proteins decreases the levels of nitrogen in the 
body, reducing the amount of ammonia produced. 
What benefits of Ravicti have been shown in studies? 
Ravicti has been compared with sodium phenylbutyrate (another medicine used to treat urea cycle 
disorders) in a study involving 88 adults with urea cycle disorders. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the change in the blood level of ammonia after 4 weeks of treatment. The study showed that 
Ravicti was at least as effective as the comparator in controlling the blood level of ammonia: the 
estimated average ammonia level was about 870 micromoles per litre in patients treated with Ravicti, 
compared with about 980 micromoles per litre in patients treated with sodium phenylbutyrate. Data 
from additional studies showed a similar effect in children treated with Ravicti from birth. 
What are the risks associated with Ravicti? 
The most common side effects with Ravicti (which may affect more than 1 in 20 people) are diarrhoea, 
flatulence (passing gas), headache, decreased appetite, vomiting, tiredness, feeling sick and abnormal 
skin smell. 
Ravicti must not be used to treat acute hyperammonaemia (sudden rise of blood ammonia levels). For 
the full list of side effects and restrictions with Ravicti, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ravicti authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that the benefits of Ravicti are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
Ravicti is effective in reducing the blood level of ammonia in patients with urea cycle disorders. Ravicti 
is a sustained-release medicine, meaning the active substance is released throughout the day. 
Therefore, this results in a better control of blood ammonia levels over the whole day. For this same 
reason Ravicti must not be used to treat acute hyperammonaemia as more rapidly acting treatments 
are needed in these cases. 
Additionally, the Agency considered that since Ravicti is available as a liquid this could make the 
medicine more palatable especially for children, compared with other medicines available as granules 
to be added to food; the liquid formulation also facilitates giving it through a tube to patients unable to 
swallow.  
The side effects of Ravicti affect mainly the gut and are considered manageable. However, further data 
on the long-term safety of Ravicti are awaited. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ravicti? 
The company that markets Ravicti will set up a registry of patients to obtain further information on the 
long-term benefits and safety of the medicine. 
Ravicti (glycerol phenylbutyrate)  
EMA/851451/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ravicti have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ravicti are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Ravicti are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ravicti 
Ravicti received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 November 2015 
Further information on Ravicti can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ravicti  
This summary was last updated in 01-2019. 
Ravicti (glycerol phenylbutyrate)  
EMA/851451/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
